Leading the Change Sustainability Report 2013-14 Sustainability Report 2013-14 VISION Ethics Setting high standards for ethics and values Customers People Fostering Leading with relationships passion for a lifetime to excel The Energy of India A Globally Admired Company Technology Innovation Harnessing Pioneering the frontier spirit of creativity technology and research Environment Caring for the environment and community VALUES Care = Innovation = Passion = Trust Sustainability Report 2013-14 Index Particulars Page No. Particulars Page No. A Word from Chairman 2 Environmental Performance 49 About the Report 4 Material 50 Company's Profile 5 Energy 52 Our Business 6 Waste 58 Our Supply Chain 7 Water 60 Our Reach 8 Emission 62 Group Companies and Joint Ventures 9 Biodiversity 65 Shareholding 11 Giving Back to Society 70 Associations, Characters and Membership 12 Great Place to Work 74 Awards & Accolades 14 Health & Safety 83 Materiality Analysis 16 Product Responsibility 88 Sustainability within Us 19 Corporate E-Security 93 Sustainability @IndianOil 29 Research & Development 94 Stakeholder Engagement 30 List of Abbreviations and 98 Acronyms Corporate Governance 35 GRI Indicators 102 Economic Performance 45 01 Sustainability Report 2013-14 A W o r d f r o m C h a ir m a n Dear Stakeholders, Sustainable development is the only way forward for growing economies like India. Team IndianOil, as member of a leading public sector enterprise of India, views this responsibility with utmost commitment. Indeed, it is my privilege to present IndianOil’s Sustainability Report, ‘Leading the Change,’ for the year 2013-14 that attempts to measure our progress in our journey of sustainable development. The report has been prepared as per the latest GRI-G4 guidelines. The realities of the current times demand prudent deployment of key public resources, including oil & gas. While smooth and uninterrupted supply of petroleum products is crucial to turn the wheels of progress of nations, creating a benevolent social impact and minimising the adverse impact of energy use on ecology is equally important. Sustainable development is thus the key for building a framework that would lead to economic growth, social equity, and efficient management of resources and environment. For over five decades now, IndianOil has successfully combined its corporate social responsibility agenda with its business offerings, meeting the energy needs of millions of people everyday across the length and breadth of the country, traversing a diversity of cultures, difficult terrains and harsh climatic conditions. With continuous investments in innovative technology solutions for sustainable energy flow and economic growth, techno-economically viable and environment-friendly products & services for the benefit of its customers, IndianOil has made great strides in its quest for sustainable business processes. The global energy demand is likely to grow significantly in the coming decades. For the oil & gas corporates to be future-ready, substantial capacity expansion is the key driver. The IndianOil team is thus fervently working on broadening its basket of energy sources, with focus on green fuels, renewable energy sources, water harvesting, energy conservation measures and waste-toenergy conversions. Our major business functions – Refining, Pipeline, Marketing, R&D and Petrochemical – have sustainable business processes embedded in them. IndianOil’s refineries have implemented a number of energy conservation measures that have led to substantial reduction in electricity and fuel consumption, leading to savings of nearly 102,800 Standard Refinery Fuel Tonne (SRFT) during the year. Solomon benchmarking is also being vigorously implemented to enhance operational efficiency and physical performance of refineries. To ensure economical, safe and environment-friendly transportation of crude oil and petroleum products, IndianOil has crosscountry pipeline network of 11,214 km. With optimum operational efficiency, movement of nearly 73.07 million tonnes of crude oil and products through these pipelines has led to substantial reduction in the carbon footprint of the organisation. IndianOil’s R&D Centre at Faridabad is involved in cutting-edge research on fuels of the future, renewable fuels and lubricants. With serious thoughts on alternative energy sources, active research is being undertaken on bio-energy, solar, Hydrogen / H-CNG, synthetic fuels and shale oil. 02 Sustainability Report 2013-14 LPG as a clean and efficient cooking fuel is replacing the use of traditional fuels such as kerosene and firewood in kitchens. IndianOil always endeavours to create ‘cleaner households’ that foster health and happiness among 81.79 million households that we serve. We are also the market leader in the auto-LPG segment with presence in 205 cities, in an endeavour to create ‘cleaner cities’. Kisan Seva Kendra outlets that serve the rural community of India have crossed 6000 in numbers with the addition of nearly 750 KSK outlets during the year. This, we believe, truly reflects our corporate philosophy ‘In every part, in every heart.’ During the year, IndianOil installed 14.7 MW of wind power infrastructure, taking total grid-connected renewable energy capacity to 68 MW. With a view to bring down the use of DG sets and the resultant greenhouse gas emissions, 1265 retail points have been provided with solar power system, taking cumulative capacity to nearly 4.4 MW. To illuminate rural homes starved of electricity, more than 76,000 solar lanterns have been sold through our retail touch points. IndianOil procured around 1,49,000 kilolitres of ethanol for blending into petrol during 2013-14, thereby substituting precious fossil fuels to that extent. Ethanol procurement also helps in rural development, i.e. improvement in employment / income generation for sugarcane farmers. As part of the green-fuel strategy, we plan to deliver Bharat Stage-IV petrol and diesel with ultra-low sulphur in 50 Indian cities by March 2015. To optimise another green-fuel in domestic and commercial sectors, IndianOil sold 1.94 million tonnes of natural gas during the year. Reducing water footprint is another thrust area. Water pinch studies have been conducted to implement suitable water conservation measures in refineries. Our business and social partnerships create a positive impact on the lives of the people, besides generating employment opportunities. Our CSR agenda pays special attention to education, healthcare and women’s empowerment. The IndianOil Sachal Swasthya Seva free mobile healthcare service has helped nearly 1.5 million patients during the year. We in IndianOil believe in nurturing constructive partnerships every day; with our employees, for their commitment to uninterrupted and smooth supplies of petroleum products across the country; with our vendors/suppliers, for supply of best quality material; with our resellers, for quality & quantity assurance and world-class customer service; and with thecommunities in our neighbourhood, to extend our support for inclusive growth. IndianOil has charted sustainable development business goals to grow in business and create value for every life that it touches. We are open to suggestions to enhance and enrich this commitment, and look forward to your valuable suggestions at sustainability@indianoil.in (B Ashok) Chairman 03 Sustainability Report 2013-14 About The Report Sustainability Report 2013-14 Leading the Change is the 9th milestone in the journey of our triple bottom line performance reporting. The Sustainability Report is published annually to highlight our economic, social and environmental performance, and long term corporate sustainability plans. We firmly believe only those companies will prosper which ensure that the three P’s i.e. people, planet and profit are in harmony with each other. Due to changing natural environment, depleting resources, rising demand for growth and unending poverty, the expectation from an organization is much higher than merely generating profits. We, at IndianOil, are committed IndianOil supplies various petroleum products to bulk not only to change but also to lead the change. consumers, such as Railways, Defense, State Transports, PSUs Our Sustainability Reports 11-12 & 12-13 were GRI G3 and private organizations etc., where we do not have compliant and externally assured. With the launch of GRI G4 operational control. Hence, data pertaining to bulk consumers is guidelines in May last year, we have put sincere efforts to not reported. prepare this report in accordance with GRI G4 OGSS framework. The report also highlights the key stakeholders and the mode of The scope of this report covers performance of all our business engagement followed to understand their priorities. For this verticals and Corporate functions but excludes performance of report, we have adopted an extensive stakeholder engagement our subsidiaries and Joint Venture companies. The reported approach taking into account their perspectives regarding key data relates to the major operational streams of IndianOil aspects of Sustainability. carried out through its Refineries, Pipelines, Marketing, R&D, As Government of India holds 68.57% shares in IndianOil, the Petrochemicals, Exploration & Production, Gas Marketing and administrative control of our company and its various policy Alternate Energy & Sustainable Development activities. decisions are in accordance with the directives issued by the This report is a result of our maiden efforts to publish it in government from time to time that significantly impact the accordance with “Comprehensive“ option of GRI G4 guidelines, company’s operations and its socio-economic and which stays true to the principles of clarity, accuracy, environmental programs. These issues have been duly timeliness, comparability, balance and reliability. Various considered while addressing materiality issues. We have a aspects of GRI G4 sector specific guidelines have been robust in-house reporting system and the management delineated giving more emphasis on the issues material to our provides a mandatory assurance over the materiality of the business operations and stakeholders. There are no significant information and data which is reproduced in this report from our changes in the reporting boundary and no re-statements from database maintained at respective locations. previous year’s report. 04 Sustainability Report 2013-14 Company's Profile IndianOil has a vast network traversing the length and breadth Petrol, Diesel, Aviation Turbine Fuel, Automotive, Industrial and of India, and subsidiaries in Sri Lanka, Mauritius, United Arab Aviation Lubricants and Greases, Kerosene, Bitumen, Emirates (UAE), Sweden, USA and The Netherlands. In the past Petrochemicals and Specialty Products. five decades, IndianOil has grown manifold, increasing its Nothing can, therefore, better encapsulate our organization refining capacity from 0.7 million tonnes to more than 65 million than the words – “IndianOil. In every heart. In every part.” tonnes per annum today. The Company’s products portfolio includes Liquefied Petroleum Gas, Auto Gas, Natural Gas, 10 out of India’s 22 refineries operate under IndianOil’s flagship. A network of 11,214 kms of pipelines helps IndianOil reach out to every nook and corner of the country. IndianOil has its upstream presence along with its consortium/JV partners at 7 international locations in USA, Libya, Gabon, Nigeria, Yemen, Canada and Venezuela. 05 Sustainability Report 2013-14 Our Business Refineries Marketing Pipelines R&D =10 out of 22 = 41,640 touch = Network of 11,214 = Lube formulations refineries in the points km of Pipelines = In-house country = 23,993 ROs Technologies, =65.7 MMTPA including KSK alternate energy capacity = 8.18, crores, LPG = 292 Patent Indane Customers Petrochemicals Exploration & Production Gas Alternate Energy World scale = Naphtha = 13 domestic blocks = Co-promoter in = Wind: 63 MW Cracker unit = 11 overseas blocks M/s Petronet LNG = On-Grid Solar :5 2.25 MMTPA = Limited MW Petrochemicals = Gas marketing = 1,265 ROs capacity = City Gas Solarised distribution Our Brands & Services TRA TRA PREMIUM Petrol With Super Cleansers care TRA POWER KISAN E L E E T C A R D The best your vehicle can gel F u e l S t a i o n CONVENIENT, SECURE & REWARDING SEVA Fuels and More KENDRA R TRAMILE S U P E R D I E S E L TRA POWER EASY FULE SERVO WORLD CLASS LUBRICANTS IndianOil Aviton 100% PERFORMANCE. EVERYTIME. Our ground work takes you sky high TRA REWARDS X T R A R E W A R D. X T R A V A L U E. SAFE. RELIABLE. CONBENIENT autogas EXPERINCE THE ECO-DRIVE PROPEL 100% TRUST. 100% VALUE. A range of world class petrochemicals 06 Sustainability Report 2013-14 Our Supply Chain Imported Oil Barge or Tanker Truck Fuels Tanker Refinery Storage Refinery Tanker Truck Common Pipe Line Pipeline Storage Storage and Blending Domestic Oil Bulk Terminal Tanker Truck Petrochemical 07 Sustainability Report 2013-14 Our Reach To keep pace with the high growth in the retail business, 1,717 retail outlets (including 764 KSK outlets) were commissioned during the year raising their total number to 23,993. Locations No. Operating Refineries 8 Refinery under construction (Paradip Refinery Project, Odisha) 1 Oil Depots & Terminals 135 Aviation Fuelling Stations 98 LPG Bottling Plants 90 Lube Blending Plants 14 Pipelines Terminals 83 R&D Centre 1 Retail Outlets (including Kisan Seva Kendra ROs) 23,993 Kisan Sewa Kendra (Rural Petrol/Diesel Stations) 6,002 LPG Distributors (including distributorships under Rajiv Gandhi Gramin LPG Vitarak Yojana) 7,035 SKO/LDO Dealers 3,930 Consumer Pumps 6,359 Solar Power Plant 1 Wind Power Project 3 Petrochemical Producing Plant 3 Explosive Plant 10 Cryogenic Plant 1 08 Sustainability Report 2013-14 Group Companies and Joint Ventures GROUP COMPANIES Name Business Indian Subsidiaries Chennai Petroleum Corporation Limited Refining of petroleum products IndianOil CREDA Biofuels Limited Plantation of Jatropha and extraction of oil for Bio-diesels Indo Cat Pvt. Limited Manufacturing of FCC catalyst / additive Foreign Subsidiaries IndianOil (Mauritius) Ltd. Mauritius Terminalling, Retailing & Aviation refuelling Lanka IOC PLC Sri Lanka Retailing, Terminalling & Bunkering IOC Middle East FZE UAE Lube blending & marketing of lubricants IOC Sweden AB, Sweden Investment company for E&P Project in Venezuela IOCL (USA) Inc. USA Participation in Shale Gas Asset Project IndOil Global B.V. Netherlands Exploration & Production 09 Sustainability Report 2013-14 JOINT VENTURES Name Business Partners Avi-Oil India Pvt. Ltd. Speciality lubricants NYCO SA, France and Balmer Lawrie & Co. Ltd. Delhi Aviation Fuel Facility Private Setting up and operation of DIAL and BPCL Limited Aviation Fuel Facility at Delhi Airport Green Gas Ltd. City gas distribution GAIL GSPL India Transco Ltd. Setting up of Natural Gas Pipelines GSPL, HPCL, BPCL GSPL India Gasnet Ltd. Setting up of Natural Gas Pipelines GSPL, HPCL, BPCL IOT Infrastructure & Energy Services Ltd. Terminalling services Oiltanking GmbH, Germany IndianOil Petronas Pvt. Ltd. Terminalling services and parallel Petronas, Malaysia marketing of LPG IndianOil Ruchi Bio Fuels LLP Bio Fuel related activities Ruchi Soya IndianOil Skytanking Ltd. Aviation fuel facility projects IOT Infrastructure & Energy Services Ltd., Skytanking GmbH, Germany Indian Synthetic Rubber Limited Manufacturing of Styrene Butadiene TSRC Taiwan and Marubeni Japan Rubber at Panipat Lubrizol India Pvt. Ltd. Lube Additives Lubrizol Inc., USA NPCIL – IndianOil Nuclear Energy For setting up Nuclear Power Plant Nuclear Power Corporation of Corporation Limited India Limited Petronet LNG Ltd. LNG Imports/distribution BPCL, ONGC, GAIL, GDFI and ADB Suntera Nigeria 205 Limited Oil exploration activities Oil India Ltd. and Suntera Resources Ltd., Cyprus IndianOil Adani Gas Pvt. Ltd. City gas distribution Adani Gas Ltd. 10 Sustainability Report 2013-14 Shareholding % OF SHAREHOLDING Central Corporate Government/ Bodies State Government Insurance Companies 19.12% 68.57% 3.50% 0.36% 2.73% 0.93% Financial Individuals 2.61% 2.18% Institutions/ Mutual Funds Banks Others Foreign Institutional Investors During last year, 10% of our shares were divested by the Government of India taking president share from 78% to 68%. 11 Sustainability Report 2013-14 Associations, Charters & Membership National International Advertising Standards Council of India (ASCI) India International collaborations (U21 Global Universitas, Singapore, ifp France, etc.) All India Management Association (AIMA) International Air Transport Association (IATA) Associated Chambers of Commerce and Industry of India (ASSOCHAM) Transparency International India (TII) Association of Business Communicators of India United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) Association of Oil & Gas Operators World LP Gas Association, Paris Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) Council of Indian Employers (CIE) Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry (FICCI) Indian Auto LPG Coalition (IAC) Indian Institution of Industrial Engineering Indian LP Gas Industry Association (ILPGIA) Indian Society of Advertisers (ISA) International Advertising Association (IAA) National HRD Network (NHRD) Petroleum Federation of India (PetroFed) Standing Conference of Public Enterprises (SCOPE) TERI-Business Council for Sustainable Development 12 Sustainability Report 2013-14 13 Sustainability Report 2013-14 Awards & Accolades Gold Trophy “SCOPE Meritorious Award for Corporate Social Responsibility & Responsiveness for the year 2012-13 IndianOil became the highest ranked Indian company (96th) in the prestigious Fortune ‘Global 500’ listing Topped the Financial Express 500, Business Standard 1000, Economic Times 500 and Fortune ‘India 500’ listings PetroFed awards received in four categories-Leading Oil & Gas Corporate of the Year, Oil & Gas Marketing Company of the Year, Special Commendation AwardEnvironment Sustainability-Company of the Year and Innovator of the Year-Team special commendation Best CFO award by Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (ICAI) Featured in Business India Super 100 companies (Rank 11), BT 500 India’s Most Valuable companies (Rank 18), BW 500 (2nd biggest company) and Forbes Global 2000 (Rank 6 among Indian companies) IndianOil won the ‘Global Human Resources Development Awards 2014’ in the category ‘Improved Quality of Working Life’ instituted by International Federation of Training & Development Organisation (IFTDO). 14 Sustainability Report 2013-14 IndianOil was awarded Best CSR Project (Women Empowerment) for Assam Oil School of Nursing by Think Media Inc., Bhubaneshwar and World CSR Congress, Mumbai. Bongaigaon Refinery, Gauridad Pump Station of Western Region Pipelines (WRPL), Rajkot, Ennore BP, Mayiladuthurai BP, Vijayawada BP, Coimbatore BP, Bhopal BP, Rajbandh Terminal bagged National Safety Award from Ministry of Labour & Employment, Government of India Bongaigaon Refinery won the National Energy Conservation Award 2013 constituted by Ministry of Power, Govt. of India. IOML was presented the ‘Africa Sustainability Leadership Award2013’ under the category ‘Best Community Action’ under the aegis of World CSR Congress Won Bronze at the fifth edition of the Rural Marketing Association of India Flame Awards-2013 in the Category ‘Channel Marketing/Retailer Incentive of the year’ for Kisan Seva Kendra brand of retail outlets set up in the rural hinterland For the sixth consecutive year, IndianOil was conferred the coveted Oil & Gas Supply Chain th Excellence Award at the 7 Express, Logistics & Supply Chain Conclave held in Mumbai Conferred the SKOCH Platinum Award under the category of innovative mobile applications for Mobile applications M-Power and X-Sparsh 15 Sustainability Report 2013-14 Materiality Analysis Risk Management stakeholders and Company together with our action plan to Enterprise Risk Management Policy and Procedures counteract such materiality issues as described under periodically identifies corporate risks for an appraisal to the respective topics. Board and seeks directives to minimize the risk etc. Some of the Prioritization and Validation major risks which were identified during the year 2013-14 are Cross sections of internal stakeholders were surveyed through continuing deflation in the Euro Area, geo-political situations, personal interviews and an online questionnaire to determine the risk of volatility in the financial markets and foreign currency the issues material to IndianOil. Based on input , we completed risks. an in-depth stakeholder mapping exercise and identified Identification important key external stakeholders , including dealers, We evaluated a vast range of internal and external data, distributors, customers, and other groups. The key issues including analyst reports, media articles and stakeholder were also discussed among the other PSUs like ONGC, OVL, feedback, and identified the most relevant issues. BPCL, HPCL GAIL, PCRA and NTPC through a recently Review constituted forum i.e. Sustainability Hub. Formation of We are using the inputs from the materiality analysis to guide sustainability Hub is an innovative idea to adopt a collaborative our business strategy, track issues of concern, inform and approach in resolving the issues which are common to CPSUs, prioritize our sustainability programs, and develop a metrics especially implementing the sustainability agenda. The Hub depicting the issues which are of material impact to our members have formed four thematic groups to analyse the stakeholders and to the Company. However, in this report, Sustainability issues which are of high relevance to the only the critical issues which are of high concern to business. 16 Sustainability Report 2013-14 High Labor Rights = Economic = Performance Regulatory = & Operational Efficiency = IMPORTANCE TO STAKEHOLDERS Legal Challenges Safety of Property = Product Reach & = & People Availability Statutory Compliance = Sustainable = Supply Chain Climate Change = Customer = Retention Human Rights = Responsible Sourcing = Impact on = Product Service Quality & safety = Communities Materials Usage Efficiency = Impacts on = Training & Development = Biodiversity Anti – Corruption measures = Security & Safety of Information = System Low Low High IMPACT TO INDIANOIL 17 Sustainability Report 2013-14 The following diagram represents the materiality matrix of the aspects that relate to our business. The aspects that are important to us and our stakeholders are monitored and reported through our sustainability report. Material Aspects Details Covered in Topic Economic Performance Economic Performance Operational Efficiency Energy Safety of Property & People Health & Safety Statutory Compliance Corporate Governance, Product Responsibility, Environmental Performance Research, Development & Innovation Research & Development Climate Change Energy, Water, Emission, Sustainability within us Customer Retention Product Responsibility, Stakeholder Engagement Responsible Sourcing Corporate Governance Product Service Quality & safety Product Responsibility Materials Usage Efficiency Material Sustainable Supply Chain Corporate Governance, Product responsibility Training & Development Great Place to Work Anti – Corruption Corporate Governance Security & Safety of Information System Corporate E-Security Labor Rights & Compensation Great Place to Work Regulatory & Legal Challenges Corporate Governance Product reach & availability About the Company, Our Reach, Economic Performance Human Rights Corporate Governance Impact on Communities Giving Back to Society Impacts on Biodiversity Biodiversity 18 Sustainability Report 2013-14 Sustainability Within Us Fundamental to our approach is an understanding that real and lasting change is accelerated when economic, environmental and social benefits align. This has been true since we came into being… …Today, when the pressure on all natural resources is far greater, and the expectations for sustainable performance are much higher, our ability to help our customers do more with less is even more important. 19 Sustainability Report 2013-14 The need to develop sustainable business strategies is growing The key challenges posed by Environment Sustainability are in and so is the inspiration to lead and take a look at how we can the form of managing Carbon, Water & Waste. We are ingraining tackle today's challenges. This is precisely why we have been the culture of: ‘lowering ecological footprints’, in our processes environmentally, socially and economically conscious and to and actions, through suitable Corporate Strategy & Policy take up this agenda further. A department of Alternate Energy & guidelines. The Sustainability issues are being dealt with fullSustainable Development (AE&SD), at the corporate level, faith-efforts so that ‘Being Green & Sustainable’ ultimately turns evolved in 2010. into a movement. Carbon Carbon reduction through: a) Energy Conservation and Efficiency b) Alternate Energy Generation: Water Water conservation through Biofuels, Wind, Solar, Biogas etc recycling, rain water c) Tree Plantation harvesting, water-shed development, etc Waste Biodiversity Responsible waste Measurement, monitoring management through & positive action on land use, segregation, recycle, reuse and disposal in a flora & fauna, ambient air responsible manner quality, etc. We have already initiated resource foot-printing exercises to take stock of ‘as-is’ situation. Mitigation action has already been started through various activities: 20 Sustainability Report 2013-14 Action Plan 2020 At a time when ‘ZERO’ is the new target for sustainability, we are on the set to take up specific emission and water reduction targets for the period upto 2020 and beyond. These are based on major Energy Conservation measures across IndianOil, including efficient technologies, improving lighting and process efficiency, generation of renewable energy etc., along with water conservation methods including installation of rainwater harvesting units and water reuse, recycle, reduce etc and responsibly managing waste. Our Sustainability Policy encompasses the triple-bottom line aspects of the entire business operations and delineates various roles and responsibilities assigned to departments. The AE&SD department formulates the strategies to address environmental issues such as climate change, global warming, etc. and implements the plan Under a long term plan, Carbon and water foot-printing, for the entire organization, has been estimated for the year 2013-14, considering 200910 as the base year. and the combined carbon and water footprint of all our refineries contributes to nearly 95% of the organisation’s footprint. The waste footprinting exercise is currently in progress. As a part of implementation of sustainable business practices in our supply chain, a massive drive of replacing DG set with solar power system in our retail outlets (petrol pumps) has gained momentum.. Further details about our sustainability initiatives can be accessed from: www.iocl.com/Aboutus/sustainability.aspx. 21 Sustainability Report 2013-14 SUSTAINABILITY POLICY “IndianOil shall continuously strive to be the leading energy provider of the country and in that pursuit follow sustainable practices and technological processes that are safe, efficient and environmentally benign to the society.” IN PURSUIT OF THIS POLICY, INDIANOIL IS COMMITTED 8 To conduct business in a sustainable manner while meeting stakeholders’ aspirations for value creation and growth. 8 To enrich quality of life of communities around its locations. 8 To work towards lowering waste and carbon footprint by judicious and efficient use of resources. 8 To engage employees & business partners as change agents for sustainable practices. 8IN To be a partner in nation’s strategy for deployment of sustainability initiatives. PURSUIT OF THIS POLICY, INDIANOIL IS COMMITTED 22 Sustainability Report 2013-14 CORPORATE SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT FRAMEWORK At IndianOil, we endeavour to achieve our environmental, societal and economic goals through mass awareness and change of mindset leading to innovative sustainability practices across the organisation by 8 Ethical Management Practices: Transparency, integrity and accountability in IndianOil’s functioning. 8 Shareholder Value: Sustaining the company’s profitability through value creation and efficient operations and processes. 8 Prudent Use of Resources: Through efficient use of energy, water, land, input materials and any other resource. 8 Process & Product Stewardship: Supply and deployment of sustainable processes, products and services through continuous innovation and adoption. 8 Bio, Renewable and Clean Energy Portfolio: Enhanced focus to promote Bio, Renewable and Clean energy portfolio. 8 Technology Towards Sustainable Development: Absorption and adoption of energy efficient and environment-friendly technology. Specific focus to develop in-house technology through R&D. 8 Promotion of Robust Health, Safety and Environment Practices: Provide a safe and healthy environment in and around the workplace through promotion of a strong culture of safety and care for environment. 8 Biodiversity: Projects and operations do not have significant impact on biodiversity. 8 Minimal Impact on Climate Change: Limiting the GHG and other emissions and adopting mitigation policies in line with India’s climate change strategy. 8 Responsible Management of Waste: Reducing, reusing, recycling and environmentally safe disposal of waste streams. 8 Awareness Generation on Sustainable Development: Generating awareness on sustainability development amongst the employees and business associates/ stakeholders. 8 Societal Needs: Safeguarding human rights within our sphere of influence, contributing to community needs, investing in training and education, promoting arts and sports. 8 Monitoring & Reporting: Periodic monitoring, reporting and disclosure of performance on sustainability parameters to stakeholders. 23 Sustainability Report 2013-14 BOARD COMMITTEE ON CSR AND SD Board Committee on CSR & Sustainable Development is the apex body to plan strategies and monitor Sustainable Development initiatives and monitors implementation and performance. The members of Board committee on CSR & SD are as under: Shri Shyam Saran, (Independent Director) Dr. Sudhakar Rao (Independent Director) Prof. Devang Khakhar (Independent Director) Director (Human Resource) Director (Finance) Director (Marketing) Director (Planning & Business Development) Board committee on Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) & Sustainable Development (SD) has been constituted by the board to recommend, monitor and administer activities under CSR, Sustainable Development Plan, SD Policy and to oversee its performance / implementation across the organization. SUSTAINABILITY INITIATIVES Rain Water Harvesting Tree Plantation Wind Power Generation Carbon & Water Footprinting Solar Power Generation Sustainability Awareness Green Building Sustainability Reporting Energy Auditing Solar Lantern Organic and Waste Energy Conservation and Paper Recycling Energy Efficiency 24 Sustainability Report 2013-14 CARBON & WATER FOOTPRINTING ENERGY AUDIT OF OFFICE BUILDINGS Carbon (Scope-1 & 2) and Water footprinting of all locations is Efficient use of energy is the order of the day. The energy carried out annually. auditing is done at our various offices to achieve energy TREE PLANTATION & CARBON NEUTRAL conservation/ efficiency improvement by implementing EVENTS recommended modification/ updation for optimum energy A conscious effort towards reducing our carbon footprint is utilization. performed by planting trees. Also major business RAINWATER HARVESTING meetings/events are made carbon neutral through tree Rainwater Harvesting projects are implemented at various plantation. locations with a view to reduce our water footprint and to increase ground water availability through recharging aquifer by rainwater. SUSTAINABILITY GRID Board Committee on CSR and SD Corporate Level Alternate Energy and Sustainable Development Department (AE&SD) Marketing Refineries Pipelines R&D Head Office Level Division Division Division Division Unit Level Installations/Offices 25 Sustainability Report 2013-14 Awareness Generation Programmes Sensitization of the employees towards sustainability measures in their day to day lives is one of the most important initiatives accomplished through a well structured SD awareness workshop conducted across the organization. The workshops covering more than 2400 employees representing a multifunctional group has helped generate commitment on Sustainable Development. OFF-GRID SOLARISATION RETAIL OUTLET SOLARISATION With a view to reduce diesel consumption by Diesel Generator Sets in Retail Outlets and resultant reduction in GHG emissions, solar Photo Voltaic (PV) power generation system are installed at Retail Outlets. This initiative began in 2011 and since then 1265 Retail Outlets are solarized with a total combined generation capacity over 4.4 MW. RO Solarization has brought smile in the face of our most SOLAR LANTERNS important stakeholders like dealers and customers and For providing illumination in the dwellings of the downtrodden driven by this, we have futuristic plans to solarise all the people who are not connected to grid power, we have taken Retail outlets. initiative of providing solar lanterns. During the year, we have sold 34,947 solar lanterns with the cumulative sales reaching over 76,000. INSTALLATION SOLARISATION We continue to promote solar energy generation capabilities in our Offices and therefore to reduce dependency on grid supply. Our plan is to solarise all the offices/ Installations wherever feasible, in future. SUSTAINABILITY AWARDS AND GREEN BUILDINGS RECOGNITION Our five offices located at the following locations are provided Our Sustainability initiatives have won accolades from with Green building features : PETROFED (Special Commendation Award Environment === New Delhi Faridabad Panipat = Mumbai = Indore Sustainability Company of the year Award 2011-12) and Golden Peacock Award for Sustainability’ for the year 2013. 26 Sustainability Report 2013-14 NATIONAL SEMINAR ON SUSTAINABILITY Our 2nd National Seminar on Sustainability 'Public Enterprises: Leading the way to Sustainable Development' was organized at New Delhi in February, 2014. Sessions on carbon, water and waste management were lead by eminent speakers from Ministry of Water Resources, Department of Public Enterprises and institutions such as Centre for Science and Environment, Global Reporting Initiative (India) and Central Pollution Control Board. Participants from ONGC, NTPC, GAIL, TERI, HPCL, PPAC, PCRA and SBI attended the seminar. The seminar brought forward the formation of an inter-CPSEs Sustainability Hub to join hands for tackling environmental, social and economic challenges through a new business paradigm. SOLAR ENERGY GENERATION Our 5MW capacity solar power plant commissioned in 2012 at Rawra, Jodhpur, Rajasthan has been operating successfully. SUSTAINABILITY REPORTING We have been releasing Sustainability Report since 2005-06. As part of paper conservation measures, our previous Sustainability Report 2012-13; “Widening Horizons” was released in an e-version and in 20 page printed abridged version. The previous report was Global Reporting Initiative, GRI G3.1 and OGSS compliant with A+ rating duly assured by external assurance agency. 27 Sustainability Report 2013-14 WIND ENERGY GENERATION Our 21 MW Wind Power unit, commissioned in Kutchh, Gujarat, in 2009, has been operating successfully. During the year, 14.7 MW wind capacity was commissioned at Gandikota, Andhra Pradesh. With this, total wind power generation capacity has reached 63 MW. 28 Sustainability Report 2013-14 Sustainability@IndianOil Sustainability Initiatives Units Cumulative as on st 31 March 2014 Carbon Management Carbon Footprinting No. All Locations Solar PV (Off-grid) Capacity KW 257 RO SolarisationNos. Nos. 1,265 RO Solarisation Capacity MW 4.4 Sale of Solar lanterns Nos. 76,750 Energy Audit of Office building Nos. 79 Certified Green Buildings Nos. 2 Specific Energy Consumption MBN (MBTU/BBL/NRGF) 55.8 Water Management Water Footprinting Nos All Locations Waste Management No. of Organic Waste Convertor / Bio-gas Generator Nos. 15 Sustainability Awareness Workshops Workshops No. 100 Total Attendees No. 2,478 29 Sustainability Report 2013-14 Stakeholder Engagement In IndianOil, stakeholder engagement is an on-going process to connect us with stakeholders in a variety of ways, throughout the year. We regularly communicate the progress on material aspects concerning our stakeholders using earmarked channels. As our operations are spread over the geographical span of the nation, we cater to diverse stakeholder group and resolve the issues with mutual concern. Shareholders Business Partner/Vendor Government/ Regulatory Bodies Community Customer Employees / Contractors Media NGOs Industry/Trade Association Academia Financial Institutions Advocacy/ Advisory groups Our pan-India presence and nature of business enables us remain engaged with a versatile array of stakeholders. 30 Sustainability Report 2013-14 Stakeholder Analysis Stakeholder analysis helps to identify and assess stakeholders, who can affect and influence IndianOil’s strategy and reputation. We have endeavoured to identify stakeholders and successfully engaged with them to derive a mileage on all sustainability related issues and to minimise negative impacts on our businesses. IndianOil in Every Part, in Every Heart 31 Sustainability Report 2013-14 CUSTOMER SATISFACTION Stakeholder engagement takes place in a variety of ways throughout the year. Some specific examples of intentional and purposeful listening and addressing to stakeholders occur through the following: 8 The Shareholders/Investors Grievance Committee (SIGC) of Directors deals with the complaints received from the shareholders. 8 Publishing half yearly/ annual reports of the corporation in various leading National Newspapers and on the corporation’s website www.iocl.com and seeking feedback/ comments from our stakeholders. 8 Investor Service Cell with offices in Mumbai and in New Delhi address issues/ grievances/ queries of stakeholders. 8 Dedicated email to address investors’ grievances: investor@indianoil.co.in. 8 Organizing seminars, workshops, co-ordination meetings to seek feedback and to improve our services. 8 Through RTI anyone can seek information. Customer First!!! We understand the need to listen first. It is this ability that has enabled us to find newer and innovative solutions to our customers problems. Today, even senior officials are available to meet customers at our Head Office and State Office on Tuesdays, Wednesdays & Thursdays between 3 pm & 4 pm and in our Divisional, Area Offices and LPG bottling plants on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays between 3 pm and 4 pm to understand customer needs better and offer customized solutions. Customer satisfaction is assessed on regular basis through 8 Through various channels such as Toll Free number, IOC websites, in person/ writing or at the customer service cells of the Area Offices. 8 Through random calls to customers by IOC field Officers. 8 Corrective action is initiated to rectify the situation, in case of general complaints against the distributors. CUSTOMER FEEDBACK SURVEY level of the customer with respect to the parameters mentioned Customer feedback survey questionnaire has been designed above. to get the feedback from the customer on mainly 6 parameters The questionnaire is administered either personally, through viz., quality, quantity, promptness in refuelling, behavior of email/fax/telephone. staff, maintenance of refuellers and redressal of customer Based on the values/ratings given by the customer in their feedback , the Customer Satisfaction Index(CSI) is calculated complaints with different weightage assigned for each for each aviation customer so as to arrive at the final CSI index parameter, sum totaling to 100. for that region. The questionnaire is administered to a selected sample of During 2013-14, the complaint redressal with in 30days was airline customers of each Region to assess the satisfaction 99%. 34 Sustainability Report 2013-14 Corporate Governance CORPORATE GOVERNANCE-OUR PHILOSOPHY We believe that good Corporate Governance practices ensure ethical and efficient conduct of the affairs of the Company and also help in maximizing value for all our stakeholders in order to build an environment of trust and confidence. IndianOil endeavours to uphold the principles and practices of Corporate Governance for ensuring transparency, integrity and accountability in its functioning. For effective implementation of the Corporate Governance practices, IndianOil has a well-defined policy framework. For Implementing The Corporate Governance Practices, We Have Policy Framework Consisting, Inter-alia Following = Code of Conduct for Directors and Senior Management Personnel = Code of Conduct for prevention of Insider Trading = Enterprise Risk Management Policy = Integrity Pact to enhance transparency in business = Whistle Blower Policy = Conduct, Discipline and Appeal Rules for employees = Right To Information (RTI) As per Listing Agreement with the Stock Exchanges, the Management's Discussion & Analysis Report and the Corporate Governance Report have been incorporated as separate sections forming part of our Annual Report. 35 Sustainability Report 2013-14 THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS Directorship/Committee position occupied by them in other The Board of Directors of IndianOil comprises of optimum companies. combination of Executive (Whole-time) and Non-Executive The performance of the senior management is linked to the MoU (Part-time) Directors (which include Independent Directors and targets which the company signs with the Government of India. Government Nominee Directors). Independent Directors are The thrust while determining the MoU targets is broadly based persons with proven record in diverse areas like energy, law, on the long term perspective, covering all the critical operations academics, finance, economics, marketing, administration, including Crude Throughput, Product Pipeline Throughput, etc. Project Implementation, Capital Expenditure, Distillate Yield, As on 31.03.2014, the strength of the Board of Directors was 18 Energy Factor, Safety, Quality and new areas of Business comprising of 8 Executive (Whole-time Functional) Directors Development. Specific weightage has also been assigned to (including Chairman) and 10 Part-time Non-Executive CSR, Sustainable Development, HRM and R&D. Directors, out of which 8 are Independent Directors and 2 are BOARD AGENDA Government Nominee Directors. IndianOil has not been able to The Board of Directors oversees the functioning and sets comply with the requirement of 50% Independent Directors on strategic goals in order to achieve the organization’s vision its Board. IndianOil, being a Government Company under the statement. The Board defines the Company’s policy and administrative control of the Ministry of Petroleum & Natural oversees its implementation. The Board has constituted various Gas (MoP&NG), the Directors are nominated by the Government committees to facilitate a smooth and efficient flow of decision of India. The board has 5.55% women representation. The making process. Company is pursuing with the Government of India to induct requisite number of Independent Directors as required under The meetings of the Board of Directors are generally held once clause 49 of the Listing Agreement as well as Department of in a month. During the year 2013-14, thirteen Board Meetings Public Enterprises (DPE) guidelines on Corporate Governance. were held. All the Directors have made requisite disclosures regarding 36 Sustainability Report 2013-14 Governance Structure Executive (Whole Time) Government & Non-Executive Chairman Director Independent Directors The Board Committees Corporate Office Planning & Business Marketing Refineries Pipelines R&D Centre Development 37 Sustainability Report 2013-14 The Board Committees Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Shareholders’/ Investors Grievance Committee Project Evaluation Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Health, Safety & Committee & Sustainable Development Committee Environment Committee Marketing Strategies Establishment De-leasing of Immoveable Committee Committee Properties Committee Contracts Committee Planning & Projects Oil Price Risk Committee Management Committee Spot LNG Purchase Committee LNG Sourcing Committee 38 Sustainability Report 2013-14 CORRUPTION AND ANTI COMPETITIVE WHISTLE BLOWER POLICY BEHAVIOUR IndianOil has whistle blower policy wherein the employees are IndianOil persistently works against corruption in all its forms. free to report any improper activity resulting in violations of Our Conduct, Discipline and Appeal rules outlines, the approach laws, rules, regulations or code of conduct by any of the to assess fraud risks and reporting, investigating and employees, to the Competent Authority or Chairman of the Audit responding to suspected incidents of corruption. It is mandatory Committee, as the case may be. The confidentiality of those for all our employees to comply with such rules. 100% of our reporting violations is maintained and are not subjected to any units are analysed for anti-corruption and related risks. We have discriminatory practice. Audit committee is accessible to all in place adequate measures and control to address issues employees. relating to ethics, bribery and corruption in the context of REMUNERATION OF DIRECTORS appropriate policy guidelines issued by the Government from IndianOil, being a Central Public Sector Company, the time to time. The policy covers company as well as the business remuneration of the whole-time Functional Directors is decided partners. During the year no incidents of corruption were by the Government of India. The Board has constituted a reported. Remuneration Committee to approve certain perquisites for As a responsible corporate citizen, IndianOil undertakes and whole-time Functional Directors and below Board level implements widely accepted initiatives like the Grievance Executives, which are within the powers of the Board as well as Redressal mechanism, the Whistle Blower’s policy and a well to approve performance related pay to the executives of the defined and strictly implemented policy on prevention of sexual Company. Performance Linked Incentives are payable to the harassment at the workplace. During the year, 3 complaints Whole-time Functional Directors as employees of the Company related to sexual harassment were filed. as per the policy applicable to all employees. During the year, no Our Vigilance department carries out preventive activities like Stock Options have been issued to Whole-time Functional increasing awareness through training/ workshop on the Directors. The terms of appointment of the Whole-time Central Vigilance Commission (CVC) rules/guidelines, ensuring Functional Directors, as issued by the Government of India, quality and quantity of products in transit as well as sales points provides for 3 months notice period or salary in lieu of for across the country, conducting system studies to bring out severance of service. The remuneration does not include the irregularities/ inconsistencies, bringing transparency and provision made on actuarial valuation of retirement benefit economy in awarding as well as execution of contracts. In order schemes and provision made during the year towards post to promote transparency and efficiency in the working 48 retirement benefits as the same is not separately ascertainable vigilance awareness programmes were conducted during the for individual Directors. year, which were attended by over 1300 employees. The ratio of the total annual compensation of the organization’s IndianOil has inbuilt mechanism to check anti competitive highest paid individual to the median annual total compensation behavior and complies with all government policies. Two cases is 5.6:1. were filed against the company regarding anti-competitive HUMAN RIGHTS behavior. One Case is pending before Competition Commission IndianOil is an equal opportunity employerno discrimination of India (CCI) wherein complainant has alleged cartelization by for employment, growth, remuneration and development on the Oil Marketing Companies, for collusive bidding against in a basis of caste, color, gender, religion or region. We have a tender for ATF supplies. The Delhi High Court has stayed the structured grievance handling procedure for employees. No proceedings before CCI. In another case a party has alleged financial and/or in-kind political contributions were made noncompetitive price due to cartelization by Sugar directly or indirectly by the organization to any country, recipient Manufacturers & joint tendering by OMCs for ethanol. The CCI or beneficiary. As a part of the commitment towards meeting dismissed the proceedings and an Appeal by the party is our societal needs, we believe in safeguarding human rights pending before the appellate authority. within our sphere of influence. 39 Sustainability Report 2013-14 All our vendors and suppliers have to comply with General Complaint Record is also maintained for registering Conditions of Contract (GCC) which covers human rights grievances/representations received from reserved category aspects like separate toilets, washing places for men and employees and grievances so registered are considered for women, compulsory canteen facilities and medical services for resolution. In addition, various concessions and relaxations are all employees. In order to minimise and reduce human rights being extended to differently-abled candidates in the risks, a continuous monitoring and review is undertaken at all recruitment process. our locations. No incidents involving rights of indigenous people SUSTAINABLE PROCUREMENT and discriminatory practices were identified during the IndianOil encourages participation in its business procurement reporting period. No significant disputes involving local process and human resource needs from local as well as small communities and indigenous people were reported during the producers surrounding its places of operations. We have ereporting period. No grievances related to human rights were tendering i.e. eprocurement practices based on the principle of filed against the organization during the reporting period. competitiveness and such procurement practices are executed CHILD LABOUR in a manner that is transparent, fair, competitive and cost No child labour is allowed to work in any of our establishments. effective. Our IT team continuously works with various We have prescribed the minimum age limit of 18 years for departments to provide solutions to the internal and external employment/contract labour. IndianOil does not support customers, and extend IT enabled services across the entire business from industries deploying child labour. No complaints procurement-to-pay process. related to engagement of child labour reported during the year. To counter sectoral threats like depletion of resources and geo The General Conditions of Contract (GCC) the guidelines for political uncertainties, we have long and short term contracts in any contract drawn with IndianOil, has a clause as per which all place for crude oil procurement. Our purchases of LNG (Liquid bidders are required to submit a written declaration that they do Natural Gas), crude oil, gas and other raw materials are made not engage child labour. under long term as well as short term purchase contract from FORCED OR COMPULSORY LABOUR domestic and overseas sources. Moreover, efforts are made IndianOil supports the elimination of all forms of forced and towards optimization of crude basket and minimization of compulsory labour. As per IndianOil’s compensation policy, inventories. Also eTendering, e-Procurement and e-Payment each category of employees are paid salary which fulfils the procedures are followed relentlessly as a mode for sustainable norm of the minimum wages act prescribed by the sourcing. Government. In accordance with provisions of Minimum Wages The General Conditions of Contract (GCC), which cover all the Act, 1971 the minimum wages payable to employees/ vendors and suppliers of IndianOil, ensure that there is due contractors are fixed at regular intervals. During the reporting compliance to all laws and regulations . year, no instance of employing forced/compulsory or bonded labour has been reported. PUBLIC PROCUREMENT POLICY FOR MICRO, INCLUSIVE GROWTH SMALL & MEDIUM ENTERPRISES (MSME) IndianOil scrupulously follows the presidential directives and We have implemented the Public Procurement Policy of the guidelines regarding reservation in services for Scheduled Govt. of India for procurement from MSMEs. Necessary Caste (SC)/ Scheduled Tribe(ST)/ Other Backward Class(OBC)/ provision has been made in all the tenders stating the eligibility Physically Handicapped (PH), etc. IndianOil has implemented of MSMEs to participate in the tender. The MSMEs are the provisions of the Disabilities Act 1995 by way of 3% exempted from payment of tender fees and earnest money reservation for differently-abled candidates. A Grievance/ deposit. As against the target of 20% for procurement from 40 Sustainability Report 2013-14 MSMEs, the actual procurement during the year stood at 32%. Presently, three nos. Independent External Monitors (IEMs), ACCOUNTABILITY have been nominated by the Central Vigilance Commission IndianOil believes in total integrity and accountability in its (CVC) to monitor the implementation of IP in all tenders, of the functioning as a prerequisite to achieve its Vision. We value our threshold value of Rs.10 Crore and above, across all Divisions. business relationships with our numerous domestic and During the year 6 meetings of IEM’s have taken place. Based on international contractors and vendors of goods and services and the above threshold value, 235 tenders came under the purview are committed to dealing with them in a fair and transparent of IP during the year against which 5 complaints were received manner by maintaining the highest ethical standards in all which were referred to the IEMs and deliberated. transactions with them. As a part of transparency initiatives, we share information on different issues under the ‘Right to International Women's Day (March 8, 2014) was celebrated Information Act’. Various accountability initiatives like bill watch across IndianOil locations with utmost zeal and enthusiasm, system, standardisation of schedule of rates, file tracking incorporating the United Nation's theme for this year system, etc., are implemented. 'Equality for Women is Progress for all'. INTEGRITY PACT IndianOil has already entered into Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with Transparency International India (TII) Bringing transparency in in 2008 for implementing Integrity Pact (IP) Program focused on procurement through E-Tendering enhancing transparency, probity, equity and competitiveness in Starting with 75 e-tenders during its launch in 2012, we its procurement process. The Integrity Pact has strengthened processed 3,359 e-tenders in 2013-14. Now almost all established systems and procedures by creating trust and has procurements above 10 lakhs are processed through e full support of the Central Vigilance Commission. tendering. 41 Sustainability Report 2013-14 COMPLIANCE TO CORPORATE LAWS anticorruption. As a founder member and now permanent IndianOil has carried out a Secretarial Audit of its records and member, IndianOil also has actively participated in the meetings documents for the year 2013-14 as a Good Corporate and conferences of the Global Compact Society. IndianOil also Governance practice. The Secretarial Audit Report confirms that actively involved with Committees of Government of India and we have complied with all the applicable provisions of the other organizations for advancement or improvement of public Corporate Laws, guidelines, rules etc. The Report, duly certified good by contributing to Economic Reforms, Sustainable by a practicing Company Secretary, is provided in the Annual Business Principles, Energy Security, Inclusive Development Report. Policies, etc. IndianOil has a strong system in agreement to comply to the Also, IndianOil was a National level core-committee member for statutory requirement of government bodies and stakeholders formulating CSR guidelines for CPSEs, and actively contributing representing organizations. to the other government forums. Some of the major EXTERNAL COMMITMENTS AND PUBLIC contributions include National Mission for Enhanced Energy POLICY PARTICIPATION Efficiency, DPE guidelines for Sustainable Development and IndianOil actively propagates public welfare with an aim to bring Expert Group on Low Carbon Strategy for Inclusive Growth”. positive change in governance and compliant behaviour among Also, as part of our sustainability disclosure, we have been key stakeholders such as employees, customers and business participating in the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) since the partners. IndianOil continued its support to Global Compact in last 3 years. Moreover, we are also founder member of the India implementing the ten guiding principles in United Nations’ – GHG program to accentuate our efforts towards carbon agenda on human rights, labour standards, environment and mitigation initiatives. 42 Sustainability Report 2013-14 e-Tendering Xtrainfo e(e-Ledger) Procurement e-ledger e-Payment Dealer/ Distributor Annual Returns (DAR) e-CFS e-GOVERNANCE e-Suggestion Indane INITIATIVES Scheme Transparency Protal File Tracking VTS–Vehicle System Tracking System Employee Performance SMS Management Indenting Employee System Self eService Communication Portal 43 Sustainability Report 2013-14 44 Sustainability Report 2013-14 Economic Performance ECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT been enhancing refining capabilities to process cheaper crude On the growth front, supply-side constraints and structural varieties. weaknesses continued to affect growth in many emerging IndianOil’s pan India presence coupled with its well augmented economies and many struggled with high inflation rates as well. supply infrastructure are the key factors in the marketing space. There was a slight pickup in growth in the later half of 2013 However, increasing competition in the market coupled with mainly on account of stronger export demand from advanced overall slackening of the domestic petroleum products market economies and depreciation of emerging economies’ witnessed this year has emerged as a major challenge. Cost currencies. Another worrying feature that emerged was the minimization, customer’s satisfaction as well as efficiency of slowing of growth in China, which until now had been the the infrastructure are apposite for meeting these challenges. anchor for the emerging economies group. Timely delivery of crude at landlocked refineries is one of our In the last two decades, India experienced the lowest growth in major challenges. We have firm action plans to augment the 2013, primarily due to high inflation rates. During the last year, pipelines capacities for transportation of crude oil and Indian economy witnessed a subdued growth of 4.7 percent. petroleum products and develop crude oil Tankages to enable But growth is expected to improve in the next fiscal. IndianOil, refineries process heavier crudes as well. with its rich legacy of fulfilling the aspirations of its BEYOND CORE stakeholders, is suitably equipped to tune in with this economic Beyond the core business of refining, transportation and scenario. IndianOil maintained its position as the market leader marketing of petroleum products, petrochemical and gas, we for the year 2013-14 with domestic sales of 67.14 million have endeavored in diversified businesses such as Exploration tonnes (MT) of petroleum products (excluding own use naphtha & Production and Alternative Energy sources such as solar, and LNG). It established itself as the second largest Polymer wind, biofuels and nuclear power. supplier in the country. IndianOil refineries achieved a refineries PETROCHEMICALS throughput of 53.13 MMT during the year with a capacity During the year, IndianOil developed six new polyethylene and utilization of 98%. The combined distillate yield of all refineries polypropylene grades with a view to increase its customer base. sustained at 78.10% during the year. The persistent endeavors in the petrochemicals space helped in CORE BUSINESS extending its frontiers with the commissioning of 138 kta India is turning into a hub for downstream petroleum business Butadiene Extraction Unit (BDEU) and 120 kta Styrene as well as into a major growth centre for petroleum demand. As Butadiene Rubber (SBR) plant at Panipat. This SBR plant, set up per International Energy Agency (IEA), India will continue to be a as a joint venture of IndianOil Corporation Limited with M/s. net exporter of refined petroleum products till the year 2020 TSRC Corporation, Taiwan and M/s. Marubeni Corporation, whereas, it will become the largest source of global oil Japan as partners, is India’s first for import substitution. New consumption and a net importer in the long run. overseas markets, covering 16 countries in Africa, Latin With the ever increasing demand for petroleum products, the America and Europe got added to the exporting list last year. refinery capacity in the country is sure to fall short soon. GAS BUSINESS IndianOil being the largest refiner of the country and with Gas business presents a major opportunity for IndianOil to coming state-of-the-art 15 MMTPA refinery project at Paradip, maximize its prospects across the gas value chain. Indigenous our competitiveness in the market place will strengthen. gas demand from refineries in northern and western region as Optimization of refinery operations is imperative for margin well as existing customer base in increasing. With the protection and enhancement. Pursuant to the same, we have 45 Sustainability Report 2013-14 construction of 3 new gas pipelines, new customers may also HUMAN CAPITAL be supplied gas in coming years. To meet the gas requirement Existence of exuberant and competent workforce is vital for the of upcoming Paradip refinery, and other potential customers, effective functioning of an organization. It’s a source of setting up a LNG terminal at East Coast in near future, is under unlimited potential, if tapped with the right perspective. To consideration. achieve this, a thorough analysis of the existing Human E&P Resource systems was done to ascertain various areas of Energy security is the foremost concern for a growing economy improvement. It was decided to consciously move towards dependent on imported crude oil to the extent of over 75 transparency and fairness in HR processes and practices percent. IndianOil has strengthened its position as an upstream through a set of HR interventions. Some of the key initiatives player with 13 domestic blocks and 11 overseas blocks. It has that were implemented for the executives included a made a beginning in acquisition of hydrocarbon producing comprehensive transfer policy and career path model; assets overseas, in consortium by acquiring producing assets in succession planning – through leadership centers and multiUS and Canada. Acquisition of participating interest (PI) in rater feedback mechanism; new accelerated career Niobrara shale asset in USA provided the required beginning progression scheme; recruitment of a new grade A0, etc. and experience to IndianOil, with first ever revenue earnings R&D from its E&P business. The company does not own any reserves Research and Development is an integral part of any in the country. However, proven reserves are there in other organization’s development strategy and has always held high countries of operation but are out of the boundary of the report. importance in IndianOil as well. Along with providing an edge RENEWABLE ENERGY over the competitors, R&D department also helps IndianOil in During the year 2013-14, AE&SD Department commissioned staying abreast of scientific breakthroughs that help in 14.7 MW capacity wind energy project at Gandikota, Andhra transforming the way business is carried out, especially in lubes Pradesh. With this, total renewable installed capacity of the and petrochemical segments. IndianOil Centre for Renewable IndianOil reached 68 MW, which includes 63 MW of wind and 5 Energy, Manesar (i-CARE) will encourage the research activates MW of solar energy. in the country in the field of various futuristic energy resources. Operational Performance 80 80 70 70 60 60 50 72.49 75.49 54.65 50 40 71.37 71.15 75.54 73.07 55.62 53.13 67.93 68.51 52.96 40 30 30 20 20 10 10 0 Total Domestic Sales Pipelines Throughput Refinery Throughput (Million Tonnes) (Million Tonnes) (Million Tonnes) 2010-11 2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 46 Sustainability Report 2013-14 For the financial year 2013-14, IndianOil once again maintained its leadership as the flagship national oil company in the downstream sector. As India’s top corporate in Fortune’s ‘Glo0bal 500 listings’ at the 96th position, the company set new standards in performance during the fiscal, with enhanced mind and market share. IndianOil sold 75.531 million tonnes of products, including exports, during 2013-14. The gross refining margin for the year 2013-14 were US$ 4.24 [per barrel as compared to US$ 3.16 per barrel in 2012-13. We have increased our turnover by 10% and net profit up by 40%. ENERGY EFFICIENT TRANSPORT Over 113% capacity utilization of crude oil pipelines. Nearly 13 projects of over 3200 km and added capacity of 15.5 MMTPA are under implementation. Transported 73.08 MMT of crude oil and finished products during the year 2013-14. Gross refinery margins during 2013-14 were US$ 4.24 per barrel as against US$ 3.16 per barrel in 2012-13. 47 Sustainability Report 2013-14 Turnover (Rs Crore) 457553 500000 414909 450000 373926 303695 400000 261849 250065 350000 300000 250000 200000 150000 100000 50000 0 -09 -10 -11 -12 -13 -14 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 12000 Profit After Tax (Rs. Crore) 10221 10000 8000 7445 7019 6000 5005 3955 4000 2950 2000 0 -09 -10 -1 1 -12 -13 -14 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 48 Sustainability Report 2013-14 Environmental Performance ADDRESSING CLIMATE CHANGE Under a long term plan, Carbon and Water foot-printing has Carbon dioxide level has reached its highest throughout human been completed for the entire organization and Waste foothistory, as per the National Oceanic and Atmospheric printing exercise is currently in progress. We have implemented Administration (NOAA), Mauna Loa observatory in Hawaii. ENCON projects at refineries to further reduce GHG emissions, Changing landscapes, stronger storms and increased storm solarising ROs, and creating rain water harvesting structure at related damages, higher temperatures, increased risk of installations as part of carbon and water mitigation strategy. drought, rising sea level, more heat related illness and diseases Our venture into off grid and on grid solar and wind energy is and threat on wildlife are the likely adverse impacts of climate also considered as a forward looking approach. Awareness change. generation among the employees and conducting Carbon As a major supplier of energy, we bear the responsibility to take Neutral Events are the other thrust areas of sustainable lead in finding and implementing plans to counteract climate development initiatives. During the year 201314, we invested change. We also recognise preservation of ecological balance about Rs. 7.80 crore for Alternate Energy & Sustainable as a core commitment for ensuring a better world for the future Development related initiatives. generations. 49 Sustainability Report 2013-14 Material MATERIAL USE We understand the need to diversify and strategically spread our sourcing mechanism for ensuring availability of raw material. Optimised use of raw material, improvement of Gross Refinery Margin (GRM) and efficient operations are key focus area for sustained growth. Raw Material Components Total Consumption of Raw Materials Quantity (MTs in lakh) 2010-11 2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 Crude Oil 529.61 544.29 530.61 530.95 Base Oil 4.32 4.31 4.01 4.25 Ethanol 0.68 1.1 0.98 1.38 Benzene 0 0.08 0.16 0.14 Natural Gas/RLNG 2.83 3.85 3.44 4.18 Additives 0.48 0.52 0.49 0.5 Raw Materials for Explosives 0.58 0.57 0.63 0.67 Raw Material (2013-14) Total Lube Base oil, additives and other chemicals for lubes and grease manufacturing (Tonne) 3,85,935 Total Expenditure on Packages and Drum Sheet (Rs crore) 457.06 Total Steel coils/Sheets/Stores/Components and Spare Parts Consumed (Rs crore) 1,938 Petrochemicals Volume Sold and Packaging Material consumed (2013-14) Name of Petrochemical Products Total Volume Sold (Tonne) Total quantity of Packaging material Consumed (Tonne) Polymer 10,28,124 6.5 Purified Terephthalic Acid (PTA) 2,60,437 1,103.7 50 Sustainability Report 2013-14 Lube Products Volume Sold and Packaging Material Consumed (2013-14) Top Selling Lube Product Total Volume Sold Total quantity of Packaging material (Tonne) Consumed (Tonne) Metal Plastic Corrugated Containers Containers Boxes Servo 2T Supreme (2900) 16,881.30 1,030.29 324.59 545.12 Servo Electra (7403) 16,726.71 1,218.00 0.00 0.00 Servo Sup. Mult. Grd 20w-40 (7494) 15,334.59 215.45 1,026.21 268.43 51 Sustainability Report 2013-14 Energy ENERGY SOURCING & CONSUMPTION Our constant increase in energy demand due to capacity addition is compensated by upgradation in technological changes bringing energy efficient operations. We are sensitive to global concern on carbon intensive energy growth and thus we are putting greater emphasis to respond to varied needs and expectations of the stakeholders. Specific Energy Consumption (per MT of Production) Actual Production Consumption per MT of Product (‘000 MTs) Fuel Gas/ LDO/ Product 2013-14 2012-13 Electricity (KWH/MT) Liquid Fuel (MT/MT) Natural Gas (MT/MT) Coke (MT/MT) 2013-14 2012-13 2013-14 2012-13 2013-14 2012-13 2013-14 2012-13 PETROLEUM 47,247.23 48,561.38 77.182 76.878 0.034 0.034 0.038 0.038 0.011 0.013 LAB 103.193 118.764 568.091 577.844 0.538 0.541 0.238 0.174 0 0 PTA 387.723 567.275 525.986 385.141 0.154 0.138 0.29 0.22 0.07 0.059 PNCP 1,552.058 1,440.385 695.887 725.011 0.006 0.012 0.25 0.238 0.119 0.138 Total 49,291.091 50,587.8 101.222 99.919 0.035 0.036 0.047 0.046 0.015 0.017 52 53 Sustainability Report 2013-14 Energy Consumption by Power & Fuel Type 6.74% Purchased Electricity 3.90% 17.57% Electricity through Dual Fuel (HSD/Nature Gas Generators) Electricity through Steam Turbine/Generators 32.39% Liquid Fuel (FO / Naphtha / Diesel) 37.71% Fuel Gas 1.58% Coke 0.11% Natural Gas Total Electricity & Fuel Consumption Electricity Unit 2013-14 2012-13 Electricity Purchased ‘000 KWH 65,238 57,596 Electricity Generation Through Duel Fuel (HSD/ ‘000 KWH 39,87,238 39,46,144 Natural Gas Generators) Through Steam Turbine/Generators ‘000 KWH 9,36,864 10,60,953 Electricity Consumed ‘000 KWH 49,89,340 50,64,693 Liquid Fuel (FO/ Naphtha/Diesel) MTs 17,17,181 18,05,212 Others / Internal Fuel Internal fuel Fuel gas MTs 19,98,965 20,03,430 Coke MTs 3,19,747 3,24,159 Purchased Fuel Natural gas MTs 7,39,356 8,58,142 53 Sustainability Report 2013-14 Direct Energy Consumption (TJ) 2,22,979 2,00,000 2,20,394 2,13,068 1,50,000 1,00,000 50,000 0 -12 -13 -14 2011 2012 2013 ENVIRONMENT IMPACT ANALYSIS (EIA) EIA is performed at all of our installations depending upon new recommendations, Environment Management Plan is reviewed projects, revamp of existing facilities, etc. It is carried out as per and implemented. Any new project/revamp is approved by the Environment Protection (EP) Rules by MoEF. EIA study also Expert Appraisal Committee (EAC) of MoEF and taken up only includes the impact assessment and risk analysis on after Environment Clearance is awarded for the revamp/new biodiversity. Based on EIA Study Report and its project. Indirect Energy Consumption (TJ): Electricity from Grid 250 234.86 207.35 189.93 200 162.92 151.65 150 100 50 0 20 20 -12 -13 20 09 10 13 -10 -11 2011 2012 -14 IndianOil generates about 2.8% of its total electricity consumption from renewable energy resources. 54 Sustainability Report 2013-14 ENERGY CONSERVATION (ENCON) Estimated savings of Standard Refinery MEASURES Fuel in Tonnes (SRFTs) Our energy conservation (ENCON) projects have been 140000 1,20,000 contributing enormously to bring down energy consumption 120000 1,02,800 93,600 95,800 and resultant reduction in carbon emissions at our refineries. 100000 Total 126 ENCON projects are implemented during 2013-14 80000 resulting in saving of 1,02,800 MT Standard Refinery Fuel (SRF) 60000 equivalent to about Rs 420 Crore. It is envisaged that our 40000 investments on ENCON projects during 2014-15 would yield 20000 approx. 1, 02,000 SRFT. 0 -11 2011-12 -13 -14 2010 2012 2013 Energy Conservation Measures at Refinery Estimated Fuel Savings (Mt/yr) Installation of new S-2 C/D condenser for heat recovery from CDU CL-2 overhead to BFW to TPS at 1,460 Guwahati Refinery Revision in DHDT RGC minimum speed from 7700 to 7100 RPM at Barauni Refinery 1,100 Reduction in LP steam in Deaerator of FCC (picking up waste heat by BFW) at Barauni Refinery 2,015 AU-III preheat improvement by 70C (2680C to 2750C) by replacement of old heat exchangers at 2,060 Gujarat Refinery Steam trap replacement and repair by Forbes Marshall at Gujarat Refinery 8,220 Bypassing of MSQ Reformate splitter at Haldia Refinery 1,500 Scheme for AVU Preheat improvement by min. 120C at Mathura Refinery 6,500 Installation of foggy cooler in GT-1 at Mathura Refinery 1,200 Recovery of Hydrogen from Hydrogen Rich CRU / WHFU off-gas by routing the same through HGU at 1,800 Digboi Refinery Switch on MP steam generators in AVU I (KERO & Vac. Slop) at Panipat Refinery 1,280 Reduction of back pressure at WGC MP steam header in DCU by interconnecting DCU MP steam 2,330 headers at Panipat Refinery Commissioning of new GTG with HRSG at Bongaigaon Refinery 27,000 55 Sustainability Report 2013-14 ENCON: Energy Saving (TJ) ENCON: Carbon Saving (MtCO2e) 5024.16 6000.00 0.45 4304.03 4010.95 0.39 5000.00 3918.84 0.40 3433.18 4000.00 0.35 0.31 0.33 0.30 3000.00 0.27 2000.00 0.30 1000.00 0.25 0.00 0.20 -10 010-11 011-12 -13 013-14 -10 010-11 011-12 012-13 013-14 2009 2 2 2012 2 2009 2 2 2 2 IndianOil Refineries have achieved the lowest ever MBN of 55.8 during the year, against 56.3 of previous year’s. The specific energy consumption at refineries is measured in terms of MBN (MBTU/BBL/NRGF), which is the amount of energy consumed in a refinery per barrel of crude processed per unit energy factor. 56 Sustainability Report 2013-14 66 MBN (Specific Energy Consumption) 64 64 62 62 60 59 58 57 56.3 55.8 56 54 52 8-09 9-10 0-11 1-12 2-13 3-14 200 200 201 201 201 201 Distillate Yield (wt%) 80 78.1 78 77.8 78 75.4 74.6 75.3 76 74 72 8-09 9-10 0-11 1-12 2-13 3-1 4 200 200 201 201 201 201 Fuel & Loss (%) 9.1 Our refineries achieved the combined distillate yield of 78.1 wt% during the year, which is the same as that achieved in the previous year. We achieved a 9.1 9.1 combined crude oil throughput of 53.13 million tonnes 9 during the year, with an overall capacity utilisation of 98%. The marginal fall in the throughput and capacity 9 utilisation from previous year is mainly due to the shutdown of Mathura Refinery for a period of 45 days 8.9 for project related activities. -12 -1 3 -14 2 011 2012 2013 In our Pipeline operations, reduction in specific energy consumption is achieved through optimum use of pumping units and drag reducer. This resulted in a decrease in specific energy consumption in 2013-14 as compared to previous year. 57 Sustainability Report 2013-14 Waste We, at IndianOil continuously strive to minimize adverse environmental impacts from company activities, products and services by using processes, practices, materials and products that avoid, reduce or control pollution. Accordingly, our efforts have been relentless in the following areas: WASTE WATER MANAGEMENT All our operating installations obtain consent from State which are segregated collection of various effluent streams and pollution Control Boards to operate under Water Act, Air elaborate treatment involving physical, chemical and biological Pollution Act, Hazardous Waste Act and Biomedical Waste Act. treatment methods. We have installed and commissioned clean Compliance to the pollution control norms laid down by the and more efficient treatment systems like Hydrogen Peroxide State Pollution Control Boards and Central Pollution Control treatment / Wet Air Oxidation for treating Spent Caustic Board is a minimum requirement and not an end in itself. Streams. ETPs are also upgraded / being upgraded with Actions are taken for finding technological solutions, rigorously advanced treatment systems like Tilted Plate Interceptor (TPI), tracking performance, training and education to achieve Dissolved Air Floatation (DAF), Bio-tower, Ultra Filtration, continuous improvement. Reverse Osmosis etc. Our endeavour is to arrest the pollutants We are monitoring the use of our water resources and quality of at source, monitor the ETP operations and continually improve effluent discharge. Our refineries are equipped with wellquality over the minimum regulatory limits. designed Effluent Treatment Plants (ETP), the salient features of Gross Effluent Generated Total Effluent Reuse (M3/hr) Reuse (M3/hr) % Total 8 Refineries + Panipat Naphtha Cracker Complex 4,591.3 3,415.1 74.38 Discharge of treated waste water from ETP/STP Treated waste water from ETP is discharged to outfall channels # Assumption: working of refineries is assumed to be 24*7 while calculating the gross effluent. 58 Sustainability Report 2013-14 We make continuous efforts to recycle products and waste oily sludge was treated for oil recovery. At all marketing through installation of Effluent Treatment Plants, Sewage locations, Oil Water Separators have been provided to separate Treatment Plants, Organic Waste Converters and other out oil and water. Oil is reclaimed and recycled and if found to be sustainable practices like bio-remediation of oily sludge, less than prescribed limit, are let out into water drains, ponds or rainwater harvesting, etc. During the year, 74.38% of treated pits. effluent was reused in refinery operations and 19164.64 MT of Oily Sludge (MT) Residual Oily Sludge (MT) Generated + Stock Treatment for Oil Recovery Generated + Stock Disposal 33267.68 19,164.56 9,040.04 2,718.40 SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT WASTE MANAGEMENT Our units and installations apply the principles ‘prevent, reduce, Biological Sludge generated in the Activated Sludge Treatment reuse and recover’. Oily sludge generated in Crude and Product Plant of ETPs of Refinery Units is disposed off in green belts as tanks, bio-sludge and spent catalyst are the main hazardous manure. Fluid catalytic cracking (FCC) spent catalyst is sold to solid wastes generated in Refinery units. Oily Sludge is cement industry for use as a filler material and is also used for generated from Crude and Product Tanks at Pipelines and road construction as a filler. The spent catalyst of catalytic Marketing Installations. Our refineries follow a mix of strategies reformer unit (CRU) and hydrogen generation unit (HGU) is sent for management of oily sludge, which include minimization of back to the supplier. generation at source, advanced in-situ tank cleaning methods, In marketing division, hazardous waste is stored as per PCB bio-degradation using advanced microbial treatment, and safe norms in HDPE lined pits and treated through bio-remediation disposal in secured landfill sites. Oilivorous is being used for method under guidance of R&D, Faridabad. bio-remediation of oily sludge at all our units and installations. 59 Sustainability Report 2013-14 Water WATER CONSERVATION Water in Refineries is sourced mainly from surface water such processed stands at 1.4 m3/MT. Cumulative average of 8358.2 as canals, lakes, rivers and ponds. Pipeline and Marketing m3 unit of fresh water is consumed at all refineries and Panipat division rely mainly on the supply from municipality and ground Naphtha Cracker Plant. We have been successful in our efforts water. Withdrawal of water are within the limits prescribed by towards water conservation through efficient operations of the statutory authorities. No significant impacts found on water ETPs and STPs. With a view to reduce our dependency on sources due to our operations during the year. regular water sources for day to day operations, we have so far Our specific water consumption per metric tonne of crude installed rainwater harvesting systems at numerous locations. Water Source Quantity (m3/year) Surface water, including water from wetlands, rivers, lakes and ocean 7,33,17,347 Ground Water 1,45,99,750 Rainwater collected directly and stored 23,540 The total volume of water withdrawn in cubic meters per year 8,79,40,637 *Water consumed includes non refinery operations such as residential colonies usage, water supplies to other industries. 60 Sustainability Report 2013-14 Specific Water Consumption (Metric Cube per Metric Tonne of Crude Processed) at Refineries 1.5 1.4 1.14 1.1 1 0.5 0 2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 Water conservation measures are adopted at our Pipelines and Marketing Installations also. Automatic water sensing taps and water free urinals have been provided; water sprinkling system is being used; quarter turn / self closing taps have been provided and reuse of effluent is done for housekeeping and horticulture. Continuous monitoring of utility water networks, taps etc. for any leaks and attending the same at the earliest is being done. In some LPG Bottling Plants, cylinder washing units have been provided with re-circulation tanks where water is collected for cleaning the cylinders again. At our R&D Centre 100% reuse of treated effluent continues to maintain Zero discharge. Also Pop up water sprinkling system has been installed at R&D Centre for horticulture. EFFLUENT GENERATION / REUSE The treated effluents are reused / recycled for various purposes in refineries like fire water & cooling tower make up, coke cutting in Delayed Coker Unit (DCU), as DM Water in boilers and process plants and also for captive irrigation in our green belts & Eco parks and make up to Ecoponds. This has helped in reducing discharge of treated effluent outside and also reduction in fresh water consumption. About 75% of the treated effluent was reused in refineries in 2013-14. green belt area of locations has been carried out in low lying RECHARGING GROUND WATER THROUGH areas to channelize rainwater from the existing drain to open RAIN WATER HARVESTING wells. At R&D centre, Roof top rain water harvesting system has Rainwater harvesting is being done on a sustained basis. Many been installed and is working satisfactorily. Ground water level Rain water harvesting projects have been completed in Refinery is measured through piezometer installed at five locations of Units and at Marketing & Pipelines Division also. Excavation in R&D Centre on quarterly basis. 61 Sustainability Report 2013-14 Emission Due to installation of new technologies and ENCON projects processes, transport emissions and fugitive emissions, stabilization time, our tCO2 emission per MT of crude processed generated on site. has increased slightly from last year; 0.262 tCO2 per MT of Emissions are reported according to the internal guidelines, crude processed in 2012-13 to 0.264 tCO2 per MT in 201314. which follow international protocols and industry guidelines. Our total emissions have declined from 14.29 million tCO2 in IndianOil also discloses to public about its carbon emissions 2012-13 to 14.01 million tCO2 due to the use of optimum use of through the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP). electricity, heat or steam, flaring, physical and chemical Specific Emissions 0.270 0.266 0.265 0.264 0.262 0.260 0.256 0.255 0.251 0.250 0.245 0.240 -10 -11 -12 -13 -14 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 MT CO2e / MT of Crude T'put Total Emission (Million tCO2e) 14.29 14.5 14.09 14.26 14.01 14 13.5 12.82 13 12.5 12 -10 010-11 011-12 -13 013-14 2009 2 2 2012 2 62 Sustainability Report 2013-14 NOISE POLLUTION CONTROL Our refineries have adopted following measures to control noise at source. Regular Maintenance of Machines Use of low Noise Machines Suitably Designed Enclosure for Both Source and Receiver Use of Sound Absorbing Material Personnel Protective Equipment (PPEs) like ear plugs, earmuffs, noise helmets etc are also used. Acoustic insulation is provided for DG sets at Pipeline location(s) to achieve 20 dB noise reduction. Emissions (Scope 1 & 2) 0.11 0.06 14.4 0.07 14.2 14.15 14.23 14 13.94 13.8 13.6 -12 -13 -14 2011 2012 2013 Direct Emission (Million tCOe) Indirect Emission (Million tCOe) The refineries take extra care to reduce the release of harmful pollutants during the production process. All the installations operate under consent from State Pollution Control Boards (SPCB) to operate under Water Act, Air Pollution Act and Hazardous Waste Acts. Compliance to the pollution control norms laid down by the State Pollution Control Boards and Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) is mandatory. Actions are taken for finding technological solutions, rigorously tracking performance, training and education to achieve continuous improvement. 63 Sustainability Report 2013-14 CDM (CLEAN DEVELOPMENT MECHANISM) PROJECTS Six projects of the company have been registered as CDM projects under UNFCCC (United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change) viz. One AVU Energy optimization project at Digboi Refinery, Four Flare Gas Recovery projects at Haldia, Barauni, Guwahati & Gujarat Refineries and one 21-MW wind power project in Gujarat. As on 31st March 2014, 2,693 CERs (Certified Emission Reduction) are held as inventory and 74,045 CERs are under certification. PREVENTION OF AIR POLLUTION monitoring stations. Mobile van equipped with sophisticated Utmost attention is given to control / reduce emissions in our monitoring equipment is also in use at Mathura, Panipat and refineries. The major sources of gaseous emissions are flue Gujarat Refineries. R&D Center’s Air Quality Monitoring Van is gases from boilers and heaters, FCC regenerators and Sulphur being utilized for carrying out monitoring of ambient air quality Recovery Units. Hydrocarbon leaks and evaporation during in the vicinity of fuel retail outlets. storage, handling and transportation of petroleum products and Monitoring of fugitive emissions from Volatile Organic crude oil are also potential sources of emissions to air. Our Compound (VOC) sources was carried out in our Refinery units refineries have adopted various measures to control emissions under Leak Detection & Repair (LDAR) Program. Continuous & effectively disperse the flue gases. Our refineries are fully Stack Analyzers for measurement of SO2 and NOX in flue gases complied with the applicable emission standards for process are provided / being provided in the stacks. Additional measures units as also total Sulphur dioxide emission limit prescribed by have been/are being taken at our refineries to further control statutory bodies. atmospheric emissions and monitor stack emissions & ambient Refineries are also monitoring ambient air quality at fixed Air Pollutant* 2013-14 SO2 (Tonnes) 32,254.32 NOx 29,685 Flare Gas (MT) 46,787 Ozone Depleting Substance (ODS) (Tonnes) 6.307 *data pertains to refineries 64 Sustainability Report 2013-14 Biodiversity DEVELOPMENT OF GREEN BELTS AND ECO PARKS Tree plantation in and around our all our establishments is an ongoing activity. Development of green belts/ecological parks has been a significant feature of IndianOil’s operations. All refineries have developed green cover around their operations covering an area of about 800 acres. Guidance from eminent Botanists has been taken in scientifically planning and development of green belts in and around our refineries. Usually created in one corner of the refinery complex close to forage and breed. In winters thousands of migratory birds the Effluent Treatment Plant, the Eco-Parks consist of large descent on these secure water bodies to spend their time before water bodies around which gardens, medicinal plant and tree returning to their homes to breed. nurseries have been developed. These serve the dual roles of One Artificial Water Fall has been developed at Eco Park at botanical education extension centres along with nurseries to Bongaigaon Refinery for improving the inlet water quality to Eco regenerate useful plant species. The annual flower and plant Park by better aeration. Surveys by reputed organizations like shows that are done in these Eco-Parks are extremely popular the Bombay Natural History Society and other have shown that events that people living around the complexes look forward to. at least 300 species of resident and migratory birds thrive in In many refineries the Eco-Parks have turned into local these Eco-Parks, while over 285 species of native and exotic installation art display and life science education extension plants and trees are growing there. Types of trees planted centre. include Neem, Ashoka, Jamun, Mango, Amrood, Bottle Palm, The treated effluent coming out of these refineries is stored in Shisham, Pipal, Bogan Bail, Chandni, Safeda, Anaar, Gulmohar, these water bodies as well as used to water the plants that grow Poplar, Cassia Shamia, Kachnar, Brahmi, Rain Tree, Lime, in these parks. Fish, which would have died on the slightest hint Rudraksh, Coconut, Coffee, Dhatura, Silver Oak, Grape Jasmine of toxicity, thrive in these ponds and the resident birds use it to and many more. 65 Sustainability Report 2013-14 Hundreds of thousands of migratory birds from as far as Central They are not so common outside the refinery. Other birds found Europe and Asia, and the Siberian plains of Russia descend to in IndianOil Eco-Parks are Barn Owl, Black Headed Gull, Black spend the winters in the security of the effluent treatment and Kite, Booted Eagle, Egyptian Vulture, Great Tit, India Tree Pie, other ponds inside the Barauni, Mathura, Bongaigaon, Panipat Jack Snipe, to name a few. and Digboi Refineries. The grounds of the Bongaigaon Refinery IndianOil’s R&D Centre has got Mango orchards and over 70 and Digboi Refinery complex merge seamlessly with the species of plants providing an ideal setting for thinking minds. rainforests of Upper Assam and wild elephants routinely use Within the campus is a mini ecological park that provides ample these to forage and travel to other areas. space for Stone curlews, Red Wattled Lapwings and Grey The Great Crested Grebe and the Red Crested Pochard, two of Hornbills to breed and brood. Peacocks thrive in this green the most spectacular migratory water birds are routinely seen in ambience. the ponds inside the Panipat Refinery during the winter months. 66 Sustainability Report 2013-14 All the refineries, marketing terminals, pipelines divisions and regenerate useful plant species. Each refinery holds an annual R&D centre of IndianOil fully comply with the environmental flower and plant show, which is quite popular among the statutory requirements laid down by Central Pollution Control people living around the complexes. Many eco-parks have also Board as well as the various State Pollution Control Boards. turned into local installation art display and life science None of IndianOil’s activities, products and services are such education extension centers. Each eco-park has a water body in which may have an impact on protected areas of high which fishes thrive and resident birds use for forage and biodiversity value, water bodies and/or related habitats. breeding. In winters, thousands of migratory birds descend on All our refineries have an eco-park in their premises. They are a these water bodies to spend their time before returning back to living testimony to the commitment to sustainability on their homes. IndianOil’s behalf. Eco-parks are usually created close to the There is no better test of the health of a biome, effluent treatment plant of the refineries. They serve as than life itself – Eco-Logical!! botanical education extension centers as well as nurseries to 67 Sustainability Report 2013-14 drowns the hum of the gigantic plants. The thriving Eco-park is also the strongest indicator that industry and ecology can coexist in harmony. Gujarat Refinery A green oasis in the parched land, the refinery complex is a home for many local species of birds and thousands of migratory that pass through enroute to other parts of the country. The refinery eco-park is dotted with life-like sculptures which surprise and delight the visitors. Barauni Refinery Plant management has turned the refinery’s eco park into a Guwahati Refinery holistic nature cum installation art exhibition complex called A green belt has been developed around the refinery with an Kala Vihar. It has helped encourage creative local talent to ecological park with large water bodies. Over 1 lakh trees have sculpt using refinery scrap, giving life to Kalidas’ famous epic been planted creating an environment that is preferred by 85 Shakuntalam, describing the enduring bond between humans species of resident and migratory birds. A herb, medicinal and nature. plants and ornamental flower garden called Sanjivani Udyaan near the residential area serves as a nursery and an ethnoDigboi Refinery botanical information dissemination center. IndianOil is aware of the rich legacy it has inherited at Digboi and is working hard to ensure that its operations do not sully the Haldia Refinery pristine settings. The effluent treatment facility at Digboi The refinery township is situated on the banks of Haldi river in refinery uses state-of-the-art technology to recycle water so the lush green environs of delta and the refinery surroundings that fresh intake is minimized. Over 20,000 old trees flourish in have been planted with over a hundred thousand trees that act the refinery complex acting as first-level sinks for residual as lungs. pollutants. All intense efforts are aimed to let nature flourish Panipat Refinery unhindered by development. A green corridor has been created with plantation of about 5 Bongaigaon Refinery lakh trees around the refinery. The 14km long periphery has The management has nurtured and developed a number of more than 30 varieties of trees providing a green cover to the natural depressions that turn into lakes during the rainy season refinery and township. Despite the massive machinery of the acting as nesting sites for resident birds and temporary homes refinery at play round the clock, the sprawling refinery complex for innumerable migratory birds that arrive in winter. The 1084 plays host to innumerable migratory birds that live in the water acre refinery complex has 15 perennial water bodies bodies and polishing bodies within the battery area. Of special meandering through the various units. A botanical park called note, the endangered Great Crested Grebe has been noticed Nandan Kanan was also developed within the township to regularly during winters for the last seven years. create awareness about the conservation of medicinal plants and orchids of the region. Mathura Refinery To demonstrate its commitment to keep the Taj Trapezium Zone unpolluted, Mathura refinery planted more that 1 lakh trees in the Taj reserve forest near the monument. Spread out over an area of nearly five acres and planted with 45 species of trees and shrubs the cacophony of the birds in this area sometimes 68 Sustainability Report 2013-14 69 Sustainability Report 2013-14 Giving Back To Society OUR APPROACH IndianOil’s Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) objectives are manner, a Committee of Board has been constituted. The CSR aptly enshrined in its mission statement, i.e. “…to help enrich expenditure during the current year is Rs 81.91 crore as against the quality of life of the community and preserve ecological Rs 78.97 crore in Financial Year 2012-13. Further, an unspent balance and heritage through a strong environment amount of Rs 20.45 crore has been carried forward and would conscience...”. At IndianOil, CSR has been the cornerstone of be added to the CSR Budget of FY 2014-15 for spending as success, right from its inception in the year 1964. IndianOil has some of the projects conceptualized/initiated during FY-2013defined its core values as Care, Innovation, Passion and Trust. 14 are at various stages of finalization and expenditure against To undertake CSR activities in a focused and structured them would be effected in FY 2014-15. ‘IndianOil – India Inspired’. IndianOil is an integral part of the society and is aware of its responsibilities beyond financial considerations towards improving quality of life of the communities it serves. Education Clean Health & Drinking Water Medical Care Thrust area of CSR All CSR programmes / projects are implemented with impact implemented, mostly in the vicinity of installations/ assessment carried out in line with CSR guidelines issued by establishments for improving quality of life of the community. Department of Public Enterprises, Government of India. Various No case is reported during the year about impacts on society by social welfare initiatives viz. health & medical care, education our operations. No significant fines were reported for nonand clean drinking water with focus on welfare of the compliance with laws and regulations during the reporting year. economically and socially deprived sections of society are No cases of involuntary resettlement have been reported. 70 Sustainability Report 2013-14 SPREADING CSR AWARENESS AMONG EMPLOYEES 8 IndianOil CSR policy has been made available at IndianOil website (www.iocl.com) as well as at the intranet site. 8 IndianOil communicates its CSR activities through a separate CSR section in its Annual Report. 8 IndianOil publishes Sustainability Report every year (which meets GRI-G3 guidelines). 8 IndianOil communicates about its CSR activities to its employees through its in house daily e-journal, IndianOil Xpress. 8 IndianOil conducts in house workshops on CSR for its employees with in-house faculty, assistance from leading Institutes/PSUs/ Private sector, etc. 8 Employees are often nominated for workshops and training program on CSR conducted by external agencies. 71 Sustainability Report 2013-14 CSR Programs Scheme Benefits IndianOil Sachal Swasthya Seva (ISSS) 52 Mobile Medical Units (MMU) are operational in Andhra Pradesh, Telengana & Uttar Pradesh. During 2013-14, 14.76 lakh patients were treated & cumulatively, more than26 lakh patients have been treated. Swarna Jayanti Samudaik Hospital, Mathura, 50-bed hospital. During 2013-14, 49,514 patients were treated, Uttar Pradesh Since 1999, about 7 lakh patients have been treated. Assam Oil School of Nursing (AOSN), Digboi, Assam Since inception, 334 students have successfully completed the course with 100% placement record. IndianOil Education Scholarship Scheme During 2013-14, about 53,000 applications were received for 2600 scholarships. IndianOil Sports Scholarship Scheme 150 scholarships for 19 games/ sports are awarded to upcoming junior players from 14 to 19 years of age. MoU with TATA Medical Centre Trust, Kolkata IndianOil has signed an MoU with TATA Medical Centre Trust & TATA Eastern Medical Trust for ‘IndianOil TATA Care Centre at Kolkata (250 beds with comprehensive modern Cancer Care Centre) LPG Scheme of Government of India One-time grant to Below Poverty Line (BPL) families in the rural areas for release of new LPG connection under Rajiv Gandhi Grameen LPG Vitarak Yojana. About 2.4 lakh BPL connections were released during the year as a part of CSR initiatives. Help for Flood/Cyclone affected people in Uttarakhand Contributed Rs. 2 crore to Uttarakhand Chief Minister’s Relief Fund & Odisha (for flood affected people) and Rs 1 crore to Odisha Chief Minister’s Relief Fund (for cyclone affected people). Shikshak Dakshyata Vikas Abhiyan, Digboi, Assam This project aims to improve soft skills of government school teachers. During 2013-14, 121 teachers from schools covering 42 villages in and around Digboi were trained under the program. So far, 182 teachers have been trained under this project. Sarve Santu Niramaya, Digboi, Assam This project aims to provide free health consultation and medicines for both human beings and livestock population. During 2013-14, 2035 poor patients and 25,274 cattle/poultry (including 506 free vaccinations) have been treated (with free medical consultation & medicines). 72 Sustainability Report 2013-14 IndianOil Foundation Presenting the Past to the Future The IndianOil Foundation, a charitable Trust, created by Indian The IOF believes that a heritage monument needs to be Oil Corporation Ltd. is committed to protect, preserve and presented in a beautiful manner to the future generations. IOF promote our National Heritage in collaboration with urges the young Indians to raise awareness and protect the Archaeological Survey of India and National Culture Fund. In rich cultural heritage through an innovative program called pursuance thereto, the IOF has adopted two more National “Cultivating Awareness Towards Conservation of Heritage Heritage sites at Kanheri Caves (Mumbai, Maharashtra) and (CATCH)”, with a view to sensitize the future generation and Nandi Hills near Bengaluru in Karnataka in addition to the inculcate a healthy value system in school going children. In already adopted sites for up gradation of facilities at Sun this direction, the IOF has conducted interactive sessions in Temple at Konark (Odisha), Khajuraho Group of Temples (MP) schools in the NCR. and Vaishali (Bihar). IndianOil, through National Culture Fund (NCF) and Archaeological Survey of India (ASI), fund archaeological works while IOF develops world-class facilities and conveniences for the visitors. In addition to refuelling facilities for travellers, community development in the neighbourhood is taken by IndianOil. 8 Tourist facilities at Konark were developed by the foundation in July 2013. 8 IOF recently unveiled the “Swantantrya Jyot” at the cellular Jail National Memorial, Port Blair as a humble tribute to our great freedom fighters. DBTL: Direct Benefit Transfer for LPG RELIEF AND RESCUE OPERATIONS Consumers UNDERTAKEN IN UTTARAKHAND IN JUNE IndianOil initiated a massive exercise to implement the DBTL 2013 (Direct Benefit Transfer for LPG Consumers) scheme. Between IndianOil’s Aviation Service maintained its leadership by further June 2013 and January 2014, the Aadhaar based DBTL Scheme improving its market share, largely aided by aggressive bidding for subsidy transfer directly to the beneficiaries was introduced in the international sector and strong tie-ups with major players in 6 phases, covering 3,732 distributors and 4.24 crore Indane in the domestic sector. The company once again proved its consumers of IndianOil. Under this unique scheme, 12.1 million credentials as a reliable partner of the army and para-military consumers were benefited and more than 2,230 crore was agencies by providing fuel during the unprecedented relief and transferred to the Aadhaar linked bank account of individual rescue operations undertaken in Uttarakhand in June 2013. consumers. The scheme is currently on hold, and a committee Constituted by Government of India for review is collating feedback and suggestions for further Improvements before its re-launch. 73 Sustainability Report 2013-14 Great Place To Work WORKPLACE IndianOil has always made special efforts to polish and develop to Information’ wing ensure that proper transparency is its human capital. To enhance the output and performance of maintained and corporate governance best practices are also the taskforce, numerous training and development programs taken care of. With a view to stimulate the triple bottom line are undertaken year round. A focused training program enables performance of the country, IndianOil’s work culture invokes an organization in chiseling out the skills of its workmen and trust and encourages transparency. hone their potentials. A whistle blower policy as well as a ‘Right OUR STRENGTH Total Number of Employees by Age Group 5334 30 yrs 13041 30 yrs-50 yrs 50 yrs 15418 Type of employees No. Permanent 33,793 Consultants/ Liaison officers/Specialist doctors, etc. 99 Casual laborers/temporary workers 37 Contractors 65,224 74 Sustainability Report 2013-14 Total Number of Employees by category SC 61% ST 18% OBC GENERAL PH 12% 1% 8% Total Employees (By Gender) 100% 98% 96% 94% 92% 90% 88% 86% 84% 82% 80% Refineries Marketing Pipelines R&D IBP Female 734 1731 113 49 15 Male 13402 14792 2449 352 156 HUMAN CAPITAL company at local level. In order to met the operational needs as Coupled with the cross functional diversification of the well as labor demand at various places of operation, IndianOil company, demand for competent workforce is inevitable. A awards job contracts to contractors. During 2013-14, 33793 member strong family represents the essence of the contractors further engaged 65,224 contract workers. Since company wherever it is present. A considerable number of IndianOil is the principal employer, it ensures that there is due contract laborers or part time employees are hired by the compliance with all the statutory requirements. 75 Sustainability Report 2013-14 HIRING PROCESS The importance of a strong manpower cannot be undermined in increasingly becoming a part of IndianOil’s core business any circumstances, whatsoever. The presence of IndianOil in activities. The recruitment in all fields happens at the entry level upstream as well as downstream sectors explain the varied through campus recruitment and various competitive exams. workforce it is a home to. In every field – from exploration to Last year a new grade A was introduced to induct officers at the production to refining to marketing, IndianOil workforce has assistant officers level. made a mark in every field. Petrochemicals and Gas are New Employees Recruited (By Age Group) New Employees Recruited (by Gender) 112 7.83% 1306 92.17% 30 yrs 30 yrs-50 yrs Male Female New Employees Recruited (by Division) 47.95% 27.01% 17.35% 7.40% 0.21% Marketing Refinery Pipeline CO R&D 76 Sustainability Report 2013-14 Rate of New Employee Recruited During 13-14 by Age Group Gender Division <30 years 30-50 years >50 years Female Male Refinery Marketing Pipeline R&D IBP CO 24.48 0.73 0 4.20 4.20 2.71 4.12 9.60 0.75 0.58 61.40 CAREER TRANSITION Every organization needs to provide a proper superannuation health related issues are conducted by IndianOil. Informative plan to its employees in order to facilitate smooth transition discussions are held regularly for employees as well as exfrom active work life. Various sessions addressing retirement employees emphasising the importance of leading a healthy and old age concerns, psychological aspects of retirement, lifestyle. investment and tax planning, post retirement benefits and 77 Sustainability Report 2013-14 TRAINING AND DEVELOPMENT EMPLOYEE PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT Department of Public Enterprises (DPE). The e-PMS involves SYSTEM (PMS) goal setting through Key Result Areas (KRAs) with specific In order to intensify transparency new structural changes were weightages, competencies and level based values and introduced in the existing PMS. Departmental promotions, potential, based on which the appraisal is decided. incentives for individuals and the Performance Related Pay Performance Management System has, under its aegis, all the (PRP), have all been linked to the ratings of the PMS. IndianOil employees across the organization. As per the policy applicable has modified its system by aligning the performance year with to employees whole time functional directors are paid the financial year in line with the guidelines put forth by the performance link incentives as employees of the companies. Functional Domain Technical Personal Development Human Rights Health & Safety AntiCorruption Career Development Sustainability Training Areas 78 Sustainability Report 2013-14 Average Hours of Training 18.4 21.28 19.6 52 22.96 MKT REF PL R&D IBPD On an average, each employee was given 19.68 hours of training, during 2013-14. In total, 6.71 lakh training man hours were recorded during the year. MENTORING PROGRAM At IndianOil, we believe in mentoring the young recruits by guiding them to promote professional excellence, leadership development and career exploration. The mentor-mentee program is designed in such a way so as to meet the professional and personal needs of the mentee. The program usually lasts for a year during which mentoring grows into a lifelong friendship. 79 Sustainability Report 2013-14 CAPACITY BUILDING As part of efforts to reinforce capabilities and build on the superannuating employees (career transition programme). existing potential of the employees, the T&D department As part of the priority being accorded to the safety and security conducted a number of programmes: to welcome new recruits of the Company’s operations, people and assets, various (induction trainees) upgrade skills of employees on the rolls stakeholders including staff members, security personnel, (through programmes like strategic location management, SOP contract workers and TT crew – underwent stringent safety and safety, performance feedback, etc.) and empower training during the year. 80 Sustainability Report 2013-14 EQUALITY FOR ALL IndianOil has always encouraged women employees to lead and A study on Women Development initiatives to assess the represent organization in national and international platforms. impact on professional growth of women in IndianOil“ has been Various workshops, training programs and sessions by eminent initiated in an attempt to develop a multiple criteria for women rights activists are organized across various measuring success in true integration of women in their establishments of IndianOil, on a regular basis, to promote multiple roles. Various women’s Cells have also established gender sensitivity, prevention of sexual harassment at across IndianOil, each headed by an Apex Level WIPS (Forum of workplace. Sessions are also held to sensitize employees on the Women in Public Sector) leader. transactional relationships that would lead to a more There is a 33% reservation for dealerships for women in the harmonious workplace. Kisan Seva Kendras. Maternal Leave 2013-14 2012-13 2011-12 Number of employees availing maternity leave (nos) 52 48 40 Number of employees returning to work after availing maternity leave (nos) 31 51 35 REMUNERATION AND ALLOWANCES In IndianOil, job contracts are awarded in non-core/ terms and conditions of engagement by their respective nonperennial activities relating to civil construction & employer i.e. contractors. The terms and conditions of the maintenance, housekeeping, security, material handling, shut contract stipulate coverage of contract labor under various down/ revamp jobs, lifting & movement of materials, providing Social Securities Schemes, such as PF, ESI etc. As a principal transport services, catering services, etc. For all these employer, the locations ensure strict adherence by the activities, contract workers are engaged by various contractors contractors to the provisions of EPF & MP Act, 1952/ ESI Act within the purview of Contract Labor (Regulation & Abolition) 1948 etc. and to other schemes. Act, 1970 and their service conditions are regulated as per the % of female employees 7.85 7.83 7.8 7.82 7.75 7.75 7.73 7.7 7.65 7.64 7.6 7.55 7.5 -10 -11 -12 -13 -14 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 81 Sustainability Report 2013-14 Gender Mainstreaming Social Security Benefits 135 Days Maternity Leave. Contributory Provident Fund 2 Years Child Care Leaver Without Pay, Once in Entires Service. Gratuity Leave without Pay for 3 Years one in Entire Service. Group Linked Insurance Scheme EPS 1995 Performance Related Pay Performance Linked Incentive (PLI) Compensation on Death Performance Incentive Scheme (PIS) Super Annuation Benefit Fund Scheme EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT giving notice, employer can propose to effect any change in the We, at IndianOil, recognize the fact that a formal joint conditions of service applicable to any workman in any matter. representation can prove to be a key element in driving the ‘Open House’ sessions are held where unions and collectives workforce to strive for better occupational and health safety raise questions or give suggestions related to business scenarios. Around 54.4% of our employees are covered by strategies, employee related issues etc. which are directly collective bargaining agreements. Diverse foray and responded to by the chairman and directors. For the benefit of committees like Joint Management Council, Works Committee, all the employees, meetings are also webcast. None of the Management Safety Committee, Grievance Committee, operations are such where the right to exercise freedom of Canteen Committee, Total Productive Maintenance (TPM) etc association and collective bargaining may be at significant risk. give employees/collectives ample choices and intensify the Employees’ participation is ensured through informationparticipative culture. Workmen representing IndianOil from sharing with the collectives and employees on a regular basis independent establishments, refinery units and plants are a while seeking their support, suggestions and co-operation. The party 23 distinct unions. Structured Communication Meeting efforts to promote employees’ participation in management with both Workers’ Unions and Officers’ Association are held at were continued during the year through activities such as regular intervals by the management in order to develop an Suggestions Scheme, Quality Circles, Total Productive inclusive, collaborative and shared mindset amongst the Maintenance (TPM), Mentoring, etc. employees. The information pertaining to Corporate and Financial Performance highlights, future plan outlay, health and safety, progress of major projects, new frontiers, globalization and diversification, key corporate challenges and expectations from collectives in achieving the goals etc. is shared in the meetings. After proper negotiations on demands like revision of wages and allowances with the recognized unions at Divisional level, the same are settled through a tripartite Long Term Settlement (LTS). Trade Union Act regulates the employees’ right to exercise freedom of association or collective bargaining. Under the Code of Discipline, all unions/collectives are 'recognized'. Collective bargaining is both bilateral and tripartite under the Industrial Dispute Act. Within 21 days of 82 Sustainability Report 2013-14 Health & Safety The IndianOil management is deeply conscious of the risk holders at operating locations undergo unit-specific training on potential of the safety hazards in the hydro-carbon industry. safety, health and environment issues. Rigorous monitoring This calls for comprehensive preventive measures in our systems are also in place to ensure safety in day-to-day business processes and work culture. In our efforts to ensure operations. A safety culture improvement project-SEED (Safety the safety and security of our people and assets, we have in Each and Every Deed)-was launched in 2013 at Gujarat adapted best-in-class technologies and stringent SOPs Refinery in association with M/s. DuPont, the global leader in (standard operating procedures) at all locations. All stakeemployee safety. Category of Employees % Age of Employees Given Safety & Skill up-gradation Training Permanent Male Employees 69.46% Permanent Women Employees 67.22% Permanent Employees with Disability 39.35% Casual/Temporary/Contractual Employees/Contract Labor 84.18% Watch & Ward Security arrangement in IndianOil is through deployment of In DGR, 90% of the personnel are ex-serviceman and mainly Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) in Refinery Units, deployed in off site locations i.e. township etc. However Research and Development Centre and some of the Pipelines contractor provides them refresher trainings about man and installations whereas other installations are manned by assets. Directorate General Resettlement (DGR) sponsored Private The security personnel engaged from Home Guard + Private Security agencies / State Security Boards / Home guards. Security + VDP (Village Defence Party) are being given training Regular refresher courses are conducted by CISF for their by State Police + Security contractor for safety of man & assets. personnel w.r.t. job requirement i.e. weapon handling, riot control, VIP security, etc. Security personnel who have received formal training on the organization’s policies, % 82.22 or specific procedures for, human rights issues and their application to security 83 Sustainability Report 2013-14 SAFETY COMMITTEE To co-ordinate the Health, Safety and Environment activities of members upto HOD levels and workmen representatives. Shop all the divisions, a department is headed by Executive Director floor committees are formed at various sections in the refinery (HSE) who directly reports to the Chairman. The refineries, with intensive participation from the workmen side. To ensure pipelines, marketing divisions and R&D centre have continuity and personnel involvement, designated person from independent HSE departments. A designated Safety Officer is the non-executive cadre represent the shop floor committees. placed at all the marketing and pipelines installations. 100% of our employees are represented by Safety committees. IndianOil has two tiers Safety Committee: Management Safety No workers were involved in high incidence or high risk of Committee & Shop-floor Safety Committee. Management diseases related to their occupation across the organization. safety Committee is headed by unit head consisting of other 84 Sustainability Report 2013-14 2013-14 Nos. Refineries Marketing Pipelines R&D Total Fatal Accidents 6 2 Nil Nil 8 Fatalities 9 2 2 Nil 13 Near Miss 78,616 1,347 16 16 79,995 Occupational Diseases Nil Nil Nil Nil Nil Mandays lost 483 574 Nil Nil 1057 No of Loss Time Accidents 4 14 Nil Nil 18 Major Fire Incidents 1 3 1 Nil 5 Minor Fire Incidents Nil 15 3 3 21 Education/Training Counseling Prevention/Risk Control Treatment Program Recipients Y Y Y Y Workers Y Y Y Y Worker's Families Y Y Y Y Community Members Y Y Y Y SAFETY WORKSHOP IN PROGRESS 85 Sustainability Report 2013-14 A SAFETY CULTURE IMPROVEMENT PROJECT: 'SEED' – SAFETY IN EACH & EVERY DEED‘ IndianOil has engaged DuPont – the global leader in employee towards safety. A zero-tolerance safety culture not only helps in safety – for a period of three years. This is implemented for the saving valuable lives but also help in saving the crucial first time in IndianOil at Gujarat Refinery. In addition to strict infrastructure which maintains steady flow of oil and gas to compliance of the existing safety system and procedure, keep the wheels of prosperity moving. DuPont Sustainable improvement in safety culture and personal safety behaviour is Solutions and other team members shared the roadmap for required to be addressed effectively for sustenance of safe implementation of the project with the delegates which working environment. included representatives from all IndianOil Refineries as well as The need of the hour is to educate, collaborate, empower and senior officials of Gujarat Refinery. above all to lead in developing a safety culture in IndianOil, Under the project SEED (Safety in Each and Every Deed), Gujarat where safety is at the core of everything we do. In IndianOil's Refinery has been divided in the 12 zones and the Leading journey from good to world class safety performance, we are Safety Efforts (LSE) training have been imparted to about 69 focused on addressing safety at all stages and at all levels i.e. officers. The project will develop skill and knowledge building of making each person 'A Safety Person'. Building a world-class employees. The methodologies that learn during Project SEED safety culture is all about changing our attitude and behaviour will help to take us towards our safety goals. SAMPADA SAMRIDDHI PROJECT The project Sampada Samriddhi (Maintenance Transformation with line management and to specialise in plant reliability and Programme) recently at Training Centre, Panipat Refinery & health and safety compliance. It also ensures that remote Petrochemicals Complex. This is a joint initiative of IndianOil management services for plant reliability and health and safety and M/s AT Kearney to achieve Maintenance Excellence at all is given utmost importance. Project Sampada Samriddhi takes IndianOil refineries. Presently AVU-1 and RFCCU of Panipat a comprehensive look at Maintenance processes and their Refinery has been selected as the pilot location for this compliance, interfaces and overall performance to identify important initiative. Around 40 executives from Mechanical, areas to improve reliability and availability of the assets, Electrical, Instrumentation and Civil Maintenance participated optimise maintenance costs and embed a culture of continuous in the first session. Maintenance transformations often deal improvement. 86 Sustainability Report 2013-14 Oil Spill Response Oil spills often result in both immediate and long-term environmental damage. Some of the environmental damage caused by an oil spill can last for decades after the spill occurs. The long-term damage to various species, and to the habitat and nesting or breeding grounds those species depend upon for their survival, is one of the most far-reaching environmental effects caused by oil spills. OIL SPILL RESPONSE FACILITIES 8 Tier-I facilities are being maintained by respective Port Trusts. 8 Major Equipment provided for Tier-I (upto 750 tonnes) Oil Spill Response Facilities: 8 Inter-Tidal Boom 8 Disk and Mop Skimmers 8 Floating Tanks 8 Off-Loading Pump 8 Anti-Pollution Vessels 8 Ballast Water Treatment Plant IndianOil has placed measures for Oil spill response. Oil spill response facilities are provided at IndianOil portlocations. Tier I facilities are being maintained by respective Port Trusts. For Tier II (1000 tonnes) and Tier III (beyond 1000 tonnes), the services of East Asia Response Limited, Singapore are being used. In refinery and NPC 36 on site drills and 8 off site drills were conducted during the year. Oil spill response facilities such as oil dispersant liquid & absorbent pads are made available at all installations. 87 Sustainability Report 2013-14 Product Responsbility EFFICIENT ENERGY TRANSPORT THROUGH PIPELINE Over 113% capacity utilization of crude oil pipelines Transported 73.07 MMT of crude oil and finished products during the year 2013-14 Nearly 13 projects of over 3,200 km and added capacity of 15.5 MMTPA are under implementation As pipeline transportation is the most sustainable mode of transportation for petroleum products, IndianOil has been expanding the pipeline network relentlessly. As on 31st March 2014, total length of pipelines stood at 11,214 kms. 88 Sustainability Report 2013-14 Supply Chain Management With focus on optimization of costs across the supply chain to be several productive measures were implemented, such as able to emerge as the least-cost supplier in an increasingly manpower optimization, restructuring, re-deployment, deregulated market, and with the support of the collectives, elimination of unproductive work practices, cost-reduction, etc. Safety Audits Annual safety-cum-technical audits by multi-disciplinary major locations and installations. Fire Service Day, World teams, safety index surveys and safety awareness surveys Environment Day and National Safety Day were commemorated were carried out at all pipeline locations. Oil Industry Safety at all major locations and construction sites to promote HS&E Directorate (OISD) conducted External Safety Audit (ESA) at our 89 Sustainability Report 2013-14 PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY BTU/lb i.e. heat capacity details, Material Safety Data Sheet. IndianOil, being in the Oil and gas industry, has a responsibility Products manufactured in line with BIS specifications which in towards its stakeholders to provide products and services turn is developed based on Safety, Health and end use which perform their functions satisfactorily, without posing a requirement of the consumers. BIS specifications are threat to health and safety. A continuous enhancement in the maintained for products such as Petrol, Diesel and Kerosene. quality of our products is what is the need of the hour. On Certain products like naphtha are used for further value addition 1.1.2014, downstream oil industry implemented BS-IV norms in as per consumer applications. IndianOil does note reclaim any 39 cities & proposed to cover 5 more cities by 1.1.2015. Based of its sold products or the packaging material involved. 100% on the report, by an expert committee set up under MoP&NG for reuse of the domestic and commercial LPG cylinders is made. chalking out a road map for the implementation of BS-IV/BS-V in No incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary India, IndianOil has decided to implement the same across codes concerning product and service information and labeling India. During the year, 4,41,234 complaints relating to sales, were reported during the year. Being an environmentally and services, tenders and through Public Grievance Redressal socially responsible entity, IndianOil does not involve in the sale system were received, out of which 4,34,727 complaints of any products which are banned or disputed. (98.5%) were resolved. COMMUNICATION WITH THE CONSUMERS PRODUCT STEWARDSHIP IndianOil’s marketing and communication strategies are As a major player in the hydrocarbon sector, predominantly designed to inform a cross section of customer segments. supplying fuel for transportation as well as domestic and Periodic media campaigns targeted at capturing both industrial use, IndianOil constantly puts efforts to imbibe the mindshare and market share in an increasingly competitive concerns towards environment and society in its business market are launched. They provide a window to IndianOil's processes. Over the years, the Company has spent more than products and services portfolio range. Initiatives like dealers & Rs. 20,000 crore towards quality improvement of its distributors selection, details of customer service cell and transportation fuels, namely Motor Spirit (MS) & High Speed emergency service cells operating in different areas, branding Diesel (HSD), which constitute two of its major products. These of products and services, legal matters, stakeholder initiatives not only meet the stringent environmental norms, but communiqués and statutory notices play an important role in additionally through a constant up-gradation of processes and strengthening the close connect that IndianOil has with all its absorption of technology, have led the company towards stakeholders. attaining product stewardship. PRODUCT TRANSPORT PRODUCT LABELING AND INFORMATION IndianOil's products are transported across the geographies of Accessible information on the impacts of products and services the country through an array of means of transportation, viz is necessary for the customers and end users to make informed from the refineries to marketing terminals, depots, bottling purchasing choices and for these preferences to be reflected in plants through pipelines as well as by road transport. From the market. Our products like lubricants and petrochemicals are these locations, retail outlets and KSKs receive the product by subject to product information and labeling. tank trucks. Regular interaction takes place with truck owners Safety and disposal instructions are properly displayed on all during Transporters meets. Truck tanks are protected by tank the packed lubricants. Petrochemical products adhere to locks eliminating the possibility of product adulteration. In order corresponding Food Grade Certificates, compliance to to constraint our carbon footprint, more and more Restriction of Hazardous Substances, Durability properties, transportation is being done through pipelines instead of tank 90 Sustainability Report 2013-14 trucks. No cases of involuntary resettlement have been ETHANOL BLENDED PETROL (EBP) reported. No import and export of hazardous waste is involved in IndianOil procured around 1,49,000 kilolitres of ethanol for our operations and product transportation. Vehicle-tracking blending into petrol during 2013-14, thereby substituting system was fully implemented in all States, except Northeast precious fossil fuels to that extent. Ethanol procurement also and J&K, during the year. Tank-truck monitoring through the helps in rural development, i.e. improvement in employment / new system has commenced and corrective action is being income generation for sugarcane farmers. taken on exception reports as per the ITDG (Industry Transport BS-IV PRODUCTS Discipline Guidelines). As on 1.1.2014, downstream oil industry has implemented BSENERGY EFFICIENT AND EMISSION IV norms in 39 cities & proposes to cover 5 more cities (Vizag, COMPLIANT FUEL Kochi, Trivandrum, Lakshadweep and Panchagani) by On the industrial front, our guiding force for new developments 1.1.2015. MoP&NG has constituted an expert committee under is to improve the longevity and energy efficiency of industrial the Chairmanship of Shri Soumitra Choudhary, Member, equipment by developing high performance, long drain, Planning Commission for drawing out a road map for BS-IV/ BSenvironment friendly bio-degradable lubricants and greases. V implementation across India. Based on the committee’s IndianOil R&D Centre is continuously striving to upgrade its report, IndianOil, along with the Industry, would implement BSproduct technology for developing engine oils for Euro IV and V IV/BS-V across India. compliant engines, lubricants for stationary gas based power AUTO GAS gen engines and MARPOL compliant marine cylinder Auto Gas (brand name for Auto-LPG) is a clean, high octane and lubricants. eco-friendly fuel (lower emissions with respect to Petrol and Some prominent products from our SERVO range include cost Diesel). IndianOil has set up 371 Auto LPG dispensing stations effective and energy efficient lubricants for railroad, rolling covering 205 cities across India and is the Market Leader in this mills, textile machinery, synthetic, industrial and automotive product. lubricants, long life turbine & compressor oils, Greases based on unique non-conventional bases, agricultural spray oils, Bitumen emulsion, etc. 91 Sustainability Report 2013-14 AUTO FUELS QUALITY UP-GRADATION IndianOil has progressively upgraded quality of auto fuels in terms of emissions related parameters and to meet the quality requirement of new generation vehicles. Our refineries have implemented various projects (Diesel Hydro De-sulphurization, Diesel Hydro-treater, Motor Spirit Quality Upgradation), for meeting this objective. During the year, various quality improvement projects were commissioned that include Residue upgradation and MS/HSD Quality Improvement Project at Gujarat and MS Quality Upgradation projects at Guwahati, Barauni and Digboi. AUTO FUELS SUPPLY MILESTONES Low Sulphur (0.5%) Diesel was introduced in metros from April 1996. Extra-low Sulphur (0.25%) Diesel was introduced in the eco-sensitive Taj Trapezium area from September 1996, in Delhi from October 1997, and across the country from 1st January 2000, Diesel with 0.05% sulphur content was introduced in the metros in 2001. Unleaded Motor Spirit (petrol or gasoline) was made available all over the country from the year 2000. Green fuels (Petrol & Diesel) conforming to BS-IV emission norms introduced in 13 cities vis a vis Delhi, Mumbai, Kolkata, Chennai, Bangalore, Hyderabad, Ahmedabad, Pune, Surat, Kanpur, Agra, Lucknow and Sholapur from April 1, 2010 and fuels conforming to BS-III emission norms is available in the rest of the country from Oct 1, 2010. Presently BS-IV fuels are being supplied in 39 cities. Ministry has decided to introduce BS IV auto fuels (MS/HSD) in total 63 cities by 2015. Ethanol Blended Petrol (5% ethanol) is launched which reduces carbon monoxide levels in auto emission. Auto-gas (LPG) as a clean-burning fuel is now available in 202 cities / towns. No. of Patents Filed 60 54 52 50 40 30 15 20 10 0 -12 -13 -14 2011 2012 2013 92 Sustainability Report 2013-14 Corporate E-Security IndianOil is aware of the increasing IT security needs based on comprise of a unique mix of technologies. The whole setup has the ever growing cyber security attack towards government been deployed in high availability and redundant mode. All the infrastructure. As IndianOil owns one of the largest data devices in our Data & Communications Centre are put in High networks in India, our management is deeply committed to the Availability mode to ensure 99.9% availability. A Security security and has adopted measures to limit the cyber-attacks Operation Centre (SOC) is maintained at Corporate Data Centre towards the IT Infrastructure. which is manned 24x7 by highly skilled IT security The guidelines issued time to time by CERT-IN are followed for professionals. The processes at SOC haven been designed with critical IT infrastructure for business critical applications and is full compliance to industry best practices in order to rapidly regularly reviewed for compliance. adapt to the evolving threats. IndianOil has already obtained ISO 27001 certification for its For the year 2013-14, E-security remained in the thick action Corporate Data Centre, Near Recovery Site and Remote for assuring the compliance of NCSP across divisions and also Business Continuity Service Centre from STQC. The Near organized various training & awareness programs. The team Recovery Site and Remote Business Continuity Service Centre has conducted Websites audit of organization public facing are also certified for Business Continuity (BS 25999) and IT sites hosted by Corporate Office and ensured the compliance as Service Management (ISO 20000). We have Corporate IT Policy per Govt. guidelines. and IT Security policy in place which covers majority of the In pursue of IT Act and NCSP-2013, team has conducted many policies mentioned in the National Cyber Security Policy (NCSP) sessions for implementation on ISO 27001, Business Continuity 2013. It is observed that most of the requirements laid out in Plan and Crisis Management Plan for the divisions. E-Security the National Cyber Security Policy 2013 are being followed for team has also ensured standardization of Endpoint Security critical IT infrastructure. policy across organization and conducted knowledge sharing IndianOil has implemented a robust, state-of-art network session for the same. security architecture at its corporate data center which 93 Sustainability Report 2013-14 Research & Development IndianOil R&D wins National Awards for Technology Innovation in 2013 IndianOil’s Research and Development Centre is India’s organisation future-ready by actively pursuing research in foremost commercial R&D set up for pursuing research in the alternative energy and cleaner technologies…” areas of lubricants, oil refining, fuel additives, engine testing, With a view to ensuring a sustainable future for our materials sciences and environmental sciences. communities, the IOCians at the R&D Centre are actively Located on a sprawling 65 acre campus in Faridabad on the engaged in pursuing the alternative energy initiatives that outskirts of the National Capital, IndianOil’s R&D Centre plays a include Bio-energy, Solar Hydrogen / HCNG, Synthetic fuels and key role in supporting the business interests by developing Shale oil. The Centre is also focused on producing energy economical, environmentally and socially responsible efficient lubricants as well as enhancing efficiency of the technology solutions. With sustainability at its core, IndianOil’s effluent treatment programs of the refineries. avowed R&D Policy mandates it to work towards “making the 94 Sustainability Report 2013-14 Expenditure on R&D (Cr) 300 252.72 243.34 249.06 208.6 200 174.23 181.62 100 0 8 -09 9-10 0-11 1-12 2-13 3-14 200 200 201 201 201 201 KEY R&D ACTIVITIES LUBRICANT TECHNOLOGY REFINING TECHNOLOGY FUEL ADDITIVES TECHNICAL SERVICES BIO TECHNOLOGY ALTERNATE ENERGY PETROCHEMICALS & POLYMERS NANOTECHNOLOGY FUTURE ENERGY SOURCES 95 Sustainability Report 2013-14 INDIGENOUS TECHNOLOGIES IndianOil’s R&D Centre has been consistently developing A novel concept of Integrated Gasification for optimal Gasifier technologies to facilitate the optimum utilization of the available design has been developed and the US Patent granted. IndianOil resources to ensure energy sufficiency and energy R&D is exploring opportunities for commercialization. independence. The R&D Centre has developed a novel concept During the year 130 lubricant formulations have been on integrated Gasification for optimal Gasifier design which has developed and 48 product approvals from OEMs & Defence recently been granted the US Patent. IndianOil is also actively obtained. Research activities in year 2013-14 have resulted in focusing on fast track commercialization of indigenous filing of 54 new patents, surpassing our previous year’s record technologies that will help maximize its output across the entire and also obtained grant of 11 patents. hydrocarbon value chain. SOLAR ENERGY HYDROGEN & FUEL CELL RESEARCH IndianOil R&D is keen to develop infrastructure focused on Solar IndianOil is working on production, storage, transportation, Thermal/Concentrated Solar Power (CSP) technologies. A distribution and commercialization of Hydrogen as an detailed research feasibility plan has been prepared by the alternative futuristic fuel in India. India's first H-CNG dispensing Fraunhofer Institute, Germany, and an experimental CSP plant station for fuelling experimental vehicles running on H-CNG has been set up under a Memorandum of Collaboration with IITblends as well as pure Hydrogen has been setup in IndianOil Jodhpur and BHEL. A photo-voltaic test bed and solar LED light R&D Centre as well as in Dwarka, Delhi. has also been developed at the R&D Centre. The future areas of In a significant breakthourgh, a novel single step compact research in this area include Solar Thermal receiver/reflector reforming process has been developed to produce HCNG with characterization, Coating Technology and Thermal Simulator, varying hydrogen composition (up to 30% v/v). Patent CSP Technology Development Program, Solar Hydrogen applications for the same have been filed in India, US and the Research Program, PV Module Evaluation Lab, etc. EU. The advantages of single step process are that separate 96 Sustainability Report 2013-14 storage of Hydrogen and CNG and their high pressure blending is infrastructure development, Compact Reforming process for not required. With this process, HCNG blends can be used HCNG production, Field trials with HCNG blends, MoU with Tata directly in vehicles. Motors for fuel cell bus demonstration, etc. Areas of IndianOil’s research focus in Hydrogen include GASIFICATION green refining technologies. INDMAX the hallmark of IndianOil IndianOil R&D has now embarked upon new areas which R&D capabilities is the right and clean technology developed by include Gasification of Biomass & Pet-coke. IndianOil has its scientists for upgrading refinery residues to high value LPG developed an integrated gasification concept for multi-feed and gasoline. Having proven its mettle at Guwahati refinery, it is gasification. An MoU with L&T for joint development of this now being adopted by two more refineries in India. IndianOil integrated gasification concept. Gasification studies have also R&D has also developed novel technologies for diesel hydro been done as part of the consortium under National Mission on treating; sulphur reduction in LPG, gasoline and kerosene; Clean Coal Technologies (NMCCT). thermal cracking; Needle coke production & Bioremediation of SUSTAINABILITY THROUGH EFFICIENT Oily sludge which are being adopted by many Indian Refineries. REFINING PROCESSES IndianOil R&D has developed several process efficient and 97 Sustainability Report 2013-14 List Of Abbreviations and Acronyms AE&SD 8 Alternate Energy & Sustainable Development AFS 8 Aviation Fuel Station AIMA 8 All India Management Association AOSN 8 Assam Oil School of Nursing AR 8 Annual Report ATF 8 Aviation Turbine Fuel AU 8 Atmospheric Uit BPL 8 Below Poverty Line BOD 8 Biological Oxygen Demand CC 8 Corporate Communication CCI 8 Competition Commission of India CDM 8 Clean Development Mechanism CDP 8 Carbon Disclosure Project CDU 8 Crude oil Distillation Unit CERs 8 Certified Emission Reductions CIE 8 Council of Indian Employers CII 8 Confederation Indian Industry CISF 8 Central Industrial Security Force CPCB/SPCB 8 Central Pollution Control Board/ State Pollution Control Board CPSE 8 Central Public Sector Enterprise CR 8 Circulating Reflux CREDA 8 Chhattisgarh Renewal Energy Development Authority CRU 8 Catalytic Reformer Unit CSP 8 Concentrated Solar Power CSR 8 Corporate Social Responsibility CVC 8 Central Vigilance Commission DCU 8 Delayed Coker Unit DG 8 Diesel Generator 98 Sustainability Report 2013-14 DHDT 8 Diesel Deep Hydro-treating DM 8 Demineralized water DPE 8 Department of Public enterprises E&P 8 Exploration and Production Eco Parks 8 Ecological Parks ED 8 Executive Director ENCON 8 Energy Conservation EPF & MP Act 8 Employees Provident Funds and Miscellaneous Provisions Act ESA 8 External Safety Audit ESI 8 Employees’ State Insurance ETP 8 Effluent Treatment Plants FCC 8 Fluidised Catalytic Cracker FICCI 8 Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry FO 8 Fuel Oil FY 8 Financial Year GCC 8 General Conditions of Contract GHG 8 Greenhouse Gases GoI 8 Government of India GRI 8 Global Reporting Initiatives GRM 8 Gross Refining Margin GWh 8 Gigawatt hour HCNG 8 Hydrogen-Compressed Natural Gas HDPE 8 High-density polyethylene HGU 8 Hydrogen Generation Unit HRD 8 Human Resource Development HRM 8 Human Resource Management HSD 8 High Speed Diesel HSE 8 Health, Safety and Environment IEM 8 Independent External Monitors IndianOil 8 IndianOil Corporation Ltd 99 Sustainability Report 2013-14 IP 8 Integrity Pact ISRS 8 International Safety Rating Systems IT 8 Information Technology KSK 8 Kisan Seva Kendra KW 8 Kilowatt LAB 8 Linear Alkyl Benzene LDO 8 Light Diesel Oil LED 8 Light-emitting Diode LNG 8 Liquefied Natural Gas LPG 8 Liquefied Petroleum Gas MBN (MBTU/BBL/NRGF) 8 It refers to total heat value of fuel and loss in thousand BTU, BBL refers to barrel of crude processed and NRGF is a derived factor that depends upon actual intake in both primary and secondary processing units as per industry standard MINAS 8 Minimal National Standard MMT 8 Million metric tons MMTPA 8 Million metric tons Per Annum MoP&NG 8 Ministry Of Petroleum and Natural Gas MoU 8 Memorandum of Understanding MP 8 Madhya Pradesh MSME 8 Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises MSQ 8 Motor Spirit Quality MT 8 Metric Tonne MTCO2e 8 Million Metric Tonne of Carbon dioxide equivalent MW 8 Mega Watt NGO 8 Non Governmental Organisations NOAA 8 National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration OGSS 8 Oil and Gas Sector Supplement OHSAS 8 Occupational Health and Safety assessment OMC 8 Oil Marketing Company PetroFed 8 Petroleum Federation of India 100 Sustainability Report 2013-14 PF 8 Provident Fund PMS 8 Performance Management System PNCP 8 Panipat Naptha Cracker Plant PSU 8 Public Sector Undertaking PTA 8 Purified Terephthalic Acid PV 8 Photovoltaic R&D 8 Research and Development RLNG 8 Re-gasified Liquefied Natural gas RGGLVY 8 Rajiv Gandhi Gramin LPG Vitran Yojana RO 8 Retail Outlets RTI 8 Right To Information SC / ST / OBC 8 Scheduled Caste / Scheduled Tribe / Other Backward Castes SCOPE 8 Standing Conference of Public Enterprises SD 8 Sustainable Development SIGC 8 Shareholders’ / Investors Grievance Committee SKO 8 Superior Kerosene Oil SRFT 8 Standard Refinery Fuel in Tonnes STP 8 Sewage Treatment Plant T&D 8 Training & Development TERI 8 The Energy Research Institute TERI-BCSD 8 TERIBusiness Council for Sustainable Development TII 8 Transparency International India TJ 8 Terra joules TKL 8 Thousand kilo Litre TPM 8 Total Productive Maintenance TT 8 Tank Truck UAE 8 United Arab Emirates USA 8 United States of America 101 Sustainability Report 2013-14 GRI Indicators Disclosures Page Link Identified Reason(s) for Explanation for No. Omission(s) Omission(s) Omission(s) Strategy and Analysis G4-1 2 A Word from Chairman NA NA NA G4-2 16 Materiality Analysis NA NA NA Organizational Profile G4-3 — Back cover NA NA NA G4-4 6 Our brands and Services NA NA NA G4-5 — Back cover NA NA NA G4-6 5 Company’s Profile NA NA NA G4-7 11 Shareholding NA NA NA G4-8 8, 5 Our Reach, Company’s Profile NA NA NA G4-9 45 Economic Performance, Our Reach NA NA NA G4-10 74 Great Place to WorkOur Strength NA NA NA G4-11 82 Great place to WorkEmployee Engagement NA NA NA G4-12 7 Our Supply Chain NA NA NA G4-13 4 About the report NA NA NA G4-14 16 Materiality Analysis – Risk Management NA NA NA G4-15 12, 42 Associations Charters and memberships, corporate governa NA NA NA -nce External commitments and Public Policy Participation G4-16 12 Associations Charters and Memberships NA NA NA Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries G4-17 16 Materiality Analysis NA NA NA G4-18 16 Materiality Analysis NA NA NA G4-19 16 Materiality Analysis NA NA NA G4-20 16 Materiality Analysis NA NA NA G4-21 16 Materiality Analysis NA NA NA G4-22 4 About the Report NA NA NA G4-23 4 About the Report NA NA NA Stakeholder Engagement G4-24 30 Stakeholder Engagement NA NA NA G4-25 30 Stakeholder Engagement NA NA NA G4-26 30 Stakeholder Engagement NA NA NA G4-27 30 Stakeholder Engagement NA NA NA 102 Sustainability Report 2013-14 Disclosures Page Link Identified Reason(s) for Explanation for Annual Report No. Omission(s) Omission(s) Omission(s) Reference G4-29 27 Sustainability within us – Sustainability Reporting NA NA NA G4-30 4 About the Report NA NA NA G4-31 2 A word from Chairman NA NA NA G4-32 4, 102 About the Report, GRI Indicators NA NA NA G4-33 4 About the Report NA NA NA GOVERNANCE G4-34 37 Corporate Governance-Governance NA NA NA Structure G4-35 36 Corporate Governance – The Board of Directors G4-36 38 Corporate Governance – The Board committees G4-37 36 Corporate Governance – Board Agenda G4-38 36 Corporate Governance – Board of Directors G4-39 36 Corporate Governance – The Board of Directors G4-40 36 Corporate Governance – The Board of directors G4-41 36 Corporate Governance – The Board of directors Pg: 78 G4-42 36 Corporate Governance – Board Agenda Board Meetings: Pg 77 G4-43 36 Corporate Governance – Board Agenda Board Meetings: Pg 77 G4-44 36 Corporate Governance – The Board of directors. G4-45 16 Materiality Analysis – Risk Management G4-46 16 Materiality Analysis – Risk Management Pg 76 G4-47 36 Corporate Governance – Board Agenda Board Meetings: Pg 77 G4-48 24 Sustainability Within Us – Board Pg: 82 committee on CSR and SD G4-49 25 Sustainability Within Us – Sustainability Grid G4-50 19 Sustainability within us G4-51 39 Corporate Governance – Remuneration Remuneration of directors. Committee: Pg 80 103 Sustainability Report 2013-14 Disclosures Page Link Identified Reason(s) for Explanation for Annual Report No. Omission(s) Omission(s) Omission(s) Reference G4-52 39 Corporate Governance Remuneration Remunerationof directors Committee:Pg 80 G4-53 39 Corporate Governance Remuneration Remuneration of directors Committee: Pg 80 G4-54 39 Corporate Governance Remuneration Remuneration of directors Committee: Pg 80 G4-55 39 Corporate Governance Remuneration Remuneration of directors Committee: Pg 90 Ethics And Integrity G4-56 35 Corporate Governance – our philosophy NA NA NA Company's philosophy on corporate Governance: Pg 76 G4-57 41 Corporate Governance – Integrity pact G4-58 39 Corporate Governance – Whistle blower policy. Material Aspect: Economic Performance G4-DMA 45 Economic Environment G4-EC1 70, 45 Giving back to society – our approach; economic performance G4-EC2 49 Environmental Performance – addressing climate change G4-EC3 81 Great place to workremuneration and allowances G4-EC4 11 Shareholding Page 126, Annual Report Material Aspect: Market Presence G4-DMA 76 Great place to work – hiring process G4-EC5 40 Corporate governance – Forced or compulsory labor G4-EC6 76 Great place to work – hiring process Material Aspect: Indirect Economic Impacts G4-DMA 70 Giving back to society – Our approach G4-EC7 70 Giving back to society – Our approach G4-EC8 70 Giving back to society – Our approach 104 Sustainability Report 2013-14 Disclosures Page Link Identified Reason(s) for Explanation for Annual Report No. Omission(s) Omission(s) Omission(s) Reference Material Aspect: Procurement Practices G4-DMA 40 Corporate governance – Sustainable Procurement G4-EC9 40 Corporate governance – Sustainable Procurement OG1 46 Economic Performance – E & P CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL Material Aspect: Materials G4-DMA 50 Material -Material Use G4-EN1 50 Material -Material Use G4-EN2 50 Material -Material Use Material Aspect: Energy G4-DMA 52 EnergyEnergy Sourcing & Consumption G4-EN3 52 EnergyEnergy Sourcing & Consumption G4-EN4 Not reported SCOPE 3 pilot project under process G4-EN5 52 EnergyEnergy Sourcing & Consumption G4-EN6 55 EnergyEnergy Conservation Measures G4-EN7 52, Energy-Energy Sourcing & Consumption, 55 Energy Conservation Measures Material Aspect: Water G4-DMA 60 Water – Water Conservation G4-EN8 60 Water – Water Conservation G4-EN9 60 Water – Water Conservation G4-EN10 58 Waste – Waste Water Management Material Aspect: Biodiversity G4-DMA 65 Bio-diversity G4-EN11 65 Bio-diversity G4-EN12 65 Bio-diversity G4-EN13 65 Bio-diversity G4-EN14 65 Bio-diversity Material Aspect: Emissions G4-DMA 62 Emissions 105 Sustainability Report 2013-14 Disclosures Page Link Identified Reason(s) for Explanation for Annual Report No. Omission(s) Omission(s) Omission(s) Reference G4-EN15 62 Emissions G4-EN16 62 Emissions G4-EN17 Not reported SCOPE 3 pilot to project under process G4-EN18 62 Emissions G4-EN19 55, EnergyEnergy Conservation Measures 64 EmissionsPrevention of Air Pollution G4-EN20 64 Emissions-Prevention of All Pollution G4-EN21 58 Waste G4-EN22 58 WasteWaste Water Management G4-EN23 58 WasteWaste Water Management G4-EN24 87 Health & Safety – Oil Spill Reponse G4-EN25 90 Product ResponsibilityProduct transport G4-EN26 65 Biodiversity Material Aspect: Products and Services G4-DMA 90 Product ResponsibilityProduct Responsibility G4-EN27 94 Research & Development G4-EN28 50 Material – Material Use Material Aspect: Compliance G4-DMA 40 Corporate Governance-Compliance to Corporate Laws G4-EN29 40 Corporate Governance-Compliance to Corporate Laws Material Aspect: Transport G4-DMA 90 Product Responsibility – Product Transport G4-EN30 90 Product Responsibility – Product Transport Material Aspect: Overall G4-DMA 49 Environmental PerformanceAddressing Climate Change G4-EN31 49 Environmental PerformanceAddressing Climate Change 106 Sustainability Report 2013-14 Disclosures Page Link Identified Reason(s) for Explanation for Annual Report No. Omission(s) Omission(s) Omission(s) Reference Material Aspect: Supplier Environmental Assessment G4-DMA 40 Corporate Governance – Sustainable Procurement G4-EN32 40 Corporate Governance – Sustainable Procurement G4-EN33 40 Corporate Governance – Sustainable Procurement Material Aspect: Environmental Grievance Mechanisms G4-DMA 54 EnergyEnvironment Impact Analysis G4-EN34 90 Product Responsibility Product Responsibility OG2 49 Environment PerformanceAddressing Climate Change OG3 52 Energy OG4 54 EnergyEnvironment Impact Analysis OG5 NA NA OG6 64 Emission-Prevention of Air Pollution OG7 NA NA OG8 91 Product ResponsibilityEnergy Efficient and Emission Compliant Fuel CATEGORY: SOCIAL SUB-CATEGORY: LABOR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK Material Aspect: Employment G4-DMA 74 Great Place to WorkWork Place G4-LA1 76 Great Place to WorkHiring process G4-LA2 81 Great Place to WorkRemuneration and allowances G4-LA3 81 Great Place to Work – Equality for all Material Aspect: Labor/management Relations G4-DMA 82 Great Place to WorkEmployee Engagement G4-LA4 82 Great Place to WorkEmployee Engagement Material Aspect: Occupational Health and Safety G4-DMA 84 Health & Safety G4-LA5 84 Health & Safety Safety Committee G4-LA6 84 Health & Safety – Safety Committee G4-LA7 84 Health & Safety Safety Committee 107 Sustainability Report 2013-14 Disclosures Page Link Identified Reason(s) for Explanation for Annual Report No. Omission(s) Omission(s) Omission(s) Reference G4-LA8 79 Great Place to WorkMentoring Program Material Aspect: Training and Education G4-DMA 78 Great Place to WorkTraining & Development G4-LA9 78 Great Place to WorkTraining & Development G4-LA10 77 Great Place to WorkCareer Transition G4-LA11 78 Great Place to WorkTraining & Development Material Aspect: Diversity And Equal Opportunity G4-DMA 39 Corporate Governance-Human Rights G4-LA12 36 Corporate GovernanceThe Board of Directors, 74 Great Place to Work Our Strength Material Aspect: Equal Remuneration For Women and Men G4-DMA 39 Corporate Governance Human Rights G4-LA13 39 Corporate Governance Human Rights Material Aspect: Supplier Assessment For Labour Practices G4-DMA 40 Corporate Governance Sustainable Procurement G4-LA14 40 Corporate Governance Sustainable Procurement G4-LA15 40 Corporate Governance -Sustainable Procurement Material Aspect: Labour Practices Grievance Mechanisms G4-DMA 35 Corporate Governance G4-LA16 40 Corporate GovernanceChild Labour, Corporate 40 Corporate Governance-Forced or Compulsory Labour SUB-CATEGORY: HUMAN RIGHTS Material Aspect: Investment G4-DMA 39 Corporate Governance – Human Rights G4-HR1 39 Corporate Governance – Human Rights G4-HR2 78 Great Place to Work – Training & Development Material Aspect: Non-Discrimination G4-DMA 39 Corporate Governance –Human Rights G4-HR3 39 Corporate Governance – Human Rights Material Aspect: Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining G4-DMA 39 Corporate Governance – Human Rights G4-HR4 39 Corporate Governance – Human Rights G4-HR5 40 Corporate Governance Child Labour 108 Sustainability Report 2013-14 Disclosures Page Link Identified Reason(s) for Explanation for Annual Report No. Omission(s) Omissions (Omission(s) Reference Material Aspect: Forced or Compulsory Labor G4-DMA 40 Corporate GovernanceForced or Compulsory Labour G4-HR6 40 Corporate GovernanceForced or Compulsory Labour Material Aspect: Security Practices G4-DMA 83 Health & SafetyWatch & Ward G4-HR7 83 Health & SafetyWatch & Ward Material Aspect: Indigenous Rights G4-DMA 39 Corporate GovernanceHuman Rights G4-HR8 39 Corporate GovernanceHuman Rights Material Aspect: Assessment G4-DMA 39 Corporate GovernanceHuman Rights G4-HR9 39 Corporate GovernanceHuman Rights Material Aspect: Supplier Human Rights Assessment G4-DMA 39 Corporate Governance Human Rights G4-HR10 39 Corporate Governance Human Rights G4-HR11 39 Corporate Governance Human Rights Material Aspect: Human Rights Grievance Mechanisms G4-DMA 39 Corporate GovernanceHuman Right G4-HR12 39 Corporate GovernanceHuman Rights OG9 39 Corporate GovernanceHuman Rights SUB-CATEGORY: SOCIETY Material Aspect: Local Communities G4-DMA 70 Giving Back to SocietyOur Approach G4-SO1 70 Giving Back to SocietyOur Approach G4-SO2 70 Giving Back to SocietyOur Approach Material Aspect: Anti-corruption G4-DMA 39 Corporate Governance Corruption and Anti Competitive Behaviour G4-SO3 39 Corporate Governance Corruption and Anti Competitive Behaviour G4-SO4 39 Corporate Governance Corruption and Anti Competitive Behaviour 109 Sustainability Report 2013-14 Disclosures Page Link Identified Reason(s) for Explanation for Annual Report No. Omission(s) Omission(s) Omission(s) Reference G4-SO5 39 Corporate Governance Corruption and Anti Competitive Behaviour Material Aspect: Public Policy G4-DMA 39 Corporate Governance Human Rights G4-SO6 39 Corporate Governance Human Rights Material Aspect: Anti-competitive Behavior G4-DMA 39 Corporate Governance Corruption and Anti Competitive Behaviour G4-SO7 39 Corporate Governance Corruption and Anti Competitive Behaviour Material Aspect: Compliance G4-DMA 70 Giving Back to SocietyOur Approach G4-SO8 70 Giving Back to SocietyOur Approach Material Aspect: Supplier Assessment For Impacts On Society G4-DMA 70 Giving Back to SocietyOur Approach G4-SO9 40 Corporate Governance Sustainable Procurement G4-SO10 70 Giving Back to Society Our Approach Material Aspect: Grievance Mechanisms For Impacts On Society G4-DMA 70 Giving Back to Society Our Approach G4-S011 70 Giving Back to Society Our Approach OG10 39 Corporate governance – Human Rights OG11 No Sites Decommissioned OG12 70 Giving Back to SocietyOur Approach OG13 87 Health & SafetyOil Spill Respons OG14 50,91 MaterialMaterial Use,Product Responsibility-Energy Efficient and Emission Compliant Fuel SUB-CATEGORY: PRODUCT RESPONSIBILIT Material Aspect: Customer Health And Safety G4-DMA 90 Product Responsibility G4-PR1 90 ResponsibilityProduct Responsibility G4-PR2 70 Giving Back to SocietyOur Approach Material Aspect: Product And Service Labeling G4-DMA 90 Product ResponsibilityProduct Labelling and Information 110 Sustainability Report 2013-14 Disclosures Page Link Identified Reason(s) for Explanation for Annual Report No. Omission(s) Omission(s) Omission(s) Reference G4-PR3 90 Product ResponsibilityProduct Labelling and Information G4-PR4 90 Product ResponsibilityProduct Labelling and Information G4-PR5 34 Stakeholder Ingagement-Customer First Material Aspect: Marketing Communications G4-DMA 90 Product ResponsibilityProduct Labelling and Information G4-PR6 90 Product ResponsibilityProduct Labelling and Information G4-PR7 90 Product ResponsibilityProduct Labelling and Information Material Aspect: Customer Privacy G4-DMA 93 Corporate E-Security G4-PR8 93 Corporate E-Security Material Aspect: Compliance G4-DMA 70 Giving Back to SocietyOur Approach G4-PR9 70 Giving Back to SocietyOur Approach 111 Financial 10.3% high turnover last year 40.3% increase in EPS over the previous year Net profit increased by 40.2% over the proceeding year Social Rs 81.91 Cr invested in CSR activities 2600 scholarships awarded to students Total employee strength of 33,793 employees Environmental Total Emission reduced by 1.96% Direct Energy consumption reduced by 4.44% Specific Energy consumption (Main) at refineries dropped by 0.9% Corporate Office 3079/3 Sadiq Nagar, JB Tito Marg, New Delhi-110049 www.iocl.com
