CSR COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2014 ABOUT KOMPAN GROUP KOMPAN is the world’s No. 1 playground supplier. We develop, produce and market an extensive range of playground equipment that covers all age groups. All our playgrounds are designed from the ground up to improve childhood health and learning. And all our products offer compelling design, high play value, uncompromising safety, unique innovation and long-lasting quality. For more than 40 years our goal has been to share our knowledge for the benefit of children and young people as well as the adults who work in this field – and it still is. Our unique knowledge centre the KOMPAN Play Institute is a valuable repository of insight into children’s play, health and learning e.g. through research. It’s the perfect complement to our decades of hands-on experience making playgrounds that promote child development. We use this valuable knowledge in our product design to ensure they address key areas of child development great playgrounds are built on knowledge. We aim to operate in a way that not only respects, but also contributes to positive development for people, planet and profit. Contents KOMPAN COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS FOR 2013 TO UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT.....................................................................3 HUMAN RIGHTS............................................................................................................4 LABOUR STANDARDS ...................................................................................................6 ENVIRONMENT..............................................................................................................8 GENDER DIVERSITY........................................................................................................9 ANTI-CORRUPTION......................................................................................................11 EFFORTS FOR SUPPLIERS ..............................................................................................11 2 WWW.KOMPAN.COM KOMPAN COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS FOR 2014 TO UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT Statement of continued support by the CEO TO OUR STAKEHOLDERS: The main focus in 2014 has been the drafting, approval and implementation of a business ethics policy, including I am pleased to confirm that KOMPAN reaffirms its supin particular an anti-bribery policy and training for the port of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global entire KOMPAN group of companies. Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. Furthermore, in 2014 KOMPAN has maintained its environmental profile as reported in earlier COPs. New initiaIn this annual Communication on Progress, we describe tives are being planned and will be taken in the coming our actions to continually improve the integration of the years. Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit In 2014 KOMPAN has obtained further female represento share this information with our stakeholders using our tation in its Supervisory Board and has in this way inprimary channels of communication. creased the percentage of the underrepresented gender on the supervisory board in accordance with the Danish Act on Public and Private Limited Companies. Sincerely yours, Connie Astrup-Larsen Chief Executive Officer WWW.KOMPAN.COM 3 HUMAN RIGHTS At KOMPAN we are committed to support and respect their development in terms of motor coordination, ininternationally declared human rights, and not to be tellect, and social skills. Our playgrounds also play an complicit in any human rights abuses. Our largest chalimportant role in the efforts against physical inactivity, lenges and risks in terms of human rights are found in overweight and obesity among children and teenagers. our global value chain. We have suppliers located in KOMPAN wishes to develop playgrounds which will help Asia, which usually implies higher risks of human rights improve the physique of the children in a safe and fun violations occurring e.g. in terms of working hours or lasurrounding. bour rights. In order to manage these risks KOMPAN has developed a Supplier Code of Conduct, which all suppliKOMPAN continuously develops and advances our coners have to commit to and sign. Our work with the code cepts and products. We do this based on the knowledge of conduct and suppliers is elaborated further below. we gather in KOMPAN Play Institute where we among other things do studies on children’s play. Article 31 (Leisure, play and culture): Children have the right to relax and play, and to join in a wide range In 2014, KOMPAN launched the concept ‘The Learning of cultural, artistic and other recreational activities. Playground’ by integrating educational and learning (UN Convention on the Rights of the Child). concepts creating a link between playing and learning, which will have multiple positive effects on children. Through our business activity KOMPAN is supporting the UN’s Convention on the Rights of the Child. On a daily basis our products encourage and enable children to play and be active, and this has beneficial impact on NG Playgrounds boost Playground activity NI health in a fun way helps children AARR HEA concentrate better LLEE LTH Playground activity g ro u n d Playground combats weight ay activity improves q u e Pl Solu tio problems and children’s academic obesity skills ni U ns Playgrounds help Playgrounds help combat vandalism bridge generation and crime and culture gaps Playgrounds include all abilities and ages SSOOCIA ONN I NCCLLUUSSI IO CIALLI N 4 WWW.KOMPAN.COM MOMENTS TWO HOUSES & TOWER WITH U-NET & ADA STAIRCASE Borup, Denmark WWW.KOMPAN.COM 5 LABOUR STANDARDS As with human rights, KOMPAN’s primary risks regarding direction our factory in Czech Republic is certified accordthe fundamental labour standards are at our suppliers. ing to OHSAS 18001 an occupational health and safety We strive to make sure that none of our cooperating management system. This implies that the operating parties are complicit in using e.g. child labour, forced practices are up to date and in compliance with health labour or prohibiting the right to association and coland safety requirements. It further enables our organizalective bargaining. You can read more about our work tion to control and gain knowledge of all relevant risks with ensuring our suppliers comply with our guidelines and hazards, and consequently improves our perforfurther below. mance. The surveillance audit was passed without any non-conformity in 2014. For KOMPAN’s own activities we aim to make sure that we provide our employees with a safe working environThe amount of lost hours related to accidents (LTA: Lost ment, be that in the headquarters in Odense, Denmark, Time Accidents) has increased to 608 hours (560 in 2013), or in the factories in Sweden, Germany, or the Czech corresponding to only 0.22% of the total production time. Republic as well as in our sales companies around the No serious injuries happened in 2014. We will continue a world. Occupational health and safety is an equivalent structured and managed approach to work actively for and integral part of all activities of KOMPAN and one of a safe and healthy working environment for our employour permanent top priorities. Our Occupational Health ees in 2015. In 2014 we have extended regular 5S audits and Safety policy focuses on preventing injuries and to 6S audits (the sixth “S” means SAFETY) for the purpose illness, ensuring that we are in compliance with all legal of performing regular safety audits to support us to regulations and that we efficiently and actively involve identify possible risks in the entire plant and prevent acour employees in the matter. As an important step in this cidents and production time loss. MOMENTS PLAY AND STAY WITH NET Odense, Denmark 6 WWW.KOMPAN.COM GALAXY ENIF Fabrisious School, Holland WWW.KOMPAN.COM 7 ENVIRONMENT As a manufacturer of outdoor playground equipment, KOMPAN’s production plants in Czech Republic and KOMPAN has an integrated approach to environmental Sweden are ISO 14001 certified, which implies a specific considerations. KOMPAN aims to produce sustainable and structured management approach to environmental products with a long lifespan, which require a low level issues. The plants in Czech Republic and Germany have of maintenance. We aim to use materials and technolofurthermore implemented control systems that work for gies, which have minimal impact on the environment, compliance with requirements on active substances in and whenever possible we aim to use FSC-certified accessible components, and independent third party sources. tests are run. In the years to come KOMPAN will focus even more on how we can minimize the waste of resources and reduce environmental hazards. MOMENTS TWO HOUSES & TOWER WITH U-NET & ADA STAIRCASE Borup, Denmark 8 WWW.KOMPAN.COM GALAXY SUPERNOVA Støvring, Denmark GENDER DIVERSITY In accordance with the Danish Act on Public and Private The global gender distribution by the end of 2014 was Limited Companies the Supervisory Board has set a approximately 64% men (2012: 67%) and 36% women target for increasing the percentage of the underrepre(2012: 33%). The proportion of women in global sented gender on the supervisory board and outlined management constituted approximately 28% (2012 26%). a policy to increase the level of the underrepresented One woman was appointed member of the supervisory gender in other managerial functions. The definition of board in 2014 thereby meeting the goal of 25% represenmanagers is “managers with staff responsibility or mantation of women on the supervisory board within 2020. agers with special strategic responsibilities in corporate functions”. WWW.KOMPAN.COM 9 MOMENTS HOUSE WITH NET Kävlinge, Sweden 10 WWW.KOMPAN.COM ANTI-CORRUPTION Corruption and bribery are recognized as barriers to In 2014 KOMPAN has implemented a Business ethics sustainable development and free trade. At KOMPAN policy, including an anti-bribery policy. The policy conwe do not accept these practices and therefore do not cerns bribery, facilitation payments, gifts/entertainment, accept any kind of undue payment in any of our busipolitical contributions and charity contributions. Furtherness transactions. It is our policy that all elements of our more, the policy concerns conflicts of interest, treatment supply chain and sale must be completely transparent to of confidential information and competition law complieveryone interested in knowing more. Principles to work ance. against anti-corruption are integrated in the supplier code of conduct (read more below). All white collar employees of the KOMPAN group of companies have participated in and completed an Anti-corruption is still a relatively new area for KOMPAN e-learning training course in the beginning of 2015. in terms of working actively with the issue in our own activities. KOMPAN will continue to develop its focus on compliance issues through the coming years. EFFORTS FOR SUPPLIERS As a global manufacturer of outdoor playground equipKOMPAN takes a risk based approach to our suppliers. ment KOMPAN has to comply with a number of stanThis means that our suppliers are grouped according dards in terms of product safety and environment, it is to the risks associated with the characteristics of their therefore central to us that our suppliers adhere to the geographical location. We have some suppliers from same standards as we do. Our supplier code of conAsia, which we associate with higher risks than e.g. duct describes the requirements KOMPAN expects all suppliers located in Europe. To manage this, we work to our suppliers to adhere to and comply with. The code audit the high risk suppliers at least once a year. At the of conduct is based on the principles of the UN Global supplier audits, which are carried out by either KOMPAN Compact, and covers the following areas: employees or by third party auditors, a standardised questionnaire is developed, which supports the auditor Child labour, discrimination, forced labour, working enviin including all aspects of our code of conduct are disronment, working hours and salary, the right to organize cussed during the visit. and collective bargaining, right to privacy, environment (pollution prevention and resource reduction, chemicals Also in 2014 more than 99% of our suppliers of raw mateand hazardous materials, air emissions, waste water rials or components have signed the code of conduct. and solid waste, recycling and reuse of materials and products), and corruption. When making new contract the supplier has to confirm and commit to complying with the code of conduct. If the supplier cannot or will not sign the code of conduct, the engagement will not be made, or the existing agreement will be terminated. WWW.KOMPAN.COM 11 Visit KOMPAN’s website for more financial information Use your QR scanner or download a free application to your mobile: http://reader.kaywa.com www.KOMPAN.com KOMPAN A/S C.F. Tietgens Boulevard 32C DK-5220 Odense SØ Denmark Tel.: +45 63 62 12 50 E-mail: info@KOMPAN.com CVR. nr. 40 55 98 17
