Communication on Progress Year: 2015 Commitment Statement by Chief Executive Officer: I am pleased to confirm that The Brewer Group and The Jack Brewer Foundation will have a continued support for the Ten Principles of the Global Compact on human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption and wishes to renew the company’s ongoing commitment to the initiative and its principals. With this communication, we are expressing our intent to implement those principles. We are committed to making the Global Compact and its principles a continual part of the strategy, culture and day-to-day operations of our company, and will continue to engage in collaborative projects to advance the broader development goals of the United Nations, particularly the Sustainable Development Goals. The Brewer Group and The Jack Brewer Foundation will make a clear statement of this commitment to our stakeholders and the general public. I recognize that this expression of continual support by myself as the CEO of The Brewer Group is the first step in the requirements needed for continual participation in the Global Compact. Following this letter, the United Nations Global Compact will receive our annual submission of a Communication on Progress (COP) that describes our company’s efforts to implement the ten principles. We support public accountability and transparency and will include a description of practical actions (i.e., disclosure of any relevant policies, procedures, activities) that the company has taken (or plans to undertake) to implement the Global Compact principles in each of the four issue areas (human rights, labour, environment, anti-corruption).Additionally, a measure of outcomes will be presented in this COP in order to further disclose The Brewer Group’s degree of which it has addressed its targets, the indicators that were met, and any other qualitative or quantitative measurement of results. Kind Regards, Ambassador Jack Brewer Founder and Chief Executive Officer, The Brewer Group Founder and Executive Director, The Jack Brewer Foundation U.S. Federation for Middle East Peace Human Rights Principles 1. Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and 2. Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Assessment, Policy and Goals Assessment, Policy, and Goals The Brewer Group’s goal is to ensure that all of our employees and business partners respect and achieve the articles of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Every person in the world is entitled to freedom, justice and peace. It is the a continual mission of The Brewer Group, The Jack Brewer Foundation, and the role of the CEO Jack Brewer as the Ambassador for Peace and Sport for the US Federation of Middle East Peace (USFMEP) at the United Nations, to promote the development of friendly relations between communities and nations. The Brewer Group and Jack Brewer Foundation’s stance on corporate social responsibility (CSR) is that, “The Brewer Group actively engages in philanthropic initiatives around the world through The Jack Brewer Foundation (JBF Worldwide), and our corporate social responsibility (CSR) organization. JBF Worldwide’s core principle is ‘Empowering From Within,’ and the Foundation empowers staff and clients to make positive changes in their communities at home and abroad.” The Brewer Group is focused on creating sustainable partnerships and empowering individuals to make positive social changes in both the community as well as in the business world. This is conveyed through presentations and dissemination of overall company orientations. “The Brewer Group is committed to the highest standards of conduct in our relationships with each other, as well as with our clients, consultants, sponsors and others involved. This requires that we conduct our business in accordance with the highest standards of both personal and business conduct. The Code of Conduct and Employee Handbook helps us in this endeavor by providing a statement of fundamental principles and key policies and procedures that govern the conduct of our employees with general information about employment with TBG and our expectations of you as an employee.” – TBG Company Code of Conduct and Handbook The Brewer Group and its affiliated organizations engage in participations with: UNAIDS, AmeriCares, USFMEP, Project Medishare, IDB Youth, Starkey Hearing Foundation, Montessori Model United Nations, Smile Network International, China World Peace Foundation, Africa Rising, and the Joyce Banda Foundation amongst many more. All business partners, suppliers, and manufacturers are expected to adhere to the principles on Human Rights. Any violation of the articles outlined in this universal declaration would lead to The Brewer Group’s disassociation with this organizations and the reporting of the violations to the proper authorities. The Brewer Group has sectors spanning: Biotechnology and Healthcare, Sustainable Technology and Consumer Products, Education, Sports and Entertainment, and Finance. The countries in which we operate/have operated with our respective business affiliations and interests include: United States, Brazil, Mexico, China, Malawi, India, Nigeria, South Africa, Haiti, Egypt, Jamaica, Guatemala, Bahamas, Democratic Republic of Congo, Sri Lanka, Djibouti, Benin, Malaysia, Kirbati, Kyrgyzstan, Brunai, Grenada, Samoa, and Afghanistan. In each of these countries listed, there is the risk of violations of human rights, labour, environment, and corruption. To ensure that violations do not occur, TBG and our affiliates take a hands-on approach to the implementation, production, and development of each sector and product in each respective region. Our goal is to empower the people of these countries to become more self-sufficient, employ more local people, and develop in a way that is sustainable from a business and ecological standpoint. Often times, as seen in developing countries, the vision for growth is short term, and profits often times over power ethics. Related risks and impact in industry sector and country(ies) of operation Biotechnology and Healthcare: Often times, the dignity of people is overlooked in this sector in regards to access to medical necessities and healthcare. Discriminations exist between race, color, sex, language, religion, and political views in many of the countries listed. Inconsistencies particularly exist in regards to Article 25 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights stating that, “Everyone has the right to a standard of living adequate for the health and well-being of himself and his family, including food, clothing, housing and medical care and necessary social services, and the right to security in the event of unemployment, sickness, disability, widowhood, old age or other lack of livelihood in circumstances beyond his control.” Sustainable Technology and Consumer Products: The major risks that are associated with this sector in the countries listed include people being subjected to cruel, inhuman, or degrading treatment; everyone has the right to equal pay for equal work; and the right to freedom of peaceful assembly and association, specifically with regards to the manufacturing of the products. Another risk associated with this sector involves the degradation of the environment, ecosystems, and surrounding communities by practicing harmful methods of energy and food production. Without safe systems in place, populations run the risk of negative health effects, reduced nutritional gains, and overall degradation of their quality of life. Education: The major risks that our company and affiliation have in regards to this sector and the declaration of human rights, is the cooperative nature of certain populations in the promotion of unbiased education and cultural exchange. Often times, sex, religion, status, and gender play a major role in whether or not a child has the opportunity to pursue educational opportunities. The Brewer Group’s specific goals in the area of human rights for the past year: Overall, we strive to maintain a supply chain for all affiliations that is in compliance with the Universal Declaration of Human Rights Protecting and encouraging Article 3 and 25, right to life and wellbeing, of the Declaration of Human Rights ● Improve the accessibility of affordable medications to places that lack proper medical alternatives, or access to medications in general.. ● Encourage the advancement of neurological assisting devices for therapeutic, precautionary, and protective services. ● Increase the opportunity for organic, sustainable farming solutions to be used in small to large-scale operation in all economic environments. ● Increase the global capacity for countries and its citizens to access nutritious foods. ● Promote the advancement of research and technologies that are geared towards improving the quality of life in individuals spanning all economic, religious, ethnic, and political barriers. Protecting and encouraging Article 23, non discrimination, of the Declaration of Human Rights ● Empower women to attain greater levels of equality across all sectors of society through our organization’s non-profit foundation and other charitable organizations we involve ourselves with. ● Further expand Human Resources Department to ensure employees are treated fairly at the office Implementation TBG has taken the following measures to prevent human rights violations at its work locations: ● A reporting structure has been implemented throughout the workplace which allows for any person to report a violation to their superior, or if uncomfortable with reporting that that individual, they can communicate directly with the CEO. ● Incorporated into the company associates meeting in an overview about the stance of TBG on human rights, as well as in the disclaimer of company literature. Measurement of Outcomes ● TBG has maintained 100% accountability throughout its supply chain of various offerings without a single report of human rights violations. Plans for Future ● The expansion of our Human Resources Department is the beginning of our initiative to ensure our employees’ security, safety, and wellbeing in our workplace. We hope to begin an open dialogue and maintain our open door policy, encouraging employees to disclose and address any barriers within our work environment of their well being. Labour Principles 3. Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; 4. Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; 5. Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and 6. Principle 6:the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Assessment, Policy and Goals Assessment, Policy, and Goals TBG’s policy on labor principals acknowledges the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; and stands behind the principals of eliminating all forms of compulsory labor, the effective abolition of child labor, and the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Additionally, TBG has an open stance against discrimination ranging from traditional forms such as sex, race or religion, to newer forms based on age, sexual orientation, HIV/AIDS status and disability. Implementation ● Every four months, TBG hosts a company wide orientation for new employees that highlights the assessment, policy and goals of our labor principals as well as standards on personal behavior, harassment, and discrimination. Our orientation documentation is also updated each time to reflect the most current policies. ● TBG has an open door policy allowing for individuals to bring forward any concern or complaint that they may have regarding their employment, or the employment of others associated with The Brewer Group. Any item that cannot be solved in this manner will be subject to arbitration before the executive team. ● Employee Evaluations are conducted once at least once a year that discuss goals and feedback as well as any concerns the employee has Measurement of Outcomes ● TBG has hired, brought on associates, and conducted business with companies, individuals, countries, and foundations with equal opportunity and without discrimination. ● TBG has had zero reports of any form of compulsory labor or child labor in any of its operations in which it has had involvement. Plans for Future ● Continue to closely monitor any joint ventures or operations for any form of forced or coerced labor as well as child labor. Environment 7. Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; 8. Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and 9. Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Assessment, Policy and Goals Assessment, Policy and Goals The environmental policy of The Brewer Group is reflective of our environmental commitment to industry and individuals alike. TBG will continually strive to find ways to increase efficiencies, support technologies that are better for the environment, and seek to enact change at all levels of corporate engagement. It is our policy to comply with all environmental laws of the respective region in which we are doing work, and when possible, institute changes that will have a positive impact on the community from an environmental standpoint. The Brewer Group actively seeks out strategies that ensure environmental protection, mitigate inputs that negatively impact the local ecosystem, and change the fundamental approach in many instances to make production and commerce as low-impact and sustainable as possible. TBG is implementing a sustainability reporting procedure for all companies with which it does business in the effort to enhance the company’s public image, highlight what stewardship objectives are most accomplishable in their respective sector, and as a way to identify key opportunities in which each company can have a maximum impact for the greater good of the environment. TBG Specific Goals for our environmental commitment: ● Promote the use of sustainable, organic farming procedures in all countries in which we operate, reducing the amount of contaminating, synthetic chemicals currently used in operations today. ● Continue to advocate for sustainable farming practices in regards to having a positive impact on the ecosystem involved, while also reducing the expansion of “slash and burn” practices. ● Provide alternative sources of plastic waste disposal and energy generation through pyrolysis, creating waste into energy, reducing the amount of non-biodegradable plastics clogging landfills, and creating economic opportunities for local populations. ● Increase access to clean water for residential and commercial purposes through technological methods (atmospheric water generators), helping to reduce disease, increase sanitation, and lessen the strain on over-stressed, traditional sources. ● Continue to involve high profile individuals in humanitarian efforts worldwide in order to increase knowledge and solutions to problems that the world is currently facing. Measurement of Outcomes ● TBG has been able to achieve a 20% reduction in synthetic crop inputs on the field in which we have operated, while at the same time, increasing the harvest yields and nutritional content of the crops themselves. ● The distributed commercial atmospheric water generators are currently providing thousands of gallons of fresh, clean drinking water to areas previously prone to contamination and general lack of infrastructure. ● TBG has introduced a technology that converts sewage into clean drinking water into multiple different markets around the world Plans for Future ● TBG has taken part in the dialogue preceding the Paris COP 21 and looks forward to the Business Forum following the event. We look forward to standing with the UN Caring for Climate pledge. Anti-Corruption 10. Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery Assessment, Policy, and Goals It is the policy of the The Brewer Group that corruption, fraud, theft, maladministration or any other dishonest activities of a similar nature will not be tolerated. In addition, such irregular activities will be investigated and followed up by the application of all remedies available within the full extent of the law(s) internationally, and in the country in which we are operating. Outlined in our company handbook, employees are expected to uphold at all times, standards of integrity and behavior that will reflect positively upon themselves, their community, and The Brewer Group. All information and materials are regarded as confidential or proprietary. Employees should treat all of TBG business affairs, information, materials, plans and projects as confidential information. TBG complies with all anti-corruption regulations set by the national government where we do business and international bodies worldwide. It is TBG policy to conduct business in an honest way, and without the use of corrupt practices or acts of bribery to obtain an unfair advantage, and the company does not tolerate or engage in any actions constituting corruption, fraud, theft and maladministration collectively such as: theft, misconduct while handling money or transactions, insider trading, false or misleading reporting, or the omission of any acts under similar contexts. Implementation ● TBG has an open door policy allowing for individuals to bring forward any concern or complaint that they may have regarding their employment, employment of others associated with The Brewer Group, or the business actions of the company. Any item that cannot be solved in this manner will be subject to arbitration before the executive team. ● TBG has a system of checks and balances between its divisions, executives, and managers that intends to disclose any concerning issue as they arise. ● Proper diligence into transactions and business proposals is mandatory between advisors, managers, lawyers, and executives involved in order to ensure that infractions do not occur. ● The consequences of any corruption-based activity has been clearly outlined in the company overview that was presented to all members of TBG. ● TBG has a risk management policy that has been put into place and updated several times a year. Measurement of Outcomes ● TBG has assigned specific personal to check over, and look into past transactions of the company to identify any irregularity. ● New reporting and communication procedures have been put into place to reduce the amount of redundant information and streamline the dissemination of information. Plans for Future ● Continue monitoring our international and domestic operations with our staff
