Calvert Investments, Inc. United Nations Global Compact and United Nations CEO Water Mandate Annual Joint Communication on Progress December 2015 CEO STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT Calvert is pleased to share our 2015 United Nations Global the global commons as well as to the rights of individuals and Compact Communications on Progress (UNGC COP) report. Since communities. We also serve as stewards for our clients through we are a signatory to the UNGC and an endorser of the UN CEO active engagement and advocacy to make the companies and Water Mandate, we have chosen to report out our annual COP the world around us better. in a combined format for this year and the progress we have made in implementing both the UNGC ten principles and the six As a small company with a limited direct footprint, our elements of the CEO Water Mandate. most significant impacts are through our investments, our shareholder engagement and public policy advocacy. This I joined Calvert Investments as its incoming President and CEO annual COP is concentrated on sharing these impacts. last October and then officially began running the company in January 2015. During this last year we have made significant Earlier this year, we established a partnership with George changes in how we run the business and our business model, Serafeim, Jakurski Family Associate Professor of Business all designed to strengthen service to clients and reinforce our Administration at Harvard Business School, to conduct joint commitment to responsible and impact investing. research on a variety of topics aimed at enhancing knowledge concerning responsible investing and advancing approaches to In June 2015, we launched the Calvert Responsible Index Series, responsible business. The first report in the series, The Role of which offers the definitive investable universe of companies the Corporation in Society: Implications for Investors, explores with strong sustainability profiles that collectively have the the evolving role of the corporation in society, recognizing the potential to meet or exceed the performance of the common large capital concentration represented by companies and their broad-market benchmarks. Our responsible indexes offer increasing engagement in environmental and social activities. investors cost-effective access to the growth potential of Companies are investing heavily in efforts to manage their companies that seek to solve the problems of today. Our current impacts on both society and the environment. The report index line-up includes: examines how these investments can translate to real benefits, ■■ Calvert Developed Markets Ex-U.S. Responsible Index both for businesses and investors. We look forward to releasing ■■ Calvert US Large Cap Core Responsible Index more reports in 2016 that contribute to the body of knowledge ■■ Calvert US Large Cap Growth Responsible Index on responsible investing and further highlight the lasting ■■ Calvert US Large Cap Value Responsible Index positive impacts of this approach to asset management. ■■ Calvert US Mid Cap Core Responsible Index We were pleased to participate in the UN Sustainable We also developed the Calvert Principles for Responsible Development Summit in September, where I chaired the Investment, through which we filter the investment decisions Roundtable on Peace and Stability at the UN Private Sector in our Index funds and which are closely aligned with the UNGC Forum and where UN member states formally adopted the ten principles. These Principles for Responsible Investment allow Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). These goals are us to apply our standards across the global capital markets critically important to humanity and the planet. Because and to take advantage of rapid data advancements while global corporations bear tremendous social and environmental maintaining the high ethical investment standard for which impacts, they can wield significant positive influence that Calvert is so well known. The Principles focus on corporate promotes economic inclusion and enhances the efficient use behaviors and changing environmental and societal conditions. of natural resources in support of the SDGs. Additionally, As a responsible investor, Calvert seeks to invest in companies corporate contributions toward these goals can be an important that provide positive leadership in the areas of their business determinant of company profitability and therefore, longoperations and overall activities that are relevant to improving term firm value. Calvert Investments is working to produce societal outcomes, including those that will affect future actionable new research with George Serafeim, which we generations. The Principles encompass the advancement of expect to release in 2016, that will demonstrate how the environmental sustainability and resource efficiency; contribute SDGs relate to responsible business practices and economic to equitable societies and respect human rights; and support value and provide investors with tools to address the SDGs accountable governance and transparency. Calvert seeks to in investment decision-making. By directing capital to invest in companies that balance the needs of financial and companies that maintain responsible, sustainable business nonfinancial stakeholders and demonstrate a commitment to practices and engaging in productive conversations with 2 Calvert Investments, Inc.: United Nations Global Compact and United Nations CEO Water Mandate — Annual 2015 Joint Communication on Progress corporate management, investors can incentivize strong social, with the shift to a low carbon economy represents an enormous environmental, and governance practices at the corporate level. economic opportunity. Most recently, we are heartened by the outcomes of the 2015 I would like to reiterate Calvert Investments’ continued support United Nations Climate Change Conference held this December for the UN Global Compact and its important work as well as in Paris on climate change, which requires governments of 195 for the ten Principles, which are closely aligned with our own nations to disclose public plans on how they will reduce carbon business model. The Principles are a guide for all corporations emissions over the next ten to fifteen years as well as increase to follow and we use them as we advocate for corporate the scope of their climate change policies going forward responsibility. I would also like to reiterate our continued through legally binding requirements and then meet to report support for the CEO Water Mandate and its six core elements. publicly on their progress. All nations agreed to monitor and We have highlighted our progress and how we are addressing report on both their emission levels and progress, based on the the six core elements through our responsible investments same accounting system. The pact accelerates the transition within the environment section below. to a low carbon economy, by sending a welcome market signal to business and investors that our global energy system needs Sincerely, to be more sustainable. Calvert sees its policy and advocacy related to energy and climate issues as an important part of the work ahead for companies and investors to translate the momentum and market signal from the Paris Agreement into John Streur climate friendly business and investment practices. We know President and CEO there will be obstacles and that much difficult work remains Calvert Investments, Inc. but the climate change accord adds strength to our convictions, CONTACT INFORMATION: CONTACT: Reed Montague TITLE: Senior Sustainability Analyst EMAIL: reed.montague@calvert.com COMPANY: Calvert Investments, Inc. Calvert Investments, Inc.: United Nations Global Compact and United Nations CEO Water Mandate — Annual 2015 Joint Communication on Progress 3 ANNUAL PROGRESS AND OUTCOMES This section highlights Calvert’s 2015 progress towards the UNGC and ten Principles in each of the four issue areas: human rights, labor, environment, and anti-corruption. For each area, we discuss our assessment, policy and goals as well as our implementation and the measurement of outcomes. Our annual Communication on Progress for the CEO Water Mandate has been incorporated into the environment section. HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Assessment, Policy and Goals: to human rights can lead to business interruptions, negative publicity, public protests and a loss of consumer trust, all of As a long time responsible investor, Calvert believes in the which can impact shareholder value. Passage of the bills would importance of following sound human rights approaches, which incentivize companies to address human trafficking risks and we also expect from the companies in which we invest. While recognize a company’s ability to positively impact human rights we seek to invest in companies with a solid track record in this around the world. area, we also engage with companies to encourage positive social change and support public policies that can help advance Measurement of Outcomes: corporate human rights practices. Our new Calvert Principles for Responsible Investment include similar considerations to Calvert, the Interfaith Center on Corporate Responsibility Human Rights Principles 1 and 2. (ICCR) and Christian Brothers Investment Services subsequently spearheaded an investor statement in support of the bills. Over 100 investors representing U.S. and international public pension Implementation: funds, unions, faith institutions, and socially responsible asset Seeking to address important human rights issues at a management firms that collectively represent over $1 trillion in broad level, Calvert has been active in its support for assets under management signed onto the statement. Copies of legislation to curb human trafficking and forced labor. In July, the statement were sent to the leadership of the Congressional Congresswoman Carolyn Maloney (D-NY) and Congressman Committees of Referral, urging them to support passage of the Chris Smith (R-NJ) introduced The Business Supply Chain bills. Copies of the investor statement were also distributed to Transparency on Trafficking and Slavery Act of 2015 in NGO partners. the U.S. House of Representatives. The following month, Senator Richard Blumenthal (D-CT) and Edward Markey Calvert spoke on an MSCI panel at a September briefing on (D-MA) introduced the Business Supply Chain Transparency legislative developments, where we provided the investor on Trafficking and Slavery Act of 2015 in the U.S. Senate, an perspective on human trafficking and the pending legislation identical bill to the one introduced by Maloney and Smith. while discussing the value it would bring to this area. The legislation would require companies to disclose their Overall, this initiative had two objectives: one, passage of the policies and practices to address human rights-related risks bills for increased disclosure and two, raising awareness of within their global supply chains. We believe corporate corporate human trafficking risks. While the bills are still in their transparency is a critical component of investors’ due diligence respective committees, raising awareness was accomplished process and requiring such disclosures better enables investors by the number of signatories on the statement, Calvert’s to fully assess a company’s management of its human rights participation as a panelist at a Senate briefing and the recent risks and opportunities. The lack of disclosure and attention MSCI webinar on human trafficking. 4 Calvert Investments, Inc.: United Nations Global Compact and United Nations CEO Water Mandate — Annual 2015 Joint Communication on Progress LABOR Principle 3: Businesses should uphold freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Assessment, Policy and Goals: board chairs and incorporated corporate diversity controversies as a performance indicator. These three Labor Principles and the four International Labour Organization’s core labor standards are integral to Calvert’s Moving beyond engaging with companies through our survey investment research and decision-making policies and research, Calvert works with companies lacking gender and practices. They are also broadly embedded within the Calvert racial diversity on their boards of directors to incorporate more Principles for Responsible Investment and guide our selection inclusive language in the nominating and governance policies of companies in our Index funds and for many of our actively of their corporate governance documents. Through dialogue managed strategies. As a key component of our work on labor Calvert also encourages companies to broaden their director issues, we have chosen to highlight our diversity work as these search to include diverse candidates. four principles are also implicitly incorporated in the Calvert’s Women’s Principles and our broader diversity work. Calvert is currently developing an advocacy strategy for engaging companies on the gender wage gap, an issue that Implementation: has grown in public concern and has gained greater legislative Calvert has used both the UN Global Compact Labor Principles traction in recent years. The approach is two pronged and 3, 4, 5 and 6 through its work on diversity and the Calvert’s involves asking leading companies (with balanced gender Women’s Principles (CWP). The CWP, the first global code representation, diverse leadership, and innovative initiatives) of corporate conduct focused exclusively on empowering, how they plan to continue to show leadership by investigating advancing, and investing in women worldwide, celebrated its and resolving inequitable compensation, and lagging companies 10th anniversary last year and also served as the foundation what they are doing to address significant wage gap challenges for the UN’s Women’s Empowerment Principles, which were to improve diverse recruitment, retention and employee established by collaboration between the United Nation engagement. We anticipate launching this effort in 2016. Women and the UN Global Compact, and were adapted for international application based on a multi-stakeholder Please also see the Human Rights section above for additional consultative process in which Calvert participated. These efforts around Principle 4 above on forced labor. Principles are designed to provide companies with specific, measurable goals for achieving gender equity in areas such Measurement of Outcomes: as hiring, pay, and career development and to increase the In the course of the research for our 2015 diversity report representation of women in management ranks and on participating companies engaged with Calvert to ask questions, corporate boards. As a part of this process, the CWP offers share challenges, and make note of improvements they investors a set of tools they can use to assess corporate are making to their diversity practices. As a result of this performance toward that goal. engagement, we found a larger number of companies are committed to greater reporting and accountability related to As one facet of this work, Calvert assesses corporate progress employee demographics across the corporate ranks through on diversity through its Survey of Corporate Diversity Practices. EEO-1 disclosure. In addition, long-term participants such as In 2015, Calvert released the results of its 2014 diversity Philip Morris International, Schlumberger, and Occidental research findings through this report, where it ranked the S&P Petroleum have seen up to a fifty point increase in their overall 100 companies according to performance on Calvert’s ten diversity scores since 2010, achieved through improved diversity diversity indicators. In addition to tracking diversity challenges policies, programs, and disclosure. and trends, the report ranks and publicizes corporate diversity practices, which can bolster accountability and help drive For the first time in Calvert’s reporting history, every S&P 100 performance improvements. This year’s report findings included company had at least one woman on its board of directors. new measures such as the percentage of women and minority Other key highlights included: a 17% increase in the number of Calvert Investments, Inc.: United Nations Global Compact and United Nations CEO Water Mandate — Annual 2015 Joint Communication on Progress 5 S&P 100 boards with three or more women and/or minorities, agreed to include language on the inclusion of gender, race, near unanimous adoption of LGBT-inclusive EEO policies (95%), ethnicity or national origin in their respective proxies, while and a 45% increase in top down commitments to diversity Ubiquiti Networks agreed to include language on the diversity initiatives. Areas for improvement include the level of corporate of gender and race in its proxy. Lastly, SBA Communications disclosure on employee demographics up the corporate ladder approved modifications to both its Nominating and Corporate (EEO-1 data) and the 44% of S&P 100 companies that do not Governance Committee Charter and governance guidelines have any women or minorities among their five highest-paid aimed at enhancing the company’s commitment to attaining executives. Full and public disclosure of employee demographics diversity of race, gender, geography, thought, viewpoints, across the corporate ranks is a notable step taken toward backgrounds, skills, experience and expertise on its Board of transparency and improved accountability by a number of Directors. Both Monster and SBA Communications also added a companies engaging with Calvert through the survey. woman to their boards of directors. Through our engagement on board diversity, we had Please also see the Human Rights section above for additional several wins during the 2015 proxy voting season. Comtech measurements of outcomes around Principle 4 above on Telecommunications, Garmin and Monster Beverage all forced labor. ENVIRONMENT Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Assessment, Policy and Goals: season. These proposals included requests that companies establish greenhouse gas emissions reduction policies and Calvert has long been focused on environmental issues through targets and renewable energy use targets. An area of focus has our responsible investments and related advocacy. In fact, been on the electric utility industry, one of the largest sources Calvert has made environment and climate change a key priority of greenhouse gas emissions and a sector that is exposed to across our research and advocacy work. We focus on public significant risk, as regulation to address climate change moves policy advocacy and direct corporate and industry engagement forward and as advances in energy efficiency and renewable in support of environment and climate change objectives. We energy threaten to disrupt the traditional utility business model. see investment opportunity in the response to climate change. Market and technological developments, along with growing concern about climate change, are driving change in the Calvert also engages on the public policy front and contributes global energy system toward renewable and cleaner fuels and to reports that further education and understanding about the energy efficient measures. Calvert recognizes the urgent need outcomes of environment and climate change issues. These for progress that will support the priorities of environmental reports can also drive advocacy and public policy engagement sustainability, social justice and economic feasibility. and serve as a vehicle to improve company sustainability around environmental issues. Calvert’s overall responsible investment approach is closely aligned with the UNGC’s three Environment Principles through The Montreal Pledge was launched in September of 2014 and is our Calvert Principles for Responsible Investment, which also supported by the Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI) and incorporate a strong environment focus on the advancement the United Nations Environment Programme Finance Initiative of environmental sustainability and resource efficiency. The (UNEP FI). More than 120 investors from across the world with Principles also preclude those companies that demonstrate poor over $10 trillion in assets under management have endorsed environmental performance or compliance records, contribute the pledge. Calvert was the first U.S. asset manager to sign the significantly to local or global environmental problems or include pledge and is disclosing its carbon footprint on its website in risks related to the operation of nuclear power facilities. accordance with its endorsement of the Montreal Pledge. Implementation: Measurement of Outcomes: Calvert filed or co-filed eighteen shareholder proposals related Calvert submitted resolutions for shareholder votes at six to climate change and energy issues during the 2015 proxy electric utilities challenging the companies on climate issues, 6 Calvert Investments, Inc.: United Nations Global Compact and United Nations CEO Water Mandate — Annual 2015 Joint Communication on Progress including at Southern Company, one of the largest electricity baselines and quantitative goals for emissions reductions and providers in the country. Southern Company has shifted from waste. The report is now available on its website. Southwest a heavy reliance on coal-fired power generation toward a Gas Corporation agreed to publish a sustainability message portfolio with more natural gas, a growing share of renewable on its website, with a substantive discussion on water, energy and increased investments in energy efficiency. While greenhouse gas risk management and conservation as it relates we have welcomed these developments in our frank and to its pipeline, operations and customer usage/efficiency. open dialogue with the company, we have called for the The company also committed to determine a baseline and adoption of time bound goals for reducing greenhouse gas metrics for its fleet, facilities and operations as well as provide emissions. Although no formal goals have yet been set, the discussion on its progress on its website. In addition, the company continues to add to its renewable energy portfolio, company agreed to use these metrics as a basis to determine and announced solar and wind power deals in August and reduction goals, which it plans to publicly disclose in 2016. September 2015. In addition, Southern is investing more resources in energy efficiency and smart grid technologies. Calvert also engaged Sensient Technologies, which committed Though this is progress, Calvert and our partners continue to call to develop metrics in 2015 and forward-looking goals in 2016 for bolder commitments and greater action as we push toward related to sustainability key performance indicators for energy an energy system that is safe, reliable, clean and affordable. consumption, water consumption, and waste generation. Sensient agreed to publish a sustainability report by September A critical step toward that ideal came in the form of the and annually thereafter. Environmental Protection Agency’s Clean Power Plan, which is intended to drive a 30 percent reduction in greenhouse gas Calvert worked with Trillium, Boston Common and Walden emissions from electricity production by 2030. As the EPA was to engage Costco Wholesale Corporation. The company developing and rolling out its Clean Power Plan and as states agreed to participate in the 2015 Carbon Disclosure Project around the country considered whether to adopt or change (CDP) and update its sustainability report with the company’s clean energy policy Calvert and its partners leveraged our 2014 carbon footprint information from 2011-2014. Costco’s report Power Forward 2.0 to highlight the growing trend of 2015 sustainability report includes a discussion of the large U.S. companies making clean energy commitments. In company’s approach to energy use within the context of the discussions with companies, state and federal legislators, public Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change recommendations utility commissioners and in op-ed pieces, we highlighted the and the Copenhagen Accord’s agreement to attempt to value of clean energy policies like renewable energy and energy limit global warming to 2 degrees Celsius. Costco has also efficiency standards in helping companies and investors grow committed to keeping the growth of its GHG emission to less profits, save money, and mitigate the risks posed by climate than its sales growth over the next five years and to an ongoing change. The commitments by major companies like Procter & dialogue. Costco’s commitments build on its previous efforts on Gamble, AT&T and Google to invest in clean energy are clear renewable energy highlighted in the Power Forward 2.0 report, indications that the market is moving toward lower carbon and on energy efficiency, which have enabled the company to energy sources. grow its sales from 2008 to 2011 without increasing emissions. Calvert, working both individually and as part of investor It also agreed to add language recognizing that climate change coalitions, has emphasized these trends in dialogue and in is an important significant challenge for a number of its shareholder resolutions addressing climate change filed with customers and investors. companies, including Bank of America, Costco, H.B. Fuller, J.B. Hunt Transport and more. For example, Bank of America, Calvert also contributed to a report by the Union of Concerned currently the focus of environmental activist pressure and Scientists (UCS), released earlier in 2015, that demonstrates the investor engagement, announced a major new policy at its annual material impact that climate change outcomes such as sea level shareholder meeting, committing on paper to reduce its lending rise and storm surges could have on the refineries of several to coal mining. The bank’s policy describes a shared responsibility other oil and gas companies with downstream operations in to help mitigate climate change by taking action to accelerate the coastal areas within the U.S. The work with UCS was the latest transition from a high-carbon to a low-carbon society and from in a series of collaborations with the organization including high-carbon to low-carbon sources of energy, while the policy also participation as the only investor in a UCS-led coalition that reflects an understanding of the implications of climate risk and was successful in lobbying for an EPA regulation that will the changing energy landscape to the business. significantly reduce tailpipe emissions of smog and soot from vehicles (a mention from the fossil fuels piece follows). Calvert H.B. Fuller agreed to publish a comprehensive corporate social had previously assisted UCS with its independent outreach to responsibility report and as part of that effort, develop metrics, several other companies discussed in the report. Calvert Investments, Inc.: United Nations Global Compact and United Nations CEO Water Mandate — Annual 2015 Joint Communication on Progress 7 UN CEO Water Mandate 2015 Annual Communication of Progress Calvert supports water sustainability and the core six elements of the UN CEO Water Mandate through its shareholder advocacy efforts and policymaking initiatives. As the first investment company to endorse the UN’s CEO Water Mandate, we continue to be a proud endorser in support of its objectives. The following summary outlines our actions and outcomes in each of the six CEO Water Mandate work elements as it relates to our investments, which is where we have our most significant impacts. DIRECT OPERATIONS Investment Criteria Education As a sustainable and responsible investment company, the Calvert uses its website to promote information and educate application of responsible investment principles to Calvert the public and others on a variety of social issues, including mutual funds is our most powerful and direct tool for reducing water. We posted several articles and information in 2015 water-related risks and capitalizing on water-related sustainability related to water, including: opportunities. The rigorous application of such principles helps to identify companies that are well positioned to enhance long term ■■ A white paper by Kleinwort Benson Investors on Investing in value through sound ESG management. Water: Accessing a Compelling Opportunity, which addresses the world’s fresh water challenges and the long-term drivers In 2015, Calvert created the Calvert Principles for Responsible of water investment. Investment, which seek to invest in companies that provide ■■ A website article on the Approach to the Global Energy positive leadership in the areas of business operations and System, while primarily dealing with energy also referenced overall activities that are material to improving societal the nuclear industry’s high dependency on water and outcomes, including those that will affect future generations. how climate change is driving greater weather extremes, These Principles guide our selection of companies not only which impact water use and availability through increased for all indexed investment strategies but also for many of our frequency and severity of floods and storms, food shortages, actively managed strategies. We seek companies that manage rising sea levels and saline intrusion. It also covered changing water scarcity and ensure efficient and equitable access rainfall patterns, catastrophic water scarcity and droughts, to clean sources while generally precluding investments in increases in pest and disease distribution and prevalence, loss companies that demonstrate poor environmental performance of biodiversity, increased wildfires, and thawing permafrost and land ice — that are all connected to global warming. or compliance records. Calvert has identified water as an important metric in more than two dozen sub-sector ESG ■■ A review of Calvert’s Special Equities program and impact investment models and we assess companies in these sectors as investing in environment and sustainability featured our part of our company and sector evaluations. investment in a water company called WaterSmart, which offers advanced technology solutions that have helped save The Calvert Global Water Fund was launched in October 2008 over a billion gallons of water in the wake of California’s and seeks to invest in companies that produce products and historic drought. This technology aids water utilities in services designed to address water-related environmental educating consumers about the water used by the household, and sustainability challenges. The Fund seeks growth of how that usage compares to similar clients and how they save capital through investment in equity securities of companies water and money. active in the water-related resource sector. We believe the ■■ An article on investing in water and its untapped potential, fund addresses serious sustainability challenge and offers a which highlighted the Calvert Global Water Fund discussed significant investment opportunity. why water issues must be addressed. It also included an 8 Calvert Investments, Inc.: United Nations Global Compact and United Nations CEO Water Mandate — Annual 2015 Joint Communication on Progress explanation of why water is a fundamental human right. The Sustainability article was also featured in the Green Money Journal. HanesBrands. Calvert travelled to North Carolina this fall and Calvert staff speak publicly on the human right to water and joined three sustainability team members from HanesBrands corporate water stewardship. For example, Calvert spoke on for a briefing with representatives of Cotton Inc. (an industry a panel addressing water risks in its investment processes trade association) and a cotton farmer, followed by a visit and its shareholder advocacy at a recent forum convened by to some of his fields. The purpose of the trip was to better the Natural Capital Declaration in New York City in October. understand the sustainability impacts of cotton, including We also spoke at a Ceres organized event that same month water, a major commodity input for HanesBrands, and to at the Council of Institutional Investors event on our investor determine opportunities to reduce these impacts. Thus far, approaches to water risk, how water factors into our ESG, HanesBrands has taken important strides to manage impacts equities and fixed income research and how we prioritize water in its manufacturing operations. Calvert has called on the in our corporate engagement. company and Cotton Inc. to mitigate the environmental impacts associated with cotton farming. Cotton consumes a As part of Calvert’s efforts to educate financial providers and great deal of water and requires significant pesticide, herbicide the general public on the global water crisis, we provided the and fertilizer application. Calvert Water Investing App, which was discontinued in May. The free app was available on both Apple and Android mobile Climate Change Risk and Sustainable Agriculture Policy devices and included several features: As populations increase, climate change negatively affects crop yields, and as food insecurity persists, sustainable agricultural ■■ “The Daily Drip” — a roundup of weekly news about watersupply chains are becoming even more important to companies related issues of interest to investors and financial advisors. and society. In 2015, we engaged with a number of companies ■■ “Learn” — the place to get up to speed on the facts about on the development of a sustainable agriculture policy. global water challenges, environmental impacts and view a short water film. Population growth, increasing agricultural and industrial demands for water and unpredictable weather patterns are ■■ “Views” — expert commentary and analysis from Calvert on putting particular pressure on freshwater supplies. Agriculture key water issues, including daily tweets from Calvert water accounts for approximately 70 percent of water withdrawals analysts and profiles of water themed companies. worldwide. In the United States, water pollution from ■■ “Invest” — facts and performance updates about the Calvert agriculture is the number one cause of impaired waterways, Global Water Fund and the portfolio management team. according to the Environmental Protection Agency. The World Economic Forum reports that the world will face a Shareholder Advocacy on Water 40 percent water shortfall between forecast demand and Shareholder advocacy provides investors with powerful ways available supply by 2030. The limit of potable water locally and to directly influence corporate behavior and policies. Our water globally is subjecting water to greater regulation, increased advocacy focuses on entwined risks from water and climate commoditization and conflicting ownership claims. change in company supply chains as well as the human right to water. We believe the lack of sustainable agriculture policy in a company’s supply chain exposes a company to environmental, Calvert launched an internal advocacy working group this year, reputational and financial risk. Companies should ensure that composed of key representatives from across the company, growers in its supply chain practice sustainable agriculture, including representation from the Fixed Income, Equities, including: 1) protecting the environment, conserving water Sustainability Research, Marketing, Executive and Finance resources, responsibly managing fertilizer, and reducing soil departments. The group helps to ensure that our shareholder erosion; and 2) protecting the human rights of workers with advocacy is aligned with our research and investments, provides policies for fair wages, safe working conditions, freedom of impact and facilitates collaboration across the firm. To date, the association and ethical recruitment standards. group has also discussed advocacy issues on a variety of issues, including water, and provided internal feedback. Wendy’s Company. Calvert filed a shareholder proposal with Wendy’s calling on the company to adopt and implement a As part of our shareholder advocacy on water, Calvert sustainable agriculture policy. Wendy’s has taken action to encourages companies to be more sustainable overall and to mitigate the environmental impacts of its commodity sourcing. accurate assess and mitigate their water impacts. Calvert is calling upon the company to include all of the major Calvert Investments, Inc.: United Nations Global Compact and United Nations CEO Water Mandate — Annual 2015 Joint Communication on Progress 9 components of its supply chain, including proteins (beef, pork twelve core goals identified by the Investor Environmental and poultry), produce, beverages and packaging, as well as Health Network. The core goals target areas such as water addressing social responsibility in its supply chain. use, greenhouse gas emissions and community relations. The Company made this information available under the CR Dean Foods. Dean Foods, one of the largest U.S. suppliers of milk (Corporate Responsibility or Sustainability) section of its website. and dairy products, agreed to a dialogue with an industry initiative called the U.S. Dairy Center for Innovation, focused on specific Greenhouse Gas Reductions Shareholder Engagement water risk management tools designed for agriculture. Calvert is We engaged companies and filed eighteen proposals calling on the company to report on its water risks to the Carbon requesting that the companies describe their short and longDisclosure Project. term responses to mitigate climate change, greenhouse gas emissions reduction policies and targets and renewable energy Hydraulic Fracking use targets. These reports will include objective quantitative Within the past decade, the combination of hydraulic fracturing indicators and goals relating to each issue where feasible and be with horizontal drilling has opened up shale deposits across made available to shareholders. the country that brought large-scale natural gas drilling to new regions. The process has many environmental impacts associated Southwest Gas Corporation. Following the engagement, with it, prompting the Department of Energy secretary’s shale including a shareholder resolution we filed, Southwest advisory panel to recommend in 2011 that companies “adopt Gas Corporation committed to developing and publishing a more visible commitment to using quantitative measures as information on sustainability on its website in 2015, with a means of achieving best practice and demonstrating to the a substantive discussion on water and greenhouse gas risk public that there is continuous improvement in reducing the management and conservation. The company’s disclosure environmental impact of shale gas production.” focuses on three segments: pipeline, operations (fleet and facilities), and customer usage/efficiency. The company will SM Energy. Calvert filed a shareholder proposal with SM also determine its company-wide greenhouse gas emissions Energy calling on the company to issue a report describing how reductions baseline/metrics for its fleet, facilities and the company manages the environmental and social issues operations and discuss this process on its website. To further associated with hydraulic fracturing with an emphasis on water this effort, the company will use these metrics to determine its and emissions management. SM Energy agreed to increase its reduction goals, which will be publicly disclosed in 2016. disclosure of the company’s policies and practices under the SUPPLY CHAIN AND WATERSHED MANAGEMENT As an asset management company, our leverage comes in the Bay Fishery in Alaska and owned by Anglo-American, Rio Tinto form of asserting investor influence on companies we own in our and Northern Dynasty — which was challenged by investors, investment portfolios (to encourage them to understand their environmental groups and tribes, with six petitioning the EPA supply impacts and to improve their watershed management). to invoke a little used provision of the Clean Water Act to block development. Ultimately, the two mining companies involved This year, we highlighted a particular instance of watershed each decided to cease their involvement with the proposed mine. management in a Green Money Journal article focusing on In 2014, the EPA initiated a process to protect the fishery from Indigenous Peoples’ rights. Calvert stressed how Indigenous mining activities under the Clean Water Act. While the EPA action Peoples can be impacted by water through the example of was challenged in court, the agency’s move was a major victory Pebble Mine — a proposed copper, gold, and molybdenum mine for those concerned about the potential impacts of the mine on that would have been situated at the headwaters of the Bristol the way of life and the environment in Bristol Bay. COLLECTIVE ACTION The SRI community has a long tradition of working collectively Calvert continues to exercise leadership in various multito achieve common goals. This is also true of our work on water stakeholder forums to help define, advance, educate and sustainability. communicate about water risk and opportunity. Among the 10 Calvert Investments, Inc.: United Nations Global Compact and United Nations CEO Water Mandate — Annual 2015 Joint Communication on Progress groups with whom we collaborate are the UN Principles for data on the quantity of corporate water use per production Responsible Investment, CEO Water Mandate, Ceres, ICCR, U.S. location with data on site-specific water supply and demand SIF and the Carbon Disclosure Project. conditions, the tool allows financial analysts to quantify corporate exposure to water stress and its potential impact on Tool for Fixed Income Investors a company’s credit ratios. This year, Calvert contributed to the development of a tool published by the Natural Capital Declaration (NCD) that helps Water Risk in Agricultural Supply Chains fixed income investors incorporate water scarcity into credit In 2015, Calvert joined with more than 60 North American and ratios for certain sectors. Developed through a partnership European investors, managing a collective $2.6 trillion in assets, between the NCD, the Deutsche Gesellschaft für Internationale to send letters to executives at fifteen major food and beverage Zusammenarbeit (GIZ) and the German Association for companies asking for more disclosure about how companies are Environment and Sustainability in Financial Institutions (VfU), managing water risk in their agricultural supply chains. The global the tool contains analyses of 24 companies in the beverages, food sector, which uses 70 percent of the world’s freshwater mining and power sectors, which allows users to add their resources — mostly for irrigating crops — faces increased own companies and analyses. The costs of securing water financial risk from shrinking water supplies. Calvert has filed inputs are already rising for water-intensive companies in shareholder proposals addressing this issue and intends to file locations vulnerable to water shortages. Since 2011, companies additional proposals during the upcoming proxy season. have spent more than $84 billion worldwide on conserving, managing and obtaining water. The GIZ/NCD/VfU “Corporate Stakeholder Engagements Bonds Water Credit Risk Tool” enables users to integrate Calvert regularly participates in broad multi-stakeholder financial risk exposure to water scarcity into standard financial engagements with numerous companies across a variety of models used to assess the credit strengths of corporates across sectors as coordinated by Ceres. Sometimes as part of these water-intensive sectors including power utilities, beverages and engagements when companies face higher impacts related to mining. The tool addresses an information gap in traditional water issues, we encourage them to better address such issues financial analysis, enabling analysts to identify companies that and increase disclosure in this area. Due to the sensitive nature depend heavily on access to water in locations that are exposed of such engagements and to protect confidentiality, we cannot to water stress and to quantify the potential impact of water cite specific examples here. scarcity on the company’s creditworthiness. By combining PUBLIC POLICY This year Calvert engaged with various state policymakers in from fossil fuels. Calvert encouraged such state legislators to support of renewable energy. Particularly in states, exposed consider emphasizing renewable energy and lessen their own to drought we made the argument that renewable energy reliance on fossil fuels. Making such a change can help save production is less water intensive than generating energy water resources. COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT Calvert continues to use its ownership position to help under contract and suppliers. The objective is to support clean strengthen community engagement processes. This year, we water in local communities as chicken waste can often pollute co-filed resolutions with two chicken processors, including Tyson and harm local water aquifers through contract chicken farms. Foods, where we asked the companies to adopt and implement Wastewater from company plants is often discharged directly a water stewardship policy that will outline leading practices into surface water. to improve water quality at company-owned facilities, facilities Calvert Investments, Inc.: United Nations Global Compact and United Nations CEO Water Mandate — Annual 2015 Joint Communication on Progress 11 TRANSPARENCY Calvert as a responsible investment company has always risks and liabilities could lead to inaccurate market valuation of pushed for better disclosure of ESG-related risks and a company. performance data across the board. We explicitly incorporate a range of environmental liabilities including water pollution and During 2015, we filed our 70th shareholder resolution asking for energy use as well as “intangible” assets such as environmental enhanced sustainability disclosure. Water use and water quality management, performance and investment into our analysis. are typically included in the suite of performance indicators that We believe that failure to account for and fully disclose these we ask high impact companies to track and disclose. ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Assessment, Policy and Goals: Outcomes: As an early supporter of the UN Global Compact since 2001, Using the systematic approach of the Calvert Research System Calvert recognizes the importance of identifying corruption, a has aided Calvert investment personnel in identifying the most component that we have addressed through our responsible material sustainability factors into investment processes and investment considerations for several years when assessing assessing corporate responsibility and sustainability performance a company or reviewing an industry and examining how across industries, including those that address corruption, bribery impacts related to corruption are mitigated. In fact, we were and instability issues. When we assess companies as part of that instrumental in helping to create this Principle. Calvert’s work is process, we consider policies and programs that combat bribery closely aligned with the Anti-Corruption Principle through the and corruption, the risks they face from such issues, how a Calvert Principles for Responsible Investment as these types company manages such risks and the adverse events companies of issues are broadly incorporated through the accountable may have faced in these areas in sectors where these issues governance and build transparency section, which guide our are relevant. Industries where corruption-related issues are investments and also generally precludes investments in most material are spread across more than two dozen sectors companies that demonstrate poor corporate governance or include banking, energy equipment, oil and gas, pharmaceuticals, engage in harmful or unethical business practices. telecommunications and construction and engineering. Based on our models and research, Calvert is able to analyze which companies in such industries are poor performers across a variety Implementation: of corruption factors. Earlier this year, Calvert developed a new proprietary research system that enhanced the efficiency of our research process As a result of closely evaluating corruption and related issues while both deepening integration of environmental, social and across these industries, companies that stood out for various governance (ESG) issues and financial analysis and enlarging the combinations of high impacts, low overall assessments and universe of companies reviewed for investment. This allows us inability to accurately address and prevent risks in the areas to more accurately capture and assess the highest ESG impacts of governance and corruption were excluded from investment across our universes of potential investments and has yielded consideration as were those with significant adverse events specific enhancements related to our consideration of risks that did not have an effective framework in place to handle and related bribery and corruption. This research system combines effectively resolve such issues. This is the first time that we have Calvert’s ESG expertise with key data in order to create ESG been able to address corruption, bribery and other related issues indices, ESG models and to provide valuable information to in such a broad systematic way across multiple industries. Such our Equities and Fixed Income departments for integration evaluations are also being used to inform advocacy and may be purposes, enabling a much more systematic way to provide considered for upcoming advocacy campaigns in the future as material ESG information for our investment teams. we continue to engage with companies on a variety of issues. 12 Calvert Investments, Inc.: United Nations Global Compact and United Nations CEO Water Mandate — Annual 2015 Joint Communication on Progress www.Calvert.com For more information on any Calvert fund, please contact your financial advisor, call Calvert at 800.368.2748 or visit www.calvert.com for a free summary prospectus and/or prospectus. An institutional investor should call Calvert at 800.327.2109. An investor should consider the investment objectives, risks, charges, and expenses of an investment carefully before investing. The summary prospectus and prospectus contain this and other information. Read them carefully before you invest or send money. Calvert funds are available at NAV for RIAs and Wrap Programs. Not all funds available at all firms. Calvert mutual funds are underwritten and distributed by Calvert Investment Distributors, Inc., member FINRA, and a subsidiary of Calvert Investments, Inc. #15310 12/22/15
