OUR RESPONSIBILITY MARTIN BENCHER GROUP COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT 2015 Statement of continued support 30. September 2015 Corporate Social Responsibility To our stakeholders Martin Bencher Group wants to provide first class shipping services to customers I am pleased to confirm that Martin Bencher (Scandinavia) worldwide. Martin Bencher Group is an active player in the communities in which A/S reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United the Group operates. Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labor, Envirnment and Anti-Corruption. Our objective is to develop our business in respect for, and in harmony with, our surroundings. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Martin Bencher Group operates with the following defintion of Corporate Social Compact and its principles into our business strategy, Responsibility (CSR): CSR is defined as a set of voluntary activities undertaken culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels by a company to operate in an economically, socially and environmentally of communication. sustainable manner. In the case of Martin Bencher Group, all principles, objectives and activities Sincerely yours, described by the company CSR Policy must be communicated and applied in all offices and followed by all employees at all times when at the workplace, jobsite or traveling for the Group. Peter Thorsoe Jensen CEO, Martin Bencher Group Martin Bencher Group became a participant of the UN Global Compact in 2013. The objective of this document is to communicate on the progress made since then. We see this document continually developing as we acquire more knowledge and experience. OUR RESPONSIBILITY Martin Bencher Group is committed to demonstrating a high standard of integrity and corporate social responsibility worldwide. We encourage and commit to behave ethically and contribute to economic and environmental development globally and locally by implementing and communicating ethical standards at our workplace and complying with international norms, the UN Global Compact and universal principles of human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. Martin Bencher has officially integrated the UN Global Compact´s ten principles into the core business strategy. Martin Bencher is part of UN Global Compact´s vision of a sustainable and inclusive global economy, which delivers “...We, at Martin Bencher, value our lasting benefits to people, communities, and markets. This CSR Report includes commitment to continuous improvement our second annual Communication on Progress (COP) and is shared with our to advance symbiotic relationships stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. between business and society. Being part Our CSR Policy is valid for all Martin Bencher Group offices worldwide and will of the United Nations Global Compact be reviewed and, if necessary, revised in the light of legislative or organizational means a lot to us and we aim to continue changes. to advance our responsible business Martin Bencher (Scandinavia) A/S agenda worldwide”. Peter Thorsoe Jensen Peter Jensen CEO CEO, Martin Bencher Group CODE OF CONDUCT MARTIN BENCHER GROUP is committed to carrying out its business in a sustainable way, through conducting business with integrity and in compliance with the laws and regulations governing its business. Martin Bencher Group is committed to respect human rights, promote fair employment practices, work to protect the environment and to oppose corruption. MARTIN BENCHER GROUP Code of Conduct has been adopted to emphasize the above principles by which the Group conducts its relations with employees, business partners and other stakeholders. It applies to all members of the Board of Directors, and all employed by the MARTIN BENCHER GROUP. CSR OBJECTIVES Martin Bencher Group sets to follow and work within its sphere of influence to uphold the Universal Declaration Say on Human Rights Principles to promote equality; life and security; personal freedom; and economic, social and cultural freedoms. Martin Bencher Group sets to follow the universally accepted fundamental principles by ILO Declaration on labor rights in the workplace and apply them at all office locations. Martin Bencher GROUP encourages responsible entrepreneurship to promote policies and operations of business and industry in reducing impacts on resource use and the environment. Martin Bencher GRoup will actively support transparency and anti-corruption to ensure that it does not engage in corrupt practices. environmental policy MARTIN BENCHER GROUP acknowledges the need for a responsible policy towards the environment. We consider ourselves as part of both the local and the global community and wherever we trade we shall behave in an environmentally conscious manner, within the scope of our economic feasibility. MARTIN BENCHER GROUP shall respect statutory environmental legislation, regulations, and relevant official requirements which relate to our environmental impact as well as relevant industry codes of practice and project requirements specified by clients or regulators. MARTIN BENCHER GROUP shall influence environmental impact through the choice of suppliers as well as modes of transport used. We shall work pro-actively on environmental issues and continuously keep our staff and suppliers updated and motivated on environmental awareness and choices of the company, ensuring we meet the requirements of this policy. This policy applies to all Martin Bencher Group offices around the world. WORKING ENVIRONMENT Martin Bencher Group is a company in constant development and growth. We are a young, dynamic and enthusiastic team with a company culture we are proud of. The last few years we have grown significantly and with our current strategy we expect this to continue. This also means that we need to take extra care to maintain our good working environment. An important part of the Martin Bencher culture is how we treat people. We are a service provider so relationships with people are paramount for our business and day-to-day operations. We make sure to address everybody in a professional, timely, and decent manner – both colleagues, clients and others that we meet. We acknowledge differences and treat everybody courteously, decently and “The greatest thing about working at Martin Bencher professionally. The international environment that Martin Bencher operates within Group, I think is that each individual is important for makes it important to consider cultural differences between colleagues, clients, the company. My experience is that we receive suppliers, agents, etc. supervision and that we are inspired by our CEO, As written in our Code of Conduct, MARTIN BENCHER GROUP is committed to COO, etc. all the time. I have worked for about 3 carrying out its business in a sustainable way, through conducting business with years at the Aarhus office, 3 years in Toronto, and 9 integrity and in compliance with the laws and regulations governing its business. years in Shanghai by now. Martin Bencher is a good Martin Bencher Group is committed to respect human rights, promote company to work with and for.” fair employment practices, work to protect the environment and to oppose Joyce Jiang corruption. Martin Bencher China, China Chief Representative CSR NETWORK Martin Bencher Group is one of the forty-two founding members of the CSR network ‘My Danish Footprint in China’. The objective of the network is to encourage, support and promote Danish companies working with CSR in China through knowledge sharing and hands-on practitioners’ workshops. A strong work culture and global values transferred across borders ensure the success of MARTIN BENCHER GROUP in China and the rest of the world. MARTIN BENCHER GROUP embraces and commits to high standards such as United Nations Global Compact and is also ISO 9001:2008 certified (certificate number: DK003214-1). Working closely together with Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Denmark in China gives Martin Bencher an opportunity to positively influence other companies by opening a dialog about CSR activities. Read more about the “My Danish Foorprint in China” by clicking here SPONSORSHIPS MARTIN BENCHER GROUP sponsors various organizations, projects and events. In general, the main sponsorships are divided into three areas: environment -, humanity -, and health related. Environment MARTIN BENCHER GROUP sponsors WWF (Denmark) each year. As a WWF partner, we help to take care of nature and endangered species, and slow down climate change. Humanity we sponsor Børnefonden, Children’s Welfare in Denmark (Børns Vilkår), BuyAid and we are a 365-partner for DanChurchAid, who fight for human rights, equality and anti-corrpution. Health We are an official corporate sponsor for the Danish Cancer Society. Martin Bencher Group also sponsors local initiatives and organizations; for example ‘Vaajakosten Tera’, an orienteering organisation in Finland promoting “We are delighted with the support from a healthy and active lifestyle as well as some sporting institutions, such as Martin Bencher Group. The corporate Skanderborg Golfklub in Denmark and National Multiple Sclerosis Society in the sponsorship helps financing WWF’s efforts to USA. stop the degradation of the planet’s natural environment and to build a future in which MARTIN BENCHER GROUP asks all local Martin Bencher offices to support and humans live in harmony with nature...” sponsor local organizations/projects that makes sense in relation to shipping Morten Larsen, and/or being a responsible business in the local environment and community. Corporate Relations Manager WWF Denmark 10 UNIVERSAL PRINCIPLES UN GLOBAL COMPACT HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 6 Martin Bencher Group has participated in the United Nations Global Compact The elimination of discrimination in respect since 2013. The UN Global Compact is a strategic policy initiative for businesses Principle 1 of employment and occupation. that are committed to aligning their operations and strategies with ten universally Businesses should support and respect the ENVIRONMENT accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labor, environment and antiprotection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and corruption. Principle 7 Principle 2 Businesses should support a precautionary Make sure that they are not complicit in approach to environmental challenges; human rights abuses. Principle 8 LABOUR Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of Principle 9 association and the effective recognition Encourage the development and diffusion of the right to collective bargaining; of environmentally friendly technologies. Principle 4 ANTI-CORRUPTION The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in Principle 5 all its forms, including extortion and bribery. The effective abolition of child labour; and HUMAN RIGHTS MARTIN BENCHER GROUP actively supports the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. The Martin Bencher Group Code of Conduct is the written company policy on respecting and supporting human rights. The Code of Conduct applies to all members of the Board of Directors, and all employed by the MARTIN BENCHER GROUP. MARTIN BENCHER GROUP operates its business in a transparent and trustworthy way. MARTIN BENCHER GROUP is an office-based service provider in the shipping and freight forwarding industry. The nature of the operations makes the Group’s human rights related risks relatively low and direct human rights impact relatively small. Therefore has MARTIN BENCHER GROUP in the past supported the victims of natural disasters, for example by taking part in rebuilding a school in the earthquake stricken Sichuan Province of China. Furthermore has Martin Bencher been supporting organizations like DanChurchAid HUMAN RIGHTS in order to improve the tragic situation for refugees from Syria. Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2 Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. WHAT WE HAVE DONE... Martin Bencher Group has in the past year continued to make the Code of Conduct available to all interested stakeholders online on the Group website. We have also created a Starter Kit that includes the Code of Conduct available to all employees. The responsibility of the Group’s human rights impact is allocated to local managers and/or staff with support from Headoffice. All employees can with full discretion report any concerns about human rights to the HSE responsible at any time. “Having 21 offices located in 15 different countries and dealing with transportation in many emerging areas around the world, MARTIN BENCHER GROUP, acknowledges ...WHAT WE AIM TO ACHIEVE our responsibility to follow and respect Human Rights on a global scale. We do Martin Bencher Group aims to inform, train and raise the awareness of not allow any discrimination of any kind employees, clients and suppliers of the MARTIN BENCHER Code of Conduct as within the Group, and all staff members well as human rights in general. are encouraged to pass on our point of Martin Bencher Group will be implementing a “Whistleblower” program to its view to partners and clients alike.” new Intranet, where all employees can submit their complaints and/or issues Peter Jensen with regards to unfair treatment. The top management will be then notified and CEO at Martin Bencher Group issues will be taken under discussion immediately. LABOUR MARTIN BENCHER GROUP is committed to ensuring the health, safety and wellbeing of all its employees and foster a safe and healthy work environment in all Martin Bencher locations at ports, jobsites and while travelling. Our policy is safety first. Each employee will be given such information, instruction and training as it is necessary to enable the safe performance of work activities. It is the duty of management to ensure that all processes and systems of work are designed to take into account health and safety and are properly supervised at all times. LABOUR Adequate facilities and arrangements will be maintained to enable employees Principle 3 and their representatives to raise issues of health and safety. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of In our CRM-system, MARTIN BENCHER GROUP registers non-conformities such the right to collective bargaining; as near-misses, hazardous situations and accidents. The non-conformities are Principle 4 analyzed regularly by the Quality Manager and the incoming reports help to The elimination of all forms of forced and continuously improve our safety standards and working routines. compulsory labor; Our Health, Safety and Environment (HSE) Policy is to lower labour risks at ports Principle 5 and jobsites, where risk are higher than at the offices. The effective abolition of child labour; and When travelling with MARTIN BENCHER GROUP employees are encouraged to Principle 6 be careful, make sure to notify their whereabouts to local consulat from the The elimination of discrimination in respect respective country of the employee, and also notify the local agent of activities. of employment and occupation. WHAT WE HAVE DONE... Martin Bencher Group has continued to work on awareness of our HSE leaflet and distributed a hard copy to all new employees to ensure their safety and well-being. Martin Bencher Group has implemented two monitor policy per employee to print less paper and installed height adjustable tables in our Danish and Chinese offices to improve working conditions of employees. Martin Bencher Group has moved office locations in France, Poland, Sweden, Qingdao, Germany and Copenhagen to ensure better working environment and possibility to offer more jobs locally. Martin Bencher Group has implemented an employee rotation program in order to give a fair opportunity to all employees to work and travel abroad. ...WHAT WE AIM TO ACHIEVE Martin Bencher Group aims to raise awareness, train and inform employees and managers of the labour policy of MARTIN BENCHER GROUP. All employees must also be familiar with the HSE Policy and use the HSE leaflet in their daily work. Martin Bencher Group will be implementing MB Academy training system on the Intranet to ensure all employees have an equal right to education and awareness of all company policies regarding employee rights and responsibilities. ENVIRONMENT MARTIN BENCHER GROUP is committed to carrying out its business in an environmentally responsible manner. All branches of the MARTIN BENCHER GROUP shall act responsibly, promoting sustainable development and continuous improvement. By applying the values the company has set for itself, through an Environmental Policy, MARTIN BENCHER GROUP: • Complies with relevant environmental laws, regulations, industry codes of practice and project requirements specified by clients or regulators; • Considers the environmental impact of business decisions; • Communicates environmental responsibilities and obligations to employees Environment and provides appropriate information and training; Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary • Sponsors relevant organizations and causes committed to environmental approach to environmental challenges; protection. Principle 8 MARTIN BENCHER GROUP is an office-based service provider. The nature of Undertake initiatives to promote greater the operations makes the Group´s environmental impact relatively small. The environmental responsibility; and environmental impact of MARTIN BENCHER GROUP is instead mostly indirect through clients, partners, suppliers, etc. Principle 9 Encourage the development and diffusion We have local offices around the world that are encouraged to take an active of environmentally friendly technologies. part in the local community. This enables us to influence the environmental awareness and work of our stakeholders. WHAT WE HAVE DONE... Martin Bencher Group has published a Corporate Social Responsibility Brochure that is sent to all offices worldwide, handed out at exhibitions and meetings. Martin Bencher Group has implemented a Paperless operation system to Denmark office. Martin Bencher Group has created an extra site to its website, describing our environmental activities and promoting environmentally responsible buiness activities worldwide. MARTIN BENCHER GROUP has been a corporate sponsor of World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF) Denmark since 2011. The responsibility of the environmental impact of MARTIN BENCHER GROUP is allocated to the local managers and encouraged from the headoffice. ...WHAT WE AIM TO ACHIEVE Martin Bencher Group aims to actively avoid activities which may have an adverse impact on the environment and to continue training, informing and raising awareness of employees, clients, suppliers, etc. to think about the environmental impact of MARTIN BENCHER GROUP. All employees are encouraged to contribute to the corporate responsibility in their daily work. MARTIN BENCHER GROUP aims to implement a paperless operating system to other offices worldwide. We also aim to continue our corporate sponsorships to organizations that take an initiative to protect the environment. ANTI-CORRUPTION MARTIN BENCHER GROUP does not participate in any corruption, bribery or extortion and operates under a zero-tolerance policy. Employees at MARTIN BENCHER GROUP: • Are law abiding and work to avoid conflicts of interest; • Act honestly and fairly in all their business dealings and operations; • Are open and accurate in all their communication; • Respect the rights of others and support community values and expectations. MARTIN BENCHER GROUP never offers or provides any gifts or payments that constitute, or could be interpreted as, a bribe. With offices located globally, anti-corruption is highly relevant to MARTIN BENCHER GROUP, therefore we have first hand described to all our stakeholders what Martin Bencher defines as corruption: “The offering, giving, soliciting, or acceptance of an inducement or reward which may influence any person to act inappropriately.” Any employee of Martin Bencher Group involved in corruption activities will be subject to sanctions and penalties aligned to the gravity of the offence. ANTI-CORRUPTION The strictest disciplinary measures will include termination of employment and Principle 10 reporting to the authorities for criminal investigation. Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. WHAT WE HAVE DONE... Martin Bencher Group has included an official Anti-Corruption Policy in the Starter Kit and sent a copy to each office to continue to raise awareness about the issue. MARTIN BENCHER GROUP employees are trained and informed about the zero-tolerance policy for corruption, bribery or extortion. Local managers are responsible that all employees are aware of the policy. ...WHAT WE AIM TO ACHIEVE Martin Bencher Group will have a continous focus on our zero-tolerance policy “Martin Bencher Group adheres to a zerofor corruption, bribery and extortion. tolerance policy on corruption. In many parts of the world, corruption and bribery is MARTIN BENCHER GROUP aims to contribute positively to the focus on antiunfortunately both accepted and expected corruption. MARTIN BENCHER GROUP aims to do it’s part in solving the issue of in business. However, Martin Bencher Group corruption, bribery and extortion on a global scale through awareness raising will not tolerate corruption or bribery in any and proactive actions using our primary channels of communication. form.” Martin Bencher Group will, on a continuous basis, evaluate its suppliers to make sure all our suppliers adhere to the Martin Bencher standards and will immediately Peter Thorsoe Jensen CEO at Martin Bencher Group be blacklisted on our CRM system if any reference to corruption, bribery or extortion is discovered. ABOUT MARTIN BENCHER GROUP Martin Bencher Group is a Scandinavian based shipping and freight forwarding company that transports all kinds of cargo and specialize in the handling of projects and oversized / heavy cargo. MARTIN BENCHER GROUP strives to provide first class shipping services to customers worldwide and aims for a high level of social responsibility at all MARTIN BENCHER locations. MARTIN BENCHER GROUP has expanded its network dramatically in recent years to strategically important places both for our customers and the Group. With own local offices and a strong network of trusted partners located all around the world, MARTIN BENCHER is able to manage even the largest projects. A strong work culture and global values transferred across borders ensure FACTS ABOUT MARTIN BENCHER GROUP the success of MARTIN BENCHER GROUP globally. MARTIN BENCHER GROUP embraces and commits to high standards such as United Nations Global • We transports all kinds of cargo and specialize in the handling of projects and oversized / heavy cargo. Compact and ISO 9001:2008 (certificate number: DK003214-1). • We have been profitable every year since the start in 1997. • We embrace, support and enact with the UN Global Compact standards • We are ISO 9001:2008 certified • We employ approximately 140 people worldwide 54 % men and 46 % women. • Our headoffice is located in Aarhus, Denmark. • We have 21 own local offices in 15 countries. • We have partners and agents in strategically important locations Stockholm Helsinki Kristiansand Aarhus Copenhagen Hamburg Gdansk Marseille New Jersey Qingdao Los Angeles Houston Shanghai Guangzhou Mumbai Chennai Ho Chi Minh City Singapore Jakarta Sao Paulo Sydney CORPORATE HEADQUARTER | Martin Bencher (Scandinavia) A/S | Balticagade 19, 1st floor | 8000 Aarhus C, Denmark | Tel: +45 86 122 699| Fax: +45 86 122 799| headoffice@martin-bencher.com| facebook.com/MartinBencherGroup|linkedin.com/company/MartinBencherGroup|www.martin-bencher.com
