UN GLOBAL COMPACT Communication on Progress 2015 March STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT I am pleased to confirm that Broste Copenhagen reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit us to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours, Kim Larsen CEO, Broste Copenhagen Broste Copenhagen is more than just interior design. It is a way of life that we are eager to share with the world around us. Therefore, we create our products to reach a wide range of customers, not just the few. Broste Copenhagen is one of Scandinavia’s leading interior brands, based in Copenhagen and originates back to 1955. We have a long tradition of travelling the world for inspiration and materials, as we Scandinavians have always done. HUMAN RIGHTS  PRINCIPLE 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Aim  PRINCIPLE 2: make sure that they are not complicit in huBroste Copenhagen supports and respects the protection of internationally proman rights abuses. claimed human rights and ensures that it is not complicit in human rights abuses. It is the company policy to ensure that such rights are assured for everyone at all levels of processes and activities. By promoting a culture of respect for the law, and consideration of all members within the organization and with others with whom the company come in contact with. Broste Copenhagen continues to be fully committed to ensuring that the company is not knowingly complacent in any Human Rights abuse. It is the company policy to ensure that it will not associate, or accept commission from anybody, corporate, private or official, where their actions are questionable in respect of Human Rights abuses. Broste Copenhagen complies with Danish legislation, which fulfills international conventions. Progress Broste Copenhagen has continued to review and update policies and procedures to ensure they are suitable and sufficient to meet the needs of the employees and those of the company. Further Broste Copenhagen has incorporated an ethical set of rules for joint commerce within which compliance and protection of internationally proclaimed human rights is necessary. If Broste Copenhagen finds that any supplier does not adhere to the principles, co-operation will cease immediately. Broste Copenhagen has inspected most of our large suppliers and a local agent will continue to visit suppliers so that Broste Copenhagen can feel secure that rules are taken seriously. Results There have been no reported incidents during the company’s history. All company procedures are to be effective to protect internationally proclaimed human rights for all, with a zero tolerance of non-compliance. LABOUR Aim Broste Copenhagen supports the International Labor organization’s Declaration on Fundamental principles and rights at work and complies with Danish work legislation. It is important to Broste Copenhagen that all suppliers adhere to the UN Global Compact and its principles. Progress In joining the UN Global Compact we make sure, by contract, that all our suppliers understand and follow the principles. Our production takes place in China, India, Vietnam, Indonesia, Latvia, Germany and Denmark. We demand that all suppliers abide to national legislation and labor laws. Further we have made visits to selected factories, and encourage management to improve safety procedures. Results So far, there has been no complaints from employees, local agents, or from other stakeholders concerning adherence to UN Global Compacts principles on labor rights. Furthermore, Broste Copenhagen has never been involved in any cases where suppliers have made breach of contract concerning our ethical rules of joint commerce.  PRINCIPLE 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining;  PRINCIPLE 4: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses.  PRINCIPLE 5: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor;  PRINCIPLE 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. ENVIRONMENT Aim UN Global Compact and the framework for the Communication on Progress addresses four different areas, which all is very important. However, as many other companies we need to prioritize which areas we can . We believe that environment is one of the areas in which we have leverage, and can contribute the most. At Broste Copenhagen, we want to continue our quest to push our production towards a more sustainable basis and we will strive to make the end user more aware of what products we can offer with a sustainable element. We believe that it ultimately requires consumer interest (and knowledge of) the positive progress. We will do our best to endorse sustainability through our line of products whenever possible. Progress At Broste Copenhagen we take great responsibility in defining environmental criteria within our line of products and along the entire supply chain. The most important aspect for Broste Copenhagen is the elimination of harmful substances from our products to the end users and our customers. We have made a list of certifications in the box on the next page. Our mission is to meet the demands and expectations of our customers and the end user. We know that there is more focus than ever on environmental protection and we will try to meet today's needs to ensure that future generations can meet theirs. As we have intensified our pressure on suppliers and wishes to promote social responsibility we feel the necessity to start putting our own house in order. Read more under results Results At present, we have obtained the Nordic Ecolabel, GOTS, öeko-tex and FSC certification on a range of our products and continue to work with the objective that more of our products, over time, will live up to these conditions. We expect to continuously promoting sustainable solutions by focusing on the entire supply chain, we can minimize our environmental impact. In April 2015 our entire server system will be hosted by external partners. This because of the huge amount of energy it consumes and the realization that our solution was not sustainable. The next Communication on Progress will have more in depth information on energy savings from this initiatives. In addition, we try to reduce our carbon footprint by focusing on the transport of materials for our dealers. We try to meet their specific requirements, but Broste Copenhagen is also working towards lowering the transport of air. This is why we offer free advice in the optimization of transport so it is as sustainable as possible.  PRINCIPLE 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges;  PRINCIPLE 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and  PRINCIPLE 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. RECYCLED MATERIALS We use products made of recycled glass as part of our environmental strategy to minimizing waste. It conserve CERTIFICATIONS natural resources and energy consumption is restrained. Glass is an ideal sustainable product with many advantages. Most importantly, glass can be recycled again and again without it deteriorating. GOTS (Global Organic Textile Standard) Only textile products that contain a minimum of 70% organic ÖEKO-TEX fibers can become GOTS certified. All chemical inputs must meet specific environmental and toxicological criteria ensuring your The Öeko-Tex® Standard 100 is an independent skin is less exposed when in contact with the material. The Standard is rectesting and certification system for textile raw materials, ognized as the world's leading processing standard for textiles made from intermediate and end products at all stages of production. Öeko-Tex is organic fibers. It defines high-level environmental criteria along the entire a health care label, which predominantly ensures the end-user against organic textiles supply chain and requires compliance with social criteria as toxic fumes. So far, Broste Copenhagen has 18 products with this label. well. In addition to Organic Exchange we wish to support this initiative and we are proud that more than 75 of our products carry this label. NORDIC ECO LABEL The Nordic Eco label is a voluntary eco-labeling scheme that evaluates a product's impact on the environment FSC throughout the whole life cycle. The label guarantees, among other things FSC We actively support the international recognized non-profit that climate requirements are taken into account, and that CO2 emission organization FSC™. In an FSC™-certified forest no more trees (and other harmful gasses) are limited where it is most relevant. than the forest can reproduce is felled, and over-exploitation of nature is avoided. In addition, FSC™ guarantees that flora and fauna are protected and that the people who work in the forest are guaranteed education, ORGANIC EXCHANGE safety and a fair pay. Currently 60 percent of our napkins are certified FSC. The Organic Exchange is a non-profit business organization focused on creating environmental and social benefits through the expansion of organic agriculture. The first projects focuses on transitioning 10% of the world’s supply and demand of cotton to organic cotton within 10 years. The Organic Exchange also works to help increase consumer awareness and Broste Copenhagen want to participate and help this development. PRODUCTS Pillows The covers of our pillows, which is made with 100 percent down proof cotton fabric, which insures that feathers and down stay where they belong – in the pillow. And of cause this is made with the certification of Öeko-Tex 100 and therefor made entirely Ecological production (Towels) without chemicals. Broste Copenhagen is getting close to the expected 100 percent ecological and certified materials with 95.5 percent of the towels The filling is duck and goose feathers and down, which is no longer than 6 cm. For we have in stock. All of certified with the well know Öeko-Tex disinfection purposes, the feathers are washed at high pressure and dried at min. 120 100 certification. Not only is this important because of the envi° C min. 20 minutes. Our pillows are mainly delivered from Germany and France with a ronmental benefits but it is significant to us that the end user down content from five to 15 percent. can use our towles well aware that a minimum of chemicals has been used in production. Without getting in to (too much) detail about the merciless methods used by some manufactures when gathering feathers and down, Broste Copenhagen would like to lay emphasis to and guarantee, that no feathers or down are gathered from live geese or ducks. There are several reasons to this approach: Leather rugs Broste Copenhagen believe in renewal and recycling and now we High quality is a key factor and the process to manufacture our pillows ensure the have our first of our kind upcycled item in our product range of finest down quality. leather rugs. With this handmade recycled (90 percent leather, 10 percent cotton) rug there is always a unique look and feeling unWe manly use recycled feathers as a part of our vision to be a sustainable company, derfoot. This modern rug in a striped landscape, are leather and the rest of the down and feathers provided are only from slaughtered ducks and geese. cotton remnants salvaged from shoe and leather bag factories. The pillows are Öeko-Tex 100 certified and produced to provide relaxation with a soft and comfortable feel. Our down pillows offer good circulation of air through the pillow and in addition, our pillows mold to the shape of your head regardless of sleeping positions. ANTI-CORRUPTION Aim At Broste Copenhagen, we maintain high standards of integrity, honesty and fairness both in relation to our business practices and our behavior. We do not tolerate any form of bribery or other forms of corruption. Furthermore, we have defined rules in accordance with Danish law to which we are subject, and is therefore fully integrated into our strategy. Progress Through our international collaborations we constantly work to secure that no corruption or other illegal activities take place. Our Code of Conduct includes an anti-corruption policy. Results We have had no incidents inflicting with our policies, or international guidelines. As the national legislation, as well as the international guidelines and progress in anti-corruption procedures, we will continue to maintain and improve our high standards, and ensure our processes are updated and revised.  PRINCIPLE 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery
