UN GLOBAL COMPACT SALTERBAXTER MSLGROUP’S COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2014 P02 UN GLOBAL COMPACT – SALTERBAXTER MSLGROUP COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS Who we are and what we’re all about Reintroducing SALTERBAXTER MSLGROUP As Salterbaxter, we’ve been at the forefront of sustainability communications for 16 years. Working where business strategy, sustainability and creative communications meet, we help organisations perform more effectively, tell better stories and deliver outcomes that make business fit for a more sustainable future. 2014 was a transformative year for our business. In July we became part of MSLGROUP – Publicis Groupe’s strategic communications organisation – and so becoming the global sustainability and citizenship powerhouse. Key Facts 16 years 66 3,500+ 65% and still led by employees experts within our of our clients are founders Penny based in London network as part of outside of the UK, from Baxter and Nigel and one in MSLGROUP Australia to Sweden Salter. Washington DC. and South Africa. P03 UN GLOBAL COMPACT – SALTERBAXTER MSLGROUP COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS About this report Contents Contacts This is SALTERBAXTER MSLGROUP’s ninth Our ongoing commitment Caroline Carson consecutive Communication on Progress submitted Consultant 04. Statement from our founding directors to the UNGC. It covers the calendar year January T +44 (0)20 7229 5720 to December 2014. As part of Publicis Groupe E ccarson@salterbaxter.com we are also covered in their Group CSR and Section 1: The 10 Principles of the UN Global Compact Annual Reporting documents. 05. The 10 Principles of the UN Global Compact Address Section 1 restates our commitment to the UNGC 07. Human Rights 10 Principles and highlights some of our activities 08. Labour The Dome that make progress against each of these. Level 4 Whiteleys Centre 09. Environment 151 Queensway Section 2 covers in more detail our internal 10. Anti-corruption London W2 4YN sustainability programme If Only, our activities, www.salterbaxter.com approach and how the initiatives shape our Section 2: About If Only thinking as a business. It also includes our 13. If Only; Think It, Do It policies as a responsible business, including on Equality Opportunities, Health and Safety, 14. Think it, Do it: Quarterly Themes and Environmental Procurement. 21. Measure and Report 25. KPIs and targets 26. Equal opportunities policy 27. Health and Safety policy 28. Environmental procurement policy Next steps 29. Looking forward P04 UN GLOBAL COMPACT – SALTERBAXTER MSLGROUP COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS Our ongoing commitment Statement from our Founders As our business transforms from a small – yet dynamic – sustainability communications and strategic consultancy to part of a global network, we’re seeing our influence on organisations tackling the big environmental and social challenges facing our world, grow. We work to create value for clients through building their purpose, making them better corporate citizens, better employers, drive better behaviours among consumers and become better stewards of the world’s resources. To further encourage our clients to embrace this agenda we must hold ourselves accountable to the same standard. Therefore we support the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) because of its qualities as a truly universal standard for a sustainable and inclusive global economy. Nigel Salter Penny Baxter CEO Managing Director Section 1 The 10 Principles of the UN Global Compact Section 1 P06 UN GLOBAL COMPACT – SALTERBAXTER MSLGROUP COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS Section 1 The 10 Principles of the UN Global Compact Human Rights Labour 1 2 3 4 5 6 Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in of internationally human rights abuses. and the effective compulsory labour; respect of employment proclaimed human rights; recognition of the right and occupation. and to collective bargaining; Continued on page 08 Continued on page 08 Continued on page 08 Continued on page 09 Continued on page 09 Continued on page 09 P07 UN GLOBAL COMPACT – SALTERBAXTER MSLGROUP COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS Section 1 The 10 Principles of the UN Global Compact Environment Anti-corruption 7 8 9 10 Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater Principle 9: encourage the development Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all approach to environmental environmental and diffusion of its forms, including extortion challenges; responsibility; and environmentally and bribery. friendly technologies. Continued on page 10 Continued on page 10 Continued on page 10 Continued on page 11 P08 UN GLOBAL COMPACT – SALTERBAXTER MSLGROUP COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS Section 1 Human Rights Principles How we consider our impacts and influence, and approach Principle 1: How we consider our impacts How we live up to the principles: Businesses should support and and influence: Because of the nature of our business, our impacts are almost exclusively on our employees. Therefore respect the protection of internationally Because of the nature of our work, we do not believe we have any adverse effects on human rights. we take a number of steps to ensure that our business proclaimed human rights; and However, we are acutely aware that we must take a activities deliver a positive impact on the human proactive approach and assess the real and potential rights of our staff. Principle 2: impacts of our business operations. •A s we develop skills and learning, we promote the make sure that they are not right to education, and through the way we manage complicit in human rights abuses. Our approach to the topic: the business, we promote the right to the adequate We continue to endorse the Guiding Principles standard of living as well as freedom of expression. for Business and Human Rights introduced by the UN Human Rights Council in 2011, as well as the •W e promote the right to safe and healthy working Universal Declaration of Human Rights. We support conditions through managing the work environment and follow the UK Government’s leadership in rolling of our employees and through a comprehensive out guidance for business to integrate human rights Health and Safety policy. All new employees, both into their operations. permanent and contract staff are inducted in this as part of our new starter process. •A ll employees are required to read our Employee Handbook upon starting employment at Salterbaxter. In the Handbook we lay out our Grievance procedure that ensures staff are familiar with how to raise concerns about staff treatment or any other aspect of our work. P09 UN GLOBAL COMPACT – SALTERBAXTER MSLGROUP COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS Section 1 Labour Principles How we consider our impacts and influence, and approach Principle 3: How we consider our impacts Our approach to the topic: How we live up to the principles: Businesses should uphold the freedom of and influence: For us, a culture in which all staff are treated fairly During 2014, women made up 63% of all staff, as well and each individual’s merits are promoted equally as comprising half of our senior team heads positions. association and the effective recognition As a small company based in the UK with a business model based on our professional services, our risk is not just a good business practice or a regulatory of the right to collective bargaining; requirement – it is also essential to a happy and All permanent staff have access to health insurance of contributing to detrimental impact on labour rights that incorporates a proactive healthy living is very low. Nevertheless we consider strong labour effective workforce. We strongly support instruments programme that rewards them for taking steps Principle 4: practices as fundamental for attracting, developing that promote global labour standards such as the to improve their health and wellbeing, as well and retaining the talented people that make us ILO Core Conventions. the elimination of all forms of forced as providing comprehensive medical coverage. leaders in our field. Through our work and influence, • Performance against objectives and compensation and compulsory labour; we also encourage and help our clients to consider Moving forward: are formally reviewed on a twice-yearly basis. As we align more closely with MSLGROUP, we are the direct and indirect impacts of their operations We also conduct more informal monthly check-ins implementing more initiatives to our proactive Principle 5: on labour rights. and encourage and facilitate ‘catch-ups’ and management of the wellness and development the effective abolition of child labour; and informal mentoring between staff outside of of our workforce. We will: formal line management. •P articipate in a Group-wide annual employee survey. • A lso twice a year we conduct our People survey, Principle 6: within which we measure and monitor employee •F acilitate associations and interaction amongst the elimination of discrimination in satisfaction as well as solicit opinions on the direction affiliation groups, such as ‘Egalité’ – a Publicis-wide respect of employment and occupation. of the company. In 2014, 67% of staff participated. employee network for lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender (LGBT) professionals and allies. • Working hours are monitored through our online business operations system to manage employees’ •P articipate in Group-wide training and mobility work/life balance and we take steps to respond and programmes. address issues as required. • We regularly review and update as required our Employee Handbook, which covers staff benefits, our Human Resources policies and procedures including grievance mechanisms and health and safety. • We remain an equal opportunities employer with regards to both our employees and recruitment processes. All employees are free to join a union if they wish. P10 UN GLOBAL COMPACT – SALTERBAXTER MSLGROUP COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS Section 1 Environment Environment How we consider our impacts and influence, and approach Principle 7: How we consider our impacts How we live up to the principles: Businesses should support and influence: • Environmental topics are a core component of our If Only programme and quarterly themes. a precautionary approach to Our day-to-day work involves helping businesses understand and address the major challenges facing The different themes encourage understanding environmental challenges; of environmental challenges, greater awareness society both today and in the future. We have been working to elevate awareness and communication on of our own behaviours and inspire us to use our Principle 8: environmental issues since the business was founded creativity to address them. undertake initiatives to 16 years ago. • We use our positive influence to help our printing promote greater environmental As an office-based professional services business, suppliers improve their environmental credentials and ensure that our in-house printing uses responsibility; and our own impact on the environment is relatively FSC-certified or recycled paper. minimal. However, we understand the importance of encouraging more sustainable behaviours at both • We recycle as much office waste as possible, Principle 9: a macro and micro level, and have a responsibility from printer toners to IT equipment. encourage the development to do what we can as a business and to influence • We also encourage positive sustainable behaviour and diffusion of environmentally our clients and suppliers to mitigate their own through everyday business processes. For example environmental impacts. friendly technologies. by removing access to non-recycling facilities Our approach to the topic: to encourage recycling and discouraging Our ambitious targets are to reduce our three biggest wasteful printing. environmental outputs – waste, water, and energy – • Our electricity is provided through a green energy by 10% year-on-year. We monitor our performance tariff, which means that of the energy we purchase, on a quarterly basis and have conducted an operational the same value is put back into the grid through review in line with ISO 14001. renewable sources. Moving forward: 2015 will be a critical year for the future sustainability of our planet, culminating in the COP 21 conference in Paris. We are pleased to be playing a large role in this event with a series of events we’re calling ‘Chance for Change: Exploring the climate concerns of today and the solutions of the future’. P11 UN GLOBAL COMPACT – SALTERBAXTER MSLGROUP COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS Section 1 Anti-corruption Anti-corruption How we consider our impacts and influence, and approach Principle 10: How we consider our impacts Businesses should work against and influence: corruption in all its forms, including Salterbaxter is committed to operating ethically and extortion and bribery. against all forms of corruption at all times. Our approach to the topic: Our Employee Handbook details our policy and procedure on receiving gifts, and only permits us to accept gifts of no substantial financial value. Any such gifts become the prizes in a Christmas fundraising raffle and the proceeds go to charity to prevent any undue influence developing in our client and supplier relationships. Our client hospitality is restricted to end of project celebration meals, when teams on both sides are thanked for their hard work. Section 2 About If Only Section 2 P13 UN GLOBAL COMPACT – SALTERBAXTER MSLGROUP COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS Section 2 If Only; Think it, Do it If Only The If Only framework If Only encompasses how we approach and apply the work we do with clients to our own business. This can involve learning more about the issues Mission: that are shaping our world, to sharing our creativity Inspire, innovate, impact We will make change happen by inspiring and insights to solve challenges, and of course each other to innovate and make a positive ensuring our own impact as a business is as impact on sustainability challenges. positive as it can be. Think it, do it Measure and report Awareness is not enough. Together we will create Action is key. We will find an inspiring place to work new ways to interact, where our people thrive. motivate each other to We will also improve the participate and make an management of our impact. We will do this business impacts through: through: • K PI scorecard and • Engaging themes that lead quarterly reviews Every day we see how creativity and innovation contributes to understanding and • U N Global Compact drive behaviour change to a more sustainable world. We apply this to our own Communication on business with the mentality and approach: If Only. 77% • Supporting social Progress including our of staff believe that businesses via our annual performance report Innovation Day Lynn Dickinson If Only is engaging • Biannual people survey, Senior consultant, Salterbaxter internally, and through ongoing dialogue, individual and collective the innovation day, action externally P14 UN GLOBAL COMPACT – SALTERBAXTER MSLGROUP COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS Section 2 Think it, Do it: Quarterly Themes Every quarter, we work in cross-department groups to develop activities on a particular sustainability theme, and then involve the rest of the company. Quarter 1 Quarter 2 Quarter 3 Quarter 4 behaviour change Detox/Reboot Innovation Day Sustainable Cities Behaviour Change/ 21 Days Later P15 UN GLOBAL COMPACT – SALTERBAXTER MSLGROUP COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS Section 2 Reboot Quarter 1 Images What do you get when you put petrol in a diesel car? A car that doesn’t run properly or FRESH & HEALTHY efficiently! And we operate in the same way. So our first quarter was all about starting ID AY FR 2.1 0 21.1.00pm 4 the year with a fresh and healthy mentality. SUSHI SESSION with Ryan van Kesteren Learn how to roll your own Reboot BEER O’CLOCK We asked everyone in the company for their Then to complement our healthy food intentions we New Year’s resolutions so that we could help brought in people to inspire us to get more activity. support them in achieving them throughout February We had an induction talk and class from a Personal and March. To this end, we also asked people Trainer, we tried a morning pilates class and for the AY 4 to share hidden talents and skills and ran a quiz hard core: an outdoor military-style boot camp class. ID FR 2.1 14.0 5.00 pm to learn more about each other. Finding out, And to stimulate our minds there was a Reboot your FENCING for example, that we have multiple published with Chris Jennings finances session run by Jason, our CFO, and a session Finally!!! authors, musicians and qualified pilots on staff! It’s legal to stab your colleagues. on how to Learn a language supporting that familiar As part of Reboot we ran a number of activities to new year’s resolution of getting round to learning that get us to think about what foods we eat as part of second language. our busy lifestyles and consider what it does to our bodies. We shared non-alcoholic cocktails and had a nutritionist from the Food Doctor clinic come to talk about how blood sugar supports our adrenal function, giving examples of how our lunch and snack choices ‘Reboot’ was about revitalising our health and starting the year off fresh and work alongside our cortisol levels on stressful days. invigorated. Among the activities set up by employees, this theme included visits and talks from a nutritionist, a Personal Trainer, a boot-camp fitness session and inspirational film screenings. Tracy Cheung Operations Manager, Salterbaxter P16 UN GLOBAL COMPACT – SALTERBAXTER MSLGROUP COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS Section 2 Innovation Day Quarter 2 One of our main If Only events each year is Innovation Day. For the fourth year running we put client work to one side and dedicated a full day of our services to supporting social enterprises. We apply our creative thinking and sustainability expertise to help support social entrepreneurs in need of our skills. Innovation Day For the social enterprises, it’s an opportunity to tackle In the run-up to the event our quarterly theme team I just want to thank you for organising such a results-focused and fun event some of their challenges head on in one day, using an worked with social entrepreneur support group, approach and resources that they might not ordinarily UnLtd, to find enterprises who could benefit most for our entrepreneurs. I am truly impressed by your whole team and humbled have access to. from our communications know-how and sustainability by the amount of work that has gone into making the day a success. expertise. UnLtd provided us with a shortlist of For us, we get the chance to apply our creative thinking Albert Chong enterprises who were then presented back to the and sustainability expertise to support social entrepreneurs in need of our skills. We get inspired company. Staff then voted on the enterprises they Fast Growth Programme Lead, Unltd most wanted to work with. working with entrepreneurs who have created a successful business around an issue they are Before the day, the whole company split into four passionate about, demonstrating the ‘Think it, Do it’ multidisciplinary teams, led by a consultant and ideology that we try to replicate. By removing quarterly theme team member who planned a structure distractions and being able to completely focus on the to the day to tackle each of the challenges set in particular challenges of each of the enterprises, we are advance by the enterprises. The teams got together able to be at our most creative and strategic in problem to be briefed and up to speed on the different business solving. This helps us find new ways of working and models, product offers and commercial objectives Innovation day is always a great experience, we shut down the office and get collaborating that we bring back to our clients. of the enterprises so that we could start Innovation Day to totally focus on the Social Enterprises. And it’s fun to work with different By using different brainstorming models and teams, straight out of the blocks. colleagues and using skills I never knew I had! we are able to present back to the rest of the company On the day itself, teams came up with a wide range and enterprises our solution to the challenges at the of solutions, strategies and designs for each of the Louise Moyna end of the day. enterprises, ranging from social media strategies, Production Manager, Salterbaxter new branding, campaigns and activations. P17 UN GLOBAL COMPACT – SALTERBAXTER MSLGROUP COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS Section 2 Innovation Day The four enterprises were: Team up South London Cares Bright Ideas Trust Surf and Turf Camp A company working with university students and state A community network mobilising young professionals A network organisation of entrepreneurs and business An enterprise providing summer camp activities schools to improve social mobility by transforming to connect with and help older neighbours in leaders established to help people aged 16-30 build for kids combining physical activity (on the turf) young people’s prospects at school and university. Our Southwark and Lambeth with a little extra time, their own businesses and achieve their ambitions. and digital and STEM skills development (the surf). teams of Rising Leaders, active in over 35 universities practical help, social connection and human across the UK, collectively support 1,000 young people companionship. through tuition and enrichment activities. Today was amazing. We have I just wanted to thank the team so The opportunity to take time out to We have travelled such a long way developed a strategy for our much for all the amazing work you reflect on the company’s overall today. In one day we have a new immediate and long term did yesterday, and for all the time, strategy has been invaluable. The name for the business and a refined communications targeted at our now energy and passion you put into facilitation was excellent and the proposition and messaging. Plus a more clearly defined audiences. And preparation and the day itself. You’ve team acted as intelligent observers developed video storyboard that we’ll we have a campaign that we can run given me so much to think about and challenging us on many different get the kinds to help us make at the on Facebook straightaway. work on. I really hope I can work aspects of our brand and USP in a next camp! Thanks to a great team. with you again soon. crowded marketplace. P18 UN GLOBAL COMPACT – SALTERBAXTER MSLGROUP COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS Section 2 The four innovation teams in action P19 UN GLOBAL COMPACT – SALTERBAXTER MSLGROUP COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS Section 2 Sustainable Cities Quarter 3 Did you know that cities… SSSU UPPPEEERR U R S UPE R ...Cover just 3% of the planet’s land surface, but are home to more than 50% of its people? CA SSSC C ARR A R SCAR ...Consume 2/3rds of the world’s energy, and account for more than 70% VEEELO VV LO LO of global CO2 emissions? V E LO C CCA APA A PA PA ...Will be home to over 75% of the global population by 2050, at current C A PA DDO D OM O MEEESSSTT M TIII rates of expansion, requiring the equivalent of a new city of one million DOMESTI inhabitants to be built every five days between now and then? Super City Q3 in 2014 was all about exploring the challenges and We also invited Matt Franks from social enterprise Cities don’t provide much space to grow, but what can be achieved from innovative solutions that could make our cities more – Connected Roots – to come in and show how his sustainable. We learnt for example that London is one business is getting us urban inhabitants connected limited spaces can be astounding. To help motivate and enlighten the rest of the driest capital cities in the world, with available with the idea of growing our own food. Being all of the company we invited a speaker to talk about growing food in limited water per head comparable with that of Israel. Yet at the same time 1.25 million people and billions about helping people to grow food in small spaces like window boxes, balconies, or small gardens, spaces, and how to make your empty spaces, balcony or even a fence into in high-risk assets are exposed to potentially but also training-up out-of-work young people in a culinary haven. devastating flood damage. gardening skills. Peter Andic Through this quarter we asked everyone to share User Experience Lead, Salterbaxter examples of innovative approaches to sustainable city living and working within four themes: scarcity, velocity, capacity, and domesticity and post them on a map of London. P20 UN GLOBAL COMPACT – SALTERBAXTER MSLGROUP COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS Section 2 Behaviour Change/ 21 Days Later Quarter 4 How to change behaviours from those that are unsustainable or detrimental to our health and wellbeing in some way, to ones that have a more positive impact on our environment and society, is a challenge we come up against frequently in our work with major businesses. It’s a major challenge for the world as some of the barriers to changing certain habits can be about more than accessibility or cost, but rooted in cultural and behavioural factors. Change makers This quarter was designed to challenge some of the to display the habit they wanted to break. Each behaviours we have as individuals, teams and as a occasion that participants managed to achieve their 21 DAYS LATER 21 DAYS LATER 21 DAYS LATER business that we want to change, and to test out challenge was noted, with a prize given to those that different methods of changing them, such as: were most successful after the 21 days. “If you don’t like something, PUT UP Have you ever Wanted to “Innovation • Make it fun/competitive Following the 21 days, we set up groups of people with change it. If you can’t change is anything, but business know why things are done it, change your attitude.” as usual.” similar objectives (being more active during the a certain way around here? Maya ANON Angelou • Make it normal/the ‘default’ WITH IT …or Thought “why can’t we “Daring ideas working day, eating better, etc.) to continue the good are like chessmen do it another way?” moved forward; they may be beaten, “Everyone but they may start a thinks of changing • Reward ‘good’ behaviours and punish ‘bad’ progress and hold each other accountable. “If you do the world, but From now until the end of November the 21 Days Later winning game.” CHANGE not change Johann Wolfgang no one thinks of team want YOU to ask those questions about the the direction, you von Goethe changing himself.” way we work. We’re changing it up by challenging the may end up where Leo behaviours Tolstoy you are heading.” status quo, figuring out the rationale, and opening up Lao Tzu The year was concluded with a big company behaviour opportunities to innovate in our processes and culture. IT UP! Use the question slips delivered to your desk to ANONYMOUSLY ask those niggling questions you’ve “It is not the • Make it easy: getting people together and figure challenge: staff were able to think about the way we had for a while. Post them in the box in the kitchen, and we’ll get them answered. “Nothing is stronger than strongest of the species that survive, nor the most intelligent, but the out how to remove the barriers habit.” work and ‘change it up’ by challenging the status quo one most responsive We might even find NEW and BETTER ways to work. Ovid to change.” Charles Darwin • Make it up uplifting/inspiring and opening up opportunities to innovate in our processes and culture. From a huge response, we Using the theory that it takes 21 days to change a habit, collaborated on ways to change some of the ‘accidental the team came up with a ’21 Days Later’ personal cultures,’ many of which – such as hot-desking on the challenge, whereby everyone was provided with a card last Friday of the month – have been maintained since. P21 UN GLOBAL COMPACT – SALTERBAXTER MSLGROUP COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS Section 2 Measure and Report: Social We rely on the talent and dedication of our people. That’s why we do all we can to make Salterbaxter the best place to work, and keep it that way. We engage our staff on issues that we care deeply about, that connect to our work and to our daily lives because we want to give them the space in which to share this passion and innovate solutions. We nurture this by promoting a culture of openness and mutual respect: ideas are never stifled by seniority, hierarchy or peer pressure. Everyone’s voice counts. We have regular meetings and surveys to make sure all our people feel engaged and supported, and to identify areas where we could be doing things better. We set social indicators that we report against in a scorecard on a quarterly basis. Our People Survey, conducted twice a year, is the mechanism through which we try to deliver a transparent, fair and inspiring working environment. We operate in a very dynamic, fast-paced sector and every opinion is important to us. The information we receive through the survey helps us understand what works well and what we need to manage. It informs management decisions, how we conduct appraisals, our culture, where we can improve and how we can be better. The results of our People Survey are fed back to all staff at our regular company meetings. P22 UN GLOBAL COMPACT – SALTERBAXTER MSLGROUP COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS Section 2 Measure and Report: Social What we’re proud of: What we’re working on: Social indicators Staff formal training days Employees inspired to work at Average length of service (cumulative days per person): Salterbaxter: 64% (target: 85%) 0.6 (target: 0.5) We want our employees to feel inspired to work at Salterbaxter. Some of the questions in the People 5 Staff informal training days Survey are specifically developed to track this. (cumulative days per person): In 2014, the proportion of staff inspired to work at Salterbaxter decreased compared to previous 3.2 (target: 2.5) years. Notably, the percentage was lower in the 4 We reached our target number for average staff training 3.8 survey conducted in H2. We feel that uncertainty days for both formal (i.e. externally provided, including associated with the acquisition of the business in certifications) and informal (i.e. in-house mentoring, the summer, as well as a challenging marketplace, knowledge-sharing sessions) training. Up-skilling staff 3 contributed to this. The Q4 behaviour change and sharing the knowledge we build for our clients with theme was helpful in surfacing some of the issues the wider team has been a strong focus, as it allows us and enabling the business to focus on priorities to make the most of the skills and experience we build and new initiatives. Going forward this continues and foster a culture of continuous learning. Some of the 2 to be monitored and addressed through ongoing formal training included design presentation skills with 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 communication, good management and the Design and Art Direction Club (D&AD) involving clear leadership. staff from across teams, as well as formal certification in the Global Reporting Initiative’s (GRI) new G4 framework. Volunteering days Indicator 2013 2014 (cumulative days per person): Average number of full time employees 52 57 Participation in the 0.1 (target 1.0) Average number of freelance staff 13 10 If Only programme We missed our target of encouraging every member Average sick days per person 4 4 of full-time staff to take a day of company time to (cumulative days per person): volunteer for an organisation of their choice. Whilst Average age 37 38 3.7 (target: 2.0) participation in If Only was high, we need to remind Gender ratio male:female 43:57 37:63 The high participation in If Only is an indicator of how staff of this opportunity and encourage greater take up. much the scheme brings us together as a business In 2015 we will dedicate one of our quarterly themes to and connects us on the issues we’re all motivated by. encouraging staff to make good use of their volunteering day. Students: 0.0 (target: 5.0) Interns: 1.0 (target: 8.0) We are disappointed to not have achieved our targets and in 2015 we will establish a clearer strategy and ownership of the responsibility for these targets across teams in order to improve. P23 UN GLOBAL COMPACT – SALTERBAXTER MSLGROUP COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS Section 2 Measure and Report: Environment We come across the reality of global environmental challenges in our work every day. Therefore we need to practice what we preach. In order to advise our clients on sustainability, we need to be able to ensure our own environmental performance is as positive as it can be. Although as a relatively small, office-based business our direct environmental impact is minor, we are conscious of the importance of considering the environmental impacts to our entire value chain. Every year we set KPIs for our environmental sustainability, and report back on performance every quarter to management team. Our greatest impact on the environment is indirect, but we feel it is positive. Through our sustainability consultancy to clients we reinforce the need to address global challenges such as climate change and resource depletion. We monitor our environmental impacts on a quarterly basis and have conducted an operational review in line with ISO 14001. In 2012, we identified the main areas where our direct impact lies: paper, waste, and electricity, and each year we set ourselves the challenging goals for achieving 10% reductions in each of these areas. We use our influence with printing suppliers to improve their environmental credentials. For more on how we approach our environmental impact management, see page 10. P24 UN GLOBAL COMPACT – SALTERBAXTER MSLGROUP COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS Section 2 Measure and Report: Environment What we’re proud of: CO2 emissions (tonnes): Electricity usage and CO2 emissions: Waste: Reduced by 43% 47% reduction Recycling: Increased by 73% 15 We more than exceeded our 10% decrease on 2013’s We have two types of waste – recyclable (e.g. paper, electricity use with a 47% reduction overall. This glass, plastic, cans) and non-recyclable (e.g. food, means that each employee used almost a third less packaging that cannot be recycled). Our non-recyclable energy in 2014 than in 2013. Our CO2 emissions waste is reused for other purposes such as green 10 were the lowest they have been since we moved to energy. This type of waste reduced by 43% during 2014 the much bigger studio space in 2012 because the from 53kg to 30kg per person. This was counteracted main building’s air conditioning system broke down by an increase in the amount that we recycled which 6.9 and due to its age could not be fixed or upgraded. This went up by 73% from 101kg to 176kg person. We think 5 created an opportunity and was replaced by a number that this demonstrates a more responsible use of of free-standing fans for which teams sitting together materials and hope that through ongoing were made responsible. This system proved to be much communication campaigns this trend will continue. more efficient and effective in terms of controlling the 0 office temperature and enabling staff to turn fans on 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 and off as required and always at the end of the day. Paper: Reduced by 18% In 2014, we used 7.5kg less paper per employee and exceeded our 10% less target for paper usage achieving an 18% reduction. As well as demonstrating improved behaviour around paper usage this is also a result of more digital work and screen based presentations which are less dependent on paper based outputs. Paper use per employee (kgs): 50 40 34.2 30 20 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 P25 UN GLOBAL COMPACT – SALTERBAXTER MSLGROUP COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS Section 2 KPIs and targets KPIs 2014 Target 2014 Achievement 2015 Targets If Only participation days per employee (c) 3.5 3.6 ✓ 3.5 Employees inspired to work at Salterbaxter 85% 64% ✘ 85% Number of student placements 5 0 ✘ 5 Number of interns 8 1 ✘ 3 Volunteering days (c) 1 0.2 ✘ 1 Paper usage (kg per employee) 37 33 ✓ 29.7 (10% less) Waste to MRF (kg per employee) 47 29 ✓ 26.1 (10% less) Electricity (kWh per employee) 2,955 2,169 ✓ 1,952 (10% less) Average hours 8.5 8.5 ✓ 8.5 Staff training formal (days per employee – c) 0.5 0.6 ✓ 0.75 Staff training informal (days per employee – c) 2 3.2 ✓ 2 c = cumulative P26 UN GLOBAL COMPACT – SALTERBAXTER MSLGROUP COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS Section 2 Equal Opportunities policy We are an equal opportunities employer. This means that it is our policy to make every effort to ensure that there is no discrimination or harassment of employees, job applicants, clients, contractors and visitors on the grounds of colour, race, nationality, religion or belief, ethnic origin, disability, age, gender, marital status, sexual orientation, parental responsibilities, part-time or fixed-term status. Bullying is also a form of harassment and this policy covers this. Our approach In issuing this policy we have three main objectives: This policy applies to all aspects of our working practices and therefore applies to the recruitment First, to encourage employees to take an active role and selection of employees, terms and conditions against all forms of bullying, harassment and of employment, training, salary, work allocation, discrimination; second, to deter employees from promotion, and disciplinary and grievance procedures. participating in bullying, harassment or discriminatory Our recruitment, selection, promotion procedures and behaviour; and third, to demonstrate to all employees general policies and practices will be periodically that they can rely upon our support in cases of bullying, reviewed to ensure that this equal opportunities harassment or discrimination at work. policy is being implemented. We are committed to a working environment that All employees are required to follow and implement offers equal treatment and equal opportunities for our equal opportunities policy and, if necessary, all its employees, so that every employee is able undergo any training and development activities to progress to their true potential. Even after to ensure that they can carry out their duties and employment has ended, we are committed to responsibilities in terms of promoting, developing, ensuring that discrimination does not occur. implementing and reviewing the policy arrangements in the course of their work. In 2014 there were no breaches of this policy. P27 UN GLOBAL COMPACT – SALTERBAXTER MSLGROUP COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS Section 2 Health and Safety policy We want our employees to be as safe as possible in our working environment and require all employees to follow these guidelines at all times. While the Company will take all reasonable steps to ensure the health and safety of its employees, health and safety at work is also the responsibility of employees themselves. It is the duty of all employees to take reasonable care of their own and other people’s health, safety and welfare. Employees should report any situation that may pose a serious or imminent threat to the wellbeing of themselves or of any other person. Our approach The Company will provide and maintain a healthy • The provision and maintenance of equipment that The Company may take disciplinary action against any and safe working environment with the objective is safe. employee who disregards health and safety rules and of minimising the number of health and safety procedures, or who fails to perform their duties under • The provision of such information, instructions, related instances. The Company will pay particular health and safety legislation. Depending on the training and supervision as is necessary to ensure the attention to: seriousness of the offence, it may amount to potential health and safety at work of its employees and other gross misconduct rendering the employee liable to • Maintaining the workplace in a safe condition persons. summary dismissal. and providing adequate facilities and arrangements • The Company also recognises its duty to protect the for welfare at work. In 2014 there were no breaches of this policy. health and safety of all visitors to the Company, • Providing a safe means of access to and from the including contractors and temporary workers, as well workplace. as any members of the public. P28 UN GLOBAL COMPACT – SALTERBAXTER MSLGROUP COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS Section 2 Environmental Procurement policy Our approach Paper policy Print procurement policy We hold meetings with these and other printers We are committed to managing and reducing the All paper specified for our major reporting projects Where we have the buying decision, we aim to place regularly to encourage and assist them in progressing company’s environmental impacts. The biggest (annual reports, CSR reports, corporate brochures), the majority of our print with suppliers who are through the levels and will continue to assess these impact we have on the environment is through and any major print components of large branding managing their environmental impacts in a progressive categories on an ongoing basis. our supply chain and how we place work with projects must adhere to the following as a minimum: and transparent way. The remaining 20% of our print total for smaller printers on behalf of our clients. Our print and projects and other one-off items will be reviewed on • Be ECF (elemental chlorine free) or TCF The proportion of print we place is around 80% of paper policies can be read here. a project-by-project basis. We need some flexibility (total chlorine free). our total and consists of all major reporting projects (annual reports, CR reports, corporate brochures), and in this area as the practicalities of finishing and • A ny virgin pulp must be sourced from sustainably production/capacity may mean placing the work any major print components of large branding projects. managed forests. with other specialists in the industry. This process is managed through a key suppliers list. • The mills which produce the paper should have Where we do not have the final buying decision we The list is structured into four levels. In the past we ISO 14001 accreditation. will always advise clients to follow these guidelines have aimed to place 90% or more of our print in the top Ninety-five percent of all major projects must go two levels (levels 3 and 4), with 10% placed in levels and will record where they are not able to do so. further and specify paper from our ‘Top 10’ list of 1 and 2. ISO 14001 is a key part of our criteria and although we enhanced environmental paper stocks. All these understand the limitations of this system, we still feel it LEVEL 1: papers are FSC accredited OR recycled with is a useful assurance process by which we can assess a minimum of 20% post-consumer waste. • Vegetable inks as base set a printer’s commitment to environmental management. We are also looking into carbon neutral papers. • Recycle 80% of waste from presses We may also consider other suppliers if their activities • Have environmental targets and policy in place, are transparent enough for us to assess without the including energy, waste and emissions, and are ISO programme. aiming to achieve ISO 14001 LEVEL 2: Level 1 requirements plus: • ISO 14001 LEVEL 3: • Level 2 requirements plus: • FSC accreditation LEVEL 4: • Level 3 requirements plus: • Renewable energy • Carbon neutral • IPA emissions below 10% P29 UN GLOBAL COMPACT – SALTERBAXTER MSLGROUP COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS Next steps Looking forward 2014 was the single most transformative year for our business since we began as a small corporate sustainability communications consultancy in 1998. Year-on-year we’ve expanded our client base and now, as part of the global network MSLGROUP, we have greater reach and a bigger opportunity to make the world a more sustainable place. It will take time and some trial and error for We’re excited to play a positive, influential role We’re also anticipating the build up to what will our culture to adjust to being part of a global in our new network. From sharing insights and be the major sustainability event of our time – sustainability and citizenship powerhouse capabilities, we’re also sharing the value of our COP21. The world’s attention will be focused and identify the opportunities for all of us. different ways of working. For example in 2015, on Paris and the UN seeking an ambitious We continue to value every single voice, opinion our Innovation Day will be bigger and better – commitment to tackle global climate change. and idea and are ensuring that 2015 maintains expanding to include MSL London also meaning We’ll be taking an active part. Not only by an open and collaborative spirit to both doing a greater positive societal impact by supporting advising our clients on what it means for them, great work for clients and inspiring each other more social enterprises. but by listening – not just to the politicians in our teams. For example, we’re asking and world leaders – but to the people for whom all employees at all levels to come up with If Only continues to be a core part of our values climate change matters most – Millennials. ideas for how they see the new, evolved and a crucial part of how we deliver on our SALTERBAXTER MSLGROUP, and mission. Themes in 2015 will build on our We’re excited to face the challenges with the empowering them put these ideas into place. creative capabilities and take on different creativity we pride ourselves on. aspects of sustainable design and innovation.
