Sustainable Development & Activity Report 2014 Natural Human Industrial Societal Sustainably developing and preserving our four capitals R O Q U E T T E , A R E S P O N S I B L E CO M PA N Y S U M M A RY Sustainably developing Editorial Who are we? and preserving 6 Key figures 2014 8 Our business, our markets our four capitals 10 Responsible governance 12 Major events Natural Capital Founded more than 80 years ago, Roquette is a French family-owned group of international 16 Local sourcing dimension. Our activity consists in transforming plant-based raw materials. Ranked among 18 Preserving the environment the five leaders of the global starch industry, we offer our customers a broad range of 20 Reducing the impact of transport products and solutions. With a focus on food, nutrition-health and plant-based chemistry, our growth is supported by innovation, a passion for the job and commitment to achieve. Human Capital Our strategy takes into account the challenges of sustainable development and, in terms of social responsibility, we are committed to sustainably developing and preserving 26 Priority to safety the four capitals essential to the long-term viability of our company: 28 The importance of dialogue natural, human, industrial and societal. 30 Cultivating our talents This approach is fully integrated into our mission: 32 Commitment to diversity ‘‘Serving men and women by offering the best of nature.’’ Industrial Capital 36 R&D innovation for our customers 40 Improving our performance Societal Capital 48 CSR* at the heart of our activities 50 Dialoguing with our stakeholders 52 Engaging with local communities Annexes Natural Human Industrial Societal 54 Reporting and perimeters Preserve natural Make safety Innovate and generate Build a constructive resources and a priority and value, develop and dialogue with our 55 Committed contributors minimize the impact develop expertise, optimize our industrial stakeholders and of our activities on the dialogue and diversity. resources. engage with local environment. communities. * CSR : Corporate Social Responsibility Editorial My highest ambition is for Roquette’s E D ITO R I A L relationship with its customers to What is you r view on t h e become completely covers starches, proteins, fibers activities of Roquette in 2014 and lipids derived from plantand on the turn taken at the end symbiotic and I want based raw materials such as of the year? our innovations to corn, wheat and potatoes. We recently added peas and Edouard Jean-Marc Thanks to its solid and bring exceptional microalgae, and we could add ROQUETTE ER success. others with all the potential that GILSON sustainable foundations, in nature offers us. Chairman 2014 our Group continued CEO to reinforce its competitive position in Europe and in India. What is your highest ambition ER JMG Taking a controlling stake in for the company? Lithuanian starch producer What are the long-term Amilina and buying the remaining challenges for Roquette? I want the Group to contiER shares of Roquette-Riddhi-Siddhi nue to grow while cultiin India offer real opportunities for The Group must maintain vating its special family mediumand long-term growth ER its position as the partner character: high expectations on in these two major regions. of reference for our cusperformance at the service of all Furthermore, in Asia and in North tomers in the markets of nutriits stakeholders, and for its emAmerica alike, Roquette has done tion-health and plant-based cheployees a strong feeling of bevery important work to optimize mistry over the long term. For longing and construction for the its industrial competitiveness. All more than 80 years, Roquette medium and long terms. I am ex8,100 employees have been highly has based its success and that of tremely confident in the capacity mobilized to make the Group ever its customers on an exceptional of our employees to make our more attractive to our customers platform of innovation, thanks to Group more efficient, more atand partners. an industrial and research & detractive. velopment policy focused on the Upon my arrival in Seplong term. We must continue to I also want Roquette’s relaJMG tember 2014, I discovered JMG foster this balance between shorttionship with its customers a Group with extraordinary term performance and long-term to become completely potential based on the natural orivision. symbiotic, and I want our innogin of its products. With the Gevations to bring exceptional sucneral Management team, we have Ro q u et te will f ur th e r cess. My wish is that our solutions started a review of all our activiJMG reinforce its role as a become even more widely known ties. This process is helping us to major player in food , and appreciated by consumers, so optimize cost and above all to renutrition and health, in parallel that the general public becomes focus our portfolio and our investwith industrial markets. We will aware that we participate, albeit ments in the most promising marbecome a virtuoso and, like a indirectly, in their well-being and Cross ket segments. The new direction musician with a score, we will health. This is the very mission of taken at the end of 2014 is beginplay with all the functionalities of Roquette: ‘‘Offering the best of ning to bear fruit and provides us our ingredients. Our range today nature’’. with visibility over the long term. interview We are going to continue our sustainable growth under optimized conditions. I am extremely confident in the capacity of our employees to make our Group more efficient, more attractive. 4 RO Q U E T TE S U S TAI NAB LE D E VE LO P M E NT & AC T I V I T Y R E P O RT 2 01 4 5 Who are we? G LO B A L WO R K F O R C E Key figures 2014 ASIA* 1 ,150 INDIA EUROPE 1 ,250 5 ,100 3.1 8 ,100 AMERICA BILLION EUROS 10 %* of turnover EMPLOYEES 600 devoted to R&D and of worldwide industrial capital turnover T E R R ITO R I A L A N C H O R I N G G LO B A L S IT UAT I O N AMERICA 2 ASIA* No 5 1 starch company in India and France EUROPE 11 No 20% Plant-based INDIA 2 in European starch Chemistry industry 80% 3 Food Nutrition Health 21 INDUSTRIAL No SUBSIDIARIES, AGENTS, 5 in World starch SITES DISTRIBUTORS... 6 APPLICATION industry DISTRIBUTION OF SALES 2014 A PRESENCE IN MORE THAN DEVELOPMENT BY FIELD OF APPLICATION 100 COUNTRIES CENTERS * on average over the last 10 years * Excluding India 6 RO Q U E T TE S U S TAI NAB LE D E VE LO P M E NT & AC T I V I T Y R E P O RT 2 01 4 7 Who are we? Our business, Our markets Roquette’s industrial units generate value from all the components of plant-based raw materials: corn, wheat, potato, peas and microalgae. The Group markets more than 700 products and solutions for the benefit of customers in the food and industrial markets. Pharmaceuticals 13 Our business is to generate value starch is marketed in its native form dustrial know-how, our experience from all the components of all or transformed into numerous with integrated biorefineries, and % the plant-based renewable raw derivative forms: modified our long tradition of research and Excipients for all types of materials that we process – corn, starches, glucose syrups, dextrose, innovation. of sales pharmaceutical forms (tablets, wheat, potato, peas and microalgae – and to exploit their technological and nutritional properties. One of maltodextrins, polyols... In addition to starch, we generate value from the proteins, lipids and These strengths allow the company to offer more than 700 products and solutions to industrial cus20% pills, granules, syrups, drinkable solutions, eye drops, toothpastes, gels, etc.). Active principles for of sales the main components extracted is fibers extracted from all the planttomers in five major sectors: Human injectables solutions... starch. based raw materials we work with. Food-Nutrition, Animal Nutrition, An amazing energy reserve built This rich diversity of raw materials Pharmaceuticals, Paper-Cardboard from a chain of glucose molecules, is supported by our extensive inand Chemistry–Bioindustry. Animal Nutrition 70 0 P R O D U C T S P R E S E N T I N Pet food and feed for livestock. O U R DA I LY L I F E Paper and Cardboard A complete range that improves the resistance of paper and the quality of printing. Glues for corrugated cardboard and packaging... 47% 11% of sales Chemistry and Human Food and Nutrition of sales 9% Bioindustry Additives for concrete, of sales plasterboard, insulation, Ingredients for baby food, culinary adhesives... Solutions for preparations, beverages, cheeses, fermentation and highjams, ice creams, confectionery, performance plastics... chewing gum... 8 RO Q U E T TE S U S TAI NAB LE D E VE LO P M E NT & AC T I V I T Y R E P O RT 2 01 4 9 Who are we? Responsible Christophe ROQUETTE Strategy (President) Audit Committee Fabienne DEGRAVE Committee Didier de governance • Analyzes the major strategic MENONVILLE • Monitors the processes for reporting orientations for the development and financial information. the future of the Group. • Ensures the efficiency of the company’s • Examines the investment projects prior to systems of internal control and risk their presentation to the Board of Directors. management. • Does the preparation work for the Board • Steers the effectiveness and pertinence Founded in 1933 by Dominique and Germain ROQUETTE, on subjects of major strategic interest of internal auditing. then grain traders in Lille, today ROQUETTE FRÈRES is an (growth, areas of development, • Monitors the legal control of annual financial strategy, etc.). international family-owned group, presided over by the third and consolidated accounts. • Ensures the independence generation of the Roquette family. of external auditors. Jean-François The engagement of family benefit from an appropriate maf amily members , and by the RAMBICUR (President) shareholders over five generations nagement structure to define the creation of specialized committees. Roquette Frères Stéphane BASEDEN and the ambition of the Board general policy of the Group and to These external members provide Denis DELLOYE of Dire ctors to implement ensure that the strategic decisions complementary expertise and an Board of Directors Pascal PAYETGASPARD Marc ROQUETTE best practices in governance and operational choices are impleobjective view on the organizational (President) contribute to the Group’s longmented by the subsidiaries. challenges of the family company. Édouard ROQUETTE Stéphane BASEDEN term growth strategy. This strategy In 2012, Roquette adopted a modern In 2013, an independent director was Denis DELLOYE is reinforced by the stability of the and efficient system of governance, appointed Vice-Chairman of the Pierre-Emmanuel shareholder base, its long-term as evidenced by the nomination Board, in charge of relations with the LEPERS vision, sustainable performance and of independent directors to the family shareholders, whose number international growth. Board, equal in number to the continues to increase with each new Appointments Deontology The Board of Directors defines the generation. and Salaries and Sustainable strategic orientations of the Group The year 2014 was marked by the Committee Dev. Committee and ensures that they are in line development and presentation of • Examines questions related to the • Examines the Group’s environmental with the objectives of generating the 2018 strategic plan. The Board composition, organization and functiopolicy and the annual Sustainable value and profitability from investThe Board of Directors and the General Management enning of the Board of Directors and the Development & Activity Report. ments. The Board analyzes the sured that the shareholders had a Group General Management. major events of each quarter and defines the strategic clear understanding of the plan and • Remains informed of the remuneration • Analyzes the mapping of extra-financial risks (CSR) and the action plans that arise examines the investment projects orientations of the the structural changes within the policy applied throughout the Group. from this. and their financing. It also ensures Group’s environment, so that eve• Delivers recommendations concerning that Roquette Frères, which is resGroup. ryone had the necessary informathe remuneration of managing agents. Pascal PAYET-GASPARD • Ensures the company is able to guarantee that the rules of good conduct ponsible for the management and tion to assume their responsibilities • Oversees the proper functio(President) are respected, in connection with control of the Group, continues to at the General Assembly. ning of the bodies of goverJean-François RAMBICUR the Group Ethics Committee. nance. Christophe ROQUETTE . Édouard ROQUETTE Marc ROQUETTE Didier Édouard Pascal Denis Christophe Marc Pierre-Emmanuel Jean-François Fabienne Stéphane de MENONVILLE ROQUETTE PAYET-GASPARD DELLOYE ROQUETTE ROQUETTE LEPERS RAMBICUR DEGRAVE BASEDEN Chairman 10 RO Q U E T TE S U S TAI NAB LE D E VE LO P M E NT & AC T I V I T Y R E P O RT 2 01 4 11 Who are we? 2 01 4 Roquette launches large-scale production of microalgae Major In June 2014, Roquette inaugurated an industrial production unit dedicated to microalgae at its Lestrem site (France). With an annual production capacity of events 5,000 tons of dried microalgae, this unit launched a range of next-generation food ingredients, derived from a renewable plant-based raw material with exceptional nutritional potential. FRANCE Roquette appoints new Roquette reaches Zero Roquette takes a majority Roquette sets up Roquette opens a unit in Roquette takes 100% of the Chief Executive Officer Accidents objective in Asia stake in Lithuanian increasingly active Switzerland capital in Indian company company networks The Board of Directors appointed The numerous actions and camIn October 2014, Roquette acquired Today, working in networks has beIn July 2014, Roquette created a In 2012, Roquette acquired three Jean-Marc GILSON as Chief Execupaigns to raise awareness and fura controlling stake in Amilina, a Licome an essential part of professiocompany in Geneva, Switzerland. production sites from India’s leative Officer of the Group, effective 1 ther develop a Safety Culture at thuanian producer of wheat starch nal life, and Roquette is no exception The main activity of this new unit ding starch producer and became September 2014. all Asian sites have borne fruit! In and derivative products, following to this trend! Sharing experiences is the optimal management of purmajority shareholder of RoquetteAmong his missions, he will strive August 2014, Asia became the first a collaborative partnership put in and best practice… these are the chase and sales prices. It will also Riddhi-Siddhi. A further milestone to pursue the Group’s global deveregion in the Group’s history to atplace three years ago. This confirtopics which were brought up at market the Group’s products and was laid in May 2014 with the acquilopment in the sectors of Food, Nutain the objective of zero lost-time med Roquette’s ambition to becomeetings of Roquette’s experts solutions on the Swiss territory as sition of the remaining shares of the trition and Health, and Plant-Based injuries over 12 consecutive months. me a major player on Northern and networks. More than 10 meetings of of April 2015. company. Chemistry. Eastern European markets. this type were held in 2014, including one on food safety that brought together 40 internal specialists. WO R L D CHINA LITH UAN IA WO R L D SWITZERLAND INDIA 12 RO Q U E T TE S U S TAI NAB LE D E VE LO P M E NT & AC T I V I T Y R E P O RT 2 01 4 13 Natural Capital The challenges of Natural Capital Plant-based raw materials, the terrestrial and aquatic ecosystems, renewable natural resources, water, air… these constitute the Natural Capital of the company. The challenges of this capital include preserving and minimizing the impact of industrial activities on the local and global environment, throughout the production chain. O U R CO M M IT M E N T S 1 2 3 Local Preserving the Reducing the impact of sourcing environment transport We establish long-term relations Water, biodiversity, air, noise, We continue to develop modes with our suppliers, most of ground soil, waste management… of transport with lower CO2 which are located close to our we apply multiple emissions in order to reduce factories. This helps improve environmental best practices our greenhouse gas (GHG) performance in the reduction of and reduce our impact on the emissions. We favor multimodal CO2 emissions from transport environment. transport and optimize load while meeting the highest quality factors. and industrial standards. S U S TAI NAB LE D E VE LO P M E NT & AC T I V I T Y R E P O RT 2 01 4 15 Natural Capital Local PHOTO Processing capacity for the entire sourcing Roquette Group reached nearly 8.3 million tons of plant-based raw materials, representing about a million hectares cultivated. For the purchase of raw materials, the various sites of the Roquette Group are deeply rooted in the territories in which they are implanted. For corn, wheat, potatoes and peas, whatever the raw materials, local sourcing is favored whenever possible. Our historic presence in the agriof our concerns and demands, gicultural world has allowed us to deven that they are the first link in the The regular exchanges velop long-term relations with our chain from field to fork. and dialogue with 1.5 suppliers. These partnerships allow Agriculture has the opportunity and us to construct efficient transport plans despite the multitude of colthe responsibility to be positioned at our suppliers of the crossroads of two major challenlection points and the high volumes ges: feeding a constantly growing agricultural raw involved. global population and preserving materials help Most of our agricultural raw mateour natural resources. rials are transported by rail to our The cereals suppliers with whom provide a deeper French factories and numerous other sites of the Group. In terms of we work understand the pressure understanding of million tons placed on raw materials supply, and supply by rail, we continue to renew are therefore conscious of their duty the environmental of corn used each year by our rail wagon fleet to reduce its ecological footprint, promote safety to engage in productive and sustaiand health Roquette in France, or the equivalent of 150,000 nable farming. and improve working conditions. This is why, notably in Europe, the challenges. Zoom on… hectares cultivated. Food safety and the respect of the farming community is moving environment are rooted in all extowards integrated farm manageCorn, a grain close to home! changes with our suppliers. ment and raising awareness on best Today corn is the most produced of CO2 emissions). This proximity We increasingly organize meetings agricultural practices and the need cereal in the world. It is a basic also helps us establish long-term with farmers to keep them informed to control energy consumption, etc. Sébastien BERNIER 5.0 plant-based raw material for the relationships of trust with our Cereals Buyer starch industry, as are wheat, suppliers. Consumer expectations potatoes and peas. are also taken into account, which Roquette first began working is why we use no genetically corn in the 1950s, at its first starch modified corn in our European unit in Lestrem (France). Next and Asian factories. Spain, then Italy, the USA, China In Italy, France and China, we and most recently India began transform special varieties of 2.2 processing this plant-based corn, such as waxy corn, which is raw material. Each year, nearly rich in amylopectin, or corn rich 5 million tons of corn enter our in amylose. Specific contracts 1.0 starch units. are signed with the farmers, and Most of our factories are based monitoring is handled by our 0.1 in ver y large zones of corn agricultural engineers. production. The Keokuk factory, We also collaborate with seed Wheat Corn Potato Pea for example, is located in the growers to select seeds of optimal heart of the American Corn Belt. quality and lower sensitivity to Processing capacity for plantThis allows us to avoid longfungal contamination. based raw materials at all sites of distance transport and reconcile the Roquette Group economic performance with WO R L D (in millions of tons) environmental needs (reduction 16 RO Q U E T TE S U S TAI NAB LE D E VE LO P M E NT & AC T I V I T Y R E P O RT 2 01 4 17 Natural Capital Preserving the environment At all its sites, Roquette is committed to minimizing Water the impact of its activities on the environment. performance We pay special attention to water, air, ground soil, indicator After treatment in noise and generating value from our waste... our internal waterLaunched in 2012, this indicator is based on the water performance Water, a precious resource treatment stations, of our starch units. It is defined Water is very abundant on our pla‘‘clean’’ water as the ratio between the average consumption of water used for net. In fact, it is one of the most is released back abundant resources on earth. In processing at all starch units terms of volume and quality, howeRoquette works into the natural and a water-use target. The water-use targets for each type ver, it is very unevenly distributed every day to insure environment. across the globe, and only a very liof starch production unit are mited portion of this water is directly the sustainable defined by our technical teams, based on historic experience available for our consumption. management of Zoom on… Water is the main resource used to within the Roquette Group. extract the components of our raw water. The ratio obtained is without apply the latest technologies to Natural fertilization of soil unit and the objective is to be materials. Roquette therefore works ensure high yields. The practice of field-spreading thus reducing the use of chemical inferior to 1. every day to ensure the sustainable management of water. Some of these stations are equipeffluent from potato starch profertilizers. recycling and efficient management ped with methanizers that can preduction is a sustainable agro-enviThis practice is under strict Numerous studies on production of the water cycle in our circuits. It is treat the effluent before the final ronmental practice that illustrates control and regularly monitored techniques have been carried out 1.26 necessary, in such particular cases, biological processing. The biogas the benefits of natural fertilization to ensure the preservation of to help minimize water usage at to constantly question traditional produced in this way can then be techniques and the circular ecothe quality of ground water. our sites. Different processes, such methods and work on optimizing used directly to fuel our boiler insnomy. At the end of 2014, members as the recycling of water used in our processes. tallations. The treated water can After extracting the components of the European Commission’s production and the use of closed then be released “clean” back into of potato starch at the VecqueJoint Research Center visited cooling circuits, are designed to In parallel, almost all of the water the natural environment, in rivers, mont site (France), the remaining the Vecquemont site to assess respond to this need to save water. used for our industrial needs is for example. water is rich in soluble nutriments its field-spreading program, In India, efforts to reduce water subsequently treated in internal Numerous measurements are taken, Roquette’s water perforconsumption can only succeed with water-treatment stations, which continuously or on a spot-check bathat can be absorbed by plants. with an eye to integrating it as a This effluent is spread on soil with recognized best practice of the mance indicator in 2014 sis, by the laboratories of our sites or special technical methods, incluEuropean starch industry in the by accredited independent organs, ding an underground network of next version of its documentation up 3% from a year earlier, with according to local regulations and 120 km to connect the automated on Best Available Technologies. further advances expected. Roquette standards. field-spreading ramps. This allows Zoom on… farmland to be naturally fertilized, FRANCE water allows it to be reused in the hydrocyclones. The optimization Ground soil of the inverse-osmosis system Saving water in India Roquette has a vested interest in for effluent also allows the plant Water conservation is one of the to “clean” the water so that it the quality of the soil that provides major challenges to which the the raw materials necessary for its WATER 2013 2014 GRI (1) can then be used in the cooling starch industry must respond, circuits and to feed water to the activity. Pumping Rivers 103 m3 57,107 60,713 G4-EN8 particularly in India. Two of our boilers, as well as for various cleaFor years, many of our sites have ofIndian sites, Gokak and Pantnagar, ning activities. At the Gokak site, fered programs for the field-spreaAquifers 103 m3 12,788 13,080 G4-EN8 have established action plans to the consumption of water taken ding of effluent from our agro-food reduce the consumption of water Urban network 103 m3 10,482 11,792 G4-EN8 from the natural environment was activities. These programs take into taken from the natural environreduced by 25% in 2014. account the natural and agricultuWater restored 10 m 3 3 48,697 53,509 G4-EN22 ment. In starch production, for ral context and are designed to preexample, improvements in the serve the quality of soil and ground Ratio of water returned/pumped % 60.6 62.5 G4-EN22 recycling and treatment of filtrate INDIA water. COD (2) emissions t/kt of starch 1.40 1.46 G4-EN22 (1) Perimeter and GRI: see page 54 (2) COD: Chemical Oxygen Demand 18 RO Q U E T TE S U S TAI NAB LE D E VE LO P M E NT & AC T I V I T Y R E P O RT 2 01 4 19 Natural Capital Healthier air At Lestrem (France), for example, a Noise reduction PHOTO large sleeve filter with a filtration surRoquette strives to preserve air quality, which is essential when populaface of more than 600 m2 has been GHG Roquette seeks to reduce noise pollution, starting with the design A t t h e tions live in direct proximity to our installed on a new spray-drying unit. This equipment provides excellent performance of installations that generate less Benifayo site (Spain), factories. Two categories of air pollution have results, with dust emissions 10 indicator noise. However, the proximity of certain production sites to heavily in addition to the antitimes lower than the regulatory noise wall, been identified: odors and dust requirements. populated areas means additional a s t atio n to emissions. In 2012, Roquette established a measures are sometimes required. continuously . performance indicator for CO2 m e a s u r e At most of our industrial sites, odors This is notably the case at our Spaemissions avoided. nish site of Benifayo, where our first noise has been 579,000 from certain production processes installed. This indicator is defined as station to continuously monitor are treated with state-of-the-art the sum of benefits provided noise levels was installed in 2014. technologies, such as installations by a set of actions to reduce This station serves to: for regenerative thermal oxidation CO2-equivalent emissions at that reduce olfactory emissions by • Know in real time the level of up to 99%. tons equivalent CO2 the Group’s industrial units noise generated by the factory (installation of speed variators, In parallel, in order to limit dust avoided at the end of 2014 use of biofuels, tools for cogeand adapt activities as needed, emissions related to the transport • Detect increases in sound levels the following processing hierarchy: paper, cardboard, wood and metal (GHG performance indicator), or neration, etc). of powdered materials, numerous in order to identify the causes • Regeneration for reuse, are sorted at the source and sent nearly 35,000 more tons avoided The target set for 2017 is a recapture and filtration systems are and act rapidly to resolve asso• Recycling, to recognized, dedicated recycling than in 2013. duction of about 620,000 tons placed at the output of installations. ciated noise disruptions, • Generating energy, channels. Waste from biomass is equivalent CO2. The efficiency of these systems is • Better ensure regulatory limits • Lastly, elimination. used to generate value via metharegularly checked. are respected. nization or composting. Waste from catalyzers is regeneThanks to algorithmic simulations, rated and reused in the same proLastly, any final remaining waste is the technology used provides cesses. Recyclable materials such as for the most part incinerated. continuous information on the level of noise perceived by residents of the city. This installation follows the 2008 construction of an anti-noise wall, which has already Zoom on… significantly reduced the overall Waste from sound levels produced on the site. biomass is used to Zoom on… The reduction of olfactory Generating value from all our emissions waste generate value via The ‘‘Nickel Recovery’’ China is increasingly concerned Our business involves extracting methanization or operation! by environmental issues. Meaand generating maximum value sures to reduce the different from all components of plant-based composting. The purification and hydrogetypes of pollution (atmospheric, nation processes at the Ameraw materials. Roquette’s industrial sonic, olfactory) are beginning rican factory in Keokuk presites therefore produce little waste. to emerge. Alerted by the local sented a risk of releasing nickel For all waste generated, we respect Environmental Protection OfPHOTO in effluents. In 2014, collection fice, the site of Lianyungang has reservoirs were installed so implemented actions to reduce Regenerative thermal oxidation that the nickel could be sepais used to reduce odor emissions rated by precipitation, which is odor emissions that disturb loby up to 99%. cal residents. The exchange of caused by increasing the alkabest practices within the Group line pH of the effluent. In solid and a close collaboration with a AIR 2013 2014 GRI (1) WASTES 2013 2014 GRI (1) form, this material can then be local institute allowed the site to filtered and recycled, with the CO2 emissions t eq. CO2 /kt starch (2) 504 650 (3) G4-EN16 Dangerous t/kt starch (2) 0.7 0.26 G4-EN23 adapt its starch unit with proven filtrate sent to the residual waodor-reduction processes first SO2 emissions t/kt starch 0.27 0.74 (3) G4-EN21 Non dangerous t/kt starch 33 14 G4-EN23 ter treatment station. The risk developed at our Italian site. is thus completely controlled. NOx emissions t/kt starch 0.44 0.58 (3) G4-EN21 Revaluated (3) t/kt starch 21 33 G4-EN23 CHINA U N I T E D S TAT E S Dusts t/kt starch 0.16 0.19 G4-EN21 Field spreading t eq. 100% DS /kt starch (4) 35 44 G4-EN23 (1) Perimeter and GRI: see page 54 (2) ton equivalent CO2 per kilo ton of starch (1) Perimeter and GRI: see page 54 (3) except field spreading (3) The upward trend in indicators follows a decrease in production of cogenerated electricity (due to (2) kt = 103 metric ton (4) ton equivalent 100% dry substance per kilo ton of starch a lower market valuation of this energy) along with an increase in sales of steam to third parties. 20 RO Q U E T TE S U S TAI NAB LE D E VE LO P M E NT & AC T I V I T Y R E P O RT 2 01 4 21 Natural Capital Reducing the PHOTO impact of Efforts to optimize bulk loads at the French site of Vicsur-Aisne resulted in a transport 7% increase in average Conducting an quantities loaded per tank and a 7 % ambitious program reduction in CO 2 emissions per ton to reduce the carbon transported. footprint of our transport while Roquette helps reduce the environmental impact of its logistics chain by favoring the use of alternatives optimizing costs, yes, to road transport, by optimizing load factors that’s possible! of tractor-trailer rigs and also by developing partnerships with motivated carriers. Alternatives to road transport road-maritime transport progresPhilippe SENET Roquette continues its efforts to sively reached 75% of the traffic. River transport is particularly suited Logistics Director, Europe develop lower-carbon alternatives for our deliveries of First Products to road transport, such as rail, multi(proteins, fibers and oil). About 17% modal and river barge. In 2014, these of our shipments departing from alternative solutions covered nearly 50 Lestrem (France) to customers some % half of the volumes shipped to our located in Belgium and northern Multimodal customers. Rail transport is the preferred mode France are handled by river transtransport for raw materials shipped to the port. different sites of the Group. Multimodal transport, also called Multimodal transport offers a lower Motivated carriers intermodal or combined transenvironmental impact than road Roquette establishes partnerships tractor-trailer rigs by 50%: to 55% of our sales port, involves using at least two transport for the equivalent diswith carriers committed to redu• Improvements in the aerodynaZoom on… are shipped in bulk (liquid and successive modes of transport tance. It can also provide significant cing the environmental impact of powder) which shows the to ship goods using the same mics of tractor-trailer rigs, economic advantages for our logistheir activity via actions designed The optimization of loading importance of load container or vehicle, thus elimitics chain. to reduce their fuel consumption. • Optimization of the kinematic optimization. nating the need to unload and chain, at Vic-sur-Aisne Multimodal transport was further This determined approach also ofreload the shipment. A part of developed at Roquette in 2014, fers economic advantages and helps • Reduced resistance of ball beathe transport can thus be done An excellent example of our with combined road-rail transport meet regulatory requirements. In rings, efforts to optimize loading can by road, with the rest by maribetween France and Italy covering Europe over the last 20 years, nu• Adoption of systems to improve be found at our Vic-sur-Aisne site time, river or rail transport. nearly 50% of the traffic. Between merous technical innovations have the fuel economy of motors. (France), which in 2013 contacted weights. These efforts resulted in France and Portugal, combined reduced gross fuel consumption of all actors in its logistics chain 2014 in a 7% increase in average In addition, the lighter weight of the new tractor-trailer designs and the to optimize bulk shipments of quantities loaded per tank, as well optimization of their capacity have powders. The first step was to as a 7% reduction in CO2 emissions allowed the company to increase identify: per ton transported. The initiative load volumes and thus reduce • Legislative constraints on road is currently being deployed at the consumption of fuel per ton traffic in countries that impose the Lestrem site (France), in all transported. In parallel, transport a maximum weight limit, workshops equipped for bulk companies are taking action in an • Queries on reception and stoloading, with the site’s Logistics area that has been long overlooked: rage at our customers’. teams monitoring the activity. The through their partnerships with This allowed the site to transmit objective is to deploy load-weight motivated carriers, these companies to the loader the ideal weight for optimization at all the European now devote a significant part of their each tank. In parallel, the loaders sites in due course. continuous training programs to established loading standards instructing drivers on how to save that allowed them to achieve loads fuel. FRANCE increasingly closer to the ideal 22 RO Q U E T TE S U S TAI NAB LE D E VE LO P M E NT & AC T I V I T Y R E P O RT 2 01 4 23 Human Capital The challenges of Human Capital The company’s Human Capital is made up of all the men and women who contribute to the dynamism and performance of the Group. For this capital, the challenges include guaranteeing safety at the work place, promoting dialogue and developing employee skills and diversity. O U R CO M M IT M E N T S 1 2 Priority on safety The importance of dialogue In all our activities, safety is our absolute top The actions we have launched to develop listening priority. We have put in place numerous tools to and dialogue are key elements for our employees. develop a true Safety Culture. Our ultimate For example, mobilizing people around the target is Zero Accidents, and our immediate company’s strategic objectives and values through objective is to achieve a lost-time injury integration programs is essential so that they frequency rate (FR1) of 1 or lower by 2016. understand and share the challenges ahead. 3 4 Cultivating our talents Commitment to diversity We anticipate the skills needed for the company’s Women and men of different origins, young people future and develop the knowledge and expertise of and seniors, the disabled, all offer a rich diversity our employees through training programs. In order that we wish to cultivate within our company. We to preserve and transmit the existing knowledge are committed to equal opportunity and rely on the within our Group, we have established a system of skills of each and every member of our team. tutors and internal trainers. S U S TAI NAB LE D E VE LO P M E NT & AC T I V I T Y R E P O RT 2 01 4 25 Human Capital Priority on safety Guaranteeing the safety of all our employees is our No. 1 objective. We are implementing actions designed to achieve a lost-time injury frequency 10 factories of the Group rate (FR1) of 1 or lower by 2016. recorded an FR1 equal to zero This objective requires the participation and for 2014. Zero Accident objective achieved! mobilization of everyone. Safety first! compared with 41 in 2013). However, we deplore the fact that three ‘‘Safety first!’’ – that is the safety slofatal accidents involving employees Zoom on… gan adopted throughout the Group. For many years, safety has been our of external companies occurred at our Indian sites. Specific action plans Rules that save lives! absolute top priority, formalized by our Zero Accidents objective. in this region have been established, For three years, the Group PHOTO such as regular safety audits, traiWe believe that our safety perning in first aid, and safety talks at Safety Network has worked to develop a strong Safety TE STI M O N IA L formance is directly linked to our Visual Managethe start of each work day. Culture at all our sites. Made operational performance. Thus, afment and safety It is through the involvement of all up of the Group Safety directalks are key elements ter working on technical compliance our employees that our safety retor and the Safety managers to raise awareness among and establishing procedures, the the personnel and to anchor a sults will improve. from each region, this network ultimate step in attaining a Safety has jointly developed a set of Chester CHENG true Safety Culture. Culture is to focus on individual benine Golden Rules. A powerAsia Safety Manager havior, at all levels of the company. ful act of management, these rules provide a safety reference guide for the Group. Applicable at all our sites and translated into all the different languages Asia has met the Zero Accident addressed in each campaign, The absolute top spoken within the Group, they objective. What approach did such as: priority is formalized have been disseminated and you adopt to achieve this? • Safety talks, explained to each employee. In August 2014, Asia became the • HAZOP (HAZard and OPerabiby our Zero Accidents A poster was also created, first region in the Group’s histolity study), one of the methods objective. in which each Golden Rule is ry to attain a lost-time injury fremost used for industrial risk asclearly listed in the language of quency rate of zero. This means sessment, the country and illustrated by a that for 12 consecutive months, • Analysis of critical actions. representative pictogram (see none of our employees, at facLast but not least, before any acWorking to improve photo, opposite). tories or in offices, had any work Our approach is based on methods accident that involved lost time. tion in production, a discussion safety is firstly that have already proven themselon safety is engaged between ves at leading companies in this WO R L D The protection of people is one of operators and team leaders: this an ethical issue, our absolute priorities. The comdomain: general safety principles, mitment of senior management gives everyone an opportunity to but it’s also Golden Rules of safety, behavioexpress any concerns they may ral safety talks, audits... These are and the integration of a struchave about safety. The work is a powerful lever tured Safety Management System some of the actions that we have guide all our actions. thus accomplished under the best possible conditions. for performance. put in place to improve our results. HYGIENE AND SAFETY 2013 2014 GRI (1) In 2014, several initiatives were Each site throughout the world has Employee awareness and the Accidents with lost time FR1 (2) 2.9 2.7 G4-LA6 launched at each Chinese site. involvement of managers are esat least one safety manager, and The monthly safety campaign is campaigns to raise awareness are sential to optimize safety perforAccidents with or without lost time FR2 (3) 8.2 8.7 G4-LA6 one of the key activities to raise launched each year. mance. awareness among employees and In 2014, we noted a reduction in the Lost days 1,768 1,460 G4-LA6 to develop a Safety Culture. Denis MAITRE number of lost-time injuries at our A sp e cif ic s afet y th e me is CHINA Group Industrial Director Severity Rate (4) 0.12 0.10 G4-LA6 sites (38 lost-time injuries in 2014, (1) Perimeter and GRI: see page 54 (3) FR2 = Frequency Rate 2: number of accidents declared per million hours worked (2) FR1 = Frequency Rate 1: number of accidents (4) Number of lost days (not including the day of with lost time per million hours worked the accident) per thousand hours worked 26 RO Q U E T TE S U S TAI NAB LE D E VE LO P M E NT & AC T I V I T Y R E P O RT 2 01 4 27 Human Capital The importance PHOTOS of dialogue Two workshops at the Group Welcome Seminar: the Corporate Functions Forum and Discovering Our Customers. At Roquette, listening is a constant commitment. For a successful integration The sense of proximity, which is a strength of a The integration of a new employee Zoom on… family-owned group, provides a richness that we is also a powerful moment for dialogue, both for the participant and cultivate every day, to develop dialogue and to for the organization and the team ATLAS, a portal full of promote the adoption of the company culture s/he is joining. resources by all employees. Integration objectives: ATLAS is a work space for all • Adoption of the company culture the Logistics personnel at our and understanding of its organisites in Europe. More efficient together Among the subjects at the heart of zation, This new portal provides acthese exchanges, the development • The feeling of belonging, by decess, in a convivial form and Dialogue first means involving and of a true customer culture is a major veloping contacts within teams, in a spirit of sharing, to forums mobilizing all of the Group’s empriority. To be a customer-oriented • Getting up to speed in the new for discussion, project manageployees around a project, a vision company, we believe that a single job, to improve efficiency and ment, a documents library and and shared values. It also means vision must guide all our employees: impact. exchanges on best practices. sharing the expertise of others, imachieving excellence in customer In this context, the manager’s role is Accessible also to our external proving one’s own knowledge by satisfaction. essential. A guide, ‘‘For a Successful partners (carriers, warehouses, benefiting from the experiences of others, and working together Numerous initiatives have been Induction’’, was published in 2014 to cleaning stations, etc.), the porto innovate and move forward. On launched to help build this culture, help managers assist in the inductal facilitates the relations that the strength of our conviction that such as sharing video testimonials tion and accompaniment of their we maintain daily with these well-being and dialogue at the work from customers with the teams. new employees. key actors to meet our complace are powerful drivers for perAnother initiative to promote intemon objective: the satisfaction formance, we are committed to gration: the Group Welcome Semiof our customers. fostering the engagement of all nar. This induction seminar for new EUROPE employees in the company vision. employees provides three days Since 2010, at all Group sites, Zoom on… multicultural and transversal of transversal, inter-business and we have organized every year environment, intercultural training (see Zoom, ‘‘HORIZON’’ meetings to review page 28). Other business integraThe Group Welcome • Share the Group’s values and tion programs have also been put the results of the past year and to principles of action, Seminar, an interactive in place within the different sectors share, with all the teams, our vision • Develop the feeling of belonEmployee departures in 2014 on the company’s projects and obevent of the company, such as in Logistics, (Roquette Group) ging to the company and to its jectives. Equally important are the For the second consecutive year, for example. network… managerial meetings that provide two integration seminars for a seThe success of these meetings employees with an opportunity lect group of new managers were is undeniable. Testimonials from to express their views, to receive organized by the Group Human participants reflect the strong in2 answers to their questions and to Resources Dept. More than 40 terest in learning more about the 180 open a dialogue. employees from the USA, Belcompany and interacting with gium, Finland, France, Hungary, the other participants and guest WORKFORCE (1) 2013 2014 GRI (2) Italy, the UK, Turkey, Singapore speakers. and China participated in preEurope 4,771 5,133 (3) G4-10 ‘‘This seminar was really interes1 2014 sentations, site visits and team 310 ting and extremely beneficial. I America 602 569 G4-10 3 workshops, completed by meeparticularly appreciated the in116 tings with representatives from Asia 1,309 1,153 (4) G4-10 teractivity of the workshops. the main Corporate Functions. Employee These seminars serve multiple All employees should be given India 1,256 1,261 G4-10 4 an opportunity to participate!’’ engagement is the objectives: Tom PORTER, Global IT PerforGROUP 7,938 8,116 G4-10 5 12 62 • Discover the Roquette Group keystone to customer and its strategy, mance Manager HIRES / DEPARTURES 2013 2014 GRI satisfaction. • Develop the customer culture, New hires (excluding acquisitions) 423 380 G4-LA1 1 Resignations 4 Other departures • Provide the keys to evolve in a WO R L D 2 Terminations 5 Deceased Departures 499 680 G4-LA1 3 Retirees (1) Open-Term Contracts and Fixed-Term Contracts at 31 Décember (2) Perimeter and GRI: see page 54 (3) Increase in the workforce primarily related to the acquisition of Amilina (Lithuania) (4) Decrease in the workforce related to a restructuring plan at Lianyungang (China) with the closing of the old factory 28 RO Q U E T TE S U S TAI NAB LE D E VE LO P M E NT & AC T I V I T Y R E P O RT 2 01 4 29 Human Capital Cultivating Identify the key areas our talents of expertise of our company and develop At Roquette, the human dimension is essential. To them. innovate, to achieve success and to be ever more efficient in the service of our customers, we work to attract top talent and allow all our employees to express their potential. Promoting the transmission of know-how To develop the talents of tomorrow, work placements and apprenticeships are paths to excellence at our French sites. These programs of tutors and the management. To reinforce the transfers of skills and knowledge, we have created the status of tutor and internal trainer, signed our 2014 Generations Contract, and integrated these misPHOTO 20.5 hours of training sions into the annual objectives of Transmission of knowledge between give young people the opportuemployees concerned. tutor and student at Beinheim (France). on average per employee nity to learn about the business throughout the Roquette Group through contact with professionals in 2014 (1). eager to share their experience and Accompanying the their passion. They also benefit the professional development company, which is enriched through of each employee Zoom on… contact with new profiles. We consider training as a strategic Zoom on… In 2014, the Lestrem site (France) investment for the development of The VIKAS project hosted 32 students on work/traiour company and our employees. Vikas means development: in Group experts ning schemes from all levels of Our training programs focus on the this case, the development of 48.2 SPRING is the name of the prostudy in a wide range of sectors, business, safety, languages, IT and our activities in India, which beject initiated in 2014 to set up 2 including Maintenance, Producmanagerial skills. Along with intergins with Human Resources. In 1 Europe networks of experts within the within their area of expertise. tion, Purchasing, Reliability, Safety, nal mobility and professional career this perspective, a program for Roquette Group. The goal of this 2 Asia Their role is also to capitalize on Logistics, Quality Control and the development, training represents a sponsoring Indian students in project is to identify key areas of the existing knowledge within the 3 India Company Restaurant. Each year, key tool that not only helps meet the France was launched in 2014, expertise at our company and Group and actively monitor deve4 America an event is organized to honor the needs of the company but also gives in partnership with the Institut develop them, with the ultimate lopments in their field in order to people involved in these work placeemployees the means to achieve their Supérieur d’Agriculture in Lille objective being to reinforce our promote innovation. ments and salute the engagement personal and professional ambitions. (ISA). competitiveness and conquer The experts contribute to the Roquette participated in the new markets. Four challenges activity of their network, notably 25.7 selection of two students and have been targeted: through the development and will host them at the Lestrem • Development, 4 transfer of knowledge. site (France) for their two-year 18.5 • Innovation, The specialists act as training ISA program, which will include • Capitalization of knowledge, tutors. They contribute to the dea number of different work pla1 • Recognition of experts. velopment of expertise by shaZoom on… the information systems and train cements. Upon completion of In addition to classic skills such ring know-how and by identifying the teams involved at each of the their training, the students will as the management of teams practices that need to evolve. entities of the Group. At the Casjoin the teams of Roquette India New standards for reliable and projects, SPRING seeks to Nutrition, energy and the envisano site (Italy), for example, 35 with positions in production or consolidation! recognize the pathways devoted ronment, process engineering… members of the Finance Departengineering. these are just a few of the areas 2.1 ment increased their knowledge This first experience focuses to the sharing of knowledge. In In 2014, Roquette adopted the practice, a project team has been of expertise that have already 3 of the new standards and their on skill development, cultural International Financial Reporting put in place and three levels of been identified and for which an impact on the subsidiary’s acdiversity and integration. In this Standards (IFRS) for the preparacontribution have been specifiinitial list of experts has been escounting. way, it is designed to train the tion of the Group’s consolidated cally identified. tablished. managers of tomorrow. accounts. The mission of senior experts is Average number of hours of A project was launched to adapt I TA LY INDIA WO R L D to construct and run a network training per employee in 2014 (1). (1) restricted perimeter: see page 54 30 RO Q U E T TE S U S TAI NAB LE D E VE LO P M E NT & AC T I V I T Y R E P O RT 2 01 4 31 Human Capital Commitment PHOTO Soda-blasting involves projecting a natural to diversity a b rasive (so dium carbonate) with the help of compressed air at low pressure, We believe that the diversity of careers and profiles in order to strip of our employees is a major asset for our company. Zoom on… o r cl e a n surfaces. We take pride in the fact that the men and women Diversity... an asset and a who make up the Roquette Group are all driven by a richness passion for the job. Roquette’s international dimension is more than just words: more than 8,000 employees in 25 countries, speaking 20 lanPromoting gender equality indicator has been established to guages and boasting more than measure the proportion of women Changing our preThere are no ‘‘male jobs’’ or ‘‘female 45 nationalities... and so many attaining positions of managerial conceptions about jobs’’, only stereotypes that we must differences in terms of culture! continue to eradicate. Even today, responsibility. the disabled Our personal references are Roquette has long been educational programs still tend not always those of others. committed to promoting to guide young people towards Uniting the generations 5.2 Stereotypes and prejudice can the employment of the dicertain professions based on their sometimes lead to misundersDiversity unites the generations, % sex. At Roquette, promoting gender sabled. We communicate on tandings. But this cultural dihelps develop the skills of young the topic and work regularly equality is a daily commitment. For versity is also a real asset for people and allows experienced with companies in the protected example, we are highly mobilized to the company, so long as it is proemployees to continue to share their sector (companies for which the direcruit and promote women in our perly decoded and understood. know-how. In France, Roquette has sabled represent more than 80% of more technical activities. Our Group This decoding was the theme adopted a “Generations Contract’’, their workforce). Since 2008, some has also made equal opportunity of an employee conference led which calls for 50% of all new 15 French employees have worked by an inter-cultural specialist a fundamental principle in its policies on remuneration, training recruits to be young people, with within SACHa (Savoir Accompagner Zoom on… Employment rate at the Lestrem site (France). at least 30% from work placement Chaque Handicap), a group whose of disabled workers at our and career development. A specific Among the cultural dif fecontracts. These new hires benefit mission is to change people’s preFrench sites in 2014. Our rences examined: the diffeSoda-blasting a good way from an integration program and conceptions about disabilities and commitment is to achieve rent relationships with time or are given a mentor. First adopted to recycle! the legal rate of 6% help the company become more belonging to groups, private three years ago, the Generations open to the disabled. For more than 20 years, the facby 2016. and public life, styles of comContract also calls for at least tory of Lestrem (France) has munication and management, 1% of new recruits to be seniors called on companies from the the impact of viewing things through a cultural prism. The There are no male aged 55 or over, who also benefit from reclassification programs, in protected sector, and more particularly the adapted-employresult: an audience that better jobs or female jobs, particular for personnel working in ment cluster Pôle Travail Adapté, the adapted company who work understands that ‘‘our cultures shifts and those about to transition which is managed by the Associaeach day at a new unit of 250 m2 are our wealth!” only stereotypes. to retirement. For 20 years, we have tion Les Papillons Blancs in Hazeat the industrial site of Lestrem, brouck (France). Some 14 of their in full respect of the technical WO R L D grown together and employees work each day at the and safety regulations in applideveloped new skills. Lestrem site. In 2013, Christophe cation. Soda-blasting, the cleaMaes, Director of Pôle Travail ning method used, is simple and In the soda-blasting Adapté, suggested to Roquette already used to clean the hulls of process, there is the idea of a new workshop for boats, for example. Inaugurated in November 2014, this new unit cleaning pallets. Agro-food stanPROFESSIONAL EQUALITY (1) 2013 2014 GRI (2) no such thing as dards are very strict, and the is a good example of a win-win partnership. It perfectly illustrates Men workforce 6,352 6,450 G4-LA12 mental and physical slightest stain on a pallet means our approach on industrial comit has to be scrapped, represenincluding % managers 12.5% 12.8% G4-LA12 challenges… ting a financial and environmenpetitiveness and sustainable detal impact for the company. Afvelopment. Furthermore, it proWomen workforce 1,586 1,666 G4-LA12 ter several months of study in vides a concrete response to the close collaboration with the Purchallenges of diversification and including % managers 12.6% 12.7% G4-LA12 sustainable employment of the chasing, Technical, Works, QuaMichael DUFNERR lity and Legal departments of Rodisabled. Ratio Women/Men 25.0% 25.8% G4-LA12 Manager of SAPHA, quette, today the idea is a reality. There are now three people from FRANCE (1) Open-Term Contracts and Fixed-Term (2) Perimeter and GRI: see page 54 an adapted company Contracts at 31 Décembre (3) Perimeter: France 32 RO Q U E T TE S U S TAI NAB LE D E VE LO P M E NT & AC T I V I T Y R E P O RT 2 01 4 33 Industrial Capital The challenges of Industrial Capital Our Industrial Capital is represented by the Group’s factories, processes, R&D activities and capacity of investment. The challenges regarding this capital include the generation of value and development of these elements, while optimizing productivity and energy consumption at all of our units... O U R CO M M IT M E N T S 1 2 Innovating with R&D Improving for our customers our performance Our ambition to rank among the most We continue our efforts to optimize innovative companies in our industrial energy consumption and to invest in sector can be seen in the number renewable energy in order to reduce and scope of our research programs, greenhouse gas emissions. At all our which are in keeping with key areas of factories, industrial performance is development, and more particularly in steered with ANTARES, our continuousnutrition and health. improvement program. S U S TAI NAB LE D E VE LO P M E NT & AC T I V I T Y R E P O RT 2 01 4 35 Industrial Capital R&D innovation PHOTO Cooking workshop at the Institut Poly technique for our customers LaSalle Beauvais (France): Marie-Hélène SANIEZ, Roquette Group N utr iti o n D i re c to r, h e l p s G i l b e r t (8 5 years old) prepare Innovation is one of the pillars of growth for our a meal. Group, which continually seeks to develop new products and solutions that best respond to customer expectations and the needs of tomorrow. Skills in R&D scientific developments in order and that can include external R&D to identify opportunities and optipartnerships both upstream and The domains of activity at Roquette mize our production processes. The downstream of our internal areas are very broad and diversified. It is expansion of our range of new soof expertise. This type of “open inimportant, however, that we concenlutions relies on short-term as well novation” can lead to the developtrate our efforts on market sectors where we can establish leading poas long-term activities. Short-term programs mobilize existing skills ment of exciting new solutions. Roquette is a global player that Zoom on… sitions thanks to the performance and means on rapid developments seeks to develop its activities in the Nutrition-Health of our product range. In particular, in support of commercial activities. major geographic zones, each of A project to preserve the The 21st century began with signifiwe focus on the domains of food In these cases, we work to complete which has its own specific characteautonomy of seniors cant socio-demographic and econoand nutrition, oral hygiene, bodily the existing product ranges. The ristics and needs. It is important themic changes around the globe (proRemaining autonomous as long development and well-being, and long-term activity mobilizes means refore to be able to rely on specific longation of life expectancy, major as possible, that is at the heart of the prevention of obesity and diaand skills that are more diversified means of research and application demographic shifts, etc.). Changes a project on food supplements betes. Our Research & Development development in the different rein eating habits, associated with a to combat malnutrition and to activities are also targeted towards gions. This is why, in 2013, Roquette more sedentary lifestyle, have also maintain the muscular mass industrial sectors such as paper, waestablished an R&D base in Shanled to an explosive rise in the number Preserving obesity and diabetes of seniors. Insufficient protein ter treatment and high-performance ghai (China), as an addition to the of cases of obesity and diabetes. We In the prevention of diabetes and consumption can be an aggraplastics. In parallel, our teams acApplication Development Center must respond to this challenge by obesity, the use of NUTRIOSE® or vating factor in muscle loss, tively monitor technological and already in place. providing adapted solutions in NuSWEETPEARL® in food products which already affects adults trition-Health. can help reduce the body’s glycebetween the ages of 20 and 80, In 2014, the World Health Organimic response. This has been proven and leaves the elderly increazation (WHO) revised its nutritional in clinical trials and recognized by singly fragile and dependent. recommendations and urged public various authorities, notably in 2013 Following the recommendations authorities to take action against this and 2014 by the nutrition experts of of prescribing physicians, the epidemic. With an aging population the European Food Safety Agency advantages of the NUTRALYS® pea protein in specially adapted Zoom on… The strength of and a rise in chronic pathologies related to food, preserving the planet’s (EFSA). recipes have been validated by EHPAD (Établissement d’Héberour R&D is based natural resources remains a major Maintaining the health capital gement pour Personnes Agées HPBCD at the heart of a issue. In particular, research in alPlant-based proteins derived from on a diverse ternative sources of protein has bepeas or microalgae offer a sustaiDépendantes-Nursing home for medical project dependent old people), thanks and high-level come a major economic objective. nable alternative for the developto a study evaluating the sense Niemann-Pick disease refers to cognized in the USA and in the To respond to these challenges, our ment and maintenance of muscle a group of hereditary metabolic European Union as a so-called set of scientific contribution in Nutrition and Health function, notably for athletes inteof satisfaction during their consumption by test particidiseases. In type C (NPC), it alters the flow of lipids in cells, leaorphan drug for the treatment of and technological rests on three axes: rested in alternative protein supplepants. The practicality and the NPC, proving its efficacy in tests • Prevention of obesity and diaments that are as efficient as dairy, a ding to their accumulation in the on mice with the disease. By proskills. betes, reference in this field. Furthermore, economic accessibility of this brain and throughout the orgaviding HPBCD, Roquette is proud protein solution have also been as of age 40, human beings lose nism, and provoking a wide numto participate in this great pro• Physical development (from recognized by culinary experts on average 1 to 2% of their muscle ber of symptoms similar to those ject, led by doctors and pharmanewborns to adults) and mainteand restaurant chefs outside mass annually. Over the years, this observed in cases of Alzheimer’s. ceutical companies in the service nance of health capital, retirement homes. Foods natuloss leads to a reduction in physical The disease affects nearly 1 out of of patients and their families. • Oral hygiene. rally enriched with proteins also ability, making the elderly progres100,000 people in the European Thierry MARCEL Supported by solid scientific proof, sively less autonomous. This makes reinforce the social benefits of Union (EU). Hydroxypropyl-ß-cyDirector, Group Research & meals. the nutritional benefits of our proit essential to eat proteins that reWO R L D Development clodextrin (HPBCD) has been reducts respond directly to these generate and maintain the muscles. WO R L D challenges. Roquette is involved in OPTIFEL 36 RO Q U E T TE S U S TAI NAB LE D E VE LO P M E NT & AC T I V I T Y R E P O RT 2 01 4 37 Industrial Capital PHOTOS Tr a n s p a r e n c y a n d resistance to scratching, two key properties among 300 the many new technological (Optimization of Food for the Elpromises of isosorbide derly), a four-year European program coordinated by INRA (Institut national de la recherche agronomique) with 26 European partners and three million euros in support people from the European Union. As part of the program, Roquette provides inwork daily in the Group’s main novative ingredients of plant-based Research & Development Center origin (peas, wheat, microalgae) based at Lestrem (France). that can be incorporated into new solutions adapted to the needs of the elderly. These components will be studied in clinical trials in five different countries. Preserving oral hygiene R e c e n t s t u d i e s h ave s h ow n Malnutrition affects 5 th at subs titutin g suga r with to 10% of the elderly our SWEETPEARL® maltitol in chewing gum contributes to the in cities, 25% in homes remineralization of tooth enamel for the elderly and and, as a result, to promoting oral hygiene throughout a person’s life. 50% in hospitals. A Plant-based chemistry Roquette has won the recognition module in the Masters The use of plant-based sources to of scientific academic communities program on the produce chemicals and other products is an age-old practice (soaps, Zoom on… and that of its customers thanks to lubricants, construction materials, its investments, to its dedicated Biology of Aging has paper-based products) and one research teams in Nutrition, and Isosorbide, performance to their works published in highly been established to that is taking a new place in indusfirst try today. Plant-based chemistry regarded scientific journals. inform future health responds to environmental and Isosorbide is a molecule obbenefit from greatly improved professionals on societal challenges that industry tained through the dehydraproperties of transparency and must quickly tackle. Bio-sourced tion of sorbitol. It intrinsically UV stability. the aggravating role alternatives tend to offer a lower possesses all the attributes neThis polymer goes even farther of malnutrition on carbon footprint than fossil-based cessary to become an alternain terms of sustainable developproducts. For example, bio-sourced tive of choice for bisphenol A. ment since its mass can be direcZoom on… network of experts, thus contrigeriatric syndromes succinic acid releases 1 kg of CO2 per Bio-sourced and non-toxic, isotly tinted, avoiding the need for buting to the reinforcement of a common food-safety culture. For and on the importance kilo of product, compared with fossil-based adipic acid, which releases sorbide’s chemical properties make it an ideal candidate in the paints. For the automobile sector, Food safety, a daily this means gains in productivity, many years, indicators and investof nutritient intakes. 9 kg. But better environmental perworld of polymers, particularly optimization of costs, and above challenge ments have helped us to anchor formance on its own is not enough. for technical polymers. Beyond all a reduction in Volatile Organic For our customers, food safety food safety at the heart of our Plant-based chemistry must also its natural advantages, it is priCompounds (VOC) generated and quality are top priorities. This business. Our results are the fruit provide economic and technical marily for isosorbide’s technical when finishing parts. is why Roquette strives daily to of the experience acquired, the performance. It also seeks to deveproperties that polymer manuIn parallel with these advantages, earn their trust by guaranteeing constant updating of proven stanlop additional properties, whenever facturers have put their trust its use in design also remains insafe and healthy products. Faced dards, our common culture and Prof. Éric BOULANGER possible. With this in mind, we are in Roquette for the launch of novative: Suzuki’s Hustler, Car of with a rise in health concerns and the involvement of all members (MD, PhD) developing solutions for high-pertheir new materials. An example the Year 2015 in Japan, is a perfect increasing customer demands, of Roquette. Vice President, Lille 2 University formance plastics: isosorbide, for of this is Mitsubishi Chemical’s example. Roquette reaffirms its commit(France), International Relations, example, allows the production of DURABIO®, manufactured from ment to food safety through an Aging Biology/Geriatrics/School materials with improved optical and our isosorbide. Thanks to isosorWO R L D WO R L D active and continuously evolving of Medicine mechanical characteristics. bide, polycarbonates can now 38 RO Q U E T TE S U S TAI NAB LE D E VE LO P M E NT & AC T I V I T Y R E P O RT 2 01 4 39 Industrial Capital Improving our performance Together, let’s continue At Roquette, the goal of industrial excellence relies to write our story, so on continuous improvement, the implementation that our best practices of solutions to promote energy efficiency, and the use of renewable energy sources. We also deploy become the standards a wide range of measurement tools, management of tomorrow methods and technologies designed to increase and contribute to performance. the accelerated development of Continuous improvement methods to boost efficiency, such Industrial Excellence as Visual Management and permust serve to: the Group. Improving industrial performance is formance reviews, have been put • Create, develop, supone of our key priorities. In 2010, the in place to steer the improvement port and anchor stanANTARES continuous improvement of performance at the workshops, dards for the business program was launched with five pishare experiences on problems sectors, lot projects at the French sites of encountered in the field, and work • Support industrial projects, Lestrem and Beinheim and the SpaFranck MORALY nish site of Benifayo. towards common objectives. in particular the deployment The anchoring phase is essential and management of ANTARES Director, Group Industrial Excellence As of 2011, ANTARES was deployed for a long-lasting approach to and MES (Manufacturing ExecuTE STI M O N IA L throughout the rest of the Group. continuous improvement. The aution System), Initially, training actions on the prodit tool, for example, serves to evagram and the tools were launched. • Formalize best industrial pracluate a product line, a workshop, a Next, a project with quantitative department or an entire factory and tices and develop know-how, Magali MORINOchallenges was defined for each helps ensure that the principles of • Create optimal conditions for the VERONET Zoom on… workshop. A detailed diagnosis continuous improvement are restransfer of skills, was then made with all participants pected according to the defined Project Manager Group Energy • Run the business-se ctor The first label goes to the around the four TSOE factors: Techcriteria. Following a successful audit, networks, & Environment Spanish site! nical, Social, Organizational and a label is then awarded (see Zoom, Economic. Lastly, working groups • Provide methodological, techopposite). Today, best practices In December 2014, the Beniwere established. Today, tools and nical and human support to the are shared throughout the Group. fayo factory (Spain) became industrial teams. the first in the Group to be Is preparation necessary awarded the label ‘‘Planta en to measure energy perforMejora Continua’’ (factory in Energy efficiency mance? Do these standards only continuous improvement) unapply to the French factories der the ANTARES program. A major objective to ensure comIt is imperative to measure the energy performance of our proof the Group? The label recognizes the impetitiveness, energy efficiency is a plementation and consolidapowerful lever to improve perforduction workshops and ensure The Lestrem site (France) sertion of a culture of continuous mance and savings. It allows the the reliability of consumption data. ved as a pilot, but these stanimprovement, thus rewarding Group to control costs by optimiThis is why calculation standards dards are now being deployed the efforts and involvement of zing production processes and liand counting methods have been throughout the Group. In paall employees, at all hierarchimit its environmental footprint by developed, notably for steam and rallel, this approach to ensure cal levels, throughout all secreducing CO2 emissions. Different natural gas. reliable energy measurement tors of the site. The move prosolutions have been implemented These were developed jointly with will be used to make pertinent vides strong encouragement to at all our sites for many years and the teams in charge of Industrial comparative analyses of enercontinue to improve! are intensifying: multiplication of Development (Energy Cell, Ingy performance of the diffeenergy-recovery systems, use of dustrial Information System) and rent workshops of the Roquette PHOTOS high-performance equipment for Maintenance, in order to provide Group. S PA I N an optimal response to the needs The Benifayo factory in Spain became the first in the Group to obtain the ANTARES label: cogeneration, evaporators to reWO R L D ‘‘Factory in Continuous Improvement’’. cover process heat, motors with of the operational units. 40 RO Q U E T TE S U S TAI NAB LE D E VE LO P M E NT & AC T I V I T Y R E P O RT 2 01 4 41 Industrial Capital variable speeds, etc. In order to continue our efforts in this domain, we are committed to the progresPHOTO sive implementation of a structured Energy Management System at our The Energy Energy efficiency relies on the opsites. This is a tool used for the daily performance indicator timization of equipment and processes. At Lestrem (France), management of energy consumption at the workshops, which use a provides a consistent for example, technical optimizations in the refining of dashboard to monitor the energy method to aggregate starch have led to significant reductions in energy performance of their equipment and to identify areas for improvethe performance levels PHOTO consumption at the corn starch unit. This instalment. This tool requires the involof all our centralized lation is run from the vement of all the personnel and M e e ti n g of G ro u p control room. services involved in production. tools for the Energy & Environment specialists at the Beyond improvements on equipproduction of heat Benifayo site (Spain). ment or the choice of best technologies, the gains are initially expec(traditional boilers, ted to bear on the optimized use cogeneration, etc.). 1.02 of the site’s existing equipment. Our ambition to certify our EnerThis applies to all types gy Management System, under the ISO 50001 international standard, of fuel used within the seeks to promote recognition of Roquette Group. our know-how and our engagement in energy efficiency among our stakeholders, primarily our customers, our employees and our 2014 Energy perforsocietal environment. mance indicator ratio Jean-Pierre DUDA up 1% from a year earlier, in line Head of The Roquette Group with the objective. Energy & Environmental Expertise PHOTO The Gurnee site (USA) has Energy taken significant action to generate energy savings. performance ENERGY CONSUMED 2013 2014 GRI (1) indicator Zoom on… Electricity GWh (2) 2,280 2,291 G4-EN3 Launched in 2012, this indicaEnergy savings sponsored! the overall energy consumption of Natural Gas GWh 7,163 6,997 G4-EN3 the factory (natural gas savings), tor tracks the performance of In the USA, the Gurnee site’s centralised production tools teams are very active when it but thanks to its partnership with The project team Domestic fuel m 3 1,008 735 G4-EN3 the energy supplier, the site also that use heat. This indicator is comes to energy savings. One of benefited from advantageous achieved a 5% Coal + Pet coke kt (3) 335 362 G4-EN3 expressed as a ratio between the latest successes was a project the actual average operational sponsored by the plant’s energy conditions on the price of the reduction in overall new equipment for the recovery yield of all our boilers and a target yield set by a European supplier, North Shore Gas. The project involved setting up a sysof calories. energy consumption ENERGY PRODUCED 2013 2014 GRI (1) directive (Directive 2004/8/ tem to recover the heat released An example to follow! at the American Electricity GWh 1,372 1,322 G4-EN3 CE). The ratio obtained is widuring production, and to reuse thout unit and the objective is it internally. The project team not factory of Gurnee. U N I T E D S TAT E S (1) Perimeter and GRI: see page 54 to be above 1. only achieved a 5% reduction in (2) GWh = Giga Watt per hour (3) kt = 103 metric ton 42 RO Q U E T TE S U S TAI NAB LE D E VE LO P M E NT & AC T I V I T Y R E P O RT 2 01 4 43 Industrial Capital Renewable energy sources fossil CO2 per year, with annual gas savings of 29,000 TEP (tons equiDirectly derived from natural revalent petroleum). The wood cosources, renewable energy is a primes from within a radius of 100 km mary non-degraded source that is around the site, and is harvested in considered inexhaustible over the a sustainable manner that has been very long term. This can take mulvalidated by the regional authorities. tiple forms: water pressure, wind, solar, geothermal, wood-generated Biogas is produced with an installaPHOTOS heat. Free of fossil carbon, these tion called a methanizer, which proenergy sources reduce our greencesses effluent from the production Work site and diagram of the twin shafts of house gas emissions and our depenworkshops. This biogas (methane) the deep geothermal project at Beinheim dence on fossil energy. is used to generate value, either di(France). rectly in boilers as a substitute for natural gas to produce steam, or in gas cogeneration turbines to produce electricity and heat. Low-carbon energy Zoom on… çaise De l’Environnement et de la Maitrise de l’Énergie). On the helps reduce our The geothermal project at strength of the initial results obgreenhouse gas Beinheim, a world first! tained following the drilling of this first shaft, a second well was emissions and our Geothermal, from the Greek geo drilled in 2014. This twin-shift de(the earth) and thermos (heat), sign allows one of the wells to dependence on exploits the thermal differential bring hot water to the surface, fossil energy within the earth’s crust by extracwhile the other well reinjects ting heat that can be used for sothe used water after the calosources. ciety or industry. ries have been withdrawn. Today, The region around our site at the next step of this project inBeinheim (France) presents intevolves constructing the surface resting geological characteristics, infrastructures (15 kilometers of notably aquifers with an unusually piping to bring the heat to the fachigh geothermal gradient (about tory of Beinheim, which must limit Roquette has used biomass and 170° C) at a depth of about 2,500biogas as renewable energy for the calorific loss to 5° C maximum; 3,000 meters. This particularity the geothermal station; the intermany years. Geothermal will be inspired the world’s first deep added soon (see Zoom, opposite). nal loop to generate value from geothermal project designed to this thermal energy at our indusThese sources are used to generate PHOTO provide energy to industry in the value by producing electricity and/ trial site, etc.). This experience will form of super-heated water. be a model for setting up other or heat, with cogeneration systems In 2014, 12,000 tons of straw fueled At the end of 2012, a first shaft and/or traditional boilers. local projects that could feed the biomass boiler at Calafat (Romania). was drilled to a depth of more municipal networks. As of 2016, Biomass is used to fuel many of our The world’s first deep than 2,500 meters. This work the geothermal station should was done by ECOGI (Exploitation boilers: this is notably the case in geothermal project de la Chaleur d’Origine Géotherprovide the Beinheim site with India, China, France, Romania and the equivalent of 23 thermal meLithuania. Our biomass boilers use designed to provide male pour l’Industrie), a consorgawatts out of the 90 it requires tium bringing together Groupe wood, straw or balls of rice, and can generate up to 100% of a proRENEWABLE ENERGY SOURCES 2013 2014 GRI (1) energy to industry in Électricité de Strasbourg, Caisse for its operations, thus allowing the site to avoid the emission of duction site’s needs in steam, thus Wood kt (2) (100% DS) (3) 85 89 G4-EN3 the form of des Dépôts and the Roquette more than 39,000 tons of fossil helping to limit climate change. The Group, with financial support wood biomass boiler at Beinheim super-heated water. from the French environmental CO2 into the atmosphere. Straw t (85% DS) 6,255 12,000 G4-EN3 (France) is a perfect example. Its use agency ADEME (Agence franFRANCE avoids the release of 75,000 tons of Biogas GWh (4) 47 32 G4-EN3 (1) Perimeter and GRI: see page 54 (3) DS = Dry Substance (2) kt = 103 metric ton (4) GWh = Giga Watt per hour 44 RO Q U E T TE S U S TAI NAB LE D E VE LO P M E NT & AC T I V I T Y R E P O RT 2 01 4 45 Societal Capital The challenges of Societal Capital Our Societal Capital includes the society around us, in which the stakeholders in our activities evolve. The challenges of this capital include developing a constructive dialogue to respond to the expectations of each stakeholder, and in particular to the expectations of our customers. O U R CO M M IT M E N T S 1 2 3 CSR at the heart of our Dialoguing with Engaging with local activities stakeholders communities Our approach to Corporate We engage in dialogue in a We consider it our duty as a Social Responsibility (CSR) is collaborative and transparent responsible company to provide integral to the creation of value manner with all stakeholders. support to local communities. for the Group and it is based Depending on the expectations We support projects in the on the respect of our Ethics of each, we adapt the mode territories in which we are principles. This approach is of dialogue and construct implanted. Directly in line with structured according to our sustainable relations, an the company’s mission, our commitments on the four essential factor for any actions give employees, who capitals. It helps improve responsible company. so desire, the opportunity to economic performance and, become involved in as a result, the sustainability these initiatives. of our company. S U S TAI NAB LE D E VE LO P M E NT & AC T I V I T Y R E P O RT 2 01 4 47 Societal Capital CSR at the heart of our activities Roquette’s strategy takes into account the Respecting the 10 Principles challenges of sustainable development, notably of the Global Compact Zoom on… by integrating the impact of its activity on the Since 2009, Roquette has been world around us. Our approach on Corporate Social party to the Global Compact of the Roquette ranked ‘‘Silver’’ United Nations. A leading global Responsibility (CSR) involves the preservation and initiative for corporate citizens, the In 2014, Roquette joined EcoVadis, an organization that manages sustainable development of the four capitals upon compact invites signatory compaa collaborative platform that which we balance our objectives and base the longnies to commit to 10 fundamental allows companies to evaluate principles on human rights, labor results. Roquette was evaluated lasting success of our company. standards, the environment and the the CSR performance of their suppliers, in 150 sectors and 95 and obtained a score of ‘‘Silver’’. fight against corruption. Each year, countries. The solution developed This very good result places our our Sustainable Development & by EcoVadis combines an internet company among the top 30% of Our CSR practices conduct, which must be respected Activity Report provides an opporplatform and a data-verification companies rated by EcoVadis. in all our activities, both within our tunity to present our actions based service, which serves to create Our international expansion means teams and with external stakeholon these 10 principles (see diagram WO R L D reliable summaries of C SR that our employees must exercise ders. In 2013, a Supplier Code of below). their activities throughout the world Conduct was added. 3 in the respect of our values and our Roquette also belongs to internatioethical principles. In 2014, Roquette nal organizations that seek to proupdated its Ethics Charter and Code mote ethical and responsible pracof Conduct, which were first draftices within supply chains. These ted in 2008. These documents are include SEDEX (Supplier Ethical Data based on the principles of the UniExchange) and ECOVADIS. These versal Declaration of Human Rights, organisms develop collaborative Uphold the freedom of association the International Labor Organizaplatforms to share with customers and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. tion (ILO) and the United Nations the CSR best practices established The Roquette Group respects this 2 4 Global Compact, of which we have within our company, as well as enviprinciple (pages 48 and 50). 8 been a signatory since 2009. They ronmental, social and societal evaalso reflect rules of good business luations and audit reports. The tree of our CSR Challenges Make sure that our Support the businesses are not elimination of all complicit in human forms of forced and rights abuses. compulsory labor. The Roquette Group The Roquette Group respects this principle Undertake initiatives respects this principle (pages 11 and 48). to promote greater (page 48). environmental responsibility. The Roquette Group respects this principle (pages 16 to 23, Zoom on… 7 The 2014 edition included a confe9 44 and 45). rence on the challenges facing the Support a Encourage the plastics industry to produce, use precautionary development Roquette, partner of and recycle plastics that respect approach to and diffusion of World Forum Lille mankind and the environment. environmental environmentally 1 5 challenges. friendly technologies. Since 2007, Roquette has supAmong the speakers, Christophe The Roquette Group The Roquette Group ported the ‘‘World Forum for a RUPP-DAHLEM, Director of InnoSupport and respect respects this respects this Support the vation Programs in Plant-Based the protection principle principle effective abolition Responsible Economy’’, an interof internationally (pages 18 to 21). (pages 40 to 45). of child labor. national event organized in Lille Chemistry at Roquette, talked PHOTO proclaimed human The Roquette (France) by Réseau Alliances to about the role of plant-based rights. Support the Work against Group respects this promote best practices of comchemistry in responding to this The Roquette elimination of corruption in all its principle (page 48). At the closing of the World Forum Lille 2014, challenge, notably through the Group respects this discrimination forms, including panies that exercise their activities 6 10 Tony MELOTO and Muhammad YUNUS proprinciple in respect of extorsion and vided testimonials on Social Business, an in a responsible manner. The obuse of renewable resources such (pages 11 and 48). employment and bribery. economic model in which companies seek a jective involves sharing, as broadly as cereals. occupation. The Roquette sustainable balance between the need to geThe Roquette Group Group respects nerate profits and the integration of social and as possible, experiences that prorespects this principle this principle WO R L D environmental challenges. mote sustainable development. (pages 32, 33, 48). (pages 11 and 48). 48 RO Q U E T TE S U S TAI NAB LE D E VE LO P M E NT & AC T I V I T Y R E P O RT 2 01 4 49 Societal Capital Dialoguing with Shareholders visit to Corby Initiatives focusing on exchanges and transparency allow the family stakeholders shareholders to become involved in the life of the Group. They can thus improve their knowledge of the business and its environment, and better understand the company’s Customers, shareholders, employees, partners, suppliers... Customer First! development. It is in this spirit that Roquette meets the expectations of its different stakeholders in 2014 the shareholders were inThe development of our customer culture is clearly affirmed in the by adapting its mode of dialogue. The examples below provide vited to Corby (U.K) to visit the site strategic orientations of the comand meet with the local managea perfect illustration. ment team. pany. Among the actions aimed at employees, two major themes have been retained: knowledge of Presenting the peas channel customers and improving the custo local officials tomer experience. Key information EXPECTATIONS EXPECTATIONS has been collected and made avaiVisits by local officials to our sites Respect of the regulations and the Growth, profitability and longlable to our 8,100 employees via a contribute to establishing an open environment, no pollution, industrial term viability of the Group, stable dedicated intranet site, with videos and transparent dialogue, while insafety, transparency, compliance, selfgovernance, accurate information on monitoring, benefits for the local economy, of customer testimonials, publicaforming them about our business. the Group’s activities, visibility on the decision-making and steering of projects, strategy and on the means of implementation, tions on customer events (visits, For example, Yves DAUDIGNY, Seinformation... trade fairs, etc.), ‘‘customer satisselection of investments... nator from Aisne and President of faction’’ indicators, etc. the Conseil Général, led a delegation of elected officials to the site Public of Vic-sur-Aisne (France) in 2014. Meetings, inspections, negotiations, The meeting provided informational meetings and Authorities, G e n e ral A sse mbly, informational meetings, site visits, corporate web site, an opportunity for discussions , media relations , Local Shareholders, intranet, Sustainable Development Sustainable Development & discussion on the Activity Report… Communities, Financial & Activity Report, reports from financial ratings agencies... challenges and Professional Institutions... difficulties enMODE OF DIALOGUE Organizations, MODE OF DIALOGUE countered by the site in the Partners, Media volatile peas channel. ORG ANIZATION Yes to the signature of a Generations Contract! The negotiations between the GeAn Open Doors audit for our neral Management and the trade Customers, customers unions at our four French sites reEXPECTATIONS Employees, Social Distributors, EXPECTATIONS 10 customers in the pharmaceusulted in a unanimous agreement Training, career development, Partners, Future Agents, Suppliers, Satisfaction, product ticals and nutraceuticals domain, on the Generations Contract to work conditions and safety, Employees... Service quality requirements, speed from Europe and India, were invited cover the next three years. With equitable remuneration, social of response, C SR, availability, benefits , balance between Providers... meetings of exchange and evaluation, to the Lestrem site (France) for an concrete actions adapted to today’s p rof e s si o n a l a n d p r i v ate l if e , transparency on purchasing conditions, Open Doors audit. The guests met economic realities, this contract information on the life of the Group... relations of trust... with members from various deseeks to: partments, including Quality, Sales, • Promote the sustainable insertion Logistics and Production. The twoof young people in jobs, day visit allowed them to analyze the Opinion sur veys , exchanges with staf f Performance reviews, audits, satisfaction • Promote hiring and continued representatives, employee negotiations, different certification documents surveys, contracts, general conditions of employment of seniors, internal magazine, intranet, HORIZON purchase, Supplier Code of Conduct, and to understand the organization • Ensure a smooth transition for meetings, Ethics Charter, Code of Conduct, c o r p o r a te we b s i te , S u s t a i n a b l e of the company. employees entering retirement, Sustainable Development & Activity Development & Activity Report... ‘‘This audit is an innovative and proReport... • Ensure the transmission of fessional initiative, a good expeknowledge and skills and reinMODE OF DIALOGUE MODE OF DIALOGUE rience and an opportunity to meet force intergenerational relations. with you’’ – Customer testimonial. 50 RO Q U E T TE S U S TAI NAB LE D E VE LO P M E NT & AC T I V I T Y R E P O RT 2 01 4 5 511 Societal Capital Engaging with ‘‘Raj Jaat Yatra’’ a local custom supported by Roquette India local communities The Nanda Devi Raj Jaat Yatra is a pilgrimage that takes place in India every 12 years in the region of Uttarakhand. Thousands of Hindus covered more than 280 kilometers in 20 days for this pilgrimage, which they consider a religious Our initiatives help us create sustainable ties with duty. For the event, the government communities. We support projects in the territories devoted a significant budget for the construction of roads and bridges. in which we are implanted, in connection with our The Pantnagar site is proud to provimission. de financial support for this festival, which is celebrated throughout Computers the region. for schools INDIA After updating its IT equipment with new-generation computers, Roquette Italy donated its former desktops and laptops to several neighboring schools. The equipment delighted youngsters and teachers alike. Culinary creativity I TA LY awarded At its Innovation Center in Geneva, ll., Roquette America organized its first competition on culinary imagination and creativity for students in the food sciences and culinary arts. For contestants, the mission was to develop an innovative food product using an ingredient made by Roquette. To further encourage the winners along this path, a financial prize was awarded. UNITED S TAT E S Advancing Research by pedalling Cycling between two distant production sites, The Lianyungang Lestrem (France) and Benifayo (Spain): this site heats the city was the challenge taken up by employees of the Group eager to participate in a great human and The Central Government of China athletic adventure. The 1,600 kilometers these is restructuring the heat-distribution cyclists covered were converted into donacenters of the city of Lianyungang, tions to DigestScience, a research foundawith a view to removing all existing tion on diseases of the digestive system coal-burning boilers. In the context of and nutrition. this initiative, our Chinese factory provides steam to heat a percentage of the FRANCE city’s residences, hospitals and governS PA I N ment buildings. It thus contributes to the improvement of living conditions of citizens and to the economic development of the region. CHINA 52 RO Q U E T TE S U S TAI NAB LE D E VE LO P M E NT & AC T I V I T Y R E P O RT 2 01 4 53 Annexes ANNEX 1 ANNEX 2 Reporting Committed and perimeters contributors For seven years now, the Roquette Guidelines’’ of the Global Reporting perimeter includes the legal entity The preparation, editing, illustracommunication correspondents, the Group has published a Sustainable Initiative (GRI), and our indicators Roquette Frères and all its subsidiation, translation and publication of Roquette photo library. Development & Activity Report. are listed according to the GRI ries controlled directly or indirectly this report each year relies on the Please feel free to write to us! classification (workforce indicators with a stake of more than 50% at 31 commitment and talent of numeReporting method G4-10 and G4-11, for example). December of the year of reference. rous employees throughout the ROQUETTE FRÈRES Service Développement Durable Each new Sustainable To ensure the reliability of our The restricted perimeter includes the legal entity Roquette Frères Roquette Group. We would also like to thank all external stakehol1, rue Haute Loge Development & information, we apply several and all its industrial subsidiaries inders who provided their exper62136 LESTREM FRANCE Activity Report is a methods prepared by the Group Tel : + 33.3.21.63.36.00 Human Resources Dept. and the tegrated into the Group for at least two years at 1 January of the year of tise, advice and assistance for the purpose of this report (in pardeveloppementdurable@roquette.com new human, social, Industrial Development Dept. These Roquette was inspired reference, controlled directly or inticular this year the team from Legal information: material, economic documents define the perimeters and provide, in a manner that is by the guidelines of directly with a holding of more than LES ENCHANTEURS). We thank To the best of our knowledge, all and environmental 50%, and employing a workforce of each of them for their precious colinformation contained in this docuprecise and easy to understand, the the Global Reporting more than 50 employees. laboration and contribution to the ment is accurate; however, all indiadventure, that we definitions of the indicators chosen in this report and in the management Initiative and lists its The environmental indicators: the development of this 2014 edition. cations, recommendations or sugbring to success Translation gestions are provided without any reports. Under the application of indicators according to perimeter defined concerns all inguarantees. Furthermore, none of together. the French law known as Grenelle dustrial sites integrated into the Linguistics Dept. (La Madeleine the information provided should be II (article 225), extra-financial the GRI classification. Group for at least 3 years at 1 JanuaFrance). considered as permission or incitareporting has become a requirement ry of the year of reference, controlled Printing tion to infringe on any existing pafor the company since 2013. The directly or indirectly with a stake of more than 50%, and for which the Reprographics Dept. (Lestrem tents. Partial or total reproduction of indicators and the information energy consumption is above 1,000 France). The paper used for this this report is forbidden, unless prior published in the management The perimeters: report comes from sustainably mawritten authorization is obtained Anne LAMBIN reports are reviewed by one of tons equivalent petroleum (TEP) per our independent external auditors, year (and above 5,000 TEP/year for naged forests. from Roquette Frères. Marie-Gabrielle BAILLY Several perimeters have been de® and ™ are registered trademarks KPMG. Much of the information the two last years that preceded the Photo Credits The Roquette Group Sustainable fined, based on the indicators. fiscal year for the three performance of Roquette Frères. Development Team is also listed in this report. Lastly, Laurent MAYEUX, David TRINH, Roquette was inspired by the ‘‘G4 The social indicators: the Group indicators). Maxime DUFOUR, our internal www.roquette.com 06/2015 EN1 54 RO Q U E T TE S U S TAI NAB LE D E VE LO P M E NT & AC T I V I T Y R E P O RT 2 01 4 55 Natural Human Industrial Societal Sustainably developing and preserving our four capitals
