SoftSkills Management Consultants Communication on Progress Year: 2014 STATEMENT SoftSkills is a firm of Management Consultants with its Head office in Lagos, Nigeria. The firm has a special focus on imparting soft skills that managers generally have difficulty defining, measuring and managing. Our goal is to assist organizations to motivate and inspire their employees to peak performance as evidence has shown this to be the key drive for successful corporate performance. SoftSkills Management Consultants has a crop of reputable corporate citizen as her staff at all levels. As a member of the Global Compact, our aim is to implement the ten principles in our business policies. Business policies of like terms as the ten principles are embraced by the board of our company. Through our support of the United Nations Global Compact, we also aim to move the agenda forward on performance related to human rights, labour rights, the environment and the fight against bribery and corruption. Documented in this report is the summary of the progress we have made against these principles and we will continue to follow them up in future 25th March, 2015 ‘Wonuola Adetayo, Date Managing Director/ CE Contact: ‘Wonuola Adetayo Date: 25th March, 2015 Email: wonutayo2002@yahoo.com Phone: +2348029990258 1|Page S/N Global Compact Action Taken & Impact Achieved and/or Plans for the Performance Principle upcoming Year Indicator 1 Businesses At SoftSkills, we believe human rights policies should be aimed Excellently done should support at encouraging equality and fighting discrimination amongst and respect the staff. All our workers are treated with fairness, promotion is on protection of merit and unbiased remuneration is given for their time at internationally work. We consistently strive to create a world class atmosphere proclaimed for our business processes and our workforce is gender human rights; balanced and females are treated with equal respect. 2 Business makes Our business processes and policies are within the stipulated Excellently done sure that they are Human right law in Nigeria. Our terms of engagement and not complicit in mode of operations are within Nigeria and ILO that guarantees human rights non-violation of human rights of employees in whatever forms. abuses. We ensure that we are in alignment with the Nigerian Constitution. 3 Businesses As an equality based organization, all our staff members have Excellently done should uphold the freedom to join any association of their choice without the freedom of intimidation. Some of our members belong to Chartered association and Institute of Personal Management (CIPM), Nigeria and Society the effective of Human Resource Management, USA (SHRM). None of our recognition of the staff members have been persuaded to come to the office for no right to collective insignificant reason. bargaining; 4 The elimination of As a discrimination free organization, our workplace is void of Excellently done all forms of forced staff intimidation. Our job offer letter is well explicit enough for and compulsory our incoming staff. Job description, targets, KPI and goals and labour; performance expectations are jointly agreed and clearly started. 5 The effective We discourage child labour in our work environment. None of Excellently done abolition of child our Staff member is below the legal working age – 18 years old. labour; The youngest staff on our payroll is 23 years old. 2|Page 6 The elimination of Our Human Resources Department have up-to-date records on Excellently done discrimination in recruitment, training, appraisals and promotion of our staff. respect of Going through the documents, a transparent view of employment and opportunities for employees and their progression within the occupation. organization is very clear. 7 Businesses To encourage a precautionary approach to environmental Excellently done should support a challenges, we have a developed code of conduct for our precautionary business operations and it is committed to upholding good approach to health and the environment. HSE Policy in place, HSE meeting environmental and audit are carried out on a regular basis. challenges; 8 Undertake At SoftSkills, we are known to measure, track and Excellently done initiatives to communicate our development in incorporating sustainability. promote greater We identify with and support various positive activities of other environmental organisations, corporate bodies and NGO’s that promote responsibility; environmental sustainability. 9 Encourage the SoftSkills is a knowledge firm, one of the ways we help to Excellently done development and diffuse environmentally friendly technologies includes ongoing diffusion of research and informing our communities on the advantages of environmentally recycling. We practice recycling our used paper materials friendly instead of thrashing or burning them when we do use paper as technologies. we try to reduce the use of paper materials by using CD Disc and emails, sms and other IT enabled devices for communication. 10 Businesses It is our standard practice never to give or collect bribes for the Excellently done should work jobs we do or the projects we solicit for. We pride ourselves on against all forms high levels of integrity, loyalty and transparency. Part of the of corruption, training and HR intervention to clients is hinged on good including governance, work ethics, professionalism and good corporate extortion and citizenship. bribery. 3|Page
