Annual COP 2015-AML United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress (COP) Abdul Monem Limited (AML) Reporting Year 2014 Reporting Period: 2013 -2014 Annual COP 2015-AML Message from the Chairman Dear Colleagues, Friends & Stakeholders: I am happy to put forward our Third Annual Communication on Progress (COP) for the year of 2013-2014. Let us emphasize on our continuous and active support to the Ten Principles of the UNGC’s Global Compact as regards to human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption along with new issue platforms of UNGC–Business for peace, education and Sustainable Agriculture comprised of Caring for Climate, Women’s Empowerment Principles, CEO Water Mandate, Children’s Rights and Supply Chain Sustainability. We continue to uphold the commitments and endorse Global Compact and its principles as part of the strategy, environment, culture and day to day operations of our Company. Abdul Monem Limited (AML) endeavors to retain public transparency and accountability in all its business segments adhering to our commitments to the UNGC objectives. Started as a Construction Company in 1956, we have built Abdul Monem Limited and diversified our business into many fronts. Our business ventures have a distinct appeal to the society for their inimitable qualities. AML’s focus on this philosophy of quality grew over the years by providing the best services and high quality products. To meet our long term growth objectives, we practice within a set of corporate principles on human rights, labor rights, environmental and anti-corruption. It is noteworthy to mention that our business operations are not in high risk or in any conflict-affected areas. Our company takes actions to advance UN goals and issues (such as development, disaster relief, health, education) through core business, philanthropy, advocacy and partnership activities. AML would like to reach the next level of corporate sustainability thorough Global Compact by increasing capacity of Local Networks, providing greater linkage with investors, developing specialized engagements platforms for actions e.g. Caring for Climate, Women’s Empowerment Principles and Collective options opportunities. As we are engaged with Global Compact Local Networks, we regularly receive assistance from Local Networks in implementing of the Global Compact principles, participating in policy dialogue, sharing practice and experience with peers, networking with non-business stakeholders and finding opportunities in collective actions. Annual COP 2015-AML I, as the Chairman and Managing Director, an ardent towards the UNGC and enduring support and commitment to the UNGC initiatives and its principles through 2014 and beyond. AML will continue to endeavor through its business values valu and commitments to encourage and uphold tthe United Nations Globall Compact principles by practicing good corporate governance. With best wishes Yours sincerely, Abdul Monem (Chairman & Managing Director) Abdul Monem Limited Annual COP 2015-AML Group Management Abdul Monem Chairman and Managing Director Abdul Monem Limited Mr. Abdul Monem is the founder of the Company and is working as the Chairman and Managing Director of the Abdul Monem Limited. A veteran Civil Engineer by profession Mr. Abdul Monem masterminded the AML Business, its expansion and Horizontal integration and diversification. For his splendid achievement in this respect, Mr. Abdul Monem is awarded “Commercially Important Person (CIP)” status by the Government of Bangladesh. A.S.M. Mainuddin Monem A.S.M. Mohiuddin Monem Deputy Managing Director I Deputy Managing Director II Abdul Monem Limited Abdul Monem Limited Mr. A.S.M. Mainuddin Monem, a Business Graduate from reputed Harvard Business School, USA, and Mr. A.S.M Mohiuddin Monem, an Industrial Engineer from North Eastern University, USA are the key management responsible for the Finance, Administration and Strategic Operational Management of the Company. Deputy Managing Director I and Deputy Managing Director II are also awarded “Commercially Important Person (CIP)” status by the Government of Bangladesh for their outstanding efforts to the Country of Bangladesh. Annual COP 2015-AML Annual COP 2015-AML Annual COP 2015-AML Communication on Progress (COP) Abdul Monem Limited (AML) has been committed to the ten principles of the UN Global Compact since 2009 and emphasizing the continuous supports and commitments to the Ten Principles of the UNGC’s Global Compact as regards to human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. The following table sustains our commitments to the ten principles of the UN Global Compact and progress made during the year of 2013-2014. Human Rights: Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the Protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Caring people, health and safety; managing sustainable environment and empowering societies. Practicing no discrimination on the grounds of race, gender, region, cast, color, or ethnic origins and treats all employees equally at the work place. Abdul Monem Limited (AML) always has given supports and practiced internationally declared human rights not only for our employees but also for the communities where we operate our businesses. In line of Human Resource philosophy of AML, we are an “equal-opportunity-employer.” Respect and protect the internationally proclaimed Human Rights practicing the labor Code-2006. Safeguard human rights and its protection and promotion. AML has prohibited child labor engagement. We have practiced no discrimination on the grounds of race, gender, region, cast, color, or ethnic origins and treat all employees equally at the work place. Being mindful to our female employees, “Maternity Benefit Scheme” has been offered to women who are on maternity leave. An “Employee Loan Scheme” has been offered for the immediate needs of the employees of AML to meet any unanticipated crisis. Approximately, 1,500 employees of AML have taken the advantage of this loan scheme with zero interest and easy repayment plan. Resemblance with fundamental rights such as right to equal opportunity, right to freedom of speech and association, right against exploitation, right for cultivating own culture and education. AML have managed to contribute a reasonable portion of our earnings to the underprivileged, distressed and poor people. For example, we have established educational institutions and foundations to enlighten the poor people of our locality with necessary knowledge. To meet and uphold the human rights, reduce poverty level, spread education among poor, promote peace and to help every citizen to enjoy religious rights. Annual COP 2015-AML Labor Standards Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labor Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Commitment to the right to freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; to use collective bargaining as a beneficial forum/medium for addressing working conditions and terms of employment, and relations between employers and workers. AML have provided workers’ representatives with appropriate facilities to assist in the development of effective collective agreement Commitment to address any problem-solving or other needs of interest to workers and management, including restructuring and training, safety and health issues, grievance and dispute settlement procedures, disciplinary rules, and family and community welfare. Senior officials of Human Resources Department and General Management of AML have regularly attended to the labor rights related open dialogue, round-table seminars in Bangladesh. Recently, we have attended to a round table dialogue/workshop on a topic of “Tripartite Constituents and key stakeholders“ jointly organized by ILO and Bangladesh Enterprises Institute. We are also a member of Bangladesh Employers Federation. Not to employ to any form of forced or compulsory labor in our working place; no form of threatening/violence or physical assault or sexual abuse present at our workplaces and we are trying to accomplish the higher standards of protection of workers in working It is mentioned that there is no form of threatening, physical assault or sexual abuse present at our workplaces and we have tried to accomplish the higher standards of protection of workers in our working areas. Commitment to follow our “Employee Code of Conduct,” Several training and short courses have been offered to the plants supervisors, safety officers and administrative officers. The training made awareness of understanding of the labor laws Every workers and employee have been appointed with accurate employment job description (written in easy Bengali and English language so that all employees can understand them) mentioning the terms and conditions of service and working conditions following Bangladesh Labor Code 2006/2013. All Employees have been entitled to enjoy all public declared holidays and their designated annual earned and sick leaves. Annual COP 2015-AML AML has managed to hold a compulsory yearly health checkup program at free of cost for all employees. We have maintained employees database with basic information mentioning date of birth. HRD has practiced strictly for obtaining National Identity Card and birth registration certificate from the workers to verify the legal age and status of candidates to avoid any form of child labor. Besides, HRD has practiced a “Recruitment Policy Statement” where fair, transparent, skill-based competitive employments have been encouraged and any discrimination in respect of race, gender, region, cast, color, ethnic origin are not allowed in recruitment process. HRD has continually updated with the local accepted labor laws enacted by Bangladesh Government. All employees have been treated equally at the work place. HRD has maintained up-to-date records on recruitment, training and promotion. HRD has already provided an apparent view of prospects for employees and their progression within the organization. For fostering of training of employees, Abdul Monem Skill Development Institute (AMSDI) has aimed to promote access to skills development training and to the non-skilled, semi-skilled and skilled workers. Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Commitments to conform to and caring for the Environment, Occupational Health, Safety and Quality procedures of our working area AML has incorporated with ISO 22000:2005, OHSAS management systems, HACCP management systems etc. To adhere company's policy of conserving natural resources, raw materials, water and energy by process improvements, recycling and reducing waste AML have completed OHSAS and PASS223 audit and practice the Occupational Health and Safety Policy for its employees and others as concerned. Technologies that use materials more efficiently and cleanly are applied to most of the companies under AML with long-term economic and environmental benefits. Commitments to the continuous progress of environment-friendly technologies; technologies that use materials more efficiently and cleanly can be applied to most companies under AML with long-term economic and environmental benefits. Annual COP 2015-AML Gardening and treated effluent recycling is being carried out in all our units to replenish the ground water. Dissemination of information available to stakeholders that illustrate the environmental performance and benefits of using su such ch technologies. AML has emphasized to control and improve the environ environmental mental performance to meet the challenges. Conforming to all of the environmental regulatory compliances and guidelines of Department of Environment (DoE), Ministry of Environment and Forest (MoEF), Bangladesh exercisi exercising the best possible usage of water consumption nsumption and reuse of treated waste water for drainage cleaning and irrigations. Refocusing research and development (R&D) towards ‘design for sustainability’. AML has encouraged forestations, gardens, reuse of treated water and has created environmental awareness among employees. We have installed Effluent Treatment Plant (ETP) to most of its plants areas to make the water pollutant free before discharging into the environment. Talented and research oriented R&D are continuously giving efforts for the de development velopment of pharmaceutical, construction, facilities service, financial and information management, Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery Practice and govern business by honesty, integrity, fair dealing and full obedience to all applicable business laws and ethic ethics. Practicing our Code of Conduct, we have discouraged employees in taking an offer or receipt of any form of gift, fee, reward or other advantage to or from any person as an inducement to do something which is dishonest, illegal or a breach of trust in our organization. Deplore any form of bribery, corruption and extortion in business. Employees have become totally responsive to honesty, nesty, integrity, fair dealing and full obedience to all applicable business laws and ethics. We have deplored any form of bribery, corruption and extortion in business. Our Internal Audit Teams have given supports in cconducting onducting inventory management, financial cial compliances management and related issues of all units twice a year with data records in ERP to ensure that all data ma match with primary terms and conditions and that no form of divergence is occurring. All units are by our own Enterprise Resource Pla Planning nning (ERP) package financial data are transparently transacted through ERP. Annual COP 2015-AML UN Goals and Issues Disaster Relief: Abdul Monem Limited organized its contributions toward humanity through Corporate Social Responsibility to Seectra Garments and RANA Plaza accidents victims. The catastrophic events are considered to be one of the deadliest industrial disaster and massive accidental structural failure in modern human history. A dedicated salvage team of 25 personnel including safety and administrative officer, excavator, crane, bulldozer, welder and machine operators, water-tank and pick-up driver, skilled general constructions workers and security guard with supporting equipment, machine and tools from AML were engaged fulltime in the rescue operation We deployed and mobilized one concrete breaker with excavator for breaking the slabs and columns and damaged floors of the collapsed building under which a large number of garments workers in very crucial condition. The team had worked and given support to the rescue unit Bangladesh Army till the rescue operation ended. We distributed 2400 packets of energy biscuits , 2400 PET bottle of drinking water, 2000 PET bottle of Coke and Sprite at free of cost for the victims. We distributed three large water tanks of drinking water to the victims to meet the drinking water crisis. The water was redistributed to the victims by rescue unit of Bangladesh Army. Management of AML was very much concerned with deadliest tragedy. AML has establishment of 45 School-cum-Cyclone Shelters in SIDOR (a very severe cyclonic storm that made landfall on the coastal regions of Bangladesh, resulting in one of the devastated natural disasters in Bangladesh) affected coastal areas of the Bay of Bengal is one of iconic landmark development work of Bangladesh. The shelters have been used by approximately 100 families as their temporary accommodation who gradually then shifted to their own houses. Recently, these Shelters also have provided shelters to approximately 10,000 people from at least 100 villages during the Cyclone Aila. Annual COP 2015-AML Health Novus Pharmaceuticals Limited, a pharmaceutical-unit of AML has committed to raise awareness of malnutrition among pregnant and lactating mothers and children through participating in “Every Woman Every Child” initiative. AML has also started providing free vitamins among the target groups. Education We have established educational institutions to enlighten the poor people of our locality with necessary knowledge. Mr. Abdul Monem, the founder of AML, always had the dream to do something for the orphans. His dream came to reality when he established an orphanage center in his hometown of Bijeshwar, under Brahmanbaria district of Bangladesh.  Allocation of 52 Acres of land purely for philanthropic and benevolent purposes  Providing full support to 3000 orphans through AM Foundation  Providing education to around 2000 students yearly through its own established school, College and Madrassa  Provides safe drinking water to remote areas  AML plans to reach 50,000 poor and needy mothers (both breast-feeding and lactating) in the next five years  AML encourage employees to plant a tree every month for a Green and safe Environment  AML has always responded to the nation’s crisis and provided most of the recovery equipment to the 'Bangladesh Army Salvage Operation' in the building collapse of Spectra Garments and also Rana Plaza tragedy. Annual COP 2015-AML We are a firm believer of community development, rescue from disaster, support to the national calamities, education for the less privileged, healthcare to the poor and children for the benefit of the society. “Continuing to sustain the commitments and endorsing Global Compact and its principles as part of the strategy, environment, culture and day to day operations of Abdul Monem Limited. For any enquiries, please contact us: Mr. Kazi Sharafath Hossain Assistant General Manager – Human Resources and Administration Abdul Monem Limited Monem Business District 111, Bir Uttam C.R. Dutta Road (Sonargaon Road) Tel: +8802-9676301-3, 9664913, 9669570, Mobile: 880 1712 144711 Email: sharafat@amlbd.com Web: www.amlbd.com Dhaka-1205, Bangladesh Annual COP 2015-AML
