Communication on Progress 2015 This COP covers the period from 20/06-2014 to 20/06-2015 Statement of continued support by the Chief Operational Officer To our stakeholders I am pleased to confirm that Ecofleet reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. This past year has been an exciting year for Ecofleet regarding the social and environmental issues applicable to our type of business. In the coming year, we will continue to work with the Global Compact ten principles throughout our daily operations Stig Lyngsie COO, Partner Human Rights and Labour Policies and goals Ecofleet recognises its responsibility to seek and protect human rights within our operations, throughout our value chain and in the communities where we operate. Ecofleet supports the principles contained in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights (UDHR), the United Nations Global Compact and the fundamental principles that protect workers’ rights defined in ILOsInternational Labour Organisation core conventions. We expect that all our business partners work with human rights issues in a responsible manner and we expect that all our business partners support the fundamental principles described in UDHR and ILOs core conventions as a minimum. In the coming year, Ecofleet will continue to work with human rights and labour issues and will work towards ensuring that our suppliers are all aligned with the UNGC principles. Assessment Assessment of our policies, procedures, working conditions and employee rights occurs through the compulsory annual work environment evaluation. This is a process which enables us to look at both the practical and psychological aspects associated to the working conditions within our daily operations Human rights issues are a discussion point at our monthly management Meetings. The wellbeing of our employees is very important to us and we make a concentrated effort to create a stress free and comfortable working environment. This effort is measured on a yearly basis in an anonymous employee satisfaction survey. The survey is directly linked to a KPI report sent to the board and is part of the management performance evaluation. Implementation Within our operations, we respect human rights primarily by providing safe and healthy working conditions for our employees and ensuring that human rights such as freedom of association, equal opportunity etc. are incorporated in human resource practices. Ecofleet seeks to identify, assess and manage human rights impacts within our spheres of influence and activities in line with the following views and aims: We seek to engage in open dialogue with stakeholders and contribute within the scope of our capabilities to promote human rights by improving social conditions. All employees are issued with a contract of employment which clearly states the terms and conditions of working at Ecofleet. The contracts are in line with the applicable local laws and legislations of the countries in which Ecofleet operates. We have a process in place based on corporate commitment, assessment/due-diligence, defining and implementing actions and measuring/communicating our results. We use such tools as the obligatory APV (working environment assessment) and action plan within our European operations and third party certifications/audits such as Sedex, BSCI etc. for our suppliers abroad. We also refer to key documents like the “United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights”, and relevant conventions and standards of the ILO, as well as other international standards, national and international laws. Within the framework of our Values, we respect the cultures, customs and values of the people in communities where we operate and take into account their needs, concerns, and aspirations. We seek to play a positive role, within our spheres of influence, in capacity-building for the realization of human rights within countries of operation. We expect from our business partners that they have processes in place to address human rights impacts. Measurement of outcomes Ecofleet has not been subject to any investigations, legal cases or incidents involving Human Rights violations. We comply with all relevant rules and regulations in the countries we operate and we use the rules and regulations of the country where these are strongest. Anti-Corruption Policies and goals Bribery and corruption in any form is strictly prohibited. It is strictly prohibited to offer or receive gifts unless they are approved by Ecofleet’s management and are reasonable, proportionate and made in good faith. Facilitation payments are not allowed. It is not allowed to select a business partner based on a receipt of gifts, hospitality or payment. It is not allowed to make political contributions from company funds. Contributions made to charities or community projects must be approved by the Ecofleet management and made in good faith. Business partners: a. Must demonstrate a high degree of integrity, honesty, professionalism and compliance with Ecofleet’s anti-bribery policy requirements. b. Must have a policy that prohibits bribery and corruption in any form. We will continue to work with anti-corruption issues in the next period through further communication to Ecofleet employees and business partners Assessment All expenses and transactions must be reported, properly documented and recorded. These records are used to assess whether any violations have occurred. Third party accountants are also informed about our anti-corruption policy and are instructed to point out discrepancies in financial records. Implementation We have formulated a specific anti-corruption policy that is being communicated to all stakeholders. Training has been limited to management at this time. The CO is ultimately responsible for handling any corruption or bribery issues. Measurement of outcomes Ecofleet has not been involved in any legal cases, rulings or other events related to corruption and bribery External accountants used by Ecofleet have not yet identified any related corruption or bribery Environment Policies and goals Ecofleet is aware of the environmental impacts and at a minimum we comply with all applicable laws and regulations. Our policy is to reduce of environmental impacts throughout our operations. Our goal is to reach a stage where our impacts are minimised to the full potential according to available technologies and procedures Our goal for the next period is to continue to reduce our CO2 foot print in the areas of energy use, waste management by using the principles of prevention, reduction reuse and recycling and reduce our customers CO2 footprint relating to their vehicle fleet. Assessment Ecofleet uses external consultants to assess our impacts and to suggest actions that could minimise our environmental impacts. Implementation Ecofleet has developed a “Responsible Procurement” document that describes our environmental requirements relating to our suppliers activities. Regarding our customers: a. Ecofleet produce and sell a fleet management system which focuses on CO2 reduction through our Green Driving module. b. Ecofleet offers education to its customers on how to increase green driving behaviour and decrease fuel consumption. Ecofleet engages external consultants to assess our environmental status and help us prepare an action plan for reducing our impacts Measurement of outcomes There have been no environmental incidents as a result of our operations Ecofleet has measurable results and holds records of CO2 reductions associated to our fleet management activities of all participating customers. Closing statement A big part of our first year of working with the 10 principles has focused on developing our policies in specific areas and the development of our “responsible procurement” document has been one of the paramount results. This document includes guidelines for responsible operating procedures in the areas of: a. Social responsibility b. Ethical behaviour c. Environmental performance d. Business behaviour e. Quality assurance f. Verification and Compliance For the next year, Ecofleet will implement its Responsible procurement policy throughout our supply chain.
