Funding tomorrow’s prosperity. Sustainability and Global Compact – Implementing the Principles June 2015 Letter from the Executive Board Sustainable practices both in our project activities and in-house are highly important to us: Under the umbrella of the proven sustainability management of OeKB Group, we have made significant strides in this respect over the past years. Since 2012, OeEB’s sustainability reporting forms part of the OeKB Group report. In addition to this reporting on the level of OeKB Group, this document aims at highlighting some basic principles in respect of our approach to sustainability. As a participant in the UN Global Compact, we continue to be fully committed to the principles of this framework. For us as a development bank, human rights, labour and social standards, environmental and climate protection, and anti-corruption measures are fundamental themes integral to our activities. Michael Wancata Andrea Hagmann Sustainability and UN Global Compact – Implementing the principles Development must be broad-based and sustainable if it is to achieve a real improvement in living conditions for everyone. The careful use of resources, responsible practices in project execution, and respectful relations with all players are fundamental to the work of OeEB. Our sustainability policy is framed accordingly: Sustainability policy  We act in accordance with all legal requirements and from a holistic mindset. In our projects this means that we respect and consider the people affected, their intercultural setting, and environmental and other social aspects.  Good communication with all stakeholders is important to us. We see dialogue as an opportunity to improve OeEB and as helping to put sustainability into practice in our work.  We only carry out projects in which the risks seem calculable and manageable, in order to ensure an effective contribution to the sustainable economic success of our clients and OeEB.  Long-term business success involves the responsible use and management of natural resources that we believe will be vitally important to future generations. Such responsible stewardship also safeguards the basis for our entrepreneurial flexibility and strengthens our position as a development bank recognised for sustainable action. Sustainability at the Vienna office and in respect of OeEB’s projects As part of OeKB Group, OeEB is integrated in the proven sustainability management of OeKB Group. The staff members of OeEB benefit from the diverse services on offer – for example, in-house healthcare, use of the OeKB cafeteria, and resources for making work and family life more compatible. All corporate responsibility aspects related to OeEB’s presence in Vienna – as a tenant of OeKB at the Strauchgasse address – are published in OeKB Group’s comprehensive Integrated Annual and Sustainability Report (see www.oekb.at). In respect of OeEB’s projects, a number of developmental effects are assessed up front and regularly monitored during project implementation. This includes the number of people employed by OeEB’s clients and the amount of tax revenues and net foreign currency revenues generated by OeEB financed projects and companies. These effects are evaluated using the Corporate Policy Project Rating Tool (GPR©) developed by DEG (Deutsche Investitionsund Entwicklungsgesellschaft, the German development finance institution). In addition, OeEB has developed a Results Framework as a planning and management tool that both presents the objectives set and measures the degree of their achievement, thus providing information on how well OeEB fulfils its mandate. Page 4 of 10 To measure the accomplishment of the development-related, economic and strategic goals of OeEB, the framework assigns various indicators to them, which are analysed at the portfolio level. Core figures in respect of OeEB’s portfolio and its development effects as well as project examples are published annually in the Development Report: http://www.oe-eb.at/en/about-oeeb/pages/development-effects.aspx OeEB’s projects also contribute to the achievement of the Millennium Development Goals (MDG): For instance, the involvement of OeEB in microfinance and the financing of small and medium enterprises in the agricultural sector is instrumental in making progress towards MDG 1 – halving poverty and extreme hunger. The OeEB projects make a significant contribution in the ecological dimension and thus to ensuring environmental sustainability (MDG 7). The projects are also an important factor in private sector development in disadvantaged regions and are thus highly relevant to MDG 8, fostering a global partnership for development. UN Global Compact The United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) is a values-based platform that enables companies and other stakeholders to network on the basis of a shared commitment to human rights, labour standards, environmental protection and the fight against corruption. OeEB became a signatory to the UN Global Compact in 2008 and supports its aims, both at the bank's office in Vienna and in its project work. In the words of the OeEB mission statement, the bank finances sustainable development. This requires OeEB always to remain mindful of the environmental and resource management and the social soundness of the financed projects – which is the only way to achieve lasting and fundamental improvement in the life situation of people in developing countries and emerging economies. And that aspiration, after all, is also enshrined in the mission statement: to “create better living conditions by promoting a healthy economy.” When financing projects, in addition to OeEB’s own adherence to applicable local and national environmental and social standards, the bank also strives for the alignment of its clients’ business practices with international environmental, social and human rights standards. Project classification according to environmental and social risks OeEB’s financing and equity investment projects are classified into categories according to the risk of possible negative impacts on the environment and on people. This is done using the Environmental and Social Risk Indicator (EaSI) tool developed by Germany's DEG. For financial institutions and funds the categorisation is performed according to the share of risky projects in the portfolio and possible risks with internal labour conditions at the relevant institutions. Page 5 of 9 Projects in 2014 by risk category Number of projects in 2014 Category/risk Category C: Low risk 3 Category B: Medium risk 12 Category B+: Elevated medium risk 3 Category A: High risk 1 N/A1 1 Three projects had no risk category assigned (multi-sector funds where environmental and social risk profile of the portfolio is unknown at the beginning). This classification by risk is the first step in the environmental and social assessment. In the second step, based on the risk category, the lenders or investors in a project (typically under the coordination of the lead arranger) perform the detailed assessment. The governing principle is: the higher the risk, the more intense the scrutiny. The initially identified potential impacts on people and the environment are analysed in greater depth (often by independent specialists) and mitigating measures are formulated together with the client to address any negative effects. This package of measures is frequently put in the form of an action plan that is incorporated as a binding condition in the legal agreement. As the client is ultimately responsible for the actual implementation of these measures, the assessment also considers the client’s willingness, expertise and capacity in this respect. OeEB backs only those projects where the project partner is prepared to fulfil its responsibility for the measures determined by this process. Through the use of resources from the Advisory Programmes, OeEB is able to support clients’ efforts in this regard (for example, by providing funding for the services of specialist consultants). As a fundamental benchmark in all projects, OeEB observes the ecological and social standards agreed by the EDFI, the Association of European Development Finance Institutions, for joint projects: These include, for all projects, adherence to local and national law and the International Labour Organization's Core Labour Standards. In addition, for higher-risk projects, the following international standards are applied: the Performance Standards on Social and Environmental Sustainability developed by World Bank subsidiary IFC (which have become the established market benchmark) as well as the Environmental, Health and Safety Guidelines of the World Bank Group. In working with 6 1 Funds, which are neither limited to specific sectors nor a certain size of investee companies and thus do not carry features which would enable an ex-ante risk categorization, are rated N/A. Page 6 of 10 financial institutions and funds, care is taken to ensure they are able to pursue compliance of their clients with the applicable standards according to the risk profile of their portfolio. The compliance with environmental and social standards is regularly monitored over the life of the project. In projects with high environmental and social risks, the monitoring is often performed by independent experts. Client relationship management generally also calls for on-site visits to verify the information received. i. Human rights Upholding human rights is an inviolable principle for OeEB. This not only applies to the activities in Vienna and the respectful treatment of employees but is also reflected in the assessment of project operations to ensure they contribute to beneficial, sustainable development. That contribution requires the safeguarding of human rights. The environmental and social impact assessment referred to above therefore takes the human rights effects into account. This assessment criterion considers the situation of the project employees as well as of other population groups within a project's area of influence. The IFC Performance Standards on Social and Environmental Sustainability in their most recent version (2012) take comprehensive account of the UN Guiding Principles for Business and Human Rights. With regard to people potentially negatively affected, the IFC Performance Standards include a number of safeguards. In addition, special attention is given to displacement and affected indigenous communities. OeEB also actively participates in the national as well as (given its membership to the European Development Finance Institutions network) international dialogue concerning human rights in the context of private sector development projects. ii. Labour and social standards Regarding its employees, as part of OeKB Group, OeEB both complies with the legal requirements and participates in OeKB Group’s programmes (see the OeKB Group’s Integrated Report at www.oekb.at). Thus, to help staff balance the demands of work and family, the fee-based use of the company daycare centre is available. OeEB’s employees also have low-cost access to OeKB’s cafeteria and sports centre, as well as to health care initiatives and the services of the company doctor. Standards in project activities OeEB aims at helping create better income opportunities for people in developing and transitional economies through jobs in companies that it finances. What matters here is not just the number of jobs but also their quality. Compliance with basic labour and social standards in the projects is therefore something that OeEB insists upon beforehand and that it subsequently verifies. OeEB’s minimum requirements in this regard are local regulations and the ILO’s Core Labour Standards. This means that, among other disqualifying factors, child labour and forced labour are automatic reasons for eliminating projects from consideration. The companies receiving financing Page 7 of 9 must also meet minimum standards regarding employee pay and work hours. Also important is work safety, such as the use of protective clothing and similar precautions, particularly in hazardous activities. For higher-risk projects, working conditions are another aspect in which conformity with the IFC Performance Standards on Social and Environmental Sustainability is sought. When OeEB projects involve sectors where risks to workers are especially high, such as the metalworking or textile industry, the assessment may also incorporate other international standards (for instance, the SA8000® Standard) or certified management systems under OHSAS, the Occupational Health and Safety Assessment Series standard. On a more general level OeEB together with over 20 other international finance institutions is involved in the global “Let’s Work Partnership” started in 2013. The aim of the Partnership is to develop knowledge and practical approaches to the jobs agenda that would serve as a public good for the development community with a focus on more and better private sector jobs. iii. Environment For OeEB the careful use of resources and care for the environment begin in-house: Under the sustainability management of OeKB Group, environmental performance parameters are diligently adhered to and monitored. More information is provided at www.oekb.at. OeEB also, since 2011, compensates for air travel miles. Almost all of OeEB’s project locations are outside Europe and most business travel is therefore by air. The carbon dioxide emissions from business trips are offset by OeEB through a reforestation project in Ethiopia conducted by Vienna’s University of Natural Resources and Applied Life Sciences (see http://www.boku.ac.at/en/wissenschaftliche-initiativen/zentrum-fuer-globalen-wandelnachhaltigkeit/themen/nachhaltigkeit/co2-kompensation/klimaschutzprojekt/). Additionally, OeEB contributes its expertise via this project’s advisory board at the university. Projects’ environmental safeguards and benefits In the course of the project activities, the financing projects are categorised as described above and assessed, and environmental measures are formulated with the clients. Beyond the IFC Performance Standards on Social and Environmental Sustainability, for all projects rated as higher-risk, OeEB also applies the World Bank Group's technical Environmental, Health and Safety Guidelines. Following the update of the IFC Performance Standards on Social and Environmental Sustainability coming into effect in 2012, the World Bank Group started a three-year revision process of the Environmental, Health and Safety Guidelines in early 2013. However, in keeping with the imperative of sustainable development, the projects themselves also contribute to a better environment: Focal themes for OeEB are the use of renewable energy in the developing and transition economies and the improvement of resource efficiency, particularly energy efficiency. Both are important ways to counter climate change. Details on these sectors in OeEB’s portfolio are outlined in the Development Report (http://www.oeeb.at/en/about-oeeb/pages/development-effects.aspx). In addition, it is worth noting that one thirdof Austria’s contribution to international climate finance in 2013 (final figures) was related to investment and advisory projects implemented by OeEB. Page 8 of 10 Examples of these projects include a geothermal power plant in Nicaragua, a hydroelectric generating station in Honduras, a small hydro power plant in Albania, and credit lines for energy efficiency measures to local financial institutions. Similarly, OeEB's equity interest in the Interact Climate Change Facility (ICCF) supports the use of alternative energy sources such as wind and solar (http://www.oe-eb.at/en/projects/pages/default.aspx). iv. Anti-corruption and anti-money laundering Given OeEB’s specific mandate, the client base is predominantly concentrated in the private sector in developing countries. OeEB thus attaches particular importance to careful handling of the issues of corruption and money laundering and to employees’ awareness of potential related risks in day-to-day business activities. An exact verification of client identity is made, in line with the Austrian Financial Market Authority’s circular on ascertaining and verifying identity. Also, specific regulations on anti-money laundering and terrorism finance were developed for OeEB’s personnel to ensure that the appropriate anti-money laundering measures are taken during the course of the institution’s projects – from checking client identities, to the loan disbursement stage, all the way to the time of loan repayment. Page 9 of 9 Strauchgasse 3 1011 Vienna, Austria Tel. +43 1 533 12 00-0 Fax +43 1 533 12 00-5262 office@oe-eb.at www.oe-eb.at
