Taha & Partners Group 2014 Annual United Nations Global Compact Communication of Progress 1 Table of Contents A Message from our Chairman and CEO Walid K. Issa Taha page 3 UN Compact Ten Principles page 4 Taha & Partners Group Annual Report on Human Rights page 5 Labor Rights page 6 The Environment page 7 Anti-corruption page 8 2 18 November, 2015 H.E. Ban Ki-moon Secretary-General United Nations New York, NY 10017 USA Dear Mr. Secretary-General, I am pleased to reconfirm that Taha & Partners Group supports the ten principles of the Global Compact on human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. With this communication, we express our intent to implement those principles. We are committed to making the Global Compact and its principles part of the strategy, culture and day-to-day operations of our company, and to engaging in collaborative projects, which advance the broader development goals of the United Nations, particularly the Sustainable Development Goals. Taha & Partners Group will make a clear statement of this recommitment to our stakeholders and the general public. Taha & Partners Group did not submit on annual Communication on Progress (COP) report. This solely due to the hostile conflicts resulting from the warring factions (ISIL) that have continually impacted Iraq for over several years. Even though we did not submit annual reports, Taha & Partners Group still continued the practices of the ten principles. We recognize that a key requirement for participation in the Global Compact is the annual submission of a Communication on Progress (COP) that describes our company’s efforts to implement the ten principles. We support public accountability and transparency, and therefore commit to report on progress within one year of joining the Global Compact, and annually thereafter according to the Global Compact COP policy. This includes:  A statement signed by the chief executive expressing continued support for the Global Compact and renewing our ongoing commitment to the initiative and its principles. This is separate from our initial letter of commitment to join the Global Compact.  A description of practical actions (i.e., disclosure of any relevant policies, procedures, activities) that the company has taken (or plans to undertake) to implement the Global Compact principles in each of the four issue areas (human rights, labor, environment, anti-corruption).  A measurement of outcomes (i.e., the degree to which targets/performance indicators were met, or other qualitative or quantitative measurements of results). Sincerely yours, Mr. Walid Issa Taha Chairman & CEO UN Global Compact Ten Principles Human Rights UN Compact AntiCorruption Ten Labor Rights Principles The Environment 3 Human Rights Principle1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Principle2: and make sure that they are not complicit inhuman rights abuses TPG’s Assessment, Policy and Goals Taha & Partners Group Oversight Team along with the Taha & Partners Group the business environment where our employees, business partners and sub contractors. Work as a seamless integrated team that is always diligent and constantly alert in the prevention of abuses of human rights. Regardless whether it is project related. The Taha & Partners Group employee handbook, business ethics handbook and code of conduct handbook outlines our commitment. TPG Implementation Taha & Partners Group oversight team is our internal group, which monitors all the UN Global Compact ten principles and Taha & Partners Group standards on human rights and human right abuses. This team consists of executives, middle managers, supervisors and foremen. All the members of this team were hand selected by our Chairman & CEO Mr. Walid K. Issa Taha. This team works closely at levels and scrutinizes the beginning of each project. This establishes the foundational values of TPG to all the personnel and companies who will be a part of any project. The TPG HSE officer continues to uphold the TPG standards and is as our onsite representative to ensure full compliance of the TPG Human Rights policies and ensure UN Global Compact ten principles are never compromised. During the entire phase of our projects, the Taha & Partners Group oversight team will perform spot checks and onsite audits. To ensure TPG’s commitment to prevent human rights abuses. Any incidents are dealt with immediately. TPG used this model this past year on all of our projects. TPG Measurement of outcomes During the entire phase of our projects, the Taha & Partners Group oversight team will perform spot checks and onsite audits. To ensure TPG’s commitment to prevent human rights abuses. Any incidents are dealt with immediately. These incident will include recommendation of either terminate of employment, probation with mandatory human right study courses. All incidents regardless how minor are consolidated in a “lessons learned” report created by the Taha & Partners Group oversight team and submitted the TPG board members. The TPG Board reviews and will make recommendations. To better improve the TPG work environment for our employees, business partners our community. Over the past year, there was only a few minor incidents that were resolved by counseling and probation. A testament that our program does have a positive impact our projects. 4 Labor Rights Principle3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; Principle5: the effective abolition of child labor ;and Principle6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Assessment ,Policy and Goals Taha & Partners Group workplace is a very diverse environment. TPG has a robust mixed of cultures, age groups, educational levels, religious views, languages and international people. All which make Taha & Partners Group oversight team more cognizant. To avoid any labor rights, employee rights or compensation violations; by any one on any TPG project of any size. The Taha & Partners Group employee handbook, business ethics handbook and code of conduct handbook are living documents, which are updated annually. The UN Global Compact ten principles are part of the TPG documentation. That every employee and company doing business with TPG will abide by. Implementation Taha & Partners Group has established comprehensive vetting process and a “fair market” compensation package based on all employment levels. Out vetting process verifies that all employees are of legal age to work, etc. The TPG employment package ensures all employees can have an improved standard of living. With the hostile conflict environment of Iraq, TPG offers each employee “flex time” or “extended leave” and “work from home”. This allows them to spend more time with their families and ensure their safety. The Taha & Partners Group oversight team monitors this and ensures full compliance with TPG standards and UN Global Compact. Measurement of outcomes The Taha & Partners Group oversight team works in conjunction with the TPG HR department conducting exit interviews of all personnel leaving TPG. These confidential interviews as used to better improve the employee work place. Monthly and annual reports are provided to the Board. Board reviews and will make recommendations. With TPG’s very dynamic, international, multi talented, diverse labor force, constantly making TPG a great place to work is paramount. This past year we have had the lowest employee turnover in several years. A testament that the TPG labor right employee program is a success. 5 Environmental Principles Principle7: Businesses should support a precaution any approach to environmental challenges; Principle8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Assessment, Policy and Goals Taha & Partners Group is a leading “green company” in Iraq. We are recognized by our example of doing business and protecting our environment. All employees are incentivized and motivated to improve our natural surroundings. To enable a sustainable program that can be implement at home, away and in the workplace. Taha & Partners Group researches, test and purchases innovative technology that can be adapted for everyday use. We understand and believe that the environmental benefits do contribute a successful company. Implementation The Taha & Partners Group oversight team developed an environmental awareness program. Which encompasses numerous ways to lessen our impact of resources. This program has become part of the Taha & Partners Employee Handbook and how our business partners work with us. TPG has an established car pools and ride sharing for meeting and employees commutes. TPG utilizes technology to offset the need to travel; teleconferencing, instant messaging; social media are just a few examples. TPG is proud to be a paperless organization; our work place is all digital. Measurement of outcomes The Taha & Partners Group oversight team performs monthly evaluations on all TPG locations and projects. All findings are reviewed the on site manager. Together they develop an action plan for improvement. This review and sharing of lessons learned has resulted. In our employees doing self-assessments to reduce the need of physical meetings, traveling visit projects. Using technology provided by TPG, the environmental goals set forth by the TPG Board as achievable. This has lead to an overall improvement on efficiency. 6 Anti-Corruption Principles Principle10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Assessment ,Policy and Goals Taha & Partners Group employee handbook, business ethics handbook and code of conduct handbook are provided to employees and companies doing business with TPG. These internal policies and procedures outline high moral and ethical standards for working and doing business in Iraq and with TPG. The establishment of the Taha & Partners Group oversight team and in conjunction with the TPG contracting and legal departments; ensure all individuals in the TPG workplace. Understand Iraqi law and TPG rules on bribery, extortion, collusion, etc. Implementation The Taha & Partners Group oversight team in conjunction with the TPG legal department are constantly auditing projects, contract awards, etc. All TPG employees under go “refresher training” to test our program and identify any possible areas requiring improvement. Routine assessments are performed on all aspect of our day to day business. Any significant findings are reported immediately the TPG for swift action. These measures are applicable to our business partners and sub contractors. It is integrated in to our projecting planning on all projects. Measurement of outcomes Our Chairman & CEO believes that only thru training and education can be anticorruption and the negative impact to business operations identified. The Taha & Partners Group oversight team is proactively supporting our employees, business partners and individuals. The monthly reports are provided to the TPG for review. In this manner TPG is helping other companies improve their way of doing business in Iraq. Which result in a strong This past year has result in no reported incidents. 7
