UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2014 AQ Group Statement of continued support I hereby confirm that AQ Group reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this Communication on Progress for 2014, we describe our visions, progresses and actions towards continually improving the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours, CEO, Claes Mellgren, Short describtion of the company AQ Group was founded in Sweden in 1994 and consists today of about 3900 employees, with a large share (75%) working in growth countries outside Sweden. We are a global manufacturer of components and systems for industrial customers around the world. AQ Group includes six business areas, which are; electric cabinets, wiring systems, injection molding, sheet metal processing, system products and inductive components. We put a lot of emphasis on building strong customers relations by always providing high quality and by delivering our products on time. PRINCIPLE 1: Human rights Businesses should support and respect the protection of Vision internationally proclaimed AQ Group respects and supports the internationally human rights; and proclaimed human rights and does not accept any sort of infraction upon the human rights. We follow, as a minimum, PRINCIPLE 2: make sure local laws and regulations in every country that we act in. It that they are not complicit is our responsibility to implement higher standards, for our in human rights abuses. business, than regulated by law in countries where regulations are not considered to be sufficient enough. Progress We have formed new routines regarding the assessment and choice of new suppliers. All new suppliers’ needs to comply with AQ Group’s code of conduct within which we state our demands for commitment of and respect for internationally proclaimed human rights. Suppliers that AQ Group has been working with previous to our new routines are being re-evaluated continuously. Result There has been no indication or report of violation of the human rights during the year. Our group management are taking part in all subsidiaries’ board of directors and can there of control and verify that human rights are being respected in all parts of our business. Labour rights PRINCIPLE 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and Vision the effective recognition of the right to It lies in AQ Group’s core principles that diversity is strength. No collective bargaining; employee or candidate for employment shall be discriminated with regards to gender, religion, disabilities, sexual orientation, PRINCIPLE 4: the elimination of all nationality, political affiliation, union affiliation, social origin or forms of forced and compulsory labour; ethnicity. PRINCIPLE 5: the effective abolition of All employees at AQ Group shall be given the same opportunities child labour; and such as; equal salary for equal work and equal access to education and personal development. AQ Group shall always provide safe and PRINCIPLE 6: the elimination of healthy workplaces where freedom of association and the right to discrimination in respect of employment collective bargaining is always respected. and occupation. Progress AQ Group does not under any circumstances approve forced-, compulsoryor use of child labour. We follow national legislation as a minimum requirement to create safe working spaces and strive to provide a positive work environment where our employees feel safe and motivated to conduct good business. Furthermore we put emphasis on that all employees are informed about the development and progress of the company to feel part of the AQ Group. Result We have achieved a good balance between the number of female and male employees and AQ Group consists today of 48% women and 52% men. Our view on leadership is characterized by mutual understanding and to encourage support between colleagues to help planning and achieving defined goals. Environment Vision AQ Group shall continuously work to reduce our environmental impact, from design to PRINCIPLE 7: Businesses should delivery of our products. We believe that quality is an important aspect to lower our support a precautionary approach to products negative environmental impact. AQ Group’s goal is therefore to deliver environmental challenges; quality in everything we do. High quality products, from our perspective, also mean greater efficiency and a higher level of customer value. We continuously strive to PRINCIPLE 8: undertake initiatives develop our products and production processes further to increase all aspects of to promote greater environmental quality and to meet our customer expectations and demands. All our final products responsibility; and shall serve as proof of our competence and all employees are responsible for taking environmental aspects into concern. PRINCIPLE 9: encourage the development and diffusion of Progress environmentally friendly technologies. AQ Group’s environmental goals have been formed at a local level. We are currently working on forming global environmental goals to cover all units of the AQ Group. These goals will be presented in the annual report for 2015. We have recently appointed a sustainability manager at the group management level who will yearly gather information from all subsidiaries’ based on set KPI and put the information together in a sustainability report. Environmental concerns and improvements is part of our daily work and continuously discussed during monthly meetings in our subsidiaries’. We conduct risk analysis when necessary and work, as stated in our code of conduct, to support the precautionary principle by avoiding materials and methods related to possible environmentaland health risks when other alternatives are available Result All production units at securing that national environmental laws and regulations are followed. At this point, 70% of AQ Group’s production units are certified according to ISO 14001. Our quality assured manufacturing does not only focus on high quality but also contributes to greater delivery precision and less consumption of material, resources and energy. AQ Group’s production and business processes are further designed to use resources efficiently and to minimize waste and rest products over the entire life cycle of our products. Anti-corruption Vision PRINCIPLE 10: AQ Group puts great emphasis on building trust and long lasting Businesses should work relations with our employees, customers and suppliers. It lies in our against corruption in all its business ethics to always follow laws and regulations as a minimum forms, including extortion requirement in all countries we operate. and bribery. We do not, under any circumstances, accept bribery, extortion or any other kind of corrupt activities. It is stated in our code of conduct that we shall always conduct good business ethics and that we do not offer rewards or benefits, which are in conflict with laws or regulations, to customers, suppliers or authority representatives. Progress It is all managers’ responsibility to inform employees about our anti-corruption policy and code of conduct. All managers shall furthermore encourage employees to report on indications of any type of violation in regards to these policies. Such reports can be done anonymously to the HR Manager at the AQ Group. Result There has been no indication of violation of our anti-corruption principles during 2014. Our employees’ do not accept gifts, payments or other benefits from third parties that can influence their objectivity in business decisions. Our internal rules regarding anti-corruption are clearly stated and our employees are receiving these guidelines and information via our subsidiaries’ management groups.
