Sustainability report for 2014 Table of contents G4-9 Family tradition spanning more than 100 years Represented More than internationally 740 employees Foreword 4 at 46 locations around the world Statement from the Chairman of the Executive Board 1. Corporate profile 7 Integrated Our history global business Our product and service portfolio organisation Technically Our business model Efficient accomplished Our corporate policy logistics structures sales organisations Our corporate objectives and strategy Reporting method 2. Approach to sustainability 21 Sustainability goals Compliance Comprehensive Integrated management system Transparent market knowledge, Stakeholder relations reporting focused market approach 3. Economic responsibility 29 Economic performance Economic indicators for the Success factors Biesterfeld Group 2012-2014 at Biesterfeld 4. Environmental responsibility  35 Product portfolio/ Energy consumption solutions: Greenhouse gas emissions High IT proficiency comprehensive Environmental indicators for the and innovative Biesterfeld Group 2012-2014 5. Social responsibility  43 Our staff Our social contributions Long-term Training and further development customer relationships / Social commitment Financing strength efficient customer Personnel indicators 2014 Qualification, loyalty programs experience & 6. Our future perspective 51 expertise Goals for the upcoming years of our employees GRI content index 54 Imprint  60 Page 3 BIESTERFELD AG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2014 Foreword I am delighted to have the honour of introducing our first sustainability report on behalf of the Biesterfeld Group. For us, operating sustainably ners and suppliers. Our success G4-1 means: economic success in as an international distributor G4-3 perfect harmony with environand trade partner reinforces our mental and social aspects. Our conviction that sustainability and goal is to maintain a constantly corporate success can indeed go healthy balance of these three hand in hand. pillars. I am very proud of our employees, As a distributor of chemicals and who live by these principles day plastics, we trade and sell highly in day out. They embody our sensitive products on a daily values in daily cooperation with basis. This is the reason why customers and suppliers and sustainability is particularly illustrate the high significance important to us and why we want attached to family-oriented corpo­ to anchor it even more firmly as rate culture in our company. an integral component in our corporate culture. In addition, we The sustainability report will be also want to reduce our energy published annually from now consumption successively across on and aims to communicate the As a family-owned company, the Group. The bundling of our values and standards of the Biesterfeld AG has taken social, activities to date and the estabBiesterfeld Group in a compresocietal and traditional corporate lishment of a centralised sustain­ hensive and transparent manner values as the basis for its operaability management system will while underlining our convictions tions since its foundation almost set the course for the years to once more. 110 years ago. In addition to our come. fundamental values such as The introduction of the sustain­ relia­bility, capability and responIn doing so, we hope to send a ability report in 2014 is an initial sibility towards humanity, our selfclear signal at a global level for achievement and, at the same image has also always included the protection of resources and time, a first step towards reaching the respectful and sustainable the environment as well as the the goals that we have set for handling of resources. After all, upholding of human rights and ourselves. we want to ensure that these compliance with labour laws. We are preserved for future gene­ are strictly against corruption and rations too. expect the same from our part2014 | BIESTERFELD AG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Page 4 Page 5 BIESTERFELD AG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2014 1. Corporate profile Globally organised. Highly specialised. 2014 | BIESTERFELD AG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Page 6 Page 7 BIESTERFELD AG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2014 In the beginning was the salt. Our history and customers with relevant The combination of theses comtechnical and market-orientated G4-8 market information on a regular petencies is what characterises expertise. basis. Optimising the entire the Biesterfeld Group and what When Wilhelm Ernst Hinrich Biesterfeld began trading in logistics chain from a sustain­ has made us what we are today. Biesterfeld International is spe­ ability perspective is yet another cia­lised in the trade of inorganic salt in 1906, little did he know that he was shaping the of our ongoing objectives. The individual divisions and organic industrial chemicals foundations for the development of the Biesterfeld Group Global coverage and local prein more detail as well as salts, agricultural chemicals and pharmaceutical raw we know today. sence allow us to offer customer Biesterfeld Plastic is the largest materials and active substances. support in more than 120 couneconomically productive division In addition to distributing and tries from 46 different locations. in the Biesterfeld Group and is marketing an extensive range of Fertilisers and chemicals were quickly added as additional As one of the leading distributors one of the leading international products, the company also offers of plastics and chemicals on the distributors in the fields of engi­ customer-oriented services commodities. As our success grew, so did our product portfolio, global market, we also offer neering polymers, standard poly­ covering all aspects of logistics with the result that Biesterfeld with its sophisticated application services for all IT requirements and both quality and safety mers, styrene polymers, and acrylic polymers as well as highand stock-keeping. engineering now supplies a broad spectrum of highly management. performance rubber, elastomers The specialised sales and distriand additives. Biesterfeld Plastic bution organisations are supporspecialised products in different sectors all over the world. We are Biesterfeld maintains a wide range of longted by our service companies, term, predominantly exclusive Biesterfeld ChemLogS GmbH The headquarters of the sales and distribution partner­ and BIT-SERV GmbH, as well Biesterfeld Group are located ships with various global market as Biesterfeld AG. These take in Hamburg, Germany. It is run leaders in the plastics and rubber on overall centralised functions G4-4 Our product and service portfolio by Biesterfeld AG. industries. and thus ensure the consistent G4-8 develop­ment of our company. G4-12 The core business is composed Biesterfeld Spezialchemie is Our more than 100 years in the industry have allowed us to of three specialised business one of the largest distributors Our way of working: areas: in Europe for complex special holistically consistent develop a sound and expert understanding of our trade. chemicals and is subdivided into Biesterfeld Plastic the fields of LifeScience, CASE Biesterfeld ChemLogS GmbH In addition to our comprehensive product portfolio, we also Biesterfeld Spezialchemie (Coatings Adhesives, Sealants, Elastomers), Nutrition and is responsible for QSHE (Quality Safety & Health Environment), make this expertise available to our customers. Performance Products. The main compliance and risk management Biesterfeld International pillars of the services offered throughout the Group. These are the development of tailored services are also performed for Long-term partnerships with In addition to our technical customer service round off our Two centralised service com­ solutions to problems – from third parties. numerous renowned suppliers support, our customers also work approach. That allows us to panies also offer interdivisional application consulting right up to are testimony to the success of receive assistance with their appli­ create genuine added value for services: recipe development – an extenBIT-SERV GmbH offers fullthis approach. cation development and have our customers and suppliers. sive product range and the ability service solutions in the fields of access to the products which are Biesterfeld ChemLogS GmbH to supply without interruptions high-quality IT services for the As a distributor, we act as the relevant for them from wellWith the aim of offering and introfrom regional warehouses. plastics, chemicals, agricultural interface between the manu­ known manufacturers. A reliable ducing ever more sustainable BIT-SERV GmbH Another particular strength is products and pharmaceuticals facturer and customer. JIT delivery system and personal products, we supply our producers the high degree of applicationsectors. Specialised in SAP 2014 | BIESTERFELD AG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Page 8 Page 9 BIESTERFELD AG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2014 Strong as individuals, G4-6 G4-17 unbeatable as a team! G4-6 G4-17 Biesterfeld locations Countries in which Biesterfeld is represented Biesterfeld AG Biesterfeld Biesterfeld Biesterfeld Alphen (NL) Plastic Spezialchemie International Hamburg (DE) Abingdon (GB) Barcelona (ES) Bangkok (TH) Athens (GR) Bratislava (SI) Beijing (CN) Culemborg (NL) Bucharest (RO) Chongqing (CN) Hamburg (DE) Budapest (HU) Guatemala City (GT) Hamina (FI) Culemborg (NL) Hamburg (DE) Istanbul (TR) Grodzisk Mazowiecki (PL) Hong Kong (CN) consultancy, application and Web for the overall development of the customised solutions in direct Liestal (CH) Hamburg (DE) Istanbul (TR) development as well as systems Biesterfeld Group. It defines the customer dialogue and with Limhamn (SE) Istanbul (TR) Jakarta (ID) engineering, BIT-SERV GmbH is corporate strategy and assists the personal on-site support. As such, Milan (IT) Kiev (UA) Mexico (MX) a reliable partner for our internal companies with their financing, we are not only specialised in Moscow (RU) Liestal (CH) Miami (US) divisions and external customers HR, accounting, legal and business logistics and stock-keeping, but Oporto (PT) Milan (IT) Mumbai (IN) alike. communication matters. also boast sound experience in Rueil-Malmaison (FR) Moscow (RU) São Paulo (BR) the fields of consultancy, developSant Just Desvern (ES) Prague (CZ) Shanghai (CN) Biesterfeld AG (as the strategic As the Biesterfeld Group we ment and financing. São Paulo (BR) Rueil-Malmaison (FR) Warsaw (PL) holding company and “function address the requirements of our Vienna (AT) Vienna (AT) supplier”) forms the framework customers together and develop Warsaw (PL) Warsaw (PL) Zagreb (HR) 2014 | BIESTERFELD AG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT PAGE 10 PAGE 11 BIESTERFELD AG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2014 Our way of working: Cooperation is the key to success. holistically consistent. G4-34 Biesterfeld Group G4-56 G4-15 Turnover (2014): 1,078 million euros We want to send a clear signal At the same time, we do not view values and continuously improve Workforce: 747 and make our contribution to sustainability as an ultimate upon them. sustainable development in goal, but rather as an ongoing our industry. process which is continuously This first sustainability report monitored and optimised. details the current situation in That is why we support the For this reason, we have now our company. In the following Holding Biesterfeld AG United Nations (UN) Global decided to publish a sustain­ reports, we aim to optimise company Compact, the global initiative ability report annually in accorprocesses continuously and for sustainability in companies, dance with the standards of the press ahead with sustainable with its ten principles for human international Global Reporting enhancements. rights, labour, environment and Initiative (GRI). This will make it anticorruption. possible to compile comparable Biesterfeld Biesterfeld Biesterfeld Business Plastic Spezialchemie International divisions Workforce: 270 Workforce: 244 Workforce: 110 Branch offices: 14 Branch offices: 18 Branch offices: 13 G4-7 Our business model G4-34 G4-56 With a family tradition stretching back more than 100 years, we are one of the world‘s leading trading firms for chemicals and plastics. At the same time, we set great store by trustworthy and customer-oriented cooperation. Service Biesterfeld BIT-SERV GmbH companies ChemLogs GmbH We aim to achieve success along with our suppliers and our customers. Our corporate philosophy is an customers and suppliers as skilled board and an executive board as ever-present part of our business contact partners employing the stipulated by German legislation. activities and characteristic of expertise of a globally operating Both boards work together in the our day-to-day operations. True company to develop customised best interests of the company. to our business strategy of solutions. The supervisory board, executive „Think globally – act locally“, we board, management board and all offer personal customer support As a public limited company, employees assume respon­sibi­lity on site at all of our locations. We we ope­rate a two-tiered board together for the quality of the are constantly available for our structure with a supervisory services provided and for the 2014 | BIESTERFELD AG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Page 12 Page 13 BIESTERFELD AG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2014 Operating hanseatically means Personnel = People = Priority operating responsibly. G4-7 identification of and compliance goals are redefined and implesustainability is to the Biesterfeld We implement any necessary for us. In addition, we also set that our minimum requirement G4-34 G4-34 with all necessary measures. The mented each year. Group. The principles and require­ changes quickly and communigreat store by our suppliers‘ and now corresponds to compliance G4-56 G4-56 demand for a sustainable cor­po­ ments it includes are also reflected cate these to our customers partners‘ compliance with these with the ten principles of the rate culture is firmly anchored Our commitment to the UN Global in our own corporate objectives. accordingly. social standards as a component UN Global Compact. In the next in all divisions and levels of our Compact initiative is indicative of of their corporate governance. few years we intend to send the company hierarchy. Sustaina­bility just how important the topic of In the scope of our business opera­ revised surveys to all of our tions we pay particular attention With this in mind, we collect state­ partners and analyse the results. to social aspects such as equality ments on the specified aspects in and individual self-determination. the scope of our periodically held supplier surveys. The surveys have G4-34 Our corporate policy The protection of human dignity been revised to focus on the G4-56 and human rights is indispensable sustainability provisions such Our stated goal is to continuously improve the range of products and quality of services on offer with the aim of UN Global Compact principles G4-15 fulfilling our obligations towards our customers and suppliers at all times. Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and An important basis for this is offering products which Principle 2 make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. correspond to the requirements and expectations of our Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition customers. of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4 the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; We regard serving our customers all legal provisions concerning Principle 5 the effective abolition of child labour; and and suppliers in a professional human resources is an absolute 1 REACH: „Regulation concerning the and customised manner as our given for us. Registration, Evaluation, Autho­ri­Principle 6 the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. responsibility. That also includes sation and Restriction of Chemicals”. taking the latest market events In order to be able to guarantee 2 GHS: „Globally harmonized System of under economical, environmental, our customers the uninterrupted Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; classification, labelling and packaging social and safety-technical aspects availability of plastics and chemi­ of chemicals“. Principle 8 undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and into consideration. cals, we address the necessary preparations for upcoming Principle 9 encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Our employees are proactive and changes in chemical legislation reliable. They can rest assured far in advance. We also comply that their safety and health are reliably with regulations such Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion our top priority. Compliance with as REACH1 and GHS2 at all times. and bribery. 2014 | BIESTERFELD AG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Page 14 Page 15 BIESTERFELD AG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2014 Sustainable growth instead of The standards we place on getting ahead of oneself. sustainability are just as high as those on quality. G4-34 Our corporate objectives and strategy Reporting method G4-DMA G4-56 G4-18 G4-20 We strive to retain our strong market position and grow The executive board and the responsible managing G4-21 G4-25 sustainably. The leading market position should be achieved directors of the individual business divisions are agreed that essentially by the tapping of new markets, diversification and the topic of sustainably needs to be communicated not only expansion of our international activities. At the same time, internally, but also externally. the Biesterfeld Group always aims to be the most efficient For this reason, Biesterfeld will be publishing a interface possible between our suppliers and customers. comprehensive sustainability report annually from now on. Together with our partners we plan to boost our growth outside Europe‘s borders as well. This sustainability report is based on the G4 guidelines of The GRI indicators were discussed individually at management level assessed indicators. The size of the circles reflects the number the Global Reporting Initiative and evaluated using a points of indicators per category. The We see the basis for the sustainable development of our (GRI). It takes into consideration system. This evaluation was significance of the respective the ten principles for human conducted in a process entailing category in the sense of its ecobusiness in our long-term supplier relationships, high demands rights, labour, environment and a number of stages, resulting in nomic, environmental and social anticorruption of the UN Global the definition of the aspects and impacts is shown by the x-axis. on quality and the services tailored to our customers. Compact. The report complies indicators which are relevant for The y-axis evaluates the impact with the so-called “Core” options us and our stakeholder groups. of this specific category on the of the GRI principles. assessment performed by our In light of the increasing com­ possible and meeting them head always met and that processes p. 15 Our many years of experience in stakeholders. The x and y values plexity of the economic integraon, we have implemented a are continuously improved. exchange with the different stake­ are determined from the average tions and the new, multifaceted Group-wide risk management Further information on this aspect When selecting the relevant holders and the comprehensive value for the individually assessed challenges, our staff‘s market, system. Early identification of can be found in Chapter 2. indicators, we considered and expertise of our executives were indicators in the categories. In our customer and product expertise is factors which could impact the p. 24 assessed the individual aspects of fundamental importance in opinion, the “Labour practices and a decisive key to success. For that development of our business and from two separate perspectives. this step. An overview of all the decent work” category appears to reason, we have always set great our organisation‘s ability to react We started by identifying our GRI indicators including the UN be of particularly high relevance store by staff being optimally quickly ensure the survival and stakeholders: they were divided Global Compact principles and to our stakeholders. qualified for their positions and further growth of the Group. In into groups based on those that the respectively relevant sections have strived to encourage long crisis situations, the crisis manage­ we as a company influence of text can be found in the GRI periods of service. For us as a ment committee provides the directly and indirectly through our content index in the appendix. family-owned company, the necessary support and assistance. activities. We then posed our­ p. 54 respectful treatment of people selves the questions of what goals and nature is an absolute given. Our integrated management promise us sustainable success The materiality analysis system helps us to ensure that our and what our stakeholders require With the aim of identifying exterdemands on quality and those of and expect from us as a globally This analysis shows a condensed nal and internal risks as early as our customers and suppliers are operating company. summary of all of the individually 2014 | BIESTERFELD AG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Page 16 Page 17 BIESTERFELD AG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2014 G4-DMA Materiality analysis List of specific indicators: G4-DMA G4-18 G4-18 G4-20 G4-19 G4-21 Economic G4-25 G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed Impact on the assessment performed by our stakeholders Environmental G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organisation G4-EN5 Energy intensity G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption G4-EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (scope 3) G4-EN27 Extent of impact mitigation of environmental impacts of products and services G4-EN32 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria Labour practices and decent work, society, human rights and product responsibility Significance for economical, environmental and social aspects G4-LA1 Total number and rates of new employee hires and employee turnover by age group, gender and region Labour practices and decent work Human rights Environment Society Product responsibility Economic performance G4-LA2 Benefits provided to full-time employees G4-LA3 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender Our commitment to sustainability As an international operating The scope of application is indishould not be restricted to our company, we see it as our oblicated in the respective chapters. company alone. True sustain­ gation to act sustainably at both G4-LA10 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning ability can only be achieved when a global and local level, which is In addition, we would like to all those involved work together. why this report covers – unless emphasise that for simplicity‘s That‘s why we encourage our stated otherwise – the entire sake we have used gender-neutral G4-LA14 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using suppliers and partners to launch Biesterfeld Group. In this first terms and pronouns wherever labour practices criteria their own initiatives with the aim report, it was only possible to possible, although these are to of committing themselves to evaluate some of the GRI indica­ be understood as referring to the environment and protection tors for our locations in Germany. males and females alike. G4-LA15 Significant actual and potential negative impacts for labour practices of resources as well as the up­ In future years, these indicators in the supply chain and actions taken holding of human rights and will be expanded to include all compliance with labour laws just of our companies. as we do. 2014 | BIESTERFELD AG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Page 18 Page 19 BIESTERFELD AG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2014 2. Approach to sustainability True sustainability is not just about complying with standards, but also about upholding them. 2014 | BIESTERFELD AG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Page 20 Page 21 BIESTERFELD AG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2014 Sustainability begins Goal Join UN Global Compact Application Support of the ten principles Status with each of us. Communicate sustainability homepage and intranet Meetings Company presentations Sustainability as an integral Adoption of sustainability issues component of corporate culture in management handbook G4-14 Sustainability goals Expansion of sustainability questions in supplier surveys We have a clear goal in sight: we want to make Compilation of sustainability strategies for 2015 our contribution to making the world that little bit more Reduction of energy Implementation of energy-saving measures consumption at Hamburg location sustainable. Goal achieved Ongoing process We are actively committed – including the fact that we raise our suppliers‘ and partners‘ awareness of the issue of sustainability and the associated benefits. We want to introduce particularly positive changes in areas on which us to ensure that all divisions and organisations are heading in working on the implementation of the corresponding projects. Eyes open, ears pricked, cards on the table. we have an influence ourselves, the same direction. To this end, p. 23 such as supplier management. we coordinated our managerial This especially includes fair coope­ and organisational structure ration with responsible suppliers and established transparent and staff, which is not only in the responsibilities in all of the busibest interests of the environment, ness fields. We participate actively in the but also of our customers, and German Chemical Distribution ultimately promotes the future Our sustainability officer develops Association’s (VCH) Respon­sible sustain­ability of our business. concrete sustainability goals with Care program and promote Compliance G4-14 the respective specialist departthe exchange of expe­riences G4-34 The focus on sustainability is ments every year. These are and knowledge with regard to G4-56 firmly anchored in our managediscussed at management level responsible action. Compliance is yet another Our fundamental core value: standards of the United Nations ment concept. As such, it is and approved by the executive component of our integrated integrity as established in the UN Global imperative that the executive board. The implementation and We regularly communicate the corporate responsibility. This term Compact. At the same time, we board, every supervisor and every achievement of the defined performance indicators, which means first and foremost the However, at Biesterfeld we take subscribe to the Brundtland employee is aware of their goals is spurred on and monitored are then summarised and mandatory implementation of compliance even further: one of Commission’s definition of interrelevant legal obligations and by the specialist departments published for all member firms. measures which ensure com­ our core values is integrity – an generational equality. ensures with conviction that they together with the sustainability pliance with all legally binding integrated compliance culture are complied with. Our employees officer. We implement the legal specifications. We compiled with unambiguous and clear “Sustainable development are trained and encouraged to require­ments with a high level corresponding individual comorientation to shared values. meets the needs of the present ensure that the principles of The sustainability goals table of commitment. Regular pliance measures in a compliance without compromising the sustainability are optimally inteshows that we have achieved the external audits confirm this management system, which is Our sustainability principles are ability of future generations grated in their day-to-day work. goals we set ourselves for our continuously. continuously further developed. derived from the recognised to meet their own needs.”3 Centralised management allows first year or are currently actively 2014 | BIESTERFELD AG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Page 22 Page 23 BIESTERFELD AG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2014 We’re most in control of the We’re proactive when it things closest to our hearts. comes to safety. G4-14 Our Code of Conduct intranet in both German and All breaches of our Code of DIN ISO 26000 Biesterfeld Group‘s centralised actions, preventive actions) G4-14 G4-34 English. It covers topics such as Conduct and our compliance (social responsibility) system. A standardised system database. The database aids our G4-32 G4-56 We internalise compliance on the corruption and cartel law, human standards are punished by environment ensures consistently management systems officers in G4-56 basis of our company-wide Code rights, labour and social standards corresponding measures. DIN EN 16247 high protection of data and also the allocation, classification and of Conduct, which is mandatory as well as operating procedures www.Biesterfeld.com (energy management) saves energy in the IT centres. monitoring of the measures. For for all of our employees. It forms for conflicts of interest and data example, the people in charge the foundations for our daily privacy. In addition, it describes 3 Taken from the Brundtland DIN EN ISO 31000 Regular audits regularly receive notifications cooperation. the way in which managers serve Com­mission’s “Our Common (risk management) and a about which measures need to as role models for our employees Future” report from 1987 crisis management concept The regular audits performed in be implemented in the area for Our Code of Conduct can be and business partners as well as all areas of the company also which they are responsible. found on our website and on the their responsibility to them. One elementary component of serve the same purpose. In 2014, the integrated management we performed a total of 47 audits. In future, the audits will also system is a risk management In addition to a variety of internal cover sustainability issues. All concept which identifies risks audits, these also included seven these measures in the integrated at an early stage and monitors certification audits supervised by management system also safeG4-14 Integrated management system them comprehensibly. It mainthe TÜV Nord technical inspection guard our product and service tains our planning reliability and association. We don’t simply use quality and are thus also in our reduces the risk costs. Insofar these audits to satisfy the require­ customers’ best interests. Our integrated management system covers the aspects as practical, we use insurances ments of the DIN EN ISO 9000 ff. to minimise risks. standard and the Responsible of quality management, environmental management, labour Care program; we also utilise management, health management, data privacy management, We also counteract the growing risk of cyber attacks with active them to ensure legal compliance throughout the Group. risk management and crisis management. measures: locations outside of Germany which still operate The potential for improvements their own IT networks will be revealed by these audits is docuThe overall responsibility for the and branch offices at inter­ An optimal process structure successively connected to the mented in our CAPA (corrective integrated management system national level. and strong customer focus remains with our executive board. are essential factors for our Supervisors are respon­sible for Level II describes the responcertification. The core compothe efficacy of the system in sibilities and processes at the nents of our integrated managetheir individual divisions and subsidiaries at regional level. ment system include standards must ensure that all employees such as: understand and implement the Level III describes the responsystem. sibilities in the subsidiaries’ DIN EN ISO 14001 branch offices. (environmental management) Our integrated management system is split into three levels: Compliance with our high quality OHSAS 18001 standards can only be achieved (occupational health and safety) Level I describes the respon­ by employing a systematic sibilities and processes at approach. When doing so, we DIN EN 27001 Biesterfeld AG for the holding refer to the DIN EN ISO 9000 ff. (data privacy) company with its subsidiaries standard. 2014 | BIESTERFELD AG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Page 24 Page 25 BIESTERFELD AG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2014 In order to grow together, you need to talk to each other. G4-25 Stakeholder relations VCI Plastics Europe All these dialogues provide us G4-16 G4-26 with important estimations of G4-24 G4-27 Verband Chemiehandel e.V. the opportunities and risks of our G4-26 To run a business successfully, it is particularly important business activities at a very early G4-27 Verein der Hamburger stage, and allow us to adapt to to know your stakeholders and foster a lively relationship and Exporteure e.V. upcoming changes in good time and tap potential more efficiently. information exchange with them. Drogenund Chemikalienverein e.V. Stakeholders for us are all those persons and organisations is another important link in the who can place legal, financial, operational, or ethical demands information chain. on Biesterfeld. Continuous dialogue investors) and keep them con­ The continued analysis of our Investors Owners tinuously up to date with our customer assessments is an We nurture continuous exchange financial standing and economic important instrument for the with our stakeholders in order to performance. This fosters the preservation of customer loyalty. be aware of their expectations and necessary trust among our finan­ In this way, customers who have always satisfy their requirements ciers for their continued particicomplained about a service in Banks as quickly as possible. In the end pation in the Biesterfeld Group. the past have the opportunity to we form an economic ecosystem give us positive feedback in the Employees together, the protago­nists of which The in-depth dialogue with our next assessment. We make every are in a symbio­tic relationship. customers results in valuable effort to process each issue as knowledge that we in turn share quickly as possible and find the Biesterfeld Our employees play a decisive with our manufacturers, thereby ideal solution for the respective Associations role in this respect helping them to offer more customer. Group sustainable products. After all, we can only satisfy our Membership in chemical asso­ stakeholders‘ requirements if we Forms of dialogue cia­tions and initiatives such as the Suppliers enjoy their trust and commitment. In order to maintain employee In addition to employee meetings, FECC (European Association Competitors satisfaction and performance, our standard forms of dialogue of Chemical Distributors) we regularly hold individual also include customer feedback, appraisals with each employee supplier surveys, reports as Ostund Mitteleuropa to discuss their personal further printed media and in PDF format Verein e.V. Authorities Customers development and, if necessary, as well as updates on our website any private matters. and on the intranet. In addition, Responsible Care we also conduct expert meetings We are in close contact with our and workshops and attend a wide UN Global Compact Indirect Direct financiers (owners, banks and range of trade fairs. stakeholders stakeholders 2014 | BIESTERFELD AG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Page 26 Page 27 BIESTERFELD AG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2014 3. Economic responsibility True value is only added by valuing others. 2014 | BIESTERFELD AG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Page 28 Page 29 BIESTERFELD AG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2014 As a company grows, Sustainability is when it’s so does its responsibility. not just the numbers that count. G4-9 Economic performance Turnover of the Biesterfeld Turnover by region, 2014 G4-4 Group broken down by the G4-8 three operative divisions, 2014 G4-9 As a family-owned company rich in tradition we want to G4-EC1 operate responsibly and act reliably. 19% 21% Germany The satisfaction of our customers in the company performance, the Financial stability is important to us as it is testalatest figures are also published 41% ment to our productive and on the intranet along with a As a successful company, we 55% 2% Western service efficiency. Accordingly, comparison with the previous maintain a broad spectrum 24% Miscellaneous Europe fostering good relations with year’s figures and budget values. of long-term and short-term 6% excl. customers and building up trust financiers in order to minimise Asia Germany through reliability and transpaIn accordance with the legal financial and interest risks. rency is of the utmost importance requirements (German commerBiesterfeld Plastic to us. cial law), we announce the result The financing of the Biesterfeld 9% Biesterfeld Spezialchemie of the Biesterfeld Group’s business Group is oriented towards The Americas Biesterfeld International We have specific ideas about how activity annually in the German guaranteeing financial flexibility to develop our business activities. Federal Gazette. for the entire Group and minimiOur activities are based on a sing the cost of capital at the detailed five-year plan, which is Our company performance same time. The graph showing the break23% checked and updated annually. down of the turnover shows that Eastern Europe This plan is an obligation for all In 2014, we achieved an increase A range of different equity and Biesterfeld Plastic generates the those responsible in the Biesterin turnover of 2% compared with loan capital financing instruments largest share (55%) of our overall feld Group. the previous year. Growth in 2013 with different maturities creates turnover. The remainder of the was 6%, allowing us to pass the a stable liquidity and financing overall turnover is split almost To enable all those responsible billion mark with our turnover for situation and thus safeguards the equally between Biesterfeld The “Turnover by region” graph to fulfill their obligation, they the first time in the history of our sustainable growth of the Biester­ International and Biesterfeld reflects the international orienreceive the figures for our company. The table at the end of feld Group as a whole. Spezialchemie. tation of the Biesterfeld Group. company performance promptly. this chapter summarises the Armed with this knowledge, they economic indicators for the past At the same time, we also take then check the status quo of their three years. into consideration the currencies business and implement any p. 33 in which cash flows are gene­ necessary adjustments in order rated. We analyse the financing In the business year 2014, we were the Ukraine, while Biesterfeld was also expanded in 2014 with G4-13 to achieve the common goal. In Our economic growth is charac­ possibilities on the capital markets able to intensify various partner­ Plastic expanded its distribution the aim of distributing the tasks the name of transparency, we also te­rised by the fact that we act of the respective currencies and ships even further as well as agreement for poly­sulphones involved in the running of the inform our financiers about our cautiously and advisedly, which hedge risks arising from fluctuaenter into cooperations with new to include Sweden, Denmark, Biesterfeld Group more evenly. company performance regularly makes us profitable in the long tions in the exchange rate if and suppliers. For example, BiesterNorway and Finland. The members of our executive and comprehensively. term. as required. feld Spezialchemie took over the board play an important role in sale and distribution of vitamins As our business expands, so does the establishment of sustainable In order to allow all of our and minerals in Germany, the the associated responsibi­lity. processes and serve as role employees to participate actively Czech Republic, Slovakia and Consequently, the executive board models for all of our employees. 2014 | BIESTERFELD AG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Page 30 Page 31 BIESTERFELD AG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2014 G4-4 Turnover breakdown for Turnover breakdown for Turnover breakdown for Our economic indicators 2012–2014* G4-9 G4-8 Biesterfeld Plastic, Biesterfeld Spezialchemie, Biesterfeld International, G4-EC1 G4-EC1 2014 2014 2014 2014 2013 2012 4% Sales revenue 1,077,886,880 1,056,700,953 996,293,592 34% 37% 43% 33% Cost of materials 939,666,230 923,892,841 869,242,486 38% 39% 18% 24% Gross profit 138,220,650 132,808,112 127,051,106 20% 10% Labour costs 51,412,351 49,174,750 48,407,062 Engineering polymers LifeScience Chemical industry Acrylates CASE Pharmaceutical industry Standard polymers Performance products Agricultural industry Training costs ** 200,223 175,934 184,485 Rubber Nutrition Occupancy costs 4,941,050 5,026,057 4,422,389 Biesterfeld Plastic product Biesterfeld Spezialchemie’s Biesterfeld International is portfolio includes Engineering product range can be divided specialised in the global trade of polymers (43% share of turn­ into four segments: “LifeScience” industrial chemicals (39% share EBIT 32,414,411 29,413,949 29,740,257 over), standard polymers (33%), (38% share of turnover) encomof turnover), pharmaceutical acrylates (20%) and rubber (4%) passes pharmaceutical products, raw materials and active sub­ – raw materials which are cosmetics, additives for the stances (37%) and agricultural Financing Cost 9,369,888 9,501,857 9,218,534 indispensable for the production household cleaning products chemicals (24%). of automotive components, toys, industry and organic synthesis. stationery, furniture fittings, “CASE” (34%) stands for coatings, The Biesterfeld International Pretax profit 23,271,613 20,173,355 21,072,509 domestic appliances, garden adhesives, sealants and elastowebsite features a product appliances, sanitary systems, mers. “Performance Products” navigator, which lists the product foodstuff packaging and medical (18%) offers silicone elastomers portfolio clearly by trade name technology, for example. and products for the automotive and intended purpose. Payment to government 7,859,605 7,083,340 7,163,461 construction, electronics and (taxes) www.Biesterfeld-International.com More detailed information on our energy industries. “Nutrition” contracting and sales partners (10%) covers additives for the can be found on our website: foodstuffs industry. Profit after tax 15,412,008 13,090,015 13,909,048 www.Biesterfeld-Plastic.com More detailed information and an * All figures are given in euros (€). Consolidated financial statements are not included overview of our main suppliers More detailed economic information can be found in the German Federal Gazette can be found on the Internet at: ** Training costs are for Germany only www.Biesterfeld-Spezialchemie.com 2014 | BIESTERFELD AG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Page 32 Page 33 BIESTERFELD AG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2014 4. Environmental responsibility Our goal: a healthy turnover with a healthy environment. 2014 | BIESTERFELD AG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Page 34 Page 35 BIESTERFELD AG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2014 We put a lot of energy into solutions which require less energy. G4-EN27 We are committed to working responsibly and sustainably The first successful steps in cutconsumption low. The kitchen in sustainability initiatives we G4-EN3 G4-EN32 ting our energy requirements appliances are regularly serviced can exert an external influence G4-EN5 when it comes to the protection of resources. were the complete refurbishment and replaced with more energyon legislation and directives G4-EN6 of all the office floors, the introefficient ones if and as required. aimed at improving environ­ G4-EN32 duction of a new lighting concept Each floor now has an energymental protection. We handle our energy, water and Prudent handling of As soon as a product displays and the renovation of the underefficient multifunctional printer, other raw material requirements our products indications of possible risks in ground parking garage. which all employees can operate conscientiously and do every­ its use, we start searching for via the company network. thing in our power to utilise the In our day-to-day work, we pay environmentally friendly substiShared kitchens with their own required resources efficiently. special attention to protecting tutes in close cooperation with fridges, watercoolers and coffee We also hope that by participating nature as the basis of life for suppliers and customers in the machines keep energy and water in associations and volunteering We raise our employees’ awarefuture generations and always scope of product responsibility. ness of the topic of sustainability have the environmental conseIn this context, safety data in order to reduce our emissions quences of our business operasheets play an important role and energy values even further. tions in mind. Safe handling of as a handling communication The sustainability report is also our products is particularly medium. A separate department New lighting technology cuts grated motion sensors mean watts per eight-hour working G4-EN27 an important tool in this respect. important. This includes a wide with qualified specialists ensures energy consumption that they can also be controlled day were previously used as range of different preventative that they are continuously revised as required. ceiling lights in the individual The use of advanced logistics, measures to combat the direct and updated. We can’t work without elec­ offices, we now have an office and communication techand indirect risks potentially tricity. But we can manage with All together, this enabled us to average of 1.5 uplights with nologies helps our employees to associated with our products. less. With this in mind, we have reduce our energy requirements energy-saving bulbs which achieve our sustainability goals. replaced the ceiling lights with for office lighting in 2014 by use 1,168 watts per eight-hour energy-efficient uplights in around 28%. Where several working day. many of the workplaces in our fluorescent lamps with a company headquarters. Inte­ consumption of approx. 1,620 G4-EN3 Energy consumption G4-EN5 G4-EN6 Efficient office furnishings consumption values across the The major energy users in our Energy consumption at the company headquarters in Hamburg 2014* Group in the medium term. For this offices in Hamburg are (in descen­ As a service company, we are reason, we work in accordance ding order): Energy sources kWh CO2 emissions in t** convinced that even the smallest with the following principle: changes in daily activities can  Lighting Electricity 343,700 205 bring about considerable progress Learn from each other, and result in success in the long develop together  Air-conditioning District heating Energy consumption per euro term, which is why we furnish our 387,100 102 of turnover in 2014 was thus (for heating purposes) offices in accordance with the For this first sustainability report  Underground parking 0.00356 kWh. Approximately latest occupational health reguwe have focused on the measures garage ventilation system Total 730,800 307 2,560 kWh are used per employee lations, for example. in our Hamburg headquarters. in the headquarters. We identified the largest energy  Small and electronic * Figures have been rounded off We are also currently expanding users, checked them and derived appliances (office appliances) ** GEMIS emission factors (Version 4.8) were used as a reference for the calculation our communication structure suitable measures for cutting our with the aim of recording energy energy requirements. 2014 | BIESTERFELD AG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Page 36 Page 37 BIESTERFELD AG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2014 On a mission Means of transport by which employees travel to work in Hamburg G4-EN17 G4-EN27 Means of transport Journey to and from work CO2 emissions to slash emissions. per workday and per employee in km* in t per working year** Bicycle 14 0 Long-distance train 102 6 Car 60 165 Local public transport 21 116 G4-EN17 Greenhouse gas emissions * Figures have been rounded off. Specifies the average distance in kilometers per workday per employee ** GEMIS emission factors (Version 4.8) were used as a reference for the calculation. Based on 252 workdays per year We view it as part of our environmental responsibility The emission values are calculated by multiplying the journey to and from work in kilometres by the respective emission factor, the number of employees and the determined total number of workdays to know our carbon footprint. That is why we calculate our S  cope 3: All indirect emissions Fleet emissions corporate CO2 emissions in resulting from our activities accordance with the Greenhouse (transport of goods, business Our company vehicles fleet in Means of transport for traveling to workplace Gas Protocol (GHG Protocol)4 and trips, employees’ journeys to Germany currently comprises the ISO 16064 standard annually work) but not associated with 77 vehicles. 7% starting with 2014. At the same the procurement of energy. time, this will serve as the base With the aim of reducing our CO2 19 % 7% year for future comparisons. As a chemical distributor heating emissions even further, we shall Greenhouse gas emissions its main office in Hamburg by gradually be integrating more (GHG) can be assigned to three means of district heating, Scope 1 and more low-emission and Emissions caused by categories: is not relevant for us, as we do energy-efficient vehicles in our employees traveling not produce any direct emissions. fleet in Germany. to workplace Scope 1: All direct GHG As such, our sources of emissions emissions. are restricted to Scope 2 and Thanks to the favourable loca­tion 4 Global standard for quantification, Scope 3. In following years we management and reporting of of our company headquarters in Scope 2: All indirect GHG intend to focus on these aspects greenhouse gas emissions the heart of the Hamburg, the emissions that we as a when establishing targeted majority of our employees do not company cause via procuremeasures with the aim of redutravel to work by car. ment of energy. cing our carbon footprint. We encourage traveling to work by public transport by subsidising monthly local public transport passes. Biesterfeld Group fleet* Our commitment is rounded off Fuel Total consumption Total consumption CO2 emissions in t** by provision of sufficient cycle in litres in megajoules parking and the possibility of borrowing company bicycles for Diesel 303,600 10,626,700 395 short journeys. Petrol 35,800 1,091,077 41 Total consumption 339,400 11,717,777 436 67 % * Figures have been rounded off. All vehicles registered to the Hamburg headquarters ** GEMIS emission factors (Version 4.8) were used as a reference for the calculation 2014 | BIESTERFELD AG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Page 38 Page 39 BIESTERFELD AG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2014 G4-EN17 G4-EN27 Business trips across the Biesterfeld Group, 2014* Environmental indicators for the Biesterfeld Group, 2014 G4-EN17 Airplane Distance in km CO2 emissions in t per year** Type of emissions CO2 in t International flights 3,314,000 505 Domestic flights 464,000 109 SCOPE 2 Total 3,778,000 614 Energy consumption at the company headquarters 307 * Figures have been rounded off ** GEMIS emission factors (Version 4.8) were used as a reference for the calculation SCOPE 3 Emissions caused by on-site assistance is invaluable healthy balance between environ­ business trips when it comes to offering our mentally friendly action and local Fleet 436 customers the best possible personal support in order to The number of business trips service. As an internationally continue offering our customers Employees’ journeys to work in Hamburg 287 within the Biesterfeld Group operating company with and suppliers the best solution has declined continuously over suppliers and customers from and handle emissions conscienBusiness trips 614 the years. Our employees are different countries all over the tiously at the same time. That increasingly utilising the pos­ world, we know how important is why quantification of our Transport of goods 19,170 sibilities offered by telephone and it is to nurture personal relation­ emissions is such an important video conferences. However, ships. Our goal is to maintain a issue for us. Our Greenhouse Gas emissions were determined using Transport of goods across the Biesterfeld Group, 2014* the data from the GEMIS database 5 compiled by the German Mode of transport Quantity in t Average CO2 emissions Federal Environment Agency (UBA) and the Institute for distance in km in t per year** Applied Ecology (Öko-Institut) as a reference. Road transport 152,000 321 2,451 Inland navigation vessels 13,120 255 115 We have been occupying ourselves intensively with the Seagoing vessels 92,700 14,692 16,500 matter of quantifying emissions and are determined to Air freight 18 3,673 51 achieve even further reductions in emissions in all future Rail transport 2,100 646 52 activities. * Quantities and distances determined using the ERP system. The values are initially based solely on deliveries involving Germany (import and export). Figures have been rounded off 5 Global Emissions Model ** GEMIS emission factors (Version 4.8) were used as a reference for the calculation for Integrated Systems Emissions caused by the locations and supply routes. This transport of goods in turn leads to more efficient transport, lower emissions and Transport of goods is one of the thus lower costs. key aspects of our business as a distributor and trading firm. The table above illustrates the The logistics departments of the emissions caused by the respecrespective divisions are constantly tive modes of transport for the striving to optimise warehouse Biesterfeld Group. 2014 | BIESTERFELD AG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Page 40 Page 41 BIESTERFELD AG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2014 5. Social responsibility Growth is only truly healthy if we all participate. 2014 | BIESTERFELD AG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Page 42 Page 43 BIESTERFELD AG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2014 We are sure that we can only be New hires by region, 2014* G4-10 G4-LA1 successful by allowing others to 6 share in our success. 1 25 82 Our staff Our staff employ their specialist skills and commitment for the satisfaction of our customers and suppliers all over the 50 world – and in turn for the success of our company. They internalise the corporate culture of the Biesterfeld Group and take it out into the big wide world. Germany Europe excl. Germany The Americas Asia In the scope of their fields of As a family-owned company, every employee can find the right activity, all of our employees are we set great store by offering solution. In this respect, we make responsible for ensuring that our staff a fair and welcoming no distinction between the pos­si­ Workforce by gender, 2014* we as a company live up to our working environment. Respectbilities on offer for full-time and social responsibility. They lay the ful cooperation is of particular part-time staff or those with fixedfoundations for the economic importance to us. We promote term and permanent contracts. and sustainable growth of the a healthy work/life balance and Biesterfeld Group. With this in offer secure workplaces. The mind, we offer our employees range of different work models performance-related incentives. in place means that each and G4-LA1 New hires by age group, 2014 Full-time: 368 748 Full-time: 288 Part-time: 15 Part-time: 77 Up to 29 20 7 30– 4 9 18 23 50 6 8 and over Female Male Male Female * Headcount 2014 | BIESTERFELD AG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Page 44 Page 45 BIESTERFELD AG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2014 As satisfaction increases, G4-LA2 so does productivity. Possibility of working from home Ergonomic office furniture Special offers for Annual theatre/musical company party performances Profit sharing Training G4-LA2 Our social contributions opportunities Each and every one of our employees is important to us, which is why in addition to a pleasant working atmosphere Gym membership Flexible Health Mobile working hours schemes massage service and mutual respect we also offer them a wide range of discounts additional services. Pension Parental leave In addition to a canteen offering Promotion of health to flu vaccines this also includes schemes a variety of fresh, healthy meals ophthalmic examinations. Canteen Sports to suit different tastes and dietary As the health of our staff is impor­ subsidies competitions requirements, we also have a tant to us, we take preventative We encourage social interaction kitchen on each floor stocked measures to combat work-related among our employees and with a range of drinks. Alongside risks. offer a wide range of activities vegan and vegetarian dishes we outside of working hours. Our Travel Kitchens with also offer a selection of lactoseThis starts with our office fur­ employees actively take part subsidies drinks on free foods. nishings: all of our office furniin a wide variety of sporting all floors ture is ergonomically designed. events such as bowling, athletics Our office spaces are equipped Wherever necessary we provide tournaments, a bikeathon and a with state-of-the-art techno­logy height-adjustable desks and triathlon. complying with the latest safety chairs which offer back support. standards, and our IT specialists We take great care to satisfy Sporting activities are a great take care of any technical probthe personal requirements of balance for daily work and the lems that arise in addition to being our staff. daily grind. In the scope of a on hand to offer assistance if and cooperation with a gym based in Training and further development G4-LA10 as required. We also supply our Our goal of promoting our emHamburg, our employees also employees with mobile phones ployees’ health is complemented get a discount on their monthly if their roles require. Employees by health checks in the workplace. subscription fees. We set great store by continuous training and further who work from home are also Each member of staff is entitled provided with the requisite techto free, voluntary preventative development, as this is the only way in which we can pass nology and accesses. health care every year. In addition on our many years of experience to our young employees. We employ a wide range of further supplement and expand the exper­ departments or even divisions is training measures – from in-house tise of our employees. also no problem at all. training sessions to department courses right up to workshops The excellent cooperation between In addition, the professional quali­ held by external providers – to all divisions means that changing fication of our junior staff is also 2014 | BIESTERFELD AG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Page 46 Page 47 BIESTERFELD AG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2014 We challenge and encourage our Personnel indicators, 2014* G4-10 G4-11 G4-LA3 most important assets. By employment contract Female Male Total Headcount in %** Fixed-term contract 5 5 10 3 Permanent contract 166 154 320 97 G4-LA10 essential for the sustainable rate their interests. Committed outside the company also take development of our business. We mentors are always on hand to their first steps on the career Parental leave Female Male Total Headcount are there every step of the way answer any questions and inte­ ladder and continue their careers in %** when it comes to the nurturing grate the apprentices in the busiwith us. and encouragement of young ness as fully fledged colleagues. talent. The Biesterfeld Group: Entitled to Taken as an annual average we committed to long-term and parental leave 8 1 9 3 At our headquarters we offer both had 19 apprentices in the company value-based cooperation in-plant training and a combined in 2014. Following successful Actually took it 8 1 9 3 vocational training and degree completion of the apprenticeship One of the particular strengths program. Our apprentices spend or degree, we also offer our of our staff is the balance time in a number of different graduates interesting career perbetween new innovative ideas Returned to work areas of activity in order to give spectives. Vacancies are filled and tried-and-tested traditional with a period of them an optimal insight into the based on skills, performance and methods. Our new hires and employment of different activities and modes of potential with no exceptions. In experienced employees work at least 12 months 6 1 7 2 operation in our company. This 2014, 11 internal graduates began together dynamically and learn gives them the opportunity to their careers in our company. from each other continuously. Return rate 75% 100% 77.78% 2 identify their strengths and elabo­ Many talented young people from Apprentices Female Male Total Headcount in %** Social commitment Apprentices offered positions 6 5 11 3 We identify strongly with our location, Hamburg, where * Figures only apply for Germany Biesterfeld AG has its headquarters. ** Share of number of employees in Germany is provided in percent We are a successful, tradition-conscious company with a high degree of social commitment. Along these lines, we support children from disadvantaged donate the money we would have a number of carefully selected families and avoid their margin­ spent to our chosen causes. organisations and sponsor alisation. The money is used to charitable projects. buy clothes for the children and In addition, we impart our experpay for them to go on school tise to a range of different For example, we donate the profits trips and excursions. chemical associations and panels. from our annual golf tournament to children‘s aid organisations Instead of sending customers which use the donations to help Christmas presents, we also 2014 | BIESTERFELD AG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Page 48 Page 49 BIESTERFELD AG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2014 6. Our future perspective To see what‘s important today, you need to look to tomorrow. 2014 | BIESTERFELD AG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Page 50 Page 51 BIESTERFELD AG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2014 Step by step towards a future worth living in. The future in our G4-22 G4-23 Goals for the upcoming years sights, family G4-28 G4-29 We have set ourselves clear goals: traditions in our G4-30 We want to continue operating sustainably and integrating our stakeholders in this project actively. hearts This first sustainability report, which simultaneously serves as a “Communication on Progress” in accordance with the UN Global Compact, documents our current situation and sustainability goals for the future. It is based on the data and information for 2014. In future, we want to expand the data set for the report continuously and optimise our sustainability processes further. The next sustainability report will be published in 2016. GA-11 The concept of sustainability is including, for example, more an energy audit in accordance G4-EN32 a fundamental component of our extensive use of energy-saving with DIN 16247 and intend to G4-LA14 entrepreneurial activity, which technologies, especially in our continue this in the future too. G4-LA15 is why we set ourselves sustain­ offices. The expanded use of the ability goals that we follow concentralised IT infrastructure, Our suppliers are regularly sistently. At regular intervals we which replaces the decentralised surveyed on the topic of sustainOur employees are informed We set great store by illustrating we view sustainability communiG4-EN32 review the requirements placed on networks and IT centres, also ability and their answers assesabout and trained in sustain­ all of the essential aspects cation as an integral component. G4-LA14 us by stakeholders and reconcile contributes to this. In addition to sed. To do so we have expanded ability. The focus of the completely and precisely. In order G4-LA15 these with our goals. the primary goal of increased the respective programs and knowledge communication is to establish a clear basic structure, We are geared towards longdata security, this also brings intentionally focused the survey on both general awareness and we have started by taking our term successes and send a clear We want to reduce our environwith it energy savings. on the principles of the UN understanding of sustainable headquarters as a pilot project. In signal for sustainability in order mental footprint. To do so, we Global Compact. operations and the direct consethe following reports, we intend to to develop our global commitintend to implement further In accordance with the legal quences in everyday life and the include more and more locations ment concept even further. measures aimed at saving energy, provisions, we have performed working environment. as time goes on. In this respect, 2014 | BIESTERFELD AG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Page 52 Page 53 BIESTERFELD AG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2014 GRI Content Index G4-32 G4-32 G4-33 General standard disclosures Page Comment G4-14 p. 22 – 25 GRI content index in accordance with G4-15 p. 12, 15, 22 the “Core” option. G4-16 p. 27 The sustainability report was not submitted for external Identified material aspects and boundaries assurance. G4-17 p. 10 – 11 Additional information can be found in our announcement on the German Federal Gazette page: Notes to Consolidated Financial General standard disclosures Statements, Note 2. Basis of consolidation General standard disclosures Page Comment G4-18 p. 17– 19 Strategy and analysis G4-19 p. 19 G4-1 p. 5 G4-20 p. 17– 18 Organizational profile G4-21 p. 17– 18 G4-3 p. 5, 60 G4-22 p. 52 Not applicable as this is our first sustainability report G4-4 p. 8, 31 – 32 G4-23 p. 52 Not applicable as this is our first sustainability G4-5 p. 60 report G4-6 p. 10 – 11 Stakeholder engagement G4-7 p. 12, 14 G4-24 p. 27 G4-8 p. 8– 9, 31 G4-25 p. 17– 18, 26 G4-9 p. 3, 30– 31, 33 Additional information can be found in our G4-26 p. 26 – 27 announcement on the German Federal Gazette page: Notes to Consolidated Financial G4-27 p. 26 – 27 Statements, Note 7. Other information G4-10 p. 45, 49 G4-11 p. 49, 52 Currently no global data available G4-12 p. 8 G4-13 p. 31 2014 | BIESTERFELD AG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT PAGE 54 PAGE 55 BIESTERFELD AG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2014 G4-32 Specific standard disclosures G4-32 General standard disclosures Page Comment Report profile DMA and Indicators Page Omissions Comment G4-28 p. 52 Category: Economic Aspect: Economic performance G4-29 p. 52 Not applicable as this is our first sustainability report G4-DMA p. 17– 19 G4-30 p. 52 G4-EC1 p. 31– 33 Additional information can be found in our announcement on the G4-31 p. 60 German Federal Gazette page: Point 2.3 Company performance G4-32 p. 54 – 59 Category: Environmental G4-33 p. 54 No external assurance performed Aspect: Energy Governance G4-DMA p. 17– 19 G4-34 p. 12 – 16, 23 – 24 G4-EN3 p. 36 – 37 Ethics and integrity G4-EN5 p. 36 – 37 G4-56 p. 12 – 16, 23 – 25 G4-EN6 p. 36 – 37 Aspect: Emissions G4-DMA p. 17– 19 G4-EN17 p. 38 – 41 Aspect: Products and Services G4-DMA p. 17– 19 G4-EN27 S. 36 – 37, 39 2014 | BIESTERFELD AG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Page 56 Page 57 BIESTERFELD AG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2014 G4-32 G4-32 DMA and Indicators Page Omissions Comment DMA and Indicators Page Omissions Comment Aspect: Supplier environmental assessment Aspect: Supplier Assessment for Labour Practices G4-DMA p. 17– 19 G4-DMA p. 17– 19 G4-EN32 p. 52 – 5 3 Currently unavailable. G4-LA14 p. 52 – 53 Currently unavailable. An environmental An assessment of the assessment of the labour practices is planned suppliers is planned and will be conducted and will be conducted periodi­cally together periodically together with the following annual with the following assessment. annual assessment. G4-LA15 p. 52 – 53 Currently unavailable. Category: Social An assessment of the Subcategory: Labour practices and decent work labour practices is planned and will be conducted Aspect: Employment periodi­cally together with the following annual G4-DMA p. 17– 19 assessment. G4-LA1 p. 44 – 4 5 Our employee turnover has remained almost the same. The average turnover rate is 9.37%. G4-LA2 p. 46 – 47 G4-LA3 p. 49 Aspect: Training and education G4-DMA p. 17– 19 G4-LA10 p. 47 – 4 8 Our programs for facilitating transition are tailored to suit each employee’s personal requirements. For example, we offer employees taking retirement the option of remaining in minimal employment with the same duties. 2014 | BIESTERFELD AG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Page 58 Page 59 BIESTERFELD AG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2014 Imprint G4-3 G4-5 G4-31 Published by Biesterfeld AG Ferdinandstrasse 41 20095 Hamburg, Germany Executive board: Thomas Arnold (Chairman), Carsten Harms, Christian Wolfsohn Chairman of the supervisory board: Dirk J. Biesterfeld Headquarters: Hamburg, Hamburg Local Court (Amtsgericht) HRB 90396 VAT ID no. DE 813 983 617 Responsible Biesterfeld ChemLogS GmbH Ferdinandstrasse 41 20095 Hamburg, Germany Managing directors: Jens-Uwe Pietrock, Christian Wolfsohn Headquarters: Hamburg, Hamburg Local Court (Amtsgericht) HRB 102258 VAT ID no. DE 2565 2165 9 General queries Press and PR department E-mail: communications@biesterfeld.com Tel.: +49 (0)40 32008-374 Sustainability relations Khojesta Rahbari E-mail: k.rahbari@biesterfeld.com Tel.: +49 (0)40 32008-780 Fax: +49 (0)40 32008-340 Further information is available on our website at www.biesterfeld.com. © 2015 Biesterfeld AG Reprints, including excerpts, are only possible with the publisher’s written permission and must be furnished with the image and text reference “Biesterfeld AG”. Responsible care Responsible handling of chemicals
