Sustainability Report 2015 Communication on Progress to the United Nations Global Compact -1Contents Preface Contents ............................................................... 2 Optima’s way to corporate sustainability Preface ................................................................. 2 Since 1984, Optima Pharmazeutische GmbH 1 Human Rights ............................................. 3 provides high-quality pharmaceutical 2 Labour .......................................................... 4 products. For Optima, our responsibility as a company always extended beyond our factory 3 Environment ................................................ 6 gates – the ecological, economic and social 4 Anti-Corruption & Fair Business Practice 9 dimensions of sustainability have been 5 Community Engagement ......................... 10 guidelines of our entrepreneurial activity from the very beginning. 6 Outlook ...................................................... 10 With the signing of the UN Global Compact in 2014, we have officially committed ourselves to core values in the areas of human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption compliance, and promised to spread and support them in our business and social environment. This is Optima’s first Sustainability Report, and a milestone towards our goal of a comprehensive and effective sustainability management. At the same time, it represents our annual Communication on Progress report to the UN Global Compact, and will be published on the UN Global Compact Website. We invite all business partners and other interested parties to provide feedback and get in contact with us in case of any questions or suggestions. Moosburg/Wang, Mai 2015 Michael Kroll Stefan Kroll -2Statement by the CEO of continued support 1 Human Rights for the UN Global Compact I am pleased to confirm that Optima  Principle 1: We support and respect the Pharmazeutische GmbH reaffirms its support protection of internationally proclaimed of the Ten Principles of the United Nations human rights  Principle 2: We make sure that we are Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, not complicit in human rights abuses Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this Sustainability Report, which represents Human Rights in our own operations our annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve Optima declares its full support for the United the integration of the Global Compact and its Nations Universal Declaration of Human principles into our business strategy, culture Rights. and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using Optima’s operations are based in Germany our primary channels of communication. and Switzerland. According to the Maplecroft Human Rights Risk Index 2014, these Sincerely yours, countries have a low prevalence of human rights-related risks (see “Further information”). Mr. Michael Kroll Therefore, direct implications are considered CEO Optima Pharmazeutische GmbH minimal. Our research and development activities are carried out exclusively in Germany, in Further information: cooperation with renowned research institutions. All quality standards and sector Optima: Corporate Sustainability website commitments are fully adhered to. Our main http://nachhaltigkeit.optimapharma.de/index.php/e n/sustainability/sustainability.html research partner is also a signee to the UN Global Compact. United Nations Global Compact www.unglobalcompact.org Human rights in our supply chain In its supply chain, Optima collaborates with a number of tier 1 suppliers and contract manufacturers, of which the vast majority is located in Germany. Therefore, the exposure to human rights-related risks in case of tier 1 suppliers is also considered minimal. As a main pillar of supplier engagement, in 2014 Optima has issued detailed sustainability standards for its suppliers, requiring them to -3adhere to the UN Global Compact Principles In 2014, about two thirds of our key (see “Further information”). customers were signatories to the UN Global compact or similar voluntary codices (e.g. Also, tier 1 suppliers are requested to report German Sustainability Codex), and/or have an any human rights-related incidents in their own policy for the protection of human rights. own operations or supply chains to Optima. The target for 2015 is to keep increasing this As a measurement of outcome, we monitor share. the number of complaints, incidents or other issues related to human right abuses, both in   2/3 of key customers are publicly our own operations and our supply chain. In committed to fighting human rights abuses the last year, no such incidents were brought to the knowledge of Optima. Further information  0 human rights-related incidents Optima: Standards for Sustainable Procurement (German) http://nachhaltigkeit.optimapharma.de/images/mic Regarding tier 2 suppliers, no detailed rosites/nachhaltigkeit/pdf/standards_for_sustainabl evaluation has been conducted so far, but the e_procurement.pdf topic will be addressed in cooperation with Maplecroft: Human Rights Risk Index 2014. tier 1 suppliers. In 2015, Optima will enter a https://maplecroft.com/portfolio/newdialogue with tier 1 suppliers to screen their analysis/2013/12/04/70-increase-countriessupply chains and promote Optima’s identified-extreme-risk-human-rights-2008standards for sustainable procurement. The bhuman-rights-risk-atlas-2014b/ target is to initiate a dialogue with 50% of our main suppliers in 2015. 2 Labour Human rights in the downstream value chain  Principle 3: We uphold the freedom of Concerning downstream value chain partners association and the effective recognition (e.g. in logistics and distribution), Optima has of the right to collective bargaining; limited insight into human rights conditions.  Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of However, approx. 76% of Optima’s sales forced and compulsory labour;  Principle 5: the effective abolition of child volume is directed to EU countries and 23% to labour; and Australia and New Zealand, therefore a broad  Principle 6: the elimination of compliance of value chain partners with the discrimination in respect of employment existing legal requirements can be assumed. and occupation Regarding our downstream value chain partners, we encourage partners to Working conditions participate in voluntary sustainability and We strive to ensure optimal working human rights codices, like the UN Global conditions for all employees, meeting and Compact or the German Sustainability Codex. -4where possible exceeding all legal Labour standards in our supply chain requirements. Optima enables and The vast majority of our tier 1 suppliers are encourages part-time employment of located in Germany and other neighboring employees of both genders. countries that have: Equal opportunities and employee rights  a low level of child labour risk according to the Child Labour Index 2014  a low level of working conditions risk according to the Working Conditions Index 2014 (see “Further information”) Our supplier standards for sustainable procurement explicitly include the compliance with all legal requirements and the labourrelated Principles of the UN Global Compact. Optima guarantees its employees the Regarding tier 2 suppliers, no detailed freedom of association and the right to evaluation has been conducted so far, but the collective bargaining as regulated by national topic will be addressed in cooperation with and European laws and standards. tier 1 suppliers. The target is to initiate a Optima is an equal opportunities employer. dialogue with 50% of our main suppliers in We strive actively against discrimination of 2015. employees. We fully comply with national and Further information European employee protection and antidiscrimination legislation. Optima: Standards for Sustainable Procurement http://nachhaltigkeit.optimapharma.de/images/mic We monitor the number of incidents rosites/nachhaltigkeit/pdf/standards_for_sustainabl regarding employee rights or discrimination e_procurement.pdf (e.g. formal complaints, legal conflicts etc.), of Maplecroft: Child Labour Index 2014. which there were none in the last year. For http://maplecroft.com/portfolio/new2015, we aim to keep this number at zero. analysis/2013/10/15/child-labour-risks-increasechina-and-russia-most-progress-shown-south 0 labour rights-related incidents america-maplecroft-index/ Maplecroft: Working Conditions Index 2014. https://maplecroft.com/portfolio/newNo child or forced labour analysis/2014/01/29/world-cup-host-qatar-among11-countries-downgraded-lsquoextreme-riskrsquoOur employment policy is in accordance to working-conditions-maplecroft-index/ legal requirements and we have no employees under the age of 18. The same applies to any kind of forced or compulsory labour. -53 Environment  100% of contract manufacturers report on energy consumption Principle 7: We support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Regarding energy use for transportation and Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote packaging, Optima is working continuously on greater environmental responsibility; and optimizing logistic processes. One example is Principle 9: encourage the development and the restructuring of production for one of our diffusion of environmentally friendly main products. From 2015 on, production and technologies final packaging will be done at the same location, from where the product is then Environmental sustainability is a key concern distributed. Thus, the number of transports of the management and the employees alike. will be reduced notably. Although Optima’s products do not require large amounts of energy or natural resources Greenhouse gas emissions balance in production or use, we accomplish the responsibility for minimizing negative impacts. While Optima is not directly exposed to significant environmental risks, energy and resource availability play an important role. Energy use Starting with the year 2012, we are assessing Energy production and use is a main source of our annual Corporate Carbon Footprint, greenhouse gas emissions. The use of meaning the greenhouse gas emissions renewable energies is a way to reduce energybalance of all company operations, including related emissions. For heat supply in our own upand downstream processes of the value office facilities, we use renewable energies in chain. The advantage of the Carbon Footprint the form of pellet / woodchip heating. is that it includes emissions from energy and fuels, material-related emissions of the Efficient energy and resource use is a topic upstream and downstream value chains as that needs to be integrated broadly into well as other indirect emission sources like business process. Optima has therefore business travel and extended its internal Quality Management commuting of employees. Guidelines to cover these topics in relevant Thus, it gives valuable processes, for example in the training of new insights into the ecologic and existing staff members. hotspots of a company’s environmental balance Contract manufacturers are also instructed to and provides a single optimize energy efficiency. Optima requests indicator that easy to yearly energy consumption figures from all monitor. contract manufacturers, related to the work carried out for Optima. -6The calculation itself is carried out by our for 2015 is to continue the trend in reducing environmental consulting partner DFGE – our emission intensity. Institute for Energy, Ecology, Economy, in accordance with the GHG Protocol standard.  Relative emissions reduced by 13% Results of the years 2012 and 2013 are shown in the figure below. Results for 2014 are not Optima a climate-neutral company yet finalized. Energy and resource consumption and related emissions can be reduced by efficiency measures – but only to a certain point. However, Optima also takes responsibility for all non-avoidable emissions. Therefore, we compensate all our Scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions as calculated in the Carbon Footprint, by financing certified emission reduction projects. The total emissions for Optima amount to 383 t CO2e for calendar year 2013. Of these, 6% are caused by consumption of fuels for vehicles and heating (Scope 1). Emissions from purchased energy (Scope 2) only amount to 4%. The majority of emissions, with 90%, are other indirect emissions that occur along the value chains. Supported Reforestation project in Zimbabwe ©South Pole Carbon southpolecarbon.com Besides the absolute emission amounts, we In 2014, Optima has supported a reforestation calculate our “emission intensity”, i.e. the project in Zimbabwe through the purchase of relative emissions per piece of production Verified Carbon Standard emission reduction output. This provides a clearer view of certificates. This project not only contributes improvements in efficiency, even if the to reducing Greenhouse gas emissions, but absolute carbon footprint is increasing due to also provides sustainable livelihood options growth in business activity. From 2012 to for local communities. 2013, relative emissions could be reduced by 13% The Carbon Footprint as well as the compensation have been certified by TÜV On the basis of the Carbon Footprint and the Hessen, and Optima has been awarded as insights gained in the carbon footprint “climate neutral company” according to the calculation, Optima has already targeted TÜV ProfiCert Standard Climate Neutrality. several areas for emission reduction. The goal -7products are available, materials from known and legal sources must be used, which do not cause avoidable negative ecological and social impacts like deforestation, land use conflicts etc. Regarding product ingredients, two important naturally sourced materials are ethanol and Optima has committed itself to continue the soy lecithin, which may be related to increased compensation of 100% of non-avoidable ecological impacts. However, the absolute emissions over the coming years. amount of material used is limited. Optima’s tier 1 suppliers are requested to comply with  100% of Scope 1+2+3 emissions all applicable environmental, health, labour compensated and social standards when sourcing natural materials, and ensure that they do not cause Natural resources / raw materials avoidable negative ecological and social impacts like deforestation, land use conflicts An important focus area regarding etc. environmental impacts is the provenience of natural raw materials used. Depending on the Waste and recycling method and region of production, these may have larger or smaller environmental impacts. In the case of Optima’s products, paper is the most relevant material by quantity, as it is used in the individual product package, as well as for shipping boxes, leaflets etc. Optima’s goal is to use as much recycled paper as possible. For the remaining amount of non-recycled paper, we are increasingly using FSC (or alternatively PEFC) certified Regarding our products, the central focus lies paper, wherever available: For product on supreme quality and safety, but we also packaging, it is targeted to exclusively use FSC care about their end-of-life phase: Our certified materials in 2015. products are not harmful to the environment and can be safely disposed of by regular  Increasing share of recycled and means. Paper boxes, leaflets, empty glass certified paper sources containers and plastic caps can and should be recycled. Equally, Optima’s tier 1 suppliers and contract Through their innovative formulation and manufacturers are requested to use recycled application method, our liposomal eye sprays paper wherever possible, and FSC (or PEFC) have a much longer usage time compared to certified paper in all other cases. If no certified -8alternative products. This means that the Anti-corruption action in our value chain amount of waste is reduced drastically compared to other products, especially those with one-dose packaging. Further information: DFGE/Optima: Carbon Footprint Balance Year 2013 Management Summary http://nachhaltigkeit.optimapharma.de/images/mic rosites/nachhaltigkeit/pdf/optima_carbon_footprint _report_2014.pdf TÜV Hessen: Certificate– Climate Neutrality The 2014 Corruption Risk Index by Maplecroft http://nachhaltigkeit.optimapharma.de/images/mic shows that the countries in which Optima rosites/nachhaltigkeit/pdf/optima_tuevhessen_klim operates and where the majority of suppliers aneutralitaet.pdf are located have a “low” risk of corruption, Southpole Carbon: Reforestation Project with the exception of Austria with “medium” Description risk (see “Further Information”). http://nachhaltigkeit.optimapharma.de/images/mic rosites/nachhaltigkeit/pdf/project_forestprotection. Optima has issued clear standards for its pdf suppliers that include the compliance with all legal requirements and requests them to adhere to the UN Global Compact Principles 4 Anti-Corruption & Fair on fighting corruption. Business Practice Optima monitors the amount of incidents related to corruption of any form, both within Principle 10: We work against corruption the company and the supply chain. In the last in all its forms, including extortion and year, there were none such incidents brought bribery. to the knowledge of Optima. We aim to keep up this performance in the coming year. Clear stance against corruption  0 corruption-related incidents Optima condemns all forms of corruption. We believe in fair and open competition and are convinced that quality, innovation and Furthermore, we monitor the share of key efficiency are the key to long term business customers that have published an own code success. of conduct or policy regarding corruption and/or are signatures to the UN Global The commitment to prevent all forms of Compact or similar codices. In the last year, corruption has been integrated in our internal about two thirds of our key customers have Quality Management Handbook. made such a public commitment. -9 2/3 of key customers are publicly 6 Outlook committed to fight corruption Further information: In the path towards corporate sustainability, Optima will continue the path taken with the Maplecroft: Corruption Risk Index 2014. signing of the UN Global Compact in 2014. http://maplecroft.com/portfolio/newActions will be initiated in all relevant areas, as analysis/2013/09/24/corruption-risk-index-revealspresented in this report, and proven long-term-lack-will-tackle-corruption-brics/ instruments like the Carbon Footprint calculation will be continued. 5 Community Engagement However, we are aware that fundamental and systematic improvements must include the entire value chain, from raw material Since 2014, Optima is supporting the Plant for providers to the final consumer and beyond. A the Planet Foundation. It is a non-profit key element of our sustainability actions in organization based in Bavaria that has the 2015 will be the engagement and dialogue mission to combat climate change by with our upand downstream value chain promoting reforestation and the planting of partners. new forests in Germany and all over the world. With Optima’s contribution, trees were We therefore invite all partners, customers, planted that each year sequestrate CO2 in the suppliers and other stakeholders to order of magnitude of Optima’s total Carbon communicate openly with Optima regarding Footprint. all sustainability topics. Further information: All new information and reports will be published in the sustainability section of our Plant for the Planet: Supporter List. http://www.plant-for-thehomepage: planet.org/de/unterstuetzen/partnerschaft http://nachhaltigkeit.optimapharma.de/index. php/en/sustainability/sustainability.html 10 © 2015 Optima Pharmazeutische GmbH Wittibsmühle 5, 85361 Moosburg/Wang, Germany Tel.: +49 (0) 8761 / 7 21 84 -0 E-Mail: info@optimapharma.de Internet: www.optimapharma.de Produced with assistance by DFGE – Institute for Energy, Ecology, Economy Kreitstr.5, 86926 Greifenberg, Germany Tel.: +49 (0) 8192 / 99733-20 E-Mail: info@dfge.de Internet: www.dfge.de 11 -
