SIVA International Management CoP report to UN Global Compact I am pleased to confirm that SIVA International Management reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours, Alma Karabeg SIVA International Management Self-assessment  Includes an explicit statement of continued support for the UN Global Compact and its ten principles  Description of actions or relevant policies related to Human Rights  Description of actions or relevant policies related to Labour  Description of actions or relevant policies related to Environment  Description of actions or relevant policies related to Anti-Corruption  Includes a measurement of outcomes  Statement of continued support by the Chief Executive Officer  Statement of the company's chief executive (CEO or equivalent) expressing continued support for the Global Compact and renewing the company's ongoing commitment to the initiative and its principles. Human Rights  Assessment, policy and goals  Description of the relevance of human rights for the company (i.e. human rights risk-assessment). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on Human Rights.  Company has activities in Russia, but with a stong controll of Norwegian management and introduction of Norwegian work procedures. During 2014 we also had activities in Ukraine and Moldova. All activities are carried out in accordance with Norwegian and local law and regulations.  Implementation  Description of concrete actions to implement Human Rights policies, address Human Rights risks and respond to Human Rights violations.  Use of CSR and ethical guidelines developed in Norway. Focus on health, safety and environment on the same level as according to the labour law in Norway.  Measurement of outcomes  Description of how the company monitors and evaluates performance.  We have had no incidents of Human Rights violations. Labour  Assessment, policy and goals  Description of the relevance of labour rights for the company (i.e. labour rights-related risks and opportunities). Description of written policies, public commitments and company goals on labour rights.  Company is obliged to follow Norwegian laws and is always acting in accordance with ethical guidelines. Company respects the law in Russia, Ukraine and Moldova where company has activities and is using local lawyers to make sure all activities are in accordance with country’s regulations.  Implementation  Description of concrete actions taken by the company to implement labour policies, address labour risks and respond to labour violations.  Employees are assured their rights through contracts. Employees have periodical co-worker conversations with the leadership to ensure mutual communication.  Measurement of outcomes  Description of how the company monitors and evaluates performance.  There are 5 different nationalities out of 12 employees. 3 employees are men, 9 are women. Average age is 31 (oldest is 53, youngest is 28). Environment  Assessment, policy and goals  Description of the relevance of environmental protection for the company (i.e. environmental risks and opportunities). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on environmental protection.  Company is not polluting the environment and is not into production sector.  Implementation  Description of concrete actions to implement environmental policies, address environmental risks and respond to environmental incidents.  Awareness raising: use of technical gadgets for the purpose of communication in order to minimize the need for travelling and saving time and environment.  Measurement of outcomes  Description of how the company monitors and evaluates environmental performance.  We have had no incidents regarding environment. Anti-Corruption  Assessment, policy and goals  Description of the relevance of anti-corruption for the company (i.e. anticorruption risk-assessment). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on anti-corruption.  Company has no tolerance for corruption and management is well trained in order to recognize the attempts of corruption and to take action.  Implementation  Description of concrete actions to implement anti-corruption policies, address anti-corruption risks and respond to incidents.  Attending seminars  Project on CSR in collaboration with Nordic Council.  Measurement of outcomes  Description of how the company monitors and evaluates anti-corruption performance.  Profiling and communication zero corruption tolerance
