Sustainability Report RY ANN years A IV RS E 2014-2015 Table of Contents Table of Contents MESSAGE FROM THE CEO LEADING BY EXAMPLE LOCAL PRESENCE... OUR COMMITMENT GLOBAL KNOWHOW 04 06 10 12 Our People ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------22 The ‘ ’ In Hu anity------------------------------------------------------------------------------28 03 Engineering Science and Technology Co. Ltd. (ECEC). communities worldwide but only 10 years ago did we Message From The CEO This is a significant achievement and I know that this is start documenting our work. In 2005, Metito joined one of many as we look forward to more strategic projects United Nations Global Compact Initiative as the first GCC and partnerships in China that can both challenge and based company and joined the Emirates Environmental appeal to the confident and capable team leading BCH, Group as a founding member. It was this year that we Metito’s ambassadors to China. decided to be more vocal and spread more awareness on Message From We know that the projects we work on set benchmarks, meet water needs and sustain communities but without how small actions can make big changes. We developed the Metito Sustainability Report to acknowledge and document good work, inspire others, and to showcase The CEO us continuously advocating water preservation, recycling how corporate responsibility can be integrated into a and reuse it is only a matter of time before we are faced with sustainable business model and ingrained in a company’s a true calamity. Senior Metito Executives are therefore corporate culture. Today we commemorate this vision as enabled and mandated to engage with all stakeholders, we celebrate the 10th Year Anniversary edition. to speak to the experts and reach out to decision makers and the rest of the public to ensure the change we work I hope our partners, our clients, our employees and our “If your actions inspire others to dream more, learn for is a catalyst and not a short term sedative for an families enjoy reading about how Metito is evolving and more, do more and become more, you are a leader”, impending disaster. Our experts continued to engage how they played part in this positive evolution. I thank said John Quincy Adams, an American statesman who with a variety of industry events this past year through each and every person we crossed path with, those who served as the sixth President of the United States. participating as invited speakers, panelists, as well as touched our lives and us theirs because this experience registered company wholly-owned by Metito was specialy delegates. This is to make sure Metito‘s voice is heard in and these learnings are priceless. Metito grows with the Aspiring for new possibilities and inspiring others to follow established to manage this project and to help us maintain dialogues that can lead to change which is something I dedication of its most valuable asset, its people, and by lead has never been more important than at this day and a sustainable local presence in the Rwanda. Such presence feel is as important as our work in implementing model the good it brings to the communities we serve, those age. As leaders in our industry we must acknowledge and will enable us to support and grow a pool of talent that is projects. We also engaged with numerous tier one media we look after and those who truly need our help…. We utilise the new technologies that are being developed, the capable of managing and running this project and others outlets as go-to experts and viewing this as an another remain inspired and hope we continue to spark your new partnerships that are being formed and the prominent to come. This embedded ethos for Metito is something opportunity to communicate and reachout to the public. inspiration as well. level of awareness for the critical need to preserve water we don’t compromise and will continue instilling; Local which creates the perfect foundation for enabling changes. Presence...Global Knowhow. This type of engagement supports our commitment to Sincerely, It is our responsibility and duty to explore and advocate the communities we serve and is integral to our new possibilities and to put hopes and theories into The wide-ranging benefits from the Kigali Water Supply corporate responsibility (CR) agenda. For over 55 years practice and testing without the inhibition of failure and Project, considered the largest of its kind in sub-Saharan Metito has been spearheading humanitarian efforts without fear from challenging the ‘normal’. Africa outside of South Africa, will be felt for decades. and initiatives to provide access to clean water, and Mutaz Ghandour With this project we set the blueprint for similar long-term, educational and knowledge sharing opportunities for Chairman and Chief Executive Officer In the past few years water has also moved up the list of efficient partnerships in East African markets that will have National Security across the globe and more obviously in a positive impact upon people’s lives for generations to arid regions such as the GCC and MENA. Metito strives to come. find solutions that can guarantee a less vulnerable future Group photo featuring the delegations from IFC, RDB, WPA, WASAC, MINIFRA and Metito at the official signing ceremony in Kigalia, Rwanda and to make water more accessible and this past year In North Africa we have also seen a lot of changes and we chartered new grounds. With technology at the heart some positive signs of market bounce back from a of our industry, Metito invested in Thermal Purification period of severe economic and political instability. As Technologies Limited (TPTec), a clean-tech company the Egyptian economy entered into the initial stages of owning the patent for Low Temperature Distillation a recovery, Metito was entrusted with some major technology (LTDis) among other innovative solutions. infrastructural water projects worth in excess of EGP300 Metito is working closely with TPTEC to develop and million. These agreements are significant to us as we commercialise LTDis and is offering it exclusively in are working with both new and longstanding clients Asia and Africa; two regions where the feasibility of while supporting varied sectors at the heart of Egypt’s desalination is continually being challenged. economic development. Metito’s diligent and judicious management was also able In Asia, particularly China we have seen our business to make major inroads into new African markets and an grow remarkably and just recently our wholly owned excellent example of that would be the high profile Water subsidiary BCH celebrated an important milestone; 10 Purchase Agreement (WPA) in Rwanda that was signed years of outstanding success at the Hefei Wangxiaoying this year with The Water and Sanitation Corporation (WASAC), WWTP. This project, located at the heart of the Anhui Rwanda Development Board (RDB) and Ministry of province and considered the largest of its kind in the Infrastructure (MININFRA). Kigali Water Limited, a Rwandan area, is a joint venture between BCH and East China 04 05 Local Presence...Global Knowhow Local Presence...Global Knowhow With such distinction comes responsibility and committing have all allowed us to be the terminus for intelligent water In Mauritania, Metito was awarded a critical module of a Metito Africa at a Glance to our role as industry leaders and exemplars, Metito management solutions required for major infrastructural giant project at the Fam Laklitah dam in Eastern Aftout continues to play an active role in the development of projects that were recently resumed and/or launched by region. The project entails developing a water treatment Africa has always been an important market for Metito. the water and wastewater sector in some key African local governments and private entities. plant to provide potable water to numerous communities African countries have diversified economies and rising countries despite political and economic instability which in the area stretching from Wawa Plateau to Barkeol. populations which lead to an increasing demand for water has otherwise crippled their evolution. This past year Metito Africa has been awarded a landmark The plant will also serve more than 200,000 inhabitants projects required to serve the infrastructure, tourism, agreement by the Water and Sanitation Corporation living in villages and communities in three states: Brakna, industrial, environmental and construction sectors. (WASAC), Rwanda Development Board (RDB) and Gorgol and Assaba. The project network, funded by the Creating great opportunities for the water sector. The Outlook Ministry of Infrastructure (MININFRA). The Water Mauritanian Government, the Islamic Development Bank, Purchase Agreement (WPA) has been signed with Kigali the Arab Fund for Economic and Social Development, Metito has a set strategy to grow geographically and Water Limited, a Rwandan-registered company wholly and the French Agency for Development, is 700km commercially particularly in Africa, which is considered owned by Metito, is considered to be the first PPP in long, and will enable the processing of 5,000m3 of water to be the last frontier market. Industrialisation, increase in sub-Saharan Africa, outside of South Africa. Despite the per day coming from the Fam Laklitah dam. populations and the continued rural to urban migration, fact that Metito has successfully implemented projects are all natural demand drivers for water, especially in under concession basis across a number of other markets, Rwanda and Mauritania are two new markets for Metito, tandem with the inherent water scarcity issues due to the strategic implications of this particular project make while long-standing African markets where Metito has the arid nature of many African regions. All this creates it truly special as Metito will be serving the people of been present and active for decades also continue obvious challenges but also set the stage for great Rwanda for the first time and, for generations to come. to develop. In Egypt Metito has recently won more than possibilities and rewarding opportunities. Metito is aware EGP300 million worth of projects which reflects the solid of the potentials in the water and wastewater sector and The Kigali Bulk Water Supply project will supply more development underway in the country. At the centre of is capable of turning this potential into successful reality than 40% of Kigali’s potable water requirements serving these projects is the Tourism industry which is a sector whilst keeping the benefit of the people and the local more than 1.1 million residents in the Rwandan capital, that is intrinsically linked to the fortunes of the Egyptian communities at the heart of its efforts. and will support the predicted and continued urban economy. Within this sector Metito was awarded the growth as part of the economic development efforts wastewater treatment and desalination plants in some This ability, our well established local presence, continuous already in play. and successful operations and world class quality offerings Metito Combined Cycle Project for El Kuriemat Power Station in Upper Egypt Karim Madwar, Metito Africa Managing Director Metito established its Africa headquarters in Cairo, Egypt in 2002 as a joint stock company under the name; Metito Water Treatment SAE. The headquarters occupy around 2500m2 in the prestigious Pyramids Heights Office Park. Metito also has a fully owned fabrication and warehousing facility that was recently built over 6000 m2 in Abu Rawash industrial zone and 8km away from head office. Viewed as the most prominent industry player in North Africa, Metito has been performing exceptionally well in the past five years with order intake in excess of Metito Seawater Reverse Osmosis Plant in Marsa Alam-Egypt USD0.5billion and a current back log of USD170 million. 06 07 Local Presence...Global Knowhow Sample Projects in Africa prominent local resorts targeting local tourists-namely; Porto Sharm by Amer Group, Marassi by Emaar Egypt, Giving Back Project End user Capacity Hacienda Bay by Palm Hills, and City Stars by Golden Coast. Country Type m3/d Description Investing in core infrastructure in this critical sector Metito endorses corporate sustainability to its core, and provides Egypt the needed foundation to attract more as part of the Group’s core values, it aligns its strategic The Construction • Design, Supply, Delivery, Installation, business plans accordingly. The Group leads numerous Authority for Potable vacationers and real estate investors as they are offered 1 6th October Egypt Water and Wastewater WTP 400,000 Commissioning & Startup. tangible value added facilities that increase the value of initiatives targeting environmental, educational and CAPW • 1 year O&M the land right from the start. developmental fronts, in communities around the globe. The National Organization for • Design, Supply, Delivery, Installation With these major project wins and unlimited market A good example of the latter is Metito’s continued 2 Hurghada Egypt Potable Water And SWRO 80,000 Commissioning & Startup. potentials, Metito is now even more determined to build support to Human Appeal International’s (HAI) efforts to Sanitary Drainage • 1 year O&M. on its network and this robust groundwork to further provide water relief to communities across the African (NOPWASD) reach out to more African countries and to invest in local continent. Through Metito’s involvement, safe and clean human talents that can then manage new and existing drinking water is provided to multiple African villages Gharbia Water & • Design, Supply, Delivery, Installation, in Senegal, Somalia, and Sudan, which benefits and 3 Mahala Egypt WTP 70,000 Commissioning & Startup. projects in a more sustainable manner. Wastewater Company • Civil Works Construction sustainably improves the living conditions of more than 20,000 inhabitants. • Design, Supply, Delivery, Installation, Water & Sanitation 4 Kigali Rwanda WTP 40,000 Commissioning & Startup. Authority • Civil Works Construction. • Design, Supply, Delivery, Installation, Metito well in Dakar, Senegal Commissioning & Startup. 5 Touggourt Algeria Algerienne des Eaux BWRO 34,000 • Civil works Construction • 2 years O&M The National Organization for • Design, Supply, Delivery, Installation, 6 Samanud Egypt Potable Water And STP 20,000 Commissioning & Startup. Sanitary Drainage (NOPWASD) • Design, Supply, Delivery, Installation, Direction de l’hydrologie Commissioning & Startup, 7 Aftout Mauritania WTP 5,000 et des barrages • Civil works Construction 1 year O&M • Design, Supply, Delivery, Installation, Commissioning & Startup. 8 Mareth Tunisia SONEDE BWRO 5,000 • Civil works Construction • 6 months O&M • Design, Supply, Delivery, Installation, Commissioning & Startup. 9 Matmata Tunisia SONEDE BWRO 4,000 • Civil works Construction • 6 months O&M Ultra pure East Delta Electricity • Design, Supply, Delivery, Installation, 10 Suez Power Egypt water various Production Company Commissioning & Startup. Demin 08 09 Our Commitment...Our Values Our Commitment... Our Values Customer Focus Every employee is customer satisfaction driven. We commit to provide our clients with value-added products and services and to achieve high returns on investments for our shareholders; we further strive to exceed their expectations and keep them continuously informed through personable, honest and open communications. People Focus Our employees are our most valuable asset; we recognise their needs and professional aspirations and make every effort to provide them with relevant training and opportunities to empower them to achieve their goals, and in turn support our mission by their high quality performance and refined service. The health and safety of our employees is also paramount to our organisation and we commit to continually improve their standards. Leadership Quality We lead with integrity, refined expertise and creativity, both as individuals within an We commit to deliver quality services and products that are in organisation and as an organisation operating in line with our customers’ needs, and to maintain World Class local and global markets. Our tried leadership performance in all our business undertakings. This is founded approach demands leading by example and on the highest standards of customer service, uncompromised influencing others to do likewise and with ethics and environmental consciousness. Our quality systems this, accountability becomes a guaranteed ensure that we do this right the first time, every time. bi-product. Sustainability Collaboration, Team Work & Passion Our Mission Metito is a responsible corporate citizen that aims to implement sustainable practices throughout its businesses. Our We believe in, and encourage teamwork, as it creates a sustainable flow of information and Metito commits to a sustainable environment through commitment to sustain the environment is achieved knowledge sharing that helps benchmark our providing effective water management and treatment fundamentally through being an integral player in an industry work, enables us to better our performance systems that can reconcile the ever growing demand with a mission to meet the world’s water demands and to and leverage our collective know-how and for water and its dwindling natural resources. preserve its resources. Stemming from our People Focus, we refined skills. Our passion and belief in what also aim to invest in and develop human elements to help we do, complement this spirit and take us that provide a sustainable pool of talents to the communities we extra mile that helps Metito stand out, further, work with. from its competitors. 10 11 Leading By Example Leading By Example A Case Study Wastewater recycling and treated sewage effluent plant, Downtown Dubai UAE Location D  owntown Dubai, UAE strategic project of developing a wastewater recycling Key Data Plant Type Wastewater recycling and  and treated sewage effluent plant with the capacity of treated sewage effluent plant 20,000m 3/day for reusing wastewater as feedwater Capacity 20,000m3/day for the district cooling plants DCP1, DCP2 and DCP3 Use Recycle wastewater to reuse located at Mohammed Bin Rashid Boulevard, and serving as feedwater for district the whole of Downtown Dubai area. This is a unique cooling purposes project that is considered the biggest of its kind in the Client Emaar Properties UAE and possibly in the GCC. Contract Type Design and Build including 5 years o perations and P  rior to feeding the district cooling needs, all wastewater maintenance goes through a polishing process that utilises the Reverse Osmosis (RO) and Ultrafiltration technology. Introduction With high stakes and a challenging deadline of only six months from design to operation, Metito was able to Emaar Properties is one of the world’s most valuable and retrofit a state of the art wastewater treatment, recycling admired real estate development companies. With proven and polishing plant in one of the existing district cooling competencies in property development, shopping malls, plants; DCP3, the largest among the three district cooling retail, hospitality and leisure, Emaar shapes new lifestyles towers. Retrofitting was essential as the land value at this with a focus on design excellency, build quality and timely particular district is one of the most expensive square delivery. Their flagship development, Downtown Dubai foots in the UAE and so building the plant within an is the world’s most visited lifestyle destination and home existing cooling tower saved space and significant to the iconic Burj Khalifa, The Dubai Mall and The Dubai cost compared to the traditional solution of building a Fountain. standalone plant. Developing world class projects and fostering strategic This custom-made solution and the technology integrated partnerships, Emaar strives to preserve the environment allow Emaar to turn waste into wealth by utilising wastewater through reducing the eco-footprint of its developments. which was previously being disposed of through recycling Sharing such corporate values and commitment to a more it on-site and reusing it efficiently as a readily available sustainable environment, and with 15 years of successful water source compared to recurring higher costs for collaboration paving way, Emaar assigned Metito the bringing-in the expensive, fresh/or desalinated water. 12 13 Leading By Example Industry Recognition and Engagement As stated on GWI’s official awards’ website Metito was Scope of Work Key Benefits Industry Recognition shortlisted for this award since… “Metito has achieved international recognition for its role as a standard-bearer The scope of work included complete design, engineering, Environmental Benefits ÔBest Strategic in developing markets, and has actively established manufacturing, supply, inspection and testing, installation, Partnership-AsiaÕ, a sustainable outlet for its talents in difficult operating commissioning and performance testing of the TSE • Reduction of the carbon footprint in excess of Top Transactions environments. At the same time, its corporate ambitions 36.85 tons of CO2 per day as opposed to using polishing plant which comprised of the following: reached new heights, with a massive international buy-in desalinated seawater for the same application. of the Year and a new approach to tech investment.” • Ultrafiltration unit consisting of 8 streams producing net filtered water of 26,880m3/day. The Ultra filtration • Recycling wastewater and reusing it efficiently as a readily Awards 2015 available water resource rather than disposing of it and system removes suspended solids and reduces COD desalinating the precious and costly, fresh water. First recertification of ISO Certificates, Deal Feed International awarded Metito the “Best Strategic level before feeding to RO units. Partnership-Asia” as part of the Top Transactions of the Metito Qatar • Two-stage Reverse Osmosis (RO) system with 75% Financial Benefits Year Awards 2015. Metito was awarded in recognition recovery rate. The RO system includes four working of the synergistic acquisition of a stake in Metito by As part of its on-going commitment to upholding the trains producing 20,000m3/day of polished water. • Saving on the cost of land that would have been required Mitsubishi Corporation, Mitsubishi Heavy Industries and highest standards of work, Metito Qatar has successfully to build a standalone plant. Japan Bank for International Cooperation. achieved its first recertification from the International • Supply of TSE polished water to feed three different Organisation for Standardisation (ISO) Certificates and • The cost of securing makeup water to feed the cooling district cooling plants, located at different locations. British Standard Certificate: towers is reduced to almost one fourth as compared The awards celebrated a variety of large-scale deals from • CIP ( Clean In Place) for ultrafiltration and RO unit. to desalinating fresh water for the same purpose. mergers and acquisitions to IPOs and funding which • Fully automated plant with PLC based control system. took place globally. The nominees were shortlisted based on a thorough panel review in addition to the number of ISO 9001:200 online views each deal received. The panel also took into Quality Management Systems consideration deal volume, value, density and sectorial activity within the region when recognising the major ISO 14001:2004 achievers. Environmental Management Systems OHSAS 18001:2007 ÔWater Company Occupational Health and of the Year Safety Management Systems AwardÕ Nominee, Global Water Intelligence Global Water Awards 2015 Design and development were also included in the certification criteria, marking Metito Qatar a mature Metito was shortlisted for the ‘Water Company of the operation and further boosting its profile in the Qatari Year award part of the Global Water Intelligence’s (GWI) market. Global Water Awards 2015. The flagship award celebrates the company which has made the most significant Renewal of IMS Certificates contribution to the development of the international water sector. The GWI Global Water Awards are one All of Metito’s UAE-based entities-Metito Overseas of the industry most credible and prestigious awards, Limited Sharjah, Metito Overseas Limited Dubai, Metito acknowledging the most important achievements made Emirates LLC Sharjah, and Metito LLC Abu Dhabi received within the industry across several categories. their renewed IMS Certification by the Bureau Veritas. 14 15 Leading By Example Metito Joins Manager; Yaser Imam, Metito Abu Dhabi Construction Manager; R.D. Augustus, Metito QHSE Manager; and British Safety Siegfred L. Panilagao, Metito Team Leader-QHSE, awarded Council thirty one Metito site employees with appreciation certificates to acknowledge their role in achieving this new Metito joined the British Safety Council (BSC) as a milestone. Corporate Member. The membership allows Metito to share and access benchmark health, safety and Also joining the panel and representing ADNOC at the environment (HSE) practices and case studies. Metito celebration, were ADNOC HSE and Construction senior will also have the opportunity to connect with other BSC personnel. members worldwide which will in turn nurture the HSE standards and its global operations and ensure updated Mutaz Ghandour, Metito Chairman and CEO speaking at the event KPIs for better tracking of safety performance. Industry Engagement Shigeaki Yoshikawa, Mitsubishi Corporation RCEO, as a delegate. The event, which took place at the Abu Dhabi Safety First: More than One Million Man Middle East and Central Asia, introduced Mutaz Ghandour National Exhibition Centre (ADNEC) in Abu Dhabi-UAE, Hours without LTI Middle East and GCC who gave an inspiring speech, beginning with a pertinent introduced visitors to more than a 100 leading regional and question:“Can Mitsubishi transform Metito?”. He international companies and to updates on power products Mutaz Ghandour a keynote speaker at answered this question at the end of the event by giving technology. an overview on Metito’s history and achievements, the Mitsubishi Corporation internal conference group’s presence within the Islamic economies and the Abu Dhabi International Petroleum for Islamic economies signature formula for success which has enabled Metito to navigate through market challenges and cement Exhibition & Conference (ADIPEC) Mitsubishi Corporation (MC) hosted an internal event its presence in the countries where it operates. In his speech, Mutaz Ghandour also highlighted Metito’s fourFor the second consecutive year, Metito exhibited at focusing on Islamic Economies, on January 10th, 2015 the Abu Dhabi International Petroleum Exhibition & at the Dubai International Financial Centre (DIFC), pronged strategy which will move the company forward over the next three to five years. Conference (ADIPEC) held at the Abu Dhabi National UAE. Metito Chairman and CEO, Mutaz Ghandour, was Exhibition Centre (ADNEC. The event is ranked amongst invited as a keynote speaker at the event along with Dr. Masayuki Yamauchi, Emeritus of University of Tokyo Mutaz Ghandour was joined by Metito’s Managing Directors New sewage treatment plant at Ruwais Housing Complex and MCs Corporate Advisor. Fady Juez and Rami Ghandour. Talal Ghandour, Managing expansion phase III project in Abu Dhabi, UAE Director, Head of MENA Equities & Co-Head of EEMEA Equity Sales, Bank of America Merrill Lynch, was also in Metito Abu Dhabi celebrated the achievement of one attendance as a guest of Mitsubishi Corporation. million man-hours without LTI at the ADNOC Ruwais Housing Complex Phase III, new STP project in Abu The event was attended by 90 Mitsubishi Corporation’s Dhabi, UAE. CEOs, CFO’s, COO’s, and General Managers as well as leading figures from Islamic Economies. The large-scale turnkey sewage treatment plant has a total capacity of 30,000m3/day, and serves one of ADNOC’s major housing communities. The new safety record was Power-Gen accomplished in 18 months and whilst being exposed Middle East to challenging site conditions. A panel consisting of Farouk Zantout, Metito Abu Dhabi Walid Madwar, Metito Utilities Vice President Business Mitsubishi Corporation internal conference for Islamic economies Metito’s exhibition stand at ADIPEC Area Manager; Sayed El Nasr, Metito Abu Dhabi Project Development, joined Power-Gen Middle East 2014 event 16 17 Leading By Example the top three oil and gas events in the world, offering As part of Abu Dhabi Sustainability Week, the Under the patronage of His Excellency Egypt President, Bahrain exhibitors and visitors a rich networking and knowledge International Water Summit (IWS) 2015 hosted in-depth Abdel-Fattah El-Sisi, the Egypt Economic Development Conference (EEDC) 2015 was held in Sharm El-Sheikh, Infrastructure & sharing platform. Metito Chemicals Division took the sessions at the Abu Dhabi National Exhibition Centre lead at this event, taking this opportunity to introduce (ADNEC)-UAE, where global water industry leaders discussed in South Sinai, Egypt. Finance Forum its latest offerings in Oilfield Chemicals. the pressing, water relevant, issues and trends. Karim Madwar, Metito Africa Managing Director, was Ahmed El-reedy, Metito Sales Manager Plants (Qatar, Kuwait ProjectsFady Juez, Metito Managing Director and a Director at the invited to this conference as a delegate to explore the Bahrain & Kuwait), joined the Bahrain Infrastructure & International Desalination Association (IDA), was invited extensive reforms the government is undertaking and Finance Forum which took place at Crown Plaza in Manama, MEED Conferences to take part in the panel titled; “Sustainable Desalination the future plans designed to restore fiscal stability, drive Bahrain. The conference was under the patronage of and Advanced Water Reuse. Development and Trends growth and attract investment with the overarching aim H.E. Sheikh Ahmed Bin Mohammed al-Khalifa, Bahrain’s The 10 th edition of Leading to Energy and Cost Reduction”. of improving the welfare of the Egyptian people. Minister of Finance. Kuwait Projects Conference organised by MEED took place at the Regency The conference attracted top diplomats and leading The panelists analysed the role of water reuse in conjunction The conference showcased the upcoming commercial Hotel in Kuwait where key stakeholders from the global figures from business and politics, repositioning with desalination, especially looking at oil and gas, but opportunities across Bahrain’s transport infrastructure, Kuwaiti energy and infrastructure sectors gathered Egypt as a worthy player in the global investment map also how efficiency could be improved and costs real estate, housing, tourism and healthcare sectors. to discuss the challenges of delivering (building, and reaffirming the country’s ability to secure political reduced across many sectors. financing, resourcing & operating/maintaining) the and economic stability in the region and to resume being huge project portfolio that Kuwait aims to develop. Qatar Green Building Conference Saudi Water and a trusted partner on the international stage. Ahmad El-Reedy, Metito Sales Manager-Plants (Qatar, Power Forum The Qatar Green Building Conference 2015 extended Bahrain & Kuwait), joined the event as a delegate. Dubai International Humanitarian Aid and an invitation to Metito Qatar to speak at the event which (SWPF) Development Conference (DIHAD) took place at the Qatar National Convention Centre in Metito participated as a Doha, Qatar. Neeshad VS, Metito Qatar Process Design International Engineer, joined the session titled “Green Education” Bronze Sponsor in the Water Summit Saudi Water and Power Forum (SWPF) 2015 which took as part of the overarching theme “The Vision”, which (IWS) place at Al Faisaliah Hotel earlier this year in Riyadh, sought to address major issues and provide answers to Saudi Arabia. Mark Lehman, TPTec Chief Technology some of the most significant challenges of environment, Officer, gave a presentation on behalf of Metito titled sustainability and to promote best practices for green “Utilising Low Waste Heat to Recover Brine for building design and development in Qatar. Maximising RO Output’. TPTec is a clean-tech based company that holds the patent for Low Temperature Distillation (LTDis), the patented next generation desalination and water purification technology, among other innovative solutions. Metito Rami Ghandour, Metito Managing Director, speaking at DIHAD is the sole developer and exclusive provider of TPTec patenet technologies in Africa and Asia. Rami Ghandour, Metito Managing Director, was invited to join a panel discussion titled “Water and Energy, will we have enough tomorrow?” at the Dubai International Egypt Economic Humanitarian Aid & Development Conference and Development Exhibition (DIHAD) 2015. Conference (EEDC) Fady Juez, Metito Managing Director The conference took place at Dubai International Neeshad VS, Metito Qatar Process Design Engineer, speaking at QGBC Convention & Exhibition Centre (DICEC) in Dubai, UAE. 18 19 Leading By Example Additionally, Neeshad took the opportunity to introduce The forum was held at the JW Marriot Marquis in technology, Low Temperature Distillation (LTDis), at the a program he dearly advocates; “CliMates”, a Paris based Dubai, UAE and was attended by Pedro Jorge, Metito 3W Expo 2015. The 2nd edition of the show which took student-led think-and-do-tank of international outreach Utilities Executive Director, Walid Madwar, Metito Utilities place at Bangkok International Trade & Exhibition Centre, aiming to create, advocate and disseminate innovative Vice President Business Development and Sulaiman Thailand, focused on water and wastewater treatment and tools and solutions to climate change issues. Hallal, Metito Utilities Senior Business Development its associated technologies. This was an ideal platform Manager. for Metito to showcase the new patented next generation Africa Energy desalination and water purification as well as other Forum The event was also attended by a host of stakeholders innovative water management solutions for which Metito such as government representatives, utilities, financial owns exclusive rights in African and Asian markets. The Africa Energy investors, and power technology providers. Forum 2015 extended Africa Hans Meu, Metito Business Development Manager, a n inv it a tion t o speaking at AID Asia Rami Ghandour, Metito Managing Director, to Africa Public Private the InterContinental Hotel Athenaeum Athens, Greece. speak at one of their Water, Wastewater and Waste Expo (3W) An invitation was extended to Fady Juez, Metito Managing Partnerships (PPP): Director, to join a private workshop titled “Scaling Up panel sessions titled; Beyond the BOT: What is next for scaling investment in the water sector?. Metito introduced the new state-of-the-art water purification Investment and Finance in Water” which was hosted and chaired by Development Summit Elena Bourganskaia, Global Head of Water & Municipal Infrastructure, IFC. Metito at 3W Expo in Thailand Walid Madwar, Metito Utilities Vice President Business Also attending the summit was Karim Madwar, Metito Development, and Sulaiman Hallal, Metito Utilities Africa Managing Director, who joined as a delegate. Senior Business Development Manager, attended the Metito representatives then attended the (GWI) Global Africa Public Private Partnerships (PPP): Investment and Water Awards where Metito was shortlisted for the Development Summit which took place at Labadi Beach ‘Water Company of the Year Award’ in recognition of Hotel in Accra, Ghana. its international role as a standard-bearer in developing markets, and for actively establishing a sustainable outlet This summit provided an excellent platform for both for its talents in difficult operating environments. public and private sector professionals to explore potential collaborations in meeting Africa’s needs via the vehicle of PPP, a model that can create many benefits for countries Africa Infrastructure Development in need of significant infrastructure capital investment. Metito was invited by Gulf African Review to attend a high level two day event in Padua near the historic city Elsewhere in the World of Venice-where a series of panel discussions involving some of the most senior decision making authorities in trade, industry and commerce in addition to around 200 public and private sector leaders from the Middle East, Global Water Europe and Africa were in attendance. The event was Summit (GWS) organised in celebration of Rödl & Partner’s Padua office anniversary. Metito sponsored the Global Water Intelligence (GWI)Hans Meu, Metito Africa Business Development Manager, Global Water Summit (GWS) represented Metito at the event as a panelist in the Africa 2015, which took place at Infrastructure Development session. 20 21 Our People Our People Hisham Fadda, Metito Group Human Capital Director, Employees by Nationality Human Capital inaugurated the programme that was led by the Contracts 63% and Commercial team. The programme aimed to enhance 60% Metito believes that people are the true asset of any participants’ knowledge and practical experience in 50% successful organisation. Through well informed and well contract administration, claim management and to boost 40% 37% trained employees change can happen, experience can their chances to complete ‘Win-Win’ negotiations and/ 30% be acquired and excellence can be achieved. This is why or settlements. 20% 0% 0% employee development is at the heart of our business model manage benefits administration and payroll, establish and 10% 0% and the Human Capital’s (HC) role is to enable employees update organisational charts and document such things The tailor-made training programme was designed and A an As n M frica A pe as personnel actions and compliance with company, ia C me will help them align with Metito’s growth strategy. All delivered by a group of international experts including; id n dl a e nd Ea ste Au ana rica str dia n/ ro Eu this is clearly defined and consistently communicated industry and/or local government regulations. David Moss, Partner in Eversheds-Construction Litigation rn ali n/ an to maintain buy in and world class quality enactment. Group; Ian Maund, Associate Director Quantum Global Keeping our employees safe in the work place is another Solutions; and Andrew Woodworth, Executive Director Employees by Length of Service The Human Capital function ensures a culture where paramount ethos for Metito. We have a myriad of rigorous Quantum Global Solutions. employees feel responsible and accountable for safety procedures in place, leading to a safe working 1% environment that has seen numerous achievements 28% achieving specific business goals, creating innovation and < 5 years supporting continuous improvement. This then becomes in operating without incident across our projects, in 5-10 years of great support when employees are assessed against worldwide locations. 10-15 years specific targets and skills (technical and non-technical) 15-20 years and accordingly acknowledged and rewarded employees. Cutting edge technology and intelligent solutions are 4% 58% > 20 years On the other end, it helps identify areas requiring critical to succeed in the water and wastewater industry development and enables HC in determining the best way 9% but without the knowledge and skills of the people that forward that can make progress possible. can interpret, utilise and integrate them they remain ideas on paper. People drive success and Metito is endowed Regular training, competency building and continuous with a team of loyal and experienced workforce making its Training Statistics and constructive assessment are all Metito’s way of journey of success all the more rewarding. No. of Employees Trained 686 ensuring everyone’s career is on the right path and that No. of Training Hours 11,433 we are evolving with time and always well-informed of market changes and requirements. We take great Training and Development pride in our growing team of qualified professionals 36% as we are constantly looking to evolve and improve Training Type what we offer our clients. This past year alone, new Metito hosts intensive legal training Technical Training employees joined Metito to who all bring with them programme At the training Non-Technical new perspectives that are integral to stay abreast and never stagnant as people and as an organisation. 64% Metito organised an intensive training programme titled David Moss gave a comprehensive presentation on As leaders in our industry, Metito continues to support “Contracts, Legal & Claims: Effective Contract procurement contracts drafting, strategy and methodology, Administration, Claims & Disputes Management” at the its HC management efforts through its HRMS system Hilton Hotel in Sharjah, UAE, targeting more than 50 applicable law, legal basis and principles, risk allocation, QHSE Statistics that continues to play a major role as the umbrella for bond and guarantees, pricing in tenders/contracts integrated software for both employee records and employees from various in-house departments including and planning for the best while being prepared for the 2,383,783 talent management processes as it streamlines and procurement, sales, customer service, design engineering, worst. He also focused on disputes, dispute avoidance, No. of Safe Man-Hours since automates many of the day-to-day record-keeping mechanical engineering, legal, finance and operations, escalations and formal arbitration proceedings and finally June, 2014 until May, 2015 in the UAE processes and provides a framework for HC staff to from Sharjah, Dubai, Abu Dhabi, Qatar and Saudi offices. how to find solutions that can help maintain relations. 0 LTI Frequency Rate since June, 2014 until May, 2015 in the UAE 22 23 Team Building Initiatives Team Building Initiatives Metito trains Gladstone LNG project team Metito Indonesia celebrates in Australia PT Metito Indonesia held its ‘Service Awards’ ceremony Metito delivered an intensive training programme to a earlier this year at the Arion Swiss Bel Hotel in Jakarta. group of 33 professionals from the Gladstone LNG project team in Gladstone, Australia. The training follows the successful commissioning of the oily water treatment The evening was inaugurated with a heartfelt speech-in the plant, which was awarded to Metito by Bechtel in 2011. local Indonesian language, Bahasa-by Deepak Nyayadhish, Metito General Manager-Industrial Division. The speech A dedicated and highly qualified team from Metito recognised the contributions of all team members and Process, Electrical and Control and Commissioning their success so far and a congratulation to all on the many departments conducted a four day informative training prosperous years that passed and those that are yet to programme covering process, operation, automation come. and maintenance at the plant. The programme was Daddy Waluyo, PTMI O&M Business Development Director and Joniwel, David Moss, Partner in Eversheds-Construction Litigation Group, PTMI Finance Director, during the magic show during his presentation aimed at acquainting the supervisors/operators with the The awards were first presented to the employees with different treatment processes as well as with the supplied the longest service period in PTMI; Deepak Nyayadhish, PTMI Plant Sales Manager; Joniwel, PTMI Finance equipment to operate the plant in line with the highest Metito General Manager-Industrial Division; Daddy Director; Budi Rahayu Hermana, PTMI Senior Engineer; Ian Maund’s presentation was titled “Effective Project safety standards of both Metito and Bechtel. Waluyo, PTMI O&M Business Development Director; Imron Sutisna, PTMI Senior Technician; Ojak Rojikin, Management” and covered general project administration, and Budyanto S Ryadi, PTMI Procurement Manager. PTMI Warehouse Staff; Rukky Permana Syamsudin, roles & responsibilities, risk management and record Divided into three groups, Metito experts explained the PTMI General Affairs Staff; and Widodo Karipun, Metito keeping. All attendees were awarded with a participation different operation modes including start-up/commissioning Following this, Waluyo presented the awards to employees Security. Daddy, Joniwel and Sari Yusrif, PTMI HC certificate from Metito. and shutdown of the plant, including in emergency scenarios. with 15 years of experience, including; Eva Hertika Cox, Director then presented the 10 years’ service awards. Gladstone LNG Project team and Naseem Zaya, Metito Team Leader-Process Engineering, at the Gladstone LNG site At the ceremony, from left to right: Widodo Karipun, PTMI Security; Eva Hertika Cox, PTMI Plant Sales Manager; Deepak Nyayadhish, Metito General Manager-Industrial Division; Joniwel, PTMI Finance Director; Rukky Permana, PTMI General Affairs Staff; and Ojak Rojikin, PTMI Warehouse Staff 24 25 Team Building Initiatives river. An incredibly bonding experience by all measures and an epitome of team spirit where the team was enabled to reconnect with nature and have a greater understanding of the need to look after a water resource such as the Citarik river. In just a few hours the team had dropped more than 1000 metres in elevation, ending just 50 metres above sea level. Team spirit at its very best... Sari Yusrif, PTMI HC Director, singing to the beat Mohammad Salam, Metito Senior CAD Draughtsman, Making the night even more memorable, the PTMI team who finished in 56 minutes and 58 seconds and in third set the stage for an entertaining magic show presented by place was Seiichi Yasuda, Metito Business Development the one and only, Daddy Waluyo, assuming his stage name Manager, who finished in 58 minutes and 47 seconds. magician Ferdian. Waluyo was assisted by Joniwel, under his stage alias Nicolas. Mixing brilliant trickery, clever illusions and incredible physical feats with comedy, In it to win it! PTMI team rafting at Citarik River in West Java, Indonesia Daddy succeeded in filling the room with laughter and amusement. Metito’s Basketball Team a added a new achievement Marking our footprints on the tracks of Dubai to their winning records claiming the 3rd position at the This celebration started some few days earlier with an Warriors 4As Basketball League 2014 at the Dubai Club adrenalin fuelled day of river rafting down the Citarik Metito and Mitsubishi Corporation (MC) marked their Gym Al Qusais in Dubai, UAE. River, in Sukabumi, West Java-Indonesia. Out among the footprint on the tracks of Dubai Marathon 2015. Employees rapids and in the fresh air, 14 members of the team had from Metito UAE and MC ran the 10km road race which Making a stellar performance at this league, two players from a thrilling day rafting 13 challenging kilometres down the took place at the iconic Burj Al Arab hotel and Madinat Metito’s team got special awards, namely the “Mythical Five & Sportsmanship awards.” Rami Ghandour, Metito Managing Director, at the finish line... Jumeirah area. The venue was buzzing with great energy, people from all walks of life coming together for an inspiring event. Rami Ghandour, Metito Managing Director, was the first to reach the finish line from the Metito team, with a Metito Basketball team during the game record 55 minutes and 22 seconds! In second place was 26 27 The Ô Õ In Hu anity The Ô Õ In Hu anity Community Initiatives Reaching out to the people of Nepal In April 2015, a 7.8 magnitude earthquake shook Nepal, killing thousands and leaving over eight million people with limited access to basic needs and seeking urgent assistance. People across the country’s western and central regions were heavily affected by the disaster and are expected to continue facing challenging conditions in the foreseen future. The UAS team helping students rebuild their classrooms In an effort to help and make a positive difference Metito extended urgent financial support through Emirates Red Metito engaged with the Universal American School Crescent and the non-profit organisation, Charity: Water. (UAS) in Dubai, UAE to help the Makak Village Primary These agencies delivered emergency aid and critical School, in the rural Cambodia district of Chikreng. relief to the families most affected by the disaster. The fundraising initiative was organised by 15 students Metito’s donation supported the Emirates Red Crescent from the Universal American School who were guided extensive relief efforts to provide survivors with their by World Challenge Organisation to spread awareness immediate needs of water, food, shelter, and medication. about the importance of education in breaking the cycle Charity: Water worked to supply safe, and clean access of poverty. to water, sanitation, and hygiene among other needs. The students successfully raised money to build three Metito supports students in Cambodia classrooms at the school that hosts 166 students, aged three to fifteen years old. Some of the funds were also used to buy basic resources such as books and stationary to ensure the students are able to attend their lessons and attain some needed/basic education. Moreover, and as part of their organised ‘Challenge Trip’, the UAS students prepared various activities for the Cambodian students including Arabic and English lessons, football and rugby games, and finally some delightful singing and dancing sessions. Ending the trip on a high note, the UAS team presented the students with small gifts, including Metito’s branded water bottle. The students were both very intrigued and happy to receive the bottles. At first they did not know The UAS team presents the students with small gifts what a water bottle is used for and when the use was 28 29 The Ô Õ In Hu anity revealed there was this thrill and excitement that can safe, clean and sustainable drinking water supply to four warm the coldest of hearts. It is poignant something schools in Nagpur, India. that we take for granted each day can be a rare and potentially life changing to others who are much less Hisham Fadda, Metito Group Human Capital Director, fortunate. represented Metito at the event and delivered a sincere message of congratulations to all the participants The school now hosts 70 students in each classroom on behalf of Mutaz Ghandour, Metito Chairman and CEO, and remains to be in desperate need of additional as part of his speech. Hisham was joined by Deepak funds to create more space. Nyayadhish, Metito General Manager-Industrial Division; Reem Saleh, Metito Corporate Communications Senior Manager; and Alaa Waswas, Metito Corporate ÔSafe Water Supply for SchoolsÕ inaugural Communications Executive. Taher Shams, Zulekha Health Group President; H.E Dr. Eng. Rashid Al Leem, Chairman of the Sharjah Electricity and Water Authority (SEWA); project now complete Adel Abdulla Ali, Group CEOAir Arabia; H.E. T.P.Seetharam, Ambassador of India to UAE; Dr. Zulekha Daud, Zulekha Health Group Founder and The event was also attended by H.E. T.P.Seetharam, Managing Director; Hisham Fadda, Metito Group Human Capital Director; and Zanubia Shams, Zulekha Health Group CEO Metito and Zulekha Healthcare Group celebrated the Ambassador of India to UAE; Adel Abdulla Ali, Group successful completion of the inaugural project under CEO-Air Arabia; and Dr. Engineer Rashid Obaid Jumaa Saving Food initiative in Qatar donation drive in Doha, attracting more than 15 participants. the “Safe Water Supply for Schools” initiative that was Al Leem, Chairman of the Sharjah Electricity and Water Donations were all for the benefit of HMC blood banks. launched in 2014. The project was aimed at securing Authority (SEWA). Metito partnered with the Eid al Khairiya Foundation to launch its new initiative for food saving and distribution With the same ‘giving back’ spirit, Metito India in association among laborers in the industrial area of Doha, Qatar. The with Deenanath Hospital, conducted its fifth blood Clean drinking water... a wish come true for students in Nagpur, India initiative aims at reducing food wastage while providing the community, especially those with limited income, with the high quality of surplus food that is left from banquets, parties and weddings. The Foundation collects food from the events, filters the food to ensure safety, then packs it in attractive parcels before distribution to many of the 300,000 laborers residing in Doha. The initiative is aimed at helping laborers save money and remain healthy. The programme links in to Metito’s dedication to giving back to the community, not just through its projects, but also through initiatives that can touch the lives of many and make a positive difference. Gifting Life...Donating Blood Metito Qatar and Metito India successfully organised blood donation drives in their local communities. In association with Hamad Medical Corporation (HMC), Ameya Dhongde, Metito India Electrical Engineer, donates blood Metito Qatar continued to organise its annual blood 30 31 The Ô Õ In Hu anity participation certificates. Worth noting that Metito India has been organising regular blood drives since 2010. PT Metito Indonesia also organised its 27th blood donation drive attracting over 100 persons. The blood donations were organised in association with Studio 8EH Radio Bekasi and Jakarta Red Cross. Providing water relief In association with Human Appeal International (HAI), Metito successfully installed its 14th well in the rural village of Dlhyska, 528km southwest the Somali capital Donors at PTMI blood donation drive in Jakarta, Indonesia Mogadishu. The village is home to 500 families that Reaching out to Somalia are mostly relaying on farming as a primary source of donation drive, receiving overwhelming feedback and income. The 3rd well in this drought country is 20 meters support from its employees. Donations benefit the deep and will help people in the community through Supporting the Special Needs Deenanath Hospital who called for an urgent blood drive saving them the time and effort needed to obtain their due to the spread of ‘Dengue Fever’ which negatively daily need of water and the associated multiple trips For the third year in a row, Metito renewed its contract Bacterial analysis for the children’s swimming pool affects blood platelets. In recognition of their support for hundreds of kilometres. This well will improve their with the Al Noor Centre for Children with Special Needs (every three months), bacterial analysis for the water the IMS Health committee recognised all donors with quality of life. in Dubai, UAE. The contract provides the centre with tank (every six months), and the Legionella test analysis complimentary essential water treatment services and for the water tank (every three months). this year three more significant analysis were added; Metito Qatar organises its blood donation drive in association with Hamad Medical Centre in Doha, Qatar Norman Menor, Metito Application Engineer, collecting samples from Al Noor Centre swimming pool 32 33 Knowledge Sharing and Educational Initiatives The students were keen to learn more about human Bridging the gap from theory resources and the key skills that companies in the water to business practice and wastewater industry may be looking for when hiring. Sonia Ovenden, Metito Human Capital Senior Manager, gave an overview about Metito Group and highlighted Indira Institute of Management visits the skills and qualifications that Metito looks for when MetitoÕs Global Headquarters shortlisting candidates as part of its recruitment process. For the second year in a row, Metito hosted a delegation of 38 postgraduate students from Pune Indira Institute Introducing optimal viewing and a new of Management, part of Eureka Learning Technology, browsing experience International Campus Enrichment training programme. Professors Ravi Kumar and Singh Brijesh Sivathanu from Metito officially launched its new and renovated corporate the institute led the delegation. website to provide an optimal and enjoyable viewing experience to all its our stakeholders. The new website allows for easy reading and navigation with minimum resizing, panning, and scrolling, across a wide range of devices, from desktop computer monitors to portable devices and mobile phones. This new responsive layout adapts to the viewing environment automatically. Additionally, new sections and subsections were introduced e.g. key shareholders and the executive management team sections, among others. A news strip has also been added to showcase the latest company news to ensure our stakeholders Indira Institute of Management students at Metito Global are always abreast of Metito’s latest news with a click of a Headquarters, Dubai-UAE button. A34 snapshot from the new corporate website metito.com Design and Build l Utilities l Chemicals Intelligent Water Management
