NUNATSINNI CONNECTING GREENLAND ATTAVEQALERSITSISUUVIGUT Communication on Progress 2014 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CSR) Royal Arctic Line forms an important part of Greeland’s infrastructure and has a special responsibility for ensuring Greenland’s security of supply. So, it is the Royal Arctic Line A/S’ ambition to add financial and social value by offering effective logistics solutions. A difficult task This heading applies to many fields. It is a major challenge to ensure effective logistics solutions without a murmur. Undoubtedly, the next question in Arctic regions and security must always be the highest will be: Are those areas to be extended? Are the of priorities. This is why I am pleased that the members of sulphur emission rules to be tightened for Greenland? the International Maritime Organization (IMO) have agreed Technically this is not a problem, however, economion a Polar Code for Ships Operating in Polar Waters. The cally it is a challenge. And does a tightening of the Code is not directly related to Royal Arctic Line’s CSR rules ensure protection of the vulnerable environment efforts. But then again it is. Together with the authorities in the Arctic, or would other – and possibly less of Greenland and Denmark and the Danish Shipowners’ expensive – measures be more useful? This last Association, Royal Arctic Line has helped to make the Polar question is definitely one we need to look into before Code set high standards and to ensure its practicality. we embark on new rules. Finding the best solutions To me this shows that we assume responsibility for the will be an aim of Royal Arctic Line for 2015 onwards. society of which we form part. The results are likely to be criticised. Some will probably find the Code not to be This leads me to the last challenge that I will be menrestrictive enough. Others might see it as a limitation of tioning here. We must continue to focus on our CSR the development potential. Time will tell whether changes efforts. Even though we are facing certain financial are required, but I consider the Polar Code a good starting challenges as are other businesses in Greenland. point. Through our commitment to and reporting under the UN Global Compact we get a clearer picture of our Another challenge has been to prepare the Group for the business’ contribution to society. And contributing new sulphur emission rules, which are being tightened to society is an important element of our corporate worldwide, affecting us when operating in the North Sea. mission. This poses a challenge to the Greenlandic economy as the new rules come with a price. The environment must be Happy reading! Nuka Arctica arrives in Nuuk in March with extra cargo of 600 protected. This is beyond any doubt and we obey the rules tonnes of ice on deck and container. One of many challenges one faces when navigating the Arctic regions. Which is why it is a good Jens Andersen – CEO thing that the Polar Codes will set a standard for preparation. ROYAL ARCTIC LINE ANNUAL REPORT 2014 p. 14 General performance, 2012-2014 2012-2014 Risk suppliers 2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 Employees 784 762 748 Number of risk suppliers identified 120 134 137 Trainees 60 65 54 Percentage of risk suppliers having signed the terms 67% 75% 85% Ships 11 11 11 The objective for 2015 is that 88% of the identified risk suppliers will have signed the CSR purchasing terms and conditions by the end of the year. Harbour terminals 14 14 14 Nautical miles sailed 464.217 378.531 358.111 M3 shipped 830.000 747.000 741.000 The Company’s ships and harbours comply with the International Ship and Port Facility Security Code (ISPC) (ISPS) Consumption and emissions of container vessels Working enviroment on board 2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 MGO 3.591 3.407 3.112 Near-misses on board 53 110 98 HFO LS 6.432 6.448 6.045 LTA (Lost Time Accidents) 7 4 3 HFO HS 18.537 18.969 18.221 Near misses are unforeseen incidents that do not result in an accident, sickness or injury, but which might as well could have. Therefore, it is important to collect data about near-misses in order to improve work processes and change dangerous environments to avoid Kilo fuel/nautical mile 75 67 67,6 occupational accidents EEOI 3,28 In 2014 there were no Lost Time Accidents on board the container ships. All The EEOI (Energy Efficiency Operational Indicator) is a voluntary index formerly known as the operational CO2 index. The EEOI was developed by IMO, and in 2013 Royal Arctic Line started reporting to the EEOI through the Danish Shipowners’ Association. So, 2014 is LTA’s were on the passengership Sarfaq Ittuk the first year for which a total EEOI figure has been calculated: 3.28 g of CO2 per tonne of cargo per nautical mile. It may still be difficult to compare this figure to those of other shipping companies as it remains subject to some uncertainty, particularly due to factors of Number of days since latest LTA per 31 December 2014 converting cubic metres of cargo into tonnes. So it may take some time before this figure can be benchmarked against the figures of other shipping companies, however, the EEOI provides a rather exact picture of the ships’ developments and performance and so the Naja Arctica 931 EEOI figure is an effective target figure, strategically speaking. Mary Arctica 736 Nuka Arctica 709 Royal Arctic Line’s general CSR policy and latest update of its CSR efforts are available at the Company’s homepage, www.ral.gl. The CSR policy also serves as the Company’s climate policy Irena Arctica 634 and human rights policy, and the other areas are supported by underlying policies such as the staff Arina Arctica 540 policy, the anti-corruption policy, etc. ROYAL ARCTIC LINE ANNUAL REPORT 2014 p. 15 GOVERNANCE Board of directors Royal Arctic Line’s CSR strategy is formulated on the basis objectives, which lies with Group Management and the Board of the CSR policy and managed by our CSR Board. The CSR of Directors. Board is made up of five members of Group Management as Group Management Goals well as the chief buyer. As a main rule, the Board convenes Royal Arctic Line’s CSR policy focuses on areas that support once every three months to discuss new measures taken and the Company’s business objectives, areas that are important to CSR-Board to reconsider the importance of ongoing initiatives. Once a its stakeholders and areas in which the Company may make a year, the CSR strategy is co-ordinated together with the Board difference. This may be achieved in particular by reducing the of Directors, and reports are submitted regularly to the entire environmental effects of the Company’s operations, improving management group. safety and health at work, promoting human rights and ethical Climate and Engagement in Employee Reporting operations and by getting involved in Greenlandic communienvironment local community engagement The responsibilites are structured under the UN’s ten CSR ties. This will add value to society and to the Company. principles. Add to this the responsibility for achieving the set Human rights At sea environment for the employees and Job satisfaction and sickness The 2014 job satisfaction survey Safety and security measures are to allow for the Company’s offices to absence shows that the score for the emploRoyal Arctic Line respects interbased on the International Maritime share their experience. yees’ degree of satisfaction with national human and labour rights The average level of job satisfaction Organization’s (IMO) International access to skills development is 67 and makes a continued effort to for 2014 was 72 points on a scale Safety Management (ISM) Code and The Group’s action plan for 2014, points out of 100, meaning a 1 point offer their employees equal terms, from 1 to 100. For 2013, the score was the Safety of Life at Sea (SOLAS) Groupwide Safety, has been updated. increase compared to 2013. A score of conditions and opportunies in this 74. This decline falls within statistical Convention. They are audited every The ultimate target of the plan is 0 67 points is high compared to the EEI respect. Applicants having the same uncertainty, however, we will contiyear – both internally and externally accidents. for the transport industry (57) and on qualifications must be given the same nue to focus on increasing employee – and workplace evaluations are a par with the average cross-industry opportunity to become an employee, satisfaction and are not satisfied with made regularly. To maintain such focus, an HSEQ score of 67 (average generated by which is why Royal Arctic Line calls the score. (Health, Safety, Environment & Ennova from among the results on any interested party to apply for In order to retain focus on the effort Quality) function has been set up to of the survey of their customers in the vacant positions regardless of Sickness absence for 2014 was 4%, to minimise the risk of accidents, all form part of the Assurance DepartGreenland). their background. Royal Arctic Line’s which is normal for the shipping ISM-certified ships must report at ment. The work of this new function *(EEI – European Employee Index – a common efforts to safeguard human rights are sector, but the absence rate is still supported by guidelines established least one near-miss a month. will relate to personal safety and European database of comparable data). somewhat lower than our target through the staff policy on how the operational reliability as regards of 2.7%. Royal Arctic Line did not Royal Arctic Line offers the following Company intends to address equality No Lost Time Accidents were recorour harbours and offices. One of the manage to reduce the rate of sickness training opportunities: issues and combat discrimination, vicded in 2014 for the Group’s cargo first activities planned for 2015 is the absence for 2014. Consequently, timisation, harassment and violence ships, however, three were recorded security and safety day to be held • NI2 – Academic bachelor of reducing this rate will be given high at the workplace. for the passenger ship, Sarfaq Ittuk, once every year for the entire Group. commerce priority in 2015. which of course will be of major During this event all employees will • Construction equipment concern in 2015. The long-term be dealing with issues of security and Working environment and Skills development mechanic statistics for Sarfaq Ittuk, however, safety. In 2015, the near-miss reporsafety are quite impressive, and the ship is ting system will be implemented at Skills development forms a natural • IT administrator The employees’ safety, health and job considered a very safe place to work. our harbours and offices in order to part of the opportunities existing for • IT supporter satisfaction are key to Royal Arctic strengthen our corporate culture in the individual employee. As a wholly Line’s success. This is why regular this respect. owned Greenlandic enterprise, Royal • Boilermaker On shore measures are taken to improve the For 2014, 43 onshore work-related Arctic Line is particularly responsible • TNI – Office assistant working conditions, and a strong injuries were reported. Employees, skills developfor contributing to the creation of corporate culture forms a natural • Transport/Warehouse and ment and training jobs in Greenland, and the Company terminal assistant manager part of Royal Arctic Line’s objectives. works to increase the share of Five of those 14 harbours run by Royal Royal Arctic Line is privileged to have It is company policy to always make Greenlandic managers with Royal • Warehouse and transport worker Arctic Line are certified under OHSAS skilled and committed employees, adequate training, knowledge and Arctic Line – for example, by giving 18001 (occupational health and safety and continued access to qualified • Shipping assistant equipment available to the emplothe employees access to supplemenmanagement systems). labour is key to our business. We aim • Ship’s mechanic yees to allow them to perform tasks tary training and by playing an active in a safe and secure environment. to give our employees a meaningful role in the development of maritime Work processes are planned and • Ship’s officer work life with focus on quality, training programmes in Greenland. evaluated to ensure a safe and secure dedication and motivation. • Terminal worker ROYAL ARCTIC LINE ANNUAL REPORT 2014 p. 16 Trainees through guidelines. Finally, the correlation between particulate of principle was made as a global Company believes that competence emissions and bottom line as the measure. Royal Arctic Line has a long tradition is the most important parameter UN International Maritime Orgafor being committed to increasing the when recruiting managers. nization (IMO) has decided – and In order to maintain regular liner educational level of Greenlanders. The the EU has endorsed this – that, at service and security of supply, the comprehensive trainee and suppleClimate and environment 1 January 2015, any ship regardless 2014 sailing plan has been very mentary training programmes form an of flag or nationality may only use realiable. important part of the Company’s HR Maritime transport is the most bunker oil containing 0.1% of sulphur strategy and its responsibility for training economic and environmentally when sailing the Emission Control In 2014, Royal Arctic Line’s fuel conlocal labour. friendly form of commercial transThe employee turnover rate at the Area (ECA), ie a particular area in sumption rose slightly to 67.6 kg per port, requiring less fuel per tonne management levels of Royal Arctic the Kattegat, the North Sea, the nautical mile. In H2 in particular, fuel Royal Arctic Line offers 12 different of goods shipped than transport Line is very low, hence changing Baltic Sea and the English Channel, consumption was a bit higher than training programmes, and in 2014 54 by train, highway or air. Despite the composition of labour is a very as opposed to 1% effective in this the target of 65 kg per nautical mile. trainees had enrolled in a programme. protracted task. The share of women those advantages, it is Royal Arctic area up until 2014. This also applies Slow steaming is often set aside to Training with Royal Arctic Line must is far below the Company’s overall Line’s policy to reduce the negative to Royal Arctic Line’s ships when avoid delays, particularly in times of qualify the candidate for a career with gender distribution statistics, parenvironmental effects of the ships sailing the sea north of Scotland. bad weather in the Atlantic Ocean. the shipping company and also provide ticularly at the second management and the Company’s activities. This will increase bunker oil costs a sound basis for favourable career level (including port managers, for 2015 considerably as compared opportunities with other companies. captains, chief engineer officers, At sea On shore to a situation where this legislative etc), and the employee turnover rate The shipping industry is subject to The harbours of Qaqortoq, Sisimiut, change had not come into effect. Diversity is very low at this management level extensive climate and environmental Aasiaat and Nuuk are certified However, Royal Arctic Line is as well. In 2014, Royal Arctic Line law. Royal Arctic Line would like to under ISO 14001 (environmental Pursuant to the Guidelines on Corporate has managed, through its recruitcompensated for this cost through go even further than the minimum management) and ISO 9001 (quality Governance for Public Limited Comment procedures, to recruit a female the oil and exchange rate margins, legal requirements in this respect management), as is the base harbour panies Owned by the Government of port manager from the local area. and so far the customers do not feel as long as it makes sense in terms of Aalborg. Greenland, Royal Arctic Line is contithe effect of increased costs as those of business, and efforts are made to margins are very low due to the low nuously focusing on its efforts to ensure At non-management levels, the reduce the ships’ fuel consumption price of oil. In 2013, the headquarters was diversity. Company has been co-operating and optimise the Company’s general combined with Clean Greenland with Kommuneqarfik Sermersooq consumption of resources. – Green Companies. A three-year A statement specifying the gender distriin particular on securing jobs for IMO also adopted a ballast water partnership of WWF, CSR Greenland bution and the rate of local labour has people having a hard time entering management convention stipulating the labour market. Preparatory work Overall, such initiatives are of benefit and six Greenlandic enterprises. The been made for every management level. that, in future, ballast water must be in this respect saw some difficulty, to both the environment in the form purpose of the project is to reduce Guidelines on recruitment procedures purified before discharging it back particularly in relation to the of reduced environmental effects the environmental impact of the supporting the desire for increased diverinto the sea. As a consequence, matching of candidates with Royal and particulate emissions and to offices over time. So far the project sity have been drawn up. The Company Royal Arctic Line must install ballast Arctic Line’s possibilities of creating the Company’s bottom line through has been focusing on reducing food considered setting specific targets but water treatment plants at its ships. special positions. Such co-operation lower expenses. waste, reducing the consumption decided not to as experience shows that The effective date of the ballast will continue in 2015. of electricity for lighting and the sometimes specific targets may over­ water management convention New legislation challenges the consumption of paper and toners for shadow the process of producing results remains to be set, but the decision ROYAL ARCTIC LINE ANNUAL REPORT 2014 p. 17 printers. The results of those efforts environmental protection. Royal Arctic The number of critical suppliers has The aim is for at least 90% of the CSR efforts for 2015 and in the remain to be determined as there is Line has identified 137 critical suppliincreased in both 2013 and 2014. employees to become aware of the long run no full comparable year available yet. ers. The target for 2014 was to have policy and to have an understanding of 80% of them accept the CSR purchacorruption by 2015. Royal Arctic Line expects to continue Anti-corruption its strategic CSR efforts in 2015, Going forward, the Company will sing terms and conditions. That target Royal Arctic Line aims to operate in a however, the Company has realised continue its efforts to make the has been achieved and outperformed. Involvement in local community transparent and incorruptible market, that the recession in Greenland environment and quality an active Who is to sign the purchasing terms both nationally and internationally. Royal Arctic Line intends to help affects prioritisation. When interests element of the employees’ day-to-day and conditions? Therefore, the Company does not the local community of which the in oil and mineral exploration peaked work. Any gains from the ISO-certiaccept bribery, grease or any other Company forms part to develop around 2010/2011, there was a heavy fied harbours must be allocated to Suppliers are considered risk type of unethical business conduct. positively. Therefore, the Company demand for improving data collection the rest of the business, and the same suppliers if they hold one or more of offers services, competencies and and CSR reporting. Today this presgoes for experience gained from the following characteristics: Although the Company’s domestic sponsorships for initiatives that sure from the external environment Clean Greenland – Green Companies. markets in Greenland and Denmark would be of benefit to Greenland. is not as high as back then. This does This is ensured through, for example, • They are strategic suppliers from do not experience serious problems in not mean that the efforts to strengtthe HSEQ function and the environwhich the Company purchases this respect, the development strategy Royal Arctic Line’s sponsorships hen the society of which Royal Arctic mental committee set up by the essential services/goods, or on also extends to new markets and new primarily comprise free freightage for Line forms part have been given up. headquarters. which the Company depends in partnerships with players in industries the lines operated by the Company However, when the external pressure some way; decreases there is a considerable risk where corruption may occur. and, in exceptional cases, financial Suppliers and business partners support. The Company sponsors both that attention does so too. • They operate in critical countries Royal Arctic Line is interested in Royal Arctic Line has adopted an very small events and large events, or industries – such as the oil influencing its suppliers and business industry; anti-corruption policy to tighten and every application is considered In 2013, Royal Arctic Line achieved partners to deal with environmental, in-house rules, control mechanisms by its Sponsorship Committee that a very important goal: participation social and ethical issues in a syste• They supply products that and audit work to ensure that the Comconvenes once a month. Moreover, in the UN Global Compact. With matic and structured manner. This may affect the environment or pany’s activities are always ethical. All the Company strives to increase the the participation, a new framework is why the Company is involved in safety at work – such as bunker employees have access through the level of involvement in long-term has been laid down and now strong dialogue and attaches importance oil, pallets, chemicals or work Group’s intranet to the policy and a partnerships because a targeted efforts must be made to be even to requirements in order to promote clothes; reporting schedule for eg the receipt effort is expected to have more effect more compliant in this respect. sustainability – also beyond our own and handing out of presents. on the community as a whole. business. • They supply products carrying In areas in which the Group has the company logo such as In addition, Royal Arctic Line The anti-corruption policy is based on performed very well, such as supplier merchandise that may affect the The suppliers that Royal Arctic Line a best practice edition, which was then ­co-operates with a wide range of management, work must focus on Company’s reputation. asks to sign the Company’s purchasing adapted to the Company after a series trade associations and interest ensuring continued success. In areas terms and conditions commit to of employee workshops. Prior to the groups to promote sustainability in in which efforts made were not as Suppliers having one or more of complying with the UN conventions adoption of the Group’s final anti-corthe shipping industry and in society successful as originally hoped for, those characteristics are included in on child labour, human rights, workers’ the gross list of suppliers that, based ruption policy, 11% of the employees at large. such as data collection, focus needs rights, anti-corruption and the Rio on a risk assessment, should sign participated in workshops. to be increased in 2015. Convention on sustainability and the purchasing terms. ROYAL ARCTIC LINE ANNUAL REPORT 2014 p. 18
