The United Nations Global Compact Communication On Progress (COP) Name of Organization: SQUARE Pharmaceuticals Ltd Sector: Pharmaceuticals & Biotechnology Website: www.squarepharma.com.bd Country of Headquarter: Dhaka, Bangladesh Reporting Period: January 2014 to December 2014 Our Statement of continued support for UN Global Compact SQUARE Pharmaceuticals Ltd. is one of the pioneer signatories of UN Global Compact in Bangladesh. UNGC principles are aligned with company’s culture from the very outset. So, signing UNGC was a public endorsement of what SQUARE had already been practicing. The Management Team leads the entire range of activities with dedication and continues to identify sustaining ways of meeting our commitments to the UNGC. We strongly agree as an organization to increase the momentum and practical steps to meet our commitment made to UNGC. We run our business with transparency, under ethical standard and scaling up CSR activities to our stakeholders. I, as the Managing Director, feel obliged to express our commitment towards UNGC and will continue our efforts going forward in 2015. UNGC Principles 1 and 2 Human rights: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights and make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Commitments Project and activities Impacts and Results 2014 We at SQUARE strive to  SQUARE Pharmaceuticals Ltd, being in the  The number of Continual Medical Education (CME) programs ensure that our activities pharmaceutical sector, maintains a very close conducted in 2014 by Medical Services Department were 527 and the support the fundamental relation with the physician community. The number of participants were 37553 human rights, set out by management believes a better informed and the United Nation’s Bill educated doctor community creates a win-win  The number of seminars and clinical meetings conducted in 2014 by of Rights. situation for all the stakeholders. For this Veterinary Services Department were 298 and the number of purpose, SQUARE takes multiple initiatives participants were 9735 under its Continual Medical Education (CME) programs.  These clinical meetings and seminars have the following impacts  Clinical Meeting: These meetings are organized aiming to upgrade the day-to-day  A wealth of knowledge is shared among medical professionals. developments in medical sector. These meetings act as a forum for training and  A close relation with the physician community is maintained knowledge-sharing among the medical professionals and often attended by experts on  Product knowledge of the participants is increased significantly. the respective subject as key-note speakers which are continued efforts; these meetings are  Medical professionals receive updated information on different drugs conducted by dedicated team of medical and other relevant information. graduates of the Medical Services Department (MSD).  A better informed and educated community of doctors creates a winwin situation for all the stakeholders.  Our AgroVet Division also conducts seminar and clinical meeting across Bangladesh for Veterinary Doctors, Farmers and Quacks to disseminate the regular updated information of different drugs. These meetings are organized by Veterinary Graduates of Veterinary Services Department (VSD).  SQUARE Publications: SQUARE publishes bulletins on a quarterly & half-yearly basis which are distributed among the physicians of  In 2014, SQUARE published 26 bulletins. As a result of this initiative, Bangladesh. They are Product Guide, Oshudh the physician community is supported with contemporary and critical Nirdeshika, The Square, Diabetes Newsletter, issues related to medicine, disease, medical innovation etc. Asthma Focus, Women's Health, Neurotale, Insight Heart, GI café, Allergy Newsletter, eSquare  SQUARE Pharmaceuticals Ltd. sponsored the  Debaters from 40 different Schools, Colleges, Universities and clubs SQUARE-NDDC 26TH National Debate from different parts of the country took part in the competition in a Competition 2014 as a Title Sponsor organized festive manner. by Notre Dam Debating Club.  SQUARE Pharmaceuticals Ltd. has  Students of different schools and colleges presented their science participated as the title sponsor in the projects in the form of a report, display board, and models in this SQUARE-Notre Dame Annual Science science festival to enrich their science knowledge. Other activities like Festival 2014 &24th GKC . Science Olympiad, General Knowledge competition, Webpage designing etc. took place during the event.  SQUARE Pharmaceuticals Ltd. supports  In February 2014, the donation was handed over to Mr. Md. Salim, the 'School of Hope' (a non-profit, non-political, school principal. The donation included 2250 units of medicines and non-religious educational institute) medicines more than 400 toiletries products. As a result of this donation, & other daily-need appliances. The school institution received the necessary resources to function efficiently and provides quality education & health-support to information on SQUARE and its products were disseminated among 200 disadvantaged children every day. children and the community.  SQUARE Kindergarten & High School  As of 2014, there is a total of 531 students in SQUARE Kindergarten provides education and educational facilities to & High School out of which 263 are female and 268 are male. This the children of the employees as well as the initiative enables the children of the employees to receiving quality children of the local community. education at a subsidized rate and creates employee satisfaction. The children of the local community are equally benefitted with quality education.  SQUARE recognizes the merits of higher educated students and awards Gold Medal to  This recognition and award boosts morale of the student and creates the student of Dhaka Medical College who future customers for SQUARE. secures the highest mark.  SQUARE Textiles Ltd. provides pick & drop  Currently, 145 students are enjoying hassle free journey as a result of services with school buses for the children of this service factory employees.  SQUARE Toiletries Ltd. is involved in a  SQUARE stands alongside the acid victims assisting them with continuing fund raising program with the Acid rehabilitation and creates awareness among people. Survivors Foundation. We are committed to provide Tk 1 from each of the sold unit of Senora 10 pad belt and panty.  SQUARE established Dishari Computer  Dishari Computer Training Institute offers an alternative training Training Institute in Pabna to train the solution to the section of the community unable to afford costly underprivileged community and enable them to training programs. Trainees are empowered as prospective users of build their future with contemporary future technology enabling them to build their future with knowledge in computer science. contemporary knowledge in computer science. In 2014, a total of 62 students received training out of which 36 are female and 26 are male.  SQUARE operates a fuel station named Eakub  The station generates employment opportunities to rural women Filling Station which is run by women allowing them to be self-sufficient. There are 6 women working as fuel employees. operators at the moment.  SQUARE Toiletries Ltd. is partnering one of  At present, 7000 JITA women and 90000 BRAC women are the projects of CARE by empowering women empowered as they are able to have their own source of income. of JITA and BRAC. CARE, JITA and BRAC are humanitarian organizations committed to helping families in poor communities improve their lives and alleviate poverty.The project enables rural women to purchase our products from hubs at Trade Price (TP) and sell it to households at Maximum Retail Price (MRP), keeping the margin (not less than 10%) for themselves.  SQUARE Toiletries Ltd. provides health &  This awareness program covered 3.6 million girls till 2014 (over last 4 hygiene information to adolescent girls under years) educating them about menstruation facts and made them ready the brand “Senora”. This is a free campaign in for a healthier future. It also introduced our products to them. association with “Campaign for Popular Education (CAMPE)” that creates awareness among High School girls.  “Meril Baby” (a brand of SQUARE Toiletries  3.3 million mothers were benefitted with adequate knowledge on Ltd.) takes initiatives to make life better for breastfeeding, helping them guide their babies to a healthy future. Bangladeshi mothers by informing them of breastfeeding benefits and by helping them guide their babies to a healthy future. SQUARE Toiletries Ltd. also disseminates vaccination information for Polio elimination from Bangladesh  SQUARE Toiletries Ltd. along with ‘Save the  More than 30 thousand mothers took advice for their babies’ health Children and ‘Bill & Melinda Gates problems through this helpline in 2014. foundation’ initiated a 24/7 helpline system for young mothers named ‘Supermom’.  Maasranga Television (a sister concern of SQUARE Group) broadcasts live “SQUARE Hospital Doctor’s Chamber” every Friday. This is a program where Doctors and senior  Creates health awareness among the mass population. consultants communicate directly with patients over telephone, providing valuable information and advice on various important topics related to diseases, treatment etc.  SQUARE Toiletries Ltd. has been a part of  Postpartum hemorrhage (PPH) declined by 40% over the past 9 years; postpartum hemorrhage (PPH) reduction the Maternal Mortality Ratio (MMR) in Bangladesh is now 194 per intervention of ICDDRB. 100,000.  “Meril Splash” (a brand of SQUARE  There are a limited number of psychiatrists against a huge number of Toiletries Ltd.) engaged Dr. Mehtab Khanom, patients (10 million). As a result everyone does not get easy access to an eminent educationist and activist in the field this few psychiatrists. Through this initiative, SQUARE made it easier of psycho-social counseling for psychological for people to receive psycho-social counseling. counseling through Supermom number regarding various complexities and problems related to health and psychology of babies that parents face during rearing them. She and her associates advice not only about baby’s mental health but also about mental health in elderly.  SQUARE Toiletries Ltd. took initiative to educate children to clean germ from hands  This program is helping children to make a habit of washing their hand through “Hand Sanitization Program” in when they are exposed to dirt and germs. SQUARE Toiletries Ltd. also different schools. placed Sepnil hand wash for free in the washroom of around 20 schools last year.  SQUARE teamed up with CSR Center to launch Women Principles in Bangladesh which  In 2014, 1 million of this directory in Bengali language has been is intended focus on women empowerment. It published through our brands – Senora and SUPERMOM. This is an essential directory and a supportive initiative came to empower women and help the country to grow guidebook to women who wants to transform further. their lives through a progressive approach.  SQUARE Toiletries Ltd. stood beside the  This initiative provided the poor with comfort and much needed warm people who were suffering from cold winter by clothes. partnering with JAAGO Foundation (a nonprofit organization catering to the education needs of children from socially and economically disadvantaged background) for a winter clothing drive. The whole country was connected through social and mainstream media to create awareness among the mass. There were many collection points in almost every corner of the country and JAAGO distributed the blankets in the most impoverish areas. UNGC Principles 3, 4, 5 and 6 Labor standards: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association, the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining, the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor, the effective abolition of child labor and the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Commitments Project and activities Impacts and Results 2014 We respect the right of workers to  SQUARE Pharmaceuticals Ltd. established  There are around 1300 members of the Trade Union. As a result join an association and engage in Workers’ Trade Union named “SQUARE of this Union, the door to negotiation with management is open constructive dialogue with the Kormochari Samity” (Registration No: and the various concerns of the workers are addressed. workers’ representatives. 1322). We follow ethical practices and  Detailed background and reference  This ensures compliance with the Labor Law. labor standards at workplace. At verification is done as a part of recruitment SQUARE, we do no recruit any & selection process to ensure no child is child labor and do not have any employed. forced/bonded labor engagement policy. We also provide safe  Competency based recruitment system are  Last year a total of 744 employees were recruited under the working conditions for all. carried out. Employees are selected based on system. their skills and competence.  Any possibility of discrimination based on gender, race or We appreciate the individuality of religion is eliminated. our workers and treat them fairly,  HR policies are continuously updated as per equally and respectfully the Labour Law of the country. regardless of personal characteristics such as nationality, gender, age, ethnicity, religion, or  SQUARE Pharmaceuticals Ltd. runs the disability. program “Shohoj Kisti Reen Prokalpa” under which all unionized employees can take loan  In 2014, a total of 280 employees were benefited by this scheme. to purchase necessary home appliances with a small service charge.  Female employees do not work during night shift operations.  This ensures compliance with the labor law.  All of our employees are covered under mandatory Group Life Insurance Scheme.  This ensures compliance with the Labor Law and employee satisfaction.  SQUARE Pharmaceuticals Ltd. is providing profit sharing through WPPF (Workers’ Profit Participation Fund) which is a direct  The plan promotes healthy employer-employee relationship and payment & equally distributed to the is an additional earning for employees as it is paid in addition to employees depending on company's salary and bonuses. profitability.  SQUARE Pharmaceuticals Ltd. allows festival leave, sick leave, casual leave & annual leave for all its employees.  Ensures compliance with the Labor Law.  SQUARE Textiles Ltd. provides day care facilities to the children of women workers.  There are 3 babysitters taking care of 16-20 children from 8 am to 5 pm. Principles 7, 8 and 9 Environment: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges and undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Businesses should also encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Commitments Project and activities Impacts and Results 2014 We strive to be a leader in all aspects of  We maintain large greeneries around  Green landscaping & roof garden have been developed on environmental protection and SQUARE establishments. different floors & levels at our plant in Kaliakor. More than systematically 200,000 sft area has been developed & about 250,000 sft area is identify and manage environmental under development. risks in our activities and over the entire value chain of our products and  More than 200 plants of different types have been planted. services. We make efficient use of natural resources and minimize the environmental impact of our activities and products over their life cycle.  We utilize Effluent Treatment Plant  Chemical Oxygen Demand (COD) of our ETP is 200 mg/L. (ETP) in our manufacturing plants. (International Standard for COD has to be less than 400 mg/L Purified water through ETP is used to for the efficacy of ETP). maintain Green belt around plants. SQUARE’s Environmental license has been updated on a continuous basis.  We use incinerators for disposing solid  In 2014, a total of 47315 kilograms of waste were disposed wastes to protect the environment from through incinerator. pollution. The exhaust temperature is  The cooling of exhaust temperature prevents atmosphere cooled down to 200 deg C from 1100 warming. deg C during operation.  ETP’s treated water has been planned to  It will reduce use of underground water consumption reuse for gardening & plantation purpose.  In the office areas, canteen, café &  This ensures daylight in those areas reception areaslarge glass wall panels have been placed  A lake has been designed in our plant  It will be used as a reservoir of fire water and also to increase which is under development to store aesthetics. surface water.  Energy saving & LED lamps have been  60 LED street lights & thousands of energy savings lamps have installed for street & indoor lights. been installed and reduced power consumption.  Motion sensors for lights have been  The motion sensors are working well especially in the technical introduced in big corridors of the corridors & fire stairs where there are less personnel movement. building & other places where there are less personnel movement.  All exhausts from the production  No environmental pollution is being taken place from production buildings during production process are process since all air borne particles are arrested in HEPA filter. HEPA filter controlled.  All generator & boiler exhausts are  Exhaust is being released at a high level (22 m) from ground made as per standard height. level  At Sabazpur Tea Co. Ltd., (a sister  Environmental friendly practices ensure protection of wildlife concern of SQUARE Group), we use and maintenance of biodiversity. organic fertilizer to produce tea. The tea  Soil erosion is prevented. garden uses natural pest & controls weed manually. It uses only renewable resources and maintains the soil’s fertility.  SQUARE Herbal & Nutraceuticals ltd.  Apart from the fact that there are about 60,000 marginal (SHNL) seeks to reduce and reverse the farmers/families who are earning through this medicinal plant adverse effects on the environment by cultivation, there are a number of environmental impacts of this Green Product Designs especially for initiative: ‘Basak cultivation’ (Medicinal Plant).  Huge cultivation of medicinal plant in the abundant land has The company produces herbal medicine enhanced forest development (450 KM road side) such as “Adovas” which not only  Use of natural pesticides and organic fertilizer enhanced the impacts in environment positively but caring for environment. increases social values and integrity.  Roadside basak cultivation decreased soil erosion. Principle 10 Anti-corruption: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Commitments Project and activities Impacts and Results 2014 At SQUARE, we do not tolerate  SAP ERP Systems integrate the core  Transparency in the transactions of the company is ensured. any forms of bribery and business functions/processes.  Company assets are safeguarded against misappropriation and fraud. corruption. Our employee code of  Operations of company are run effectively and efficiently. conduct describes various policies  Cost of the company is optimized. and practices regarding  We follow & ensure “Zero Tolerance” appropriate conduct that are against all kinds of corruption & we have aimed to promote acceptable an “Internal Audit” department which standards for the business and specifically deals with this issue. The head provides the employees a of “Internal Audit” directly report to the professional work environment. Managing Director to ensure better We observe the highest standards control.  Built awareness in newly joined employees. of professionalism in daily business activities.  All newly joined employees went through orientation program on business ethics & anti-corruption.
