Communication on Progress Year: 2015 STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT 06-11-2015 To our stakeholders: I am pleased to confirm that Antmak Office Technologies Ltd (AOT) reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours, Raphael Makau Managing Director Company name: ANTMAK OFFICE TECHNOLOGIES LTD. Sector: INFORMATION AND COMMUNICATIONS TECHNOLOGY Number of employees: 12 UN Global Compact signatory since: 2013-11-20 Contact person: Mr. RAPHAEL MAKAU Address: P. O. BOX 51034-00200 NAIROBI, KENYA. Email: rmakau@antmakgroup.com Phone: +254 20 2663110 COMPANY PROFILE Abstract: Something profound has happened in the Information Universe. Stellar corporate performance now depends not just on factors like products, services or location, but also on knowledge. That means knowledge about customers, products and markets; Knowledge that reveals promising opportunities and assesses pending threats; Knowledge that boosts profits / production and reduces costs; knowledge that supports better, wiser, more effective management. Such knowledge based on comprehensive, detailed, relevant information is crucial. In fact, virtually all organizations are now in the information business. Information is no longer just a tactical tool, but a strategic differentiator that separates high-growth businesses from those soon to be left behind. “Charles Darwin said, it isn’t the strongest or even the most intelligent that survive, but the ones who adapt most quickly to change” TO MEET EACH CLIENT'S BUSINESS VISION is our mission! ABOUT US: As technologies continually reinvent the ways we do business, information itself is often an organization’s most valuable weapon. Keeping this in view, ANTMAK OFFICE TECHNOLOGIES LTD help the tech-savvy organizations to fulfill their business vision by offering time-bound, high quality, cost-effective solutions that optimize their operations helping them move ahead of the competition. ANTMAK OFFICE TECHNOLOGIES LTD is a Document Imaging / Voice / Data / IT consulting / Solution Company based in Kenya with dedicated expertise facilities in Kenya. A COMPLETE SUITE FROM AOT: AOT provides Imaging, Telecommunication, IT and Software services from micro to macro-level AOT strives to provide our clients the best of the skills available. To that end, we hire, train and retain talented professionals in the respective fields. AOT strengths lie in the provision of excellent Project Management and After Sales Support. We undertake projects on a turnkey basis for the entire Office Automation Process. AOT is also in the process of expansion to Tanzania, Uganda and other parts of Sub-Saharan Africa to become a global front-runner in the sphere of Office Automation. Document Imaging Solutions: A complete Document Management Solution on Copy, Print, Fax and Scan can be essential to your success in the new economy policies. AOT assists in saving on time, reducing overheads on consumables and proper accounting. ANTMAK OFFICE TECHNOLOGIES also provides Document Management solutions that deliver exceptional value across your organization meeting your business requirements, managing costs, reducing risk, and fulfilling your scheduling parameters. Our consultants have extensive experience in designing, developing and deploying fully integrated Digital Document Copying and Printing Applications for Color and B&W. Core IT Solutions & Services: We are an advanced software powerhouse providing software development services, Business process automation, e-solutions, consultancy and training to the global market. Our solutions & services allow companies focus on their core businesses and yet be able to enlarge and augment their technical abilities. Client/Server Applications: An effective & efficient Client/Server system enhances not only the productivity of the staff but also satisfaction of the customers thereby maximizing the profitability of the organization with minimal maintenance overheads. ANTMAK OFFICE TECHNOLOGIES LTD has got a well defined approach christened “Integrated Digital Network Methodology” (IDNM) which incorporates best practices and techniques in the industry for providing complete solutions for Voice, Data and Image. Our professionals are experts on most sophisticated Products such as CANON, NASHUATEC, RICOH, KYOCERA MITA, HP, SHARP, DUPLO, Cisco, and solutions such as Knowledge Management and Business process Automation. These systems offer complete integration with network-based applications so that the customer saves more time while using the applications. Present day enterprises have a range of business needs and technology necessities. ANTMAK OFFICE TECHNOLOGIES LTD delivers unmatched professional expertise to service the entire range of requirements. AOT’s consultants and professional work along with the client’s staff during the entire project life cycle to assess, plan, develop and deploy products, services and workflow processes as well as maintain and upgrade them throughout their lifetime. At AOT, we pride ourselves on anticipating our customers’ needs and delivering the right products, from locally managed stand-alone equipment to web enabled business solutions, our products ensure you get the right solution at the right time. ANTMAK OFFICE TECHNOLOGIES LTD develops both packaged and customized products. Our focus is on developing robust, scalable, and secure web enabled enterprise products that can be deployed over the Internet. PARTIAL AOT PRODUCT AND SERVICE PORTFOLIO: CANON Range of Products: Plain Paper Copiers (Digital) Facsimile Equipments Printers (Standalone & Network) Scanners Document & Image Management Systems Photo -Video Digital Cameras NRG (NASHUATEC/RICOH/GESTETNER) Range of Products: Plain Paper Copiers (Digital) KYOCERA MITA Range of Products: Plain Paper Copiers (Digital) Printers SHARP Range of Products: Plain Paper Copiers (Digital) Facsimile Equipments HP Range of Products: Plain Paper Multifunctional Printers Desktops & Notebooks Printers (Standalone & Network) Scanners Document & Image Management Systems SERVICES: Consultancy Services. Infrastructure and Facility management. MILESTONES: ANTMAK OFFICE TECHNOLOGIES LTD has executed a number of projects successfully and boasts a wide customer outreach. The success of ANTMAK OFFICE TECHNOLOGIES LTD lies not only in successful completion of projects in time, but in fully understanding the client’s requirements and executing the necessary solution procedures and processes. Below are a few recommendation letters received from our esteemed clients: BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF NATURE OF BUSINESS As technologies continually reinvent the ways we do business, information itself is often an organization’s most valuable weapon. Keeping this in view, ANTMAK OFFICE TECHNOLOGIES LTD help the tech-savvy organizations to fulfill their business vision by offering time-bound, high quality, cost-effective solutions that optimize their operations helping them move ahead of the competition. ANTMAK OFFICE TECHNOLOGIES LTD is a Document Imaging / Voice / Data / IT consulting / Solution Company based in Kenya with dedicated expertise facilities in Kenya. HUMAN RIGHT PRINCIPLES Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally UN GLOBAL COMPACT proclaimed human rights PRINCIPLES COVERED: Principle 2: Businesses should make that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. COMMITMENT Antmak Office Technologies Ltd supports and respects the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. We also strive to ensure that we are never complicit in human rights abuses. The Universal Declaration of Human Rights calls upon every individual and every organ of society including businesses to protect and promote human rights. AOT aligns itself with the Universal Declaration of Human Rights (1948). In that respect, our company policy reiterates all articles of the declaration. PROCESSES AND SYSTEMS (IMPLEMENTATION) AOT is committed to respecting and promoting the free exercise of human rights ensuring that such respect is woven into our business fabric. In respecting these rights, AOT sees the following as essential policies: (a) Not discriminating on the basis of race, colour, sex, language, religion, political or other opinion, national or social origin, property, birth or other status such as ethnic origin, disability, age, health status, parental or marital status or sexual orientation, except CURRENT when justified by reasons intrinsic to specific work requirements. (b) Providing a work environment free from any form of harassment, be it sexual harassment, intimidation or bullying. (c) Ensuring that promotion and termination are based on legitimate non-discriminatory business reasons, such as experience and competence. (d) Ensuring equal pay for equal work is paid without distinction based on grounds mentioned above, taking into account differences in wages by region of expertise. (e) Not viewing affirmative action policies as discriminatory. ACTIVITIES IMPLEMENTED IN THE LAST YEAR (a) Training of Senior Management on Local Laws on Human Rights. MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES AND VALUE ADDED TO THE FIRM (a) Team building activities every year to assess the general relationship between employees and Senior Management. (b) Assessing Client Satisfaction in terms of after-sales services to gauge the technical staffs attitude toward the company and their superiors ACTIVITIES PLANNED FOR THE NEXT YEAR FUTURE (a) Training of both Senior Management and their Juniors on Local as well as International Laws on Human Rights hence creating awareness. LABOUR RIGHTS Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 4: Businesses should support the elimination of all forms of forced and UN GLOBAL COMPACT compulsory labour. PRINCIPLES COVERED: Principle 5: Businesses should support the effective abolition of child labour Principle 6: Businesses should support the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. COMMITMENT Antmak Office Technologies Ltd supports and is committed to the practice of equal opportunity in all aspects of employment and advancement. It is AOTs policy, in accordance with all applicable laws, to recruit, hire, train, and promote persons in all job titles without regard to race, color, religion, sex, age, disability, veteran status, national origin, or any other characteristic protected by said laws. We practice and promote equal employment opportunity. PROCESSES AND SYSTEMS (IMPLEMENTATION) AOT is committed to respecting and promoting applicable labour laws and ensuring that such respect is woven into our business fabric. In respecting these rights, AOT sees the following as essential policies: (a) Encouraging genuine dialogue between workers and employers to understand each other’s problem better and find ways to resolve them. (b) Ensuring that it is strictly prohibited to threaten workers with severe deprivations such CURRENT as withholding wages or food, physical violence or sexual abuse, restricting peoples movements, etc. (c) Ensuring that it is strictly prohibited to engage any under-age individual with or without the promise of pay, monetary or otherwise, for the purpose of labour. (d) Ensuring equal pay for equal work is paid without distinction based on the basis of race, colour, sex, language, religion, political or other opinion, national or social origin, property, birth or other status such as ethnic origin, disability, age, health status, parental or marital status or sexual orientation, except when justified by reasons intrinsic to specific work requirements. ACTIVITIES IMPLEMENTED IN THE LAST YEAR (a) Training of Senior Management on Local Labour Laws. MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES AND VALUE ADDED TO THE FIRM (a) Team building activities every year to assess the general relationship between employees and Senior Management. (b) Safe work environment as well as safe solutions and recommendations to our clients ensure Health and Safety both internally and externally with AOT. ACTIVITIES PLANNED FOR THE NEXT YEAR FUTURE (a) Establishment of a policy document detailing AOTs requirements in as far as Labour matters are concerned and availing it to relevant departments such as Human Resources, Finance and Senior Management. ENVIRONMENT Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Principle 8: Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental UN GLOBAL COMPACT responsibility. PRINCIPLES COVERED: Principle 9: Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. COMMITMENT Antmak Office Technologies Ltd seeks to promote environmental responsibility. Whether it is on a client’s project or as part of our internal operations, we look to position ourselves as environmental leaders in business. We commit to making environmental friendly resources available to our employees and clients so that they are positioned to carry out their responsibilities in an eco-friendly manner. PROCESSES AND SYSTEMS (IMPLEMENTATION) AOT is committed to respecting and promoting environmental responsibility ensuring that such CURRENT respect is woven into our business fabric. In respecting this responsibility, AOT sees the following as essential policies: (a) We encourage our employees to reduce, reuse and/or recycle office waste and reduce energy consumption. (b) We encourage our clients to adopt current and greener technologies as well as responsible disposal of waste products. ACTIVITIES IMPLEMENTED IN THE LAST YEAR (a) Research on the implementation of alternative energy into the workplace. MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES AND VALUE ADDED TO THE FIRM ACTIVITIES PLANNED FOR THE NEXT YEAR FUTURE (a) Training of both Senior Management and their Juniors on Local as well as International Laws on Human Rights. ANTI-CORRUPTION UN GLOBAL COMPACT Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including PRINCIPLES COVERED: extortion and bribery. COMMITMENT Antmak Office Technologies Ltd believes that personal honesty and corporate integrity are the underpinnings of the firm’s success. As such, we are committed to complying with all applicable anti-corruption laws. PROCESSES AND SYSTEMS (IMPLEMENTATION) AOT is committed to discouraging and eliminating Corruption practices. We ensure that this policy is woven into our business fabric. As such, AOT sees the following as essential policies: (a) We have published a Code of Ethics and have it displayed openly where all our CURRENT Employees can see. (b) We have established multiple avenues whereby employees can report violations of the Code of Ethics anonymously and in strict confidence. ACTIVITIES IMPLEMENTED IN THE LAST YEAR (a) Published and displayed a Code of Ethics document in the office. MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES AND VALUE ADDED TO THE FIRM (a) Success here is generally measured by the lack of reports of violations of policy or law and, to date, there have been no reported violations. Should a violation be reported, we intend to undertake a thorough investigation. ACTIVITIES PLANNED FOR THE NEXT YEAR (a) AOT seeks to come up with more stringent guidelines in our code of ethics. Guidelines FUTURE such as rules on giving and receipt of gifts and control systems for the same shall be included in the next year. HOW AOT INTENDS TO MAKE THIS COP AVAILABLE TO OUR STAKEHOLDERS AOT is looking forward to collaborating with all of our partners and stakeholders to improve our position on the UN Global Compact Principles. This, however, can only be achieved through collaboration as opposed to compromise. As such, AOT does not look to find a middle ground nor do we look to embark on a democratic process where partners vote on what other partners should do. On the contrary, we seek to find new ways to solve persistent problems in a manner that’s beneficial to all partners. AOT will initiate a mailing campaign to all our stake holders that is set out to initially target our employees via Hard and Soft Copy mail and thereafter to our entire supply chain. We then intend to communicate in the same manner to our secondary partners and resource providers.
