RESPONSIBILITY 2014 Toms Confectionery Group A/S Toms Allé 1 DK-2750 Ballerup, Denmark Tel. (+45) 4489 1000 www.toms.dk 2 Toms Gruppen in Brief Toms is a owner of strong confectionery brands such as Anthon Berg, Feodora and Hachez, and has a comprehensive product range covering chocolate, liquorice and sugar confectionery. Toms is headquatered in Denmark and market leader on its domestic market with brands such as Toms, Galle & Jessen, Ga-Jol , Pingvin and Nellie Dellies. However, approximately 60 % of the turnover is generated internationally, and Toms holds a strong position in the global travel retail and duty free segment. Toms is owned by Gerda and Victor B. Strand‘s Foundation. We have production facilities in Denmark (2), Germany (1), and Poland (1) a yearly production output of around 30,000 tons of confectionery products and employ up to 1500 people, depending on the season. 3 About this report This report is our Communication on Progress 2014 in implementing the principles of UN Global Compact. The report aims to illustrate Toms Gruppen’s activities and progress made on social responsibility and sustainability during 2014 throughout its operations, implemented with respect to Human Rights, Labor, Environment and Anti-corruption. Also, this report is the statutory mandatory report on corporate social responsibility and diversity as part of the management review in the financial report for 2014 for Toms according to sections 99a and 99b of the Danish Financial Statements Act. 4 CEO’s statement of continued support for the Global Compact I am pleased to present our Communication on Progress 2014 in implementing the principles of UN Global Compact to the business and activities of Toms Gruppen. As a signatory since 2006, we express our continued support and acknowledgement of our responsibility as a business to manage our impacts and contribute positively to a sustainable development, socially, environmentally and economically in the world around us. Our corporate responsibility remains a strategic priority, and we are proud to report tangible results in a number of areas in 2014. We will continue down this path, seeking to increase impact and scale of our contribution as a business. Carsten Lyngsø Thomsen Chief Executive Officer 5 Human Rights and Labour Global Compact Principle 1-6 “Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining.” “Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour.” “Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour.” Respect for Human Rights In 2014, Toms continued to aim at integrating the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights into its business. We have been engaged in stakeholder consultancy of our recently developed statement of policy for human rights. As corporate leadership changed at Toms during 2014, this work will be finalized with the visions of the new leadership in 2015. Over the years, Toms has already had related policies and implicit expectations of integrity in our culture, conduct and leadership, and Toms has in particular worked since 2006 to combat a serious human rights violation, namely child labor, in our main supply chain, cocoa. However, this statement has been made to clearly align ourselves with UN’s Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights (UNGP). As an element in our coming Business Code of Conduct for employees there will also be a whistleblower mechanism for employees to anonymously report any suspected adverse conduct, including violations of human rights. 1 out of 7 supplier audits carried out in 2014 included social issues, based on our Supplier Questionnaire. Going forward, Toms aims to revisit our previous mapping of critical supply chains to ensure relevant focus. 6 “Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation.” “Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour.” “Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation.” Toms traditionally prefers to have a long-term relationship with suppliers, entailing dialogue and transparency. Our Supplier Code of Conduct remains to be our core document to state our ethical requirements based UN Global Compact principles and UNGP. The following chapters will describe the activities and results recorded in 2014 in areas that we know have high risk of human rights violations in our supply chains. 7 Cocoa Sustainability in our Supply Chain A sustainable cocoa production is a supply of cocoa that meets the needs of today’s consumers without compromising the ability for future generations to meet their needs and demands for cocoa. Direct involvement in our own cocoa supply chain has been our approach for many years. We have had a long-standing engagement since 2006 with partners working to combat child labor, make sustainable improvements for farmers, and create traceability, innovation and good quality cocoa from Ghana where the majority of our cocoa comes from. The Challenge In Ghana, the challenges in the cocoa sector are • High risk of child labor, • Lack of school teachers and quality education, • Low farmer incomes due to low productivity, primarily because of • Overaged cocoa trees, • Crop losses from pests and diseases, • Depleted soil fertility, • Lack of agricultural skills. • Increased competition from other crops • Cocoa farming losing its appeal as a viable livelihood among younger generations. The risk of child labor exists in cocoa production in Ghana, primarily within the families through hazardous agricultural tasks. The heart of the problem is poverty, along with lack of awareness of the hazards of child labor, lack of social protection policies and systems, and lack of quality teaching in schools. Children subjected to child labor instead of going to school will by definition have their future compromised, and this is, of course, unsustainable farming practice. Needless to say, child labor is a violation of fundamental human rights. Over the years, cocoa farmers have not been reaping the potential of their cocoa trees due to lack of agricultural training and lack of access to inputs, such as fertilizer. Furthermore, a large amount of the existing cocoa trees are old and have exceeded their productive age. This low productivity results in low incomes, in cocoa farming being uncompetitive to other crops, and in cocoa farming being unattractive for youths. This is, of course, not sustainable. To safeguard the future of cocoa and ensure sustainability, we must make cocoa farming more lucrative for the current farmers and attractive to future generations, and children must be protected and educated. 8 Our Approach In the context of sustainability, traceability is a tool for companies to improve their supply chain management and to assure the reliability of associated sustainability claims. Toms has had full traceability of the cocoa bought from Ghana (currently 84% of our cocoa) since 2009 to farmer society level. By tracing our cocoa, we are able to reach all farmers in our Ghanaian supply chain directly. In 2013, Toms embarked a 3-year cocoa sustainability program together with Source Trust, IBIS, Coop Denmark and Danida. The project is implemented directly with the farmers and communities in Toms’ Ghana supply chain from 96 societies in the districts, Bibiani, Sankore and Sefwi Wiawso, in Western Region. The partnership lies within the Danida Business Partnership framework, funded by Toms, Coop, the extra premiums that Toms pays to Source Trust for each bag of cocoa, and Danida. In collaboration with its partners, Toms has placed particular attention to having a full holistic program in order to achieve genuine transformative and sustainable results. The headlines of our approach are improving farmer productivity, combating child labor and ensuring quality education. In order to achieve scale and impact we have chosen a number of activities that collectively will accelerate cocoa sustainability in our supply chain. 9 Improving farmer productivity • Assessing each farmer’s farm size and location by GPS mapping and collecting data on farm characteristics to assess needs and make individual recommendations. • Farmer training in Good Agricultural Practices for sustainable cocoa farming. • Establishing demo plots. • Providing new and improved cocoa planting material. • Providing access to inputs such as fertilizer, chemicals etc. through credit scheme. • Providing access to farmer video training on computers in nearby Village Resource Centers. Combating child labor & ensuring quality education • Strengthening 30 communities’ Community Child Protection Committees (CCPCs) and their development and ownership of Community Action Plans to protect children and improve schools • Educating school teachers in these 30 communities • Strengthening school managements in these 30 communities • Child labor as an individual topic in the farmer training for Good Agricultural Practices given to all farmers who supply cocoa to Toms. • Child labor as an individual topic in the farmer video training on computers in nearby Village Resource Centers • Improving infrastructure: establishing boreholes, so that children can go to school instead of fetching water • Strengthening District Child Protection Committees (DCPCs) in Bibiani and Sefwi Wiaso 10 Highlights 2014 • 8429 children benefitting from our education initiatives • All 5025 farmers in Toms’ Ghana supply chain received farmer training • 3299 farmers’ farms are GPS mapped • 305 new tray fermenting farmers in 2014, 1000 in all • 10 demo plots for farmer training • 4 community-based nurseries with cocoa seedlings Results in 2014 Improving Farmer Productivity Mapping To date we have GPS mapped a total of 3299 farmers representing a total 4751 cocoa fields, as some farmers have more than one field. Farmer Training All 5025 Ghanaian farmers who supply cocoa to Toms have by 2014 received farmer training. The training consists of all modules of the Certification Capacity Enhancement (CCE) curriculum (good agricultural, social and environmental practices) and modules developed by our partners on crop year, business skills, gender and more. As the real impact comes with the applied good agricultural practices, not just training, trained inspectors have carried out internal inspections on all farms to identify general problems or nonconformities that will be improved. We acknowledge that unforeseeable externalities, such as change of weather pattern, may potentially impact the progress on productivity in the short term. At the time of writing this report, the 2014/15 harvest in Ghana has performed 25% lower than normal. However, the season has not ended. 11 Demo Plots To enhance farmer training, 10 demonstration farms have been established to demonstrate best practices on part of their farm land (treated area) whilst leaving the remaining farmland with no new practices applied as control reference (control area). The farms have been set up to demonstrate to nearby cocoa farmers how to rehabilitate degraded farmland and develop profitable, high-yielding farms. The harvest results for the 2014/15 season for 5 of the 10 demonstration farms have shown a remarkable improvement of the yield when applying best practices. The most salient result is that the number/quantity of harvested cocoa pods has been three times higher on the treated area compared to the control area. Crop losses from pests and diseases are a challenge in the cocoa sector and a reason to low farmer income. The demonstration farms have shown that applying best practices results in fewer diseased cocoa pods. In the treated area was found 10 % less diseased cocoa pods than in the control area. As seen from the results the applied best practices can significantly improve the farmer’s yields within one year and thereby raise farmer income. During 2015, the demo plot model will be optimized further to help the farmer incorporate organic manure to reduce use and costs of inorganic fertilizer and to accommodate local farming conditions. Proportion of healthy cocoa pods harvested in treated and control areas: As shown, the applied best practices can significantly improve the farmer’s yields within one year. 80% 70% 60% 50% Cocoa from treated area (50% of farm area) 40% Cocoa from control area 30% (50% of farm area) 20% 10% 0% 12 13 Combating Child Labor & Ensuring Quality Education Safe-guarding children against hazardous work on the farm and ensuring access to quality education are not only steps to apply human rights and upholding labor standards, but help build the strong, educated communities vital to creating a stable, productive and attractive environment for cocoa farming. In the project, IBIS has selected 30 communities from where Toms source cocoa in which child protection committees and school management have been revitalized, teachers trained and youth sensitized to literacy training, cocoa farming or other vocational training. Community Child Protection Committees (CCPCs), Community Action Plans and School Management Committees (SMCs) 30 Community Child Protection Committees (CCPCs) were formed in the project communities in 2013. Each CCPC consists of 7 members. A total of 204 CPCC members have been trained on child rights and protection, on their role and on the development of Community Action Plans (CAP). In 2014, all of the 30 communities had finalized their Community Action Plans and started taking action on removing children from working hazardously or in school hours on the farms, improving school attendance, improving school facilities and more. There is significant support from the Chiefs, elders and other opinion leaders in the communities, and there is a strong sense of ownership. At the same time, the School Management Committees (SMCs) of the above-mentioned 30 communities have been reorganized and trained in effective governance. Many of the actions taken by the CCPCs have been taken in collaboration with the SMCs. In 2014, IBIS has also trained the District Child Protection Committees in Bibiani and Sefwi Wiawso on child protection systems, juvenile justice systems in Ghana and the role of DCPCs. There is a good collaboration with the CCPCs and cases on children who have experienced violence, abuse or exploitation have been reported to the DCPCs. Schools 165 teachers from the 30 communities underwent teacher training on participatory child-centered methods in 2013. From the academic years 2013/2014 to 2014/2015 (as of October) there has been a 12% increase of enrolment of children in the primary schools (including kindergarten) of the 30 communities. Cumulatively, 8429 children from kindergarten to 6th grade are benefitting from our education initiatives as of October 2014. Target was 7000 children. 14 CCPC in Kramokrom, Photo:: William Vest-Lillesøe/IBIS A reading test carried out at the end of 2014 on 19 of the project schools showed that reading is still a challenge. The teachers report that reading skills are better than before teacher training, but the teachers are also motivated to improve further on these skills. A new reading test will be carried out in March 2015. Toms has established 3 Village Resource Centres (VRCs), each containing 6 computers, in Sunkwa, Datano, Adukrom communities in the area that we sourced from prior to 2014. School heads have testified that VRC make schools attractive for school children and improves performance on Information and Communications Technology (ICT) exams. 900 children per year have improved access to ICT learning facilities due to the VRCs. 15 Farmer Training Training in labour rights and child protection is a part the farmer training in good agricultural practices that by 2014 has been given to all 5025 farmers that supply cocoa to Toms. Furthermore, in 3 Village Resource Centres (VRCs) farmers have here access to video training from computers on good agricultural practices, where child labor and child protection is one of the topics. Managers of the VRCs have reported in 2014 that farmers are keenly showing up for video training. Gender In our programme, the current distribution of farmers by gender is 70% male and 30% female farmers. We believe that this reflects the general farmer gender split in Ghana. In general, the gender gaps in cocoa in Ghana are that women own less land, make less income and have less access to finance and agricultural inputs (fertilizer etc.) Major levers for change are strengthening women’s access to assets, such as farmer training and financial credits, strengthening women’s presence in leadership and addressing the gendered division of labor in the households. In Toms’ programme all farmers, regardless of gender, have gone through farmer training. During 2014, we have added gender to the topics to create awareness on the issues. The inputs credit scheme in our project will be offered to all farmers whom we buy cocoa from, regardless of gender. District Total Male Female Male (%) Female (%) Sefwi Wiawso 1.617 1.279 338 79% 21% Bibiani A 1.422 975 447 69% 31% Bibiani B 1.230 798 432 65% 35% Sankore C 756 457 299 60% 40% Total 5.025 3.509 1.516 70% 30% 16 Tray Fermentation For a number of years, Toms has been working with an improved fermentation method for cocoa, tray fermentation, which gives better cocoa quality and taste and also alleviates the work of the farmer. Up until early 2014, 695 farmers have been trained in tray fermentation, and these cocoa beans have been used for a dedicated brand, Toms Ekstra. Toms Ekstra has an extra fine taste due to the superior flavor development of tray fermentation. At the same time, the participating farmers are pleased with the advantages of replacing the traditional heap fermentation with this method. As Toms Ekstra is a commercial success, Toms initiated with its partner in Ghana, Armajaro Ghana, recruitment of new tray fermenting farmers in 2014 for the 2014/2015 harvest season. This has resulted in 305 new tray fermenting farmers, thus 1000 in all. 17 International Involvements CEN/ISO Standard for Sustainable and Traceable Cocoa Toms is actively participating in the development of a standard for sustainable and traceable cocoa through The European Committee for Standardization (CEN) and the International Organization for Standardization (ISO) due to be finalized by the end of 2016. The main objective is to formulate independently verifiable criteria for a globally recognized standard around which all new or existing private voluntary standard initiatives and certification schemes in the industry can align. Drafted by stakeholders through consensus, the standard aims to be scalable and inclusive in its nature. The development process is through working groups for each sustainability pillar. Toms has been actively involved in the Profit Working Group and the Traceability Working Group in 2014. Furthermore, Toms is active in the Danish Mirror Group. 18 World Cocoa Foundation On October 15-1, 2014, Toms Foundation co-hosted World Cocoa Foundation’s 26th Partnership Meeting & Cocoa Sustainability Trade Fair in Copenhagen, Denmark. 220 representatives were present from the chocolate and cocoa industry, producing country governments, civil society, and the farming sector. The headline of this meeting was ‘Connecting Sustainability, Standards, and Certification’ and had strong focus on how the stakeholders of the cocoa sector are coming together in a stronger alignment to accelerate cocoa sustainability. Especially the unique opportunities of the ISO/CEN standard for the global cocoa community to convene and agree on the elements of standards system for cocoa and the launch WCF’s strategy, CocoaAction, bringing the industry together toward a holistic approach were the major topics. WCF is an international membership foundation, helping to achieve cocoa sustainability, supporting cocoa communities, education, field programs and scientific research. WCF’s membership includes cocoa and chocolate manufacturers, processors, supply chain managers, and other companies worldwide, representing more than 80% of the global cocoa market. WCF launched in May 2014 CocoaAction , a strategy bringing the world’s leading cocoa and chocolate companies together to accelerate sustainability and improve the livelihoods of 300,000 cocoa farmers in Côte d’Ivoire and Ghana by 2020. In 2014, Toms became company partner to WCF’s Cocoa Livelihood Program, in which public and private sector partners work to assist 200,000 farmers to increase cocoa and food crop productivity in Côte d’Ivoire, Ghana, Nigeria and Cameroon. Through the provision of training and resources, farmers will increase cocoa productivity to over 1000 kg/ha, diversify farming activities, and improve household income and food security. This partnership (2014-2018) is funded by Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, several industry partners, international NGOs, government partners, and donor organizations, and managed by World Cocoa Foundation. Fight against Ebola Recognizing the threat that the outbreak of Ebola in West Africa could be to the many cocoa farmers in this region, the global cocoa sector raised more than $800,000 through WCF in October 2014 to support relief and prevention efforts. The contribution is being managed by Caritas and the International Red Cross and Red Crescent. Toms Foundation also donated to this effort. 19 Sustainable Palm Oil Palm oil is not a major ingredient for Toms (constitutes less than 2% of total spend), and much of it comes to our factories as a component in vegetable oil blends. We have been using 100% RSPO (Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil) certified palm oil in our products since 2013. In 2013, the Danish Minister for Food, Agriculture and Fisheries of Denmark initiated a working group with representatives from the Danish food and retail sector to work towards a joint commitment statement for the import of soybean and palm oil in order to address the negative social, environmental and climatic consequences of the current production of soy and palm oil. This work resulted in 2014 in a palm oil statement with the following goals: 100 % certified by 2016 and 100% traceable, certified by 2018. Toms actively participated in this group and signed the commitment in June 2014. Toms does not use soy products. As Toms already achieved the goal of 100% RSPO in 2013, we have decided to move ahead towards achieving 100% traceable segregated, RSPO-certified palm oil by the end of 2016. 20 Workplace development Employee Satisfaction Every year from 2010 through 2014 Toms has conducted a comprehensive employee survey through Great Place to Work to gather broad feedback on the organization and to determine the general status of the employees’ satisfaction with Toms as an employer. In 2014, the overall employee satisfaction score, the Trust Index, was 82 which is a drop from 87 in 2013, still, however, a relatively high score for a production company. Looking at issues concerning perceived inclusiveness Toms scores 83 when employees are asked whether they are treated fairly regardless of age, gender, sexual orientation, disabilities and ethnic background. This is also a reduction from 2013 (89), but still relatively highly scored for a production company. Trust Index©, % 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2008 0 20 40 60 80 100 Employee Development In 2014, all personnel managers at Toms were given training in management skills and leadership, putting emphasis on the manager’s roles and responsibilities and aligning management to the Toms Management Principles. These courses were tailored both to new and experienced managers. Employees were offered training in stress management skills, well-being at the workplace and how to handle adverse situations in a constructive way. Furthermore, Toms carried out in-house training for personnel managers, The Toms Way, which focused on training dilemma cases that can occur across functions in the organization. Thus, the managers were given tools and perspectives on how to deal with such challenges in a good way and in alignment of the Toms Management Principles. 21 Gender Diversity in Corporate Governance Recent legislation in Denmark requires boards of Danish companies to work actively towards gender equality, defined as at least a 40/60 split. Boards of Danish companies are therefore required to set a target for the underrepresented gender on the board as well as to adopt a policy for increasing the underrepresented gender on the broader management of the companies. In 2014, the board of Toms Gruppen A/S comprised six members elected by the general assembly, all of whom are male. We have set a target of 1 female board member elected by the general assembly by 2020. 2 of the 3 employee representatives on the board are female. Toms Gruppen has 47 managers at several levels, 17 of whom are female, thus 36%. This a slight decrease from 2013, where 19 out of 47 managers were women, 40%. This is due to staff cut in 2014, where the functions reduced happened to have some representation of women. The executive management team at Toms holds 3 female members out of 8 members, thus 38%. Toms has continuous focus on women’s representation in managerial positions and strives in each recruitment process – in general, not just for managers that there are candidates from the underrepresented gender among the interviewees. Health and Safety at Work It is our general duty to ensure the safety and health of workers in every aspect related to their work. Workplace Assessments and Safety Walks The health and safety organization at Toms’ two factories in Denmark is organized in 16 safety groups, each responsible for a workplace area and the people employed in that area. In 2013, all safety groups made a complete workplace assessment of their area and on this basis produced an action plan. This will be done at least every third year. 22 To prevent occupational risks, all safety groups are obliged to meet at least once a month and to take a safety walk at least 6 times a year. The aim is to check that the working conditions are in order with regard to health and safety, but also to encourage safe behavior among employees. We are continuously training the groups in this matter. Ergonomics Since 2012, we have worked to minimize processes involving problematic lifting for our employees. We define problematic lifting as places where one of the following takes place: • Pallets that are filled or emptied manually should have a working height above the knee. • No finished goods, raw materials or semi-finished products of more than 15 kg must be lifted manually. • Pallets in the production of finished and semi-finished products must not exceed 132 cm in height, if they are to be handled manually. During 2013 and 2014, we have solved 58 % of the identified problematic lifting, and more will be done in the near future. Lost Working Days We believe that our total effort on health and safety at work is best measured by focusing on the number of working days lost. A lost working day case is defined as any occupational illness or workrelated accident involving lost working time, excluding those accidents in which time lost is restricted to the day of occurrence. It is worth mentioning that our statistics cover all accidents, but only count working hours of the blue-collar workers. The graph below shows the number of lost working day cases in the past years, including 2014, at Toms’ two factories in Denmark; a chocolate factory and a sugar confectionery factory. As it will appear, the number of accidents at the chocolate factory is at a very low level compared to the past. However, the sugar confectionery factory in Denmark has recorded a high number in 2013 and 2014. We believe that this unsatisfactory rate is related to the fact that many major changes have taken place at this factory during the given period and that the management team has not had adequate resources targeted on these issues. We are working hard to turn this around. Because of the rate at the sugar confectionery factory in Denmark we did not reach our target of 25 Accidents in DK for every 1. mio. working hours (with lost workdays) 100 90 80 70 58 60 52 50 44 40 36 34 36 32 30 20 10 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Chocolate factory Sugar candy factory Total 23 Environment Global Compact Principle 7-9 “Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges.” “Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility.” “Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies.” Environment and Climate Environmental Management The two Danish factories were successfully recertified to conformity of ISO 14001 Environmental Management System in 2014. To increase cost-effectiveness, Toms decided that environmental management at Toms’ factories should terminate third party certification and uphold internal processes instead. This has been gradually implemented during 2014. We have focused on the following issues in 2014: • Reduction of dry matter in waste water • Reduction of use of HCFC gases • Reduction of energy and CO2 Dry Matter in Waste Water and Water Consumption Toms aims to reduce the amount of product residues that we discharge to the sewer, both to reduce our environmental impact and to use our resources as efficiently as possible. At the Danish factories we continuously try to find improvements and implement them. Our main focus in 2014 has been to follow our new and more precise measurements at the two Danish factories. Until May 2014, we have only measured the concentration of different substances in the waste water at the Danish chocolate factory, but during the past year we have worked hard to find a method enabling us to measure the water flow in our waste water. With these two parameters we can calculate the total discharge of each substance – including dry matter. Because of the short period we have measured with this method we are unable to show the trend. 24 10 % of Toms power supply in 2014 was accidents pr. million working hours in 2014. Instead, we had 36 accidents pr. million working hours, which is green electricity from wind mills still low, compared to the previous years. Contrary to the chocolate factory, the sugar factory has had a lot of measuring equipment for many years. In 2013, however, we discovered that it did not measure correctly. An external companied was contracted to investigate and make its own measurements. Until now, we can conclude that we discharge much more dry matter than our previous measurements showed. Therefore, we are unable to show the trend over years. Hydrochlorofluorocarbon (HCFC) In 2014 we have phased out all use of HCFC gases as refrigerant in our factories. 25 Climate As a company we wish to limit our impact on the global environment. Our climate goals: • Reduce energy consumption by 10% in 2015 compared to 2008 • Reduce CO2 emissions by 75% in 2015 compared to 2008 o The 25 % through energy savings and substitution of energy sources o The 50 % by purchasing green electricity Several projects have been taken on in 2014 at our factories to reduce energy consumption and thereby emission of CO2. Some of these have impact in 2014 already, and others are expected to impact in 2015 and 2016. Energy consumption The energy consumption per ton product produced at Toms has unfortunately increased by 7% I 2014. This is caused by the closure of the Habo factory, where we had inefficient production in the closing period. We also had more weekend production at the Ballerup factory due to capacity challenges on certain product lines, this also increased the energy consumption. In 2014 we have reduced the consumption per ton product produced by 11% compared to 2008. The total energy consumption at Toms decreased by 1% in 2014, and is now 17% below the total consumption in 2008. Energy Consumption MWh (MWh) 60.000 55.000 50.000 45.000 40.000 35.000 2008 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Real Real (tonnage corrected) Goal 26 Toms reduced CO2 emissions in 2014 by 1% Green electricity In 2014 Toms continued purchasing green electricity, 5000 MWh, from windmills in the North Sea. This corresponds to 10% of Toms’ total energy consumption in 2014. Our goal is that all electricity consumption at Toms is converted to green power by 2015 – this corresponds to 32% of the total energy consumption at Toms. CO2 emissions We have in 2014 reduced our total CO2 emission by 1% as a result of energy savings and lower production. Compared to 2008 Toms has by the end of 2013 reduced total CO2 emission by 47 %. CO2 emission ton 1000kg CO2 18.000 16.000 14.000 12.000 10.000 8.000 6.000 4.000 2.000 2008 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Real Real (tonnage corrected) Goal 27 Anti-Corruption Global Compact Principle 10 “Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery.” We are against all forms of corrupt practices, including bribery and facilitation payments. Honesty, integrity and fair and lawful competition is an integral part our business ethics. During 2014 Toms Gruppen has been engaged in the development of a Business Code of Conduct for employees. This policy comprises both guidelines and minimum expectations that are related to anti-corruption, but also other types of issues regarding appropriate conduct (marketing ethics, respect etc.). As corporate leadership changed at Toms during 2014, this work will be finalized with the visions of the new leadership in 2015. The elements in the Business Code of Conduct related to anti-corruption are: • Our standpoint against corruption, bribery and facilitation payments, as stated above and commitment to take anti-corruption measures to protect our reputation and interests. • Our commitment to principle 10 of UN Global Compact • Policies on o gifts, entertainment & hospitality o sponsorships and charitable contributions o contracts and agreements with suppliers and other business partners • how to raise concerns and report on illegal or non-compliant conduct (whistleblowing) In 2015 we will focus our efforts on training employees in anti-corruption policies and procedures and ensuring due diligence of business partners. 28 29 30
