COMPANY PROFILE Hellenic Aerospace Industry S.A., established on 1975, is the leading aerospace company of Greece, having as a mission to deliver defense and aerospace services and products to the Hellenic State, as well as to a wide range of domestic and international customers of both military and civil markets. The company today, represents one of the leading providers of highly competitive and efficient services in the areas of: ► Aircraft, engines, accessories and avionics maintenance (repair, overhaul, modifications, modernizations, upgrade, life extensions and logistics support) ► Design, development, manufacturing, and after sales support of electronic, optoelectronic and telecommunication products. ► Knowledge-centric integrated solutions in the field of Tactical Communication Networks, Command & Control Systems, Electronic Warfare and Security Systems ► Co-development and co-production of weapon systems ► Design and manufacturing of aircraft subassemblies and engine parts from metallic and composite materials ► Satellite systems and applications including the development of a satellite system network and the related telecommunications, observation and navigation applications ► Research & Development in the aeronautical sector ► Technical training which covers a wide spectrum of aerospace industry disciplines HAI has 1.298 employees. HELLENIC AEROSPACE INDUSTRY S.A. Communication on Progress_May 2015 ACTIONS WITHIN 2015 RELATED TO THE GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLES HUMAN RIGHTS HAI acknowledges that the recognition of the inherent dignity and of the equal and inalienable rights of all members of human society is the foundation of freedom, justice and peace in the world. The company is committed to upholding the United Nations’ Universal Declaration of Human Rights. In this context, HAI: ► Complies with the relevant Greek legislation ► Has created and follows a Personnel Working Regulation and a Code of Ethics and Business Conduct (see in the appended table, Anti-corruption principles). Both texts set the framework through which the company ensures respect to individual and its rights. ► Takes corporate responsibility initiatives with regard to society, aiming at covering basic social needs. in local community, the Company supports the Social Grocery store of Municipality of Tanagra and offers free meals on a daily basis to unemployed citizens and families in need. Improves health care program for the employees taking under consideration the financial crisis issues that the Greek society faces. ► Promotes volunteerism through active support of charity institutions and actions such as blood donations Organizes blood donations in its plant medical unit. Has created and maintains a blood bank in national child hospital helping its employees but also a great number of children suffering from Mediterranean anemia . Actively supports the Association of Children with Cancer Parents, The Smile of the Child, etc. ► Contributes to the “useful” transition of young students from education to employment Supports educational and career guidance & advice programs and events. HELLENIC AEROSPACE INDUSTRY S.A. Communication on Progress_May 2015 Welcomes to its premises students from all educational levels providing useful information on its field of business and thus contributing to their professional orientation. In parallel, the company accepts internships. For the academic year 2013 – 2014 HAI welcomed 1.450 students / pupils. ► Promotes and actively supports innovation projects of Greek young students Offered its infrastructure to a team of students participating in an innovative Formula 1 models international contest. ► Complies with safety policies Ensures health and safety of employees which keeps informed on relevant issues. ► Has a plant medical unit Offers medical care services and free health care tests. ► Organizes and implements educational/training programs and seminar courses Offers opportunities and encourages career progress and personal development. ► Contributes to the development and promotion of social values Encourages its employees to participate in athletic events bringing up fair play rules. LABOUR HAI acknowledges that companies can and must play an important and positive role by taking on board principles contained in international labour standards. The Global Compact indeed incorporates the most vital ones, including those that are considered to be human rights principles. HAI commits itself to doing business on the basis of respect to UN labour principles and therefore the company: ► Complies with the Greek legislation that, among other: Forbids all forms of forced and compulsory labour as well as child labour. Provides for the formation of trade unions. In HAI, there is a well-organized union that is informed by the Management for all important company issues aiming at an open, frequent and positive communication. HELLENIC AEROSPACE INDUSTRY S.A. Communication on Progress_May 2015 ► Bases its hiring policy on ASEP procedure. ASEP is the Supreme Council for Personnel Selection, an independent commission, not subject to government control, which is tasked with the selection of personnel for work in the Greek public sector. It is supervised by the Ministry of Administrative Reform and e-Governance. In this way, the company ensures that hiring procedure is characterized by openness and impartiality and all candidates and employees are treated equally. ► Has created and follows a Personnel Working Regulation A framework has been set, through which the company ensures the respect to individual and the promotion of a balanced work and personal life. ► Provides equal opportunities in terms of occupation to the disabled employees. HAI -with respect to relevant legislationhires to a certain rate individuals with disabilities, giving everyone the chance to employment and personal development. ► Moreover, supports their social exceptional initiatives. Support to an employee with special needs towards participation in relevant European Games. ► Provides all its employees a number of benefits, such as: Xmas presents for all children of employees Medical and health insurance programs Retirement insurance programs Financial provision for employees with children with disability A company restaurant with reduced prices for employees. ► In the context of Customer Satisfaction the company offers products and services, principally respecting the customer’s values. ENVIRONMENT We care about the environment: Summarizing in this motto our firm commitment to business growth that is based upon respect on natural resources and completely in line with the principles of environmental sustainability, HAI: ► Has an Environmental Department with dedicated and experienced personnel. HELLENIC AEROSPACE INDUSTRY S.A. Communication on Progress_May 2015 ► Implements the relative legislation (national and international) Complies with most updated environmental standards and restrictions. To this end, HAI cooperates closely with the Ministry of Environment, Energy & Climate Change. ► Has created an elaborated monitoring system of the environmental performance of its plants. The results of this monitoring function are valuable guidelines for further improvement. ► Cooperates with the Academia (Universities and other educational institutions) Improves its environmental monitoring system on the basis of solid scientific knowledge. ► Invests on continuous improvement of its environmental infrastructure. During the period of 2004-2014 HAI made green investments totaling 6 million €, among which are: The creation of Dry Unit Depigmenting Aircraft using plastic beads, without any use of chemicals and toxic substances (investment of 3.5 million €). The Technological upgrading and partial automatization of the installation for the physicochemical treatment of the industrial waste. ► Provides the appropriate training and educates its employees on environmental protection through a) Seminars organized by and hosted at company’s Training Center and b) Internal campaigns. ► Implements solid waste management programs and recycling programs Paper, glass, metal, plastic, batteries recycling in collaboration with all approved Waste Management collective systems. ► Implements extensive natural resources saving programs. Through a series of initiatives, the company achieved water consumption reduction by 40% in 2014 compared to 2010 values, while at the same time achieved savings in electricity by 18%. ► Participates –through its Research and Development departmentto innovative green research projects in aerospace field, such as HELLENIC AEROSPACE INDUSTRY S.A. Communication on Progress_May 2015 Green Regional Aircraft (one of the six Clean Sky platforms). The future green regional aircraft will meet demanding weight reduction, energy and aerodynamics efficiency, and high level of operative performance, in order to be compliant regards to pollutant emissions and noise generation levels. To achieve these so challenging results, the aircraft will be entirely revisited in all of its aspects. With its participation in the initiative, HAI assumes an active role in the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. ► Develops relations of trust In response to the stakeholders’ information requirements, is giving emphasis on local community. In addition, the company cooperates with stakeholders to further promote common environmental objectives. ANTI-CORRUPTION Hellenic Aerospace Industry is against all forms of corruption (bribery, money laundering etc.) and promotes through a number of initiatives the fundamental values, e.g. integrity, honesty, consistency, responsibility, ethics, justice etc. In particular, the company: ► Has created and follows a Code of Ethics and Business Conduct. The Code is a concise source of guidance for operational behavior and sets clearly the minimum framework of rules within which employees perform their official duties in a lawful conduct unaffected by extra-institutional interventions. In other words, it regulates the business and trading activities with company customers and suppliers as well as with society and the environment. The Code of Ethics and Business Conduct is further specified and/or complemented by Management Policy Directives (M.P.D.s), Standard Procedures and Instructions (S.P.I.s), Directorate Operating Instructions (D.O.I.s), other regulations and company documents which cover in detailed analysis the following issues: HELLENIC AEROSPACE INDUSTRY S.A. Communication on Progress_May 2015 ISSUES REGULATED BY MPDs, SPIs, DOIs Compliance with the Protection of Assets Reliability of Information – Laws Internal Audits Using the Media Confidentiality of Use of Computer Information Software Employment Conflict of Interest Transactions with customers Transactions with Transactions with Sponsorship policy Suppliers Competitors Corporate Social Protection of the Bribery and Corruption Responsibility Environment Relationship with Media All personnel must be aware, respect and fully comply with this Code of Ethics and Business Contact and relevant circulars and instructions issued by the company. ► Has signed the statement of adherence to ASD (Aerospace and Defense Industrial Association of Europe) Common Industry Standards (CIS) By CIS signing the company recognizes as reflecting good industry practices and has committed itself to take all steps necessary to implement them in the Organization. To this end, the company has appointed an Ethics Compliance Officer. ► Βrings to public notice important aspects of its everyday business activity by: a) Uploading to HAI’s official website important information such as requests for tender and b) Implementing the «Cl@rity» program. Cl@rity is one of the major transparency initiatives of the Greek Ministry of the Interior, Decentralization and e-Government. The program introduces the obligation to publish all the decisions on the Internet, with the exception of decisions that contain sensitive personal data and/or information on national security. The decisions of the public entities cannot be implemented if they are not uploaded on the Clarity website. The use of Internet guarantees wide publicity and access to information, progressively contributing to a culture change in the whole of the Public Administration. ► Ηas become member of TRACE International Inc. TRACE is a high-status non-profit membership association that pools resources to provide practical and cost-effective anti-bribery compliance HELLENIC AEROSPACE INDUSTRY S.A. Communication on Progress_May 2015 solutions for multinational companies and their commercial intermediaries (sales agents and representatives, consultants, distributors, suppliers, etc.). TRACE has successfully completed a TRACE Standard due diligence review of HAI and has granted Hellenic Aerospace Industry S.A. a certificate of membership signifying the company’s commitment to transparency in international commercial transactions. A table follows, containing HAI’s references related to the Global Compact Principles. HELLENIC AEROSPACE INDUSTRY S.A. Communication on Progress_May 2015 UN GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLES & HAI REFERENCES PRINCIPLE REFERENCE Principle 1 Recognition of rights. Business should support and respect the protection Compliance with of internationally proclaimed human rights. legislation. Code of Ethics & Principle 2 Business Conduct. HUMAN RIGHTS Business should make sure that they are not complicit in Corporate Human Rights abuses. Responsibility (pillar Society). Health care Safety policies Educational / Training Programs Principle 3 Compliance with legislation. Business should uphold the freedom of association and the Transparency in effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. hiring procedures. LABOUR Principle 4 ‘Open door’ Business should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced company and compulsory labour. procedures. Principle 5 HELLENIC AEROSPACE INDUSTRY S.A. Communication on Progress_May 2015 Business should uphold the effective abolition of child labour. Personnel Working Principle 6 Regulation Benefits Business should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Principle 7 ‘Care about the environment’ Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Respect of natural resources. Compliance with Principle 8 legislation. Business should support undertake initiatives to promote ENVIRONMENT Elaborated greater environmental responsibility. monitoring system Collaborations Principle 9 Green investments Training programs Business should encourage the development and diffusion of Waste environmentally friendly technologies. management & recycling HELLENIC AEROSPACE INDUSTRY S.A. Communication on Progress_May 2015 Principle 10 Code of Ethics & Business Conduct. Businesses should work against corruption in all of its forms, ANTI-CORRUPTION including extortion and bribery. Good industry practices Ethics Compliance Transparency HELLENIC AEROSPACE INDUSTRY S.A. Communication on Progress_May 2015
