General Period covered by your Communication on Progress (COP) From: 18.07.2014 To: 4.06.2015 Statement of continued support by the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) Please provide a statement of your company's chief executive expressing continued support for the Global Compact and renewing your company's ongoing commitment to the initiative and its principles (Please include name and title of the chief executive at the bottom of the statement). Dear Secretary-General I am pleased to confirm that Infocredit Group is committed to continuing their support of the principles of the United Nations Global Compact. We will continue to adopt the relevant strategies and ensure our policies are in line with the human rights, labour and Environment and Anti-Corruption principles. As a key requirement of our participation in the United Nations Global Compact, this Communication Progress outlines the actions our company has taken over the past year to implement and support the ten principles and we are committed to submitting our progress annually. Sincerely, Theodoros Kringou Managing Director Human Rights Principles Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Assessment, Policy and Goals Describe the relevance of human rights for the company (i.e. human rights risk‐assessment). Describe the policies, public commitments and company goals on Human Rights. Infocredit Group has a company code of conduct which outlines our values, ethics and beliefs upon which we base our business operations on. We are committed to operating in a responsible manner and take into account human rights in terms of forced labour, harassment, and equal opportunities, at every level of our operations. Implementation Description of concrete actions to implement Human Rights policies, reduce Human Rights risks and respond to Human Rights violations. Infocredit Group is committed to tackling any issues concerning human rights violations experienced by our employees and have implemented a companywide procedure, through the Action Request, which is accessible to all employees via the company intranet. The Action Request form allows all employees to lodge any complaints or violations in procedures which affect their ability to work. Measurement of outcomes Describe how the company monitors and evaluates performance. We monitor the number of action requests we receive to evaluate our performance concerning human rights violations within Infocredit Group. The Action Requests are received directly by the General Manger of Infocredit Group who is responsible for assessing the request. During the management review meetings, issues including human rights violations or complaints from employees are discussed. Labour Principles Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Assessment, Policy and Goals Describe the relevance of labour rights for the company (i.e. labour rights‐related risks and opportunities). Description of written policies, public commitments and company goals on labour rights. Infocredit Group’s company policy makes provisions for our responsibilities concerning labour and the rights of our employees. The company policy explicitly outlines our position and confirms that we do not tolerate forced labour, underage employment or discrimination of employees on any grounds. This policy extends companywide to Infocredit Group and our affiliates. Our goal for the coming year is to evaluate our suppliers and external providers to ensure they maintain compliance with principles 3, 4, 5 and 6 in terms of labour and their operations. Implementation Describe the concrete actions taken by your company to implement labour policies, reduce labour risks and respond to labour violations. Infocredit Group maintains an Action Request procedure which allows employees to lodge any complaints or violations in terms of labour principles and raise these with the management team. As part of our quality management system, Infocredit Group has a dedicated Health, Safety and Environment Committee, which is headed by the HSE coordinator. This team are responsible for the regular review of the companies Health and Safety procedures and for making all employees aware of these. Additionally, key employees have undertaken the required fire safety training and first aid training. The HSE committee reports regularly to the management team to ensure procedures are review and maintained, ensuring the safety of all Infocredit Group employees. Within our company policy, we also make provisions for tackling discriminations, whether this is on the grounds of gender, race, religion or age etc. Furthermore, we promote a fair working environment and ensure equal opportunities for all employees. All employees are compensated fairly for their working contributions, which are outline within each individual’s employment agreement. Measurement of outcomes Describe of how the company monitors and evaluates performance. Infocredit Group has a diverse workforce; we have both female and male employees with an age range from 20 to 45 years of age. Additionally, as an international company, our employees have an international mind-set and come from a range of countries including: Cyprus, UK, Poland, Lebanon, Bulgaria, Greece, Romania and US. Furthermore the management team undertake regular reviews of the companies principles concerning labour and employment, to ensure no violations occur. Environmental Principles Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Assessment, Policy and Goals Describe the relevance of environmental protection for the company (i.e. environmental risks and opportunities). Describe the policies, public commitments and company goals on environmental protection. Infocredit Group takes our responsibility to the environment seriously. Our company policy outlines our commitment to maintain an environmentally friendly approach and as such, minimise our impact on the external environment. Implementation Description of concrete actions to implement environmental policies, reduce environmental risks and respond to environmental incidents. We implement specific procedures and provisions, in line with our code of conduct to ensure we maintain an environmentally friendly approach. We have a dedicated HSE (health, safety and environment) committee who is responsible for implementing and maintain environmentally friendly initiatives within the company. We use FSC paper from responsible sources which is also EU Ecolable approved. We print double sided and shred all paper which is collected and recycled by the municipality services, printing and toner cartridges are returned to the distributor for recycling. Furthermore the supplier of toners has provided relevant documentation that the used toner cartridges are not classified as hazardous to the environment. In terms of hazardous chemicals, we ensure the detergents utilised in the cleaning of the premises are not classified as hazardous to the environment or to aquatic organisms. Furthermore we have a recycling point for batteries, located in the reception of the building which is accessible to all employees. Additionally, the HSE committee has assigned an employee on each of the three floors of our building, to ensure lights, air conditioning and unused switches are turned off before leaving at night. Measurement of outcomes Describe how the company monitors and evaluates environmental performance. The HSE committee is something that has been implemented within the last year and demonstrates our dedication to maintaining an environmentally friendly approach. As part of that, we have adopted new procedures including the battery recycling initiative and assigning a member of each floor to be responsible for the lights and air conditioning. The HSE committee report meets regularly to discuss current environmental policies and discuss improvements. Environmental issues are also discussed within the management meetings. Anti-Corruption Principles Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Assessment, Policy and Goals Describe the relevance of anti-corruption for the company (i.e. anti-corruption risk-assessment). Describe the policies, public commitments and company goals on anti-corruption. Infocredit Groups policy statement dictates that the working infrastructure securely instils the continuity of our business including the security of information we handle. Additionally, we ensure we maintain a compliant approach to our business operations, in line with global regulations. We do not tolerate corruption or bribery and ensure our operations are not compromised. Due to the sensitive nature of our services and the fact that we hold databases with private information, we ensure we have extensive information security procedures in place. For the coming year, it is our goal to ensure that all providers and external suppliers are also assessed to ensure they maintain their compliance with anti-corruption principles. Implementation Description of concrete actions to implement anti-corruption policies, reduce anti-corruption risks and respond to incidents. Infocredit Group maintains an Action Request procedure which allows employees to lodge any issues concerning corruption which may have affected the company and their working procedures. Client facing teams within Infocredit Group also undertake specific trainings to ensure they are competent in identifying risks relating to corruption and bribery. Certain teams, such as our debt collection agents, go through further training to ensure they have the negotiation skills to handle debtors who may try and get out of their debt payment obligations. Measurement of outcomes Describe how the company monitors and evaluates anti-corruption performance. Our management team regularly reviews our procedures and training provided to employees to ensure they have a high level of understanding concerning corruption and how to approach situations concerning bribery. Additionally, we maintain compliance in line with global legislation and screen clients during our client acceptance procedure to ensure they are not involved in any suspicious activities concerning money laundering etc.
