A responsible business Clifford Chance LLP Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 Contents 2 Senior and managing 12 People: Empowering our 28 Targets and progress partners’ introduction people to deliver their best 30 Meeting our commitments 4 Our CR strategy for our clients 32 A thank you to all our 6 Materiality assessment 18 Community: Seeking dedicated people opportunities to positively 10 Global snapshot engage with local communities This Corporate Responsibility 24 Environment: Managing the Report is also available online impact we have on the at www.cliffordchance.com environment Shapla Primary School, London Shapla Primary School was established in 1987. Most of the children attending are from ethnic minorities, mainly Bangladeshi, and the majority of children have English as a second language. Shapla and the firm link up in a number of ways. Since 1995, working with the Tower Hamlets Education Business Partnership (EBP), the firm has participated in the Reading Partners Programme. More than 90 volunteers visit the school each week, reading with the same child for 30 minutes at a time. Building upon the success of the reading partnership, the numeracy scheme began in 1999 to encourage the children to be at ease with numbers. Recently, the Clifford Chance Foundation donated £20,000 to the school to help with the refurbishment of a new community room for use by the school, by parents and by local community groups. Under the rules of certain US jurisdictions, this document may constitute attorney advertising. Prior results do not guarantee a similar outcome. Our vision We will be the global law firm of choice for the world’s leading businesses of today and tomorrow. We always strive to exceed the We pride ourselves on our approachable, expectations of our clients, whether collegial and team-based culture, and from business, government or the the commitments we make to our people not-for-profit sector, providing the and to the wider world. highest-quality service and legal insight. Firm overview 3,400 lawyers* 6,200 colleagues* 36 offices in 26 countries No.1 in Chambers 37 clients worked with us in £1,350m in annual Global Top 30 20 or more offices revenues * Financial year 2014/15 and on an FTE basis Clifford Chance LLP 1 Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 Senior and managing partners’ introduction Building a sustainable, forward-looking business Clifford Chance has been reporting each year on its corporate responsibility (CR) programme since 2008. Managing partner Matthew Layton and senior partner Malcolm Sweeting explain why the focus on these issues is keener than ever and why it remains central to what we do. 2 Clifford Chance LLP Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 Why is CR important to the firm? enabling us to take a fresh look at how Can you say more about how our Matthew: Historically, law firms have always we operate in the context of being a commercial role and our CR role had a strong commitment to involvement in responsible business. The results are fit together? the community, particularly through pro challenging our assumptions about what Matthew: Firstly, I would say that people bono legal support, and many lawyers the most important issues are and getting choose to work with organisations that share come into the profession with the us to reconsider our priorities. their values and that have a positive reputation expectation that their workplace will give – whether that’s recruits or clients. Secondly, Malcolm: The materiality assessment has them an opportunity to work in their we want to build a forward-looking business been an invaluable listening exercise. As communities in this way. that is sustainable over the long term. Matthew says, it has allowed us look again As a leading global organisation with an at our commitments to people, community As with every other part of our business, international footprint, we are passionate and environment in the context of the this means considering where we direct our about our corporate social responsibilities. priorities of our leading stakeholders. It’s investment; ensuring that we’re identifying Increasingly, clients are looking to us to go important that we continue to check on a and building talent, that we create resilience further and to think about these concerns in regular basis that we are focusing on the in our people and our operations, and that more sophisticated ways. To be the law firm right issues and concentrating our efforts we have strong roots in our local communities of choice to the world’s leading businesses where we can have the greatest impact. – these are all critical to sustainability. these issues must be demonstrably Do you see our CR agenda changing as Sometimes, these connections are very integrated into every aspect of how we a result of this process? obvious. For example, when we enter a new operate as a commercial organisation Malcolm: At this stage, I wouldn’t want to market, engaging with the local community and as a professional adviser. second guess the outcomes. However, what is through pro bono or volunteering is often an Malcolm: Demonstrating that we are able clear is that issues such as ethics, regulatory important part of what we do. This is not just to appreciate, and take a positive and compliance, information security and risk about doing ‘good’. It’s about gaining a better proactive approach, to those concerns that management are high on the agenda. understanding of the local legal and business are important to our clients, our employees, We already take a robust, forward-thinking environment, deepening relationships with our suppliers and partners ultimately provides approach to these subjects but that doesn’t key players in the market, demonstrating us with our ‘licence to operate’. Civil society, mean that there’s not more we can do. our commitment, or even helping to support business and government expect much more the development of the profession. In these Matthew: Our stakeholders are looking from organisations like ours than they did in ways we create long-term professional and to us to take the lead on a range of issues the past. Rightly so, as we and our people commercial benefits. and to demonstrate our commitment are in a position to make an important to responsible business. Meeting that Malcolm: Increasingly the focus of our CR contribution. In tandem with those increased expectation will challenge us to ensure that programmes will be on making investments expectations comes greater scrutiny, and our approach is fully embedded into every that have impact over a much longer term. that too requires us to look more thoroughly aspect of the firm from how we operate to at how we function as a business. This means we will need to be more nuanced how we service clients. When we approach and sophisticated in our approach. But by You have been looking at our ‘material’ these issues, we need to wear two hats: being an actor in the development of the issues. What does this mean for Clifford as part of the leadership group of a law faster growing economies and supporting Chance and why is it important? firm that wants to grow and continue to the growth of their legal infrastructure as Matthew: When we talk about materiality be successful around the world, and well, we will find common cause with our we are talking about the issues that are as managers of a responsible business clients and create a virtuous circle. most important to our stakeholders, those with an important role in wider society. where we can have the greatest impact and Fortunately these different roles are not issues that have the greatest impact on the inimical to each other, and there is a close firm. Insights from our materiality connection between what we do as a law assessment conducted last year are firm and our broader commitments. Senior partner Malcolm Sweeting (left) and managing partner Matthew Layton 65,293 hours of training 59,793 hours invested in pro bono 34 offices recycled at least investment and volunteering work 50% of paper waste Clifford Chance LLP 3 Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 Our CR strategy More sophisticated and strategic While our core areas of activity – people, community and environment – have remained the same since we launched our CR programme in 2008, our approach and our thinking continue to evolve with an increasing focus on ‘outcomes’. When Clifford Chance launched its global support the firm’s pro bono and community targets for reducing the environmental CR programme in 2008 the aim was to outreach projects. footprint of our 36 offices in 26 countries. bring together the numerous initiatives At local and global levels there are In 2009, we became one of the few law undertaken by our local offices and align programmes to support our aims of widening firm signatories to the UN Global Compact. them to three distinct areas of focus: access to justice, finance and education. This commitment has shaped our thinking people, community and environment. And the Clifford Chance Foundation funds and required us to be a great deal more That ambition has been largely realised. charitable organisations locally and globally sophisticated about measuring and At an employee and an organisation level, that promote these goals. reporting our progress against the Ten CR is often integral to how we think and act. Principles enshrined in the Global Compact The firm is committed to increasing the (page 31). And in 2011 we signalled our For example, participation in community diversity of the people we recruit; we believe support for the UN’s Guiding Principles and pro bono work forms part of the annual that putting programmes in place to attract on Business and Human Rights and then appraisal process and large numbers of people with the broadest range of ideas launched our own human rights policy colleagues across the firm, lawyers and and backgrounds and creating an inclusive (see page 30). those working in business services roles, culture will benefit our clients and our longregularly commit time and expertise to term future as a firm. We have also set Our CR journey Milestones and achievements Pre-2006 2006 2007 2008 2009 We have a long history In 2006, we formally stated Our global LGBT+ network We set our very first CR We became a participant of active participation our commitment to CR and was established in London. targets which created the in the UN Global Compact, in our wider communities, set the aim of formalising our structure for our first CR agreeing to support and including direct involvement CR strategy. report. The global CR uphold the Ten Principles and in-kind support. Committee was formed to it enshrines. lead decisions around our CR strategy and the Clifford Chance Foundation was created. 4 Clifford Chance LLP Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 “ How we approach CR has evolved over the years. For instance, instead of having ‘big pockets’ of activity in our larger offices, Transparency is important more colleagues in more offices are now participating. But we continue to be focused on creating the right opportunities to keep internally as well as externally our contribution level high, thereby making sure our numbers are not just being driven because it shows we are by a small group of individuals in one practice area or one office, but by taking these issues seriously.” everybody across the firm getting involved. We have also become much more strategic in our thinking. There is a much sharper emphasis today on outcome rather than We have been open in terms of publishing We now feel the time is right to review our output, or, put another way, on achieving, our targets and transparent when we fall CR programme. Last year, we launched not simply doing. Take, for example, the short of those standards. If you look at, a stakeholder exercise to consider our development of strategic relationships for instance, our ambition of having at least ‘material’ issues. The aim was to gain a with our NGO clients. By partnering with a 30% female partners across the firm, better understanding of the issues most group of NGOs at a global level rather than we have made good progress in some important to the firm, to our stakeholders supporting lots of organisations at a local jurisdictions, but it is by no means as and where we can have the greatest impact. level, we feel that the strengths of the firm fast as we would have liked in others. This exercise is ongoing. We are still – our broad expertise and international This transparency is important internally as gathering information and developing footprint – can deliver the greatest well as externally because it shows we are our thinking on how what we have learned positive impact. taking these issues seriously. By publishing so far can be integrated with future Our annual CR report acts as a mirror our record on people, community and programmes of activity. reflecting the progress we have made environment issues, we also keep our The value of the exercise has already been as a firm against our key corporate leadership focused on the commitments considerable. It has allowed us to enter into responsibility commitments. we have made and create accountability. a dialogue with the firm’s internal decision makers, with our people around the world, with clients and with important NGO partners about what really matters. It has nd challenged some of our existing thinking, ea We lac nce w inspired new ideas and strengthened p e fin id rk peri an relationships. It has also created a real ex c We create an inc en Co stice, energy around the CR agenda in the firm. e to ju lu ss While we might not yet have all the answers, broaden our sk sive Peo nity ce cation mu ac d edu with the launch this year of a new vision pl ills and strategy for the firm, this stakeholder w Our CR m an an o e dialogue has been invaluable in helping strategy us to evaluate how we can sustainably d integrate our responsibilities with the firm’s overall ambitions and commercial goals. En W v ir o n m e n t or t su ea s f tp rin s ta dv in is e io n o ab o n le g a l s ol u t fo le e n erg o ur y a n d m a n ag e 2010 2012 2013 2014 2015/16 Our programme of regular The first of our global pro Five years after we took a Our human rights policy Given the firm’s new CR events serves as a bono clients were selected more strategic view of our was established and we leadership structure and platform to gain feedback as part of our more corporate responsibilities, began to integrate this into strategy, we decided that from all stakeholders. Our formalised, structured we reviewed and reported our operations. now was a good time to internal communications approach to providing on our progress and set review our CR strategy. survey in 2010 was the first to support to NGOs. ourselves new targets. We are in the process of WE SUPPORT include questions around our a materiality assessment CR work. The firm’s Access to find out from our key to Justice Award was also stakeholders what they launched. view as most important. Clifford Chance LLP 5 Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 Materiality assessment Building a complete picture of our most important issues We recognise that the world is moving incredibly quickly. All organisations are grappling with hugely challenging and increasingly complex issues, such as data security, reputational risk, regulatory compliance, the competition for talent, and resource scarcity – to name only a few. It is important we understand what the listen, to be curious, to challenge our to the way we operate and what the impact changes in the world around us mean for own assumptions and to discover how would be on the firm were we to ignore them. our firm; how they affect what our many we can do more to better meet the needs Next, we conducted a survey with some stakeholders expect from us as an of our stakeholders. 40 of our NGO partners to understand what organisation; and our need to change Building a complete picture mattered most to them. We followed this up how we operate as a result. Our priority throughout has been to evolve with a workshop in London where we were Our efforts to understand better those issues our understanding of what it is to be a joined by 13 of our NGO partners to dig that are most material to Clifford Chance’s responsible global law firm, informed by beneath the data, so we could really learn future as a responsible business are part of extensive dialogue with key stakeholders. more about their expectations of the firm this broader process of review and analysis, and of our relationship with them. The process began first inside the firm late and reflect the work that we have been in 2014 with a series of extensive qualitative In tandem with our internal and NGO doing this year to re-evaluate the firm’s interviews with senior leaders from across conversations, we have held a series of long-term vision and strategy. Ultimately, the firm. discussions with clients from a variety of we want to ensure that the focus of our CR sectors trying to understand what corporate programme continues to be aligned with, Using insights from these discussions, responsibility means for these organisations and supports, the firm’s business strategy. we ran focus groups in London, New York, and their expectations of their professional Amsterdam, Dubai and Hong Kong with We went into our materiality assessment advisers. These discussions – which are a wide cross-section of our people. Using process with an open mind and without ongoing – are critical in refining our thinking. in-depth questioning, we asked what issues preconceptions. The purpose was to those taking part considered most relevant 6 internal focus groups 40 NGO respondents 21 interviews with internal senior leaders 6 Clifford Chance LLP Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 “ It makes a massive difference for us to be able to draw on pro bono support from across the firm’s global network of offices.” NGO client Our NGO partners at the materiality workshop in London Clifford Chance LLP 7 Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 Materiality assessment Once we have finalised these discussions, Supporting our people we will be reviewing all the input we have Those areas already at the heart of continued received in the light of the firm’s new vision our CR strategy – inclusion and diversity and strategy. (especially gender balance), and learning and development – are judged to be salient We believe that our commitment to issues by all our stakeholders. However, our being a responsible business will be most own people also noted employee wellbeing effective when it is fully integrated with as a significant responsibility, potentially our business and aligned with our strategic reflecting the challenge of finding balance in and commercial aspirations, as well as the an ‘always on’, technology-enabled culture. values that guide our firm. Working with our communities Identifying our most important issues Our readiness and ability to contribute The feedback from our internal and our time, energy, expertise and financial external stakeholders presents us with a resources in support of our local and range of perspectives reflecting different global communities was widely cited geographies, cultures, demographic groups in discussions. External respondents and seniority. We expect to complete our highlight that our breadth of knowledge discussion and analysis of input before and experience means we are able to the end of 2015, with a view to refining our deliver something of real value – whether to current CR programme ahead of our next complex NGOs or individuals in need – in a CR report. The clear common themes way that few other organisations can. They that have emerged so far from our challenge us to think about how we can discussions are set out below. deploy our capabilities to maximum benefit. How we manage our business and Safeguarding the environment our client relationships As a global organisation and a leader in our Across respondent groups, taking an sector, there was a uniform expectation that enlightened, informed and responsible we should set ourselves – and rigorously approach to how we run the firm and meet – high standards for managing our how we look after our clients is critical. environmental impact. But there was A commitment to observing the spirit, also a recognition that, given we are an not just the letter, of the law, to ethical office-based business, our ability to have operations, to high levels of regulatory a positive impact in this area is less than compliance, along with a proactive in some of the others identified. approach to information security and risk management are all considered essential. All stakeholders put quality of service and effective client relationship management at the very heart of what responsibility means for Clifford Chance. “ Wellbeing shouldn’t just be ‘is there a helpline for someone in a crisis?’ It should be about making sure people don’t get to that stage.” Internal interviewee 8 Clifford Chance LLP Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 “ We are not a big polluter, but reducing travel is as much about doing business more efficiently and reducing costs. You can do business faster remotely with the right technology.” Internal interviewee From dialogue to delivery Managing our CR programme The firm has begun a series of These ‘materiality’ assessments are The engagement of our people is vital to conversations with internal and external allowing us to build a complete picture the success of the future CR programme. stakeholders to understand the issues of our CR priorities, which will then be All activities are checked and progress that are most important to them. reviewed by the firm’s senior leadership is measured annually. team to ensure consistency with our strategic plan. Insight Analysis Alignment Engagement Measure • Insights from • Identify material • Align with the firm’s • Endorsement • Monitor progress materiality issues through vision and strategy from Executive against key metrics discussions with our findings from the Leadership Group • Integrate with • Review overall people, our NGO assessment existing • Engagement programme and partners and programme and programmes of with global CR alignment annually our clients SWOT analysis of activity within the Committee our existing CR • Roll out across firm, e.g. client programme • Launch to all of our engagement our people communications Clifford Chance LLP 9 Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 Global snapshot 1 Disaster relief Location: Africa, Iraq, Nepal Global offices People Our global pro bono partner Save the Community Children works to help children across the globe by providing medical supplies, food Environment and education. This year, appeals in our offices and donations from the Clifford Chance Foundation have raised more than £38,500 to help Save the Children support those affected by the conflict in Iraq, the Nepal earthquake and the Ebola outbreak in West Africa. 6 7 7 2 4 4 7 5 4 Energy for Old 1 5 Norte Joven Fadama Location: Barcelona, Madrid Location: Ghana Education offers huge benefits to The Old Fadama slum in Ghana houses individuals and society. Spanish-based a strong and hard-working community, Asociación Norte Joven works to assist with whose quality of life is hampered by its lack the labour and social insertion of young of power. The African Solar Cooperative people who have experienced social and seeks to provide urban slum communities financial disadvantage and who have left the with access to renewable energy, promote education system. Over the past four years, economic independence and improve more than 100 Clifford Chance volunteers educational standards and accessibility have helped 42 young people by participating to learning. We’ve been providing the in Norte Joven’s mock employment interviews Cooperative with essential legal and and, in doing so, improved their job commercial assistance for two years, prospects, developing their business skills with around 4,500 people benefiting and encouraging their self-confidence. from the project to date. 10 Clifford Chance LLP Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 2 3 Médecins Orbis Sans Frontières Location: Guangdong, Shaanxi and Yunnan Provinces, China and Singapore Location: Brussels For many people around the world, Médecins Sans Frontières (MSF) is blindness can lead to a life of poverty. an international, independent, medical Our global pro bono partner, Orbis, works humanitarian organisation that delivers to treat and prevent blindness. Last year, emergency aid to people in need. For the Foundation donated $60,000 to a two years, our Brussels office has been project aimed at providing sight testing and providing pro bono legal support to MSF glasses to children in 100 primary schools on Belgian business law issues as well as in China. It is hoped the project will improve strategic advice on litigation, real estate, eye health and educational performance. tax and employment issues through our Our lawyers also provided pro bono support international network. to Orbis around tax and litigation, and on the opening of their Singapore office. 3 1 3 1 3 7 6 3 7 Lynx UK Trust Location: UK Arcus art exhibition Location: Amsterdam, Hong Kong, More than 1,300 years ago the lynx wildcat London, New York was hunted to extinction in the UK, leaving an important ecological role unfilled. We are This year, our global LGBT+ network, working with Lynx UK Trust on its plan to Arcus, launched its 8th annual Pride Art trial-release a few cats back into the wild, Exhibition with work from LGBT+ artists with the aim of a full reintroduction within who came to prominence in the 1970s and five years. Our lawyers have been advising 80s. Exhibitions were launched in London on the licence application for the release, as and New York and, for the first time, in well as novel and complex issues of national Amsterdam and Hong Kong, in front of and international law. many clients and guests. Clifford Chance LLP 11 Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 We empower our People people to deliver their best for our clients. Employee wellbeing To ensure we provide the very best service to our clients we need to give our people the support they need. Understanding the impact that mental ill-health can have on an individual and the associated stigma which prevents people from seeking help, we wanted to develop a more coherent strategy around building resilience. Our Performance Optimisation Programme, launched in London in 2014, helps to improve resilience among trainees and associates, and our Resilience & Wellbeing series of events are open to both lawyers and business services colleagues. These initiatives are helping raise awareness around mental health issues, building practical skills and improving the support available to our people. Building resilience is one of the many ways we ensure we have the best team possible. From the recruitment process through to partnership, we have programmes and initiatives that ensure we provide our clients with a diverse team of highly talented, business-minded people. And we don’t stop at our own people. From collaborations with clients on continuous improvement projects to school educational days, we share our expertise and knowledge to help others excel. 1,551 classroom courses 4,141 Clifford Chance Academy participants Nutritionist Mark Henderson talks to colleagues at one of our ‘Resilience and Wellbeing’ events 12 Clifford Chance LLP Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 Creating a winning team classroom-based and online training for People The firm’s strategy emphasises the lawyers and business services people is importance of creating a winning team that offered via the Clifford Chance Academy. is constantly looking to deliver the very In June this year, we announced the highest levels of service to our clients. launch of a learning hub in Singapore for colleagues based in the Asia Pacific region. Creating the ‘best team’ means attracting and retaining the best talent, fostering a As well as building the technical skills of learning culture and a ‘growth mindset’ our people, the Academy, through new so individuals are continuously challenging and refreshed content grouped into themselves to improve what they do for different ‘schools’, provides training that our clients. It means creating a truly is helping to deepen client understanding, inclusive working environment that brings foster best team behaviours and promote together all that’s best in the firm. And it increased commercial awareness. From means equipping our people to be more induction, through ongoing development resilient, to improve levels of wellbeing, and and classroom learning, we are integrating constructively addressing issues of mental these themes into the career journeys health and work-life balance. of all our people. “The single thing that differentiates one firm For this learning to flourish there needs to from another is people,” says Laura King, be a ‘growth mindset’ adopted by the firm partner and global head of people and talent. and by individuals. For the firm this means a willingness to embrace innovation – Clifford “The firm that best appreciates what the Chance has appointed Bas Boris Visser as client wants, what is driving them, what is partner for global innovation and business of greatest concern to them, and can then change – and develop smarter ways of show they understand and care about working, to impartially scrutinise what we those issues and can service those needs, do, and to challenge practices that do not will be successful.” add value to client service. The firm is focused on making the most of Meanwhile, individuals in Clifford Chance the diversity that exists in the organisation are encouraged to seek out opportunities – of course, in terms of race, gender, to develop their capabilities, use each ethnicity, sexual orientation and socioexperience to grow their understanding economic mix – but also in the wider sense of the importance of client service, and, of welcoming people with the broadest above all, to ask: ‘How can I personally possible range of experiences, ideas and deliver a better result for the client?’ ways of approaching different issues and problems. Harnessing the diversity of more By supporting colleagues through a range than 6,000 people – lawyers and those in of formal and informal learning opportunities business services roles – means we can and helping them to fully understand the deliver to clients in a truly differentiated way. role they can play in making the firm successful, we will realise our vision Our people strategy also focuses on of making Clifford Chance the law firm developing a strong learning and of choice for the world’s leading businesses development culture. A wide range of of today and tomorrow. “ The single thing that differentiates one firm from another is people.” Laura King 1,100 people trained in Continuous 36,390 4.7 average course satisfaction Improvement to date online training hours score out of 5 14 Clifford Chance LLP Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 Client interview: career choices and to gain direction from Laura: Your appearance was really well others from similar backgrounds to show received by the students. What tips would that one’s background is no impediment to you give to other people when sharing Promoting aspiration having a successful career. their experiences? Laura: What benefits does broadening Shamir: The most important thing is to show Shamir Malviya, Managing Director educational access bring to a business? that you are a normal person and explain and Associate General Counsel at that what you do is achievable with the Shamir: The financial services industry thrives Bank of America Merrill Lynch right attitude. on ingenuity, innovation and coming up with new ideas, and that comes from having Honesty is also important. You should not Laura King, partner and people from different backgrounds with hide the fact that working for a pre-eminent global head of people and talent varying points of view and ways of thinking. institution like Clifford Chance or Bank of at Clifford Chance talks to Shamir I benefited from this inclusive approach. America Merrill Lynch is hard work and Malviya about a panel he recently I came from a state school and was the first requires dedication, but it is achievable. joined at a Clifford ChanceAnd be up front and explain that there are generation in my family to be born in the UK hosted visit by 155 students from lots of different ways to succeed. and go to university. The message to me has Brampton Manor Academy school always been ‘If you are you talented and Laura: How important is it that your in London. determined you will succeed’. relationship partners engage with these kind of events and are aligned to the The bank views diversity in the workplace Half the Academy’s students qualify for free bank’s values? as a huge advantage in meeting the needs school meals and more than 80% come of our diverse range of clients. Shamir: In the legal department at Bank from minority ethnic communities. of America Merrill Lynch we have made Laura: Why are opportunities like the panel The event aimed to build connections with the a concerted effort to partner with our key presentation important for students? business community and to talk to the 15 and relationship firms like Clifford Chance to give 16-year-olds about Law as a possible career. Shamir: Some of the questions we had from students the broadest possible perspective students, and the feedback from teachers of how to access the legal profession. So it Laura, who is also a trustee of the Academy, show how hard it is in certain communities to is key that we have a similar ethos and share and Shamir discuss the value of such events. banish those thoughts that say ‘I shouldn’t common values. Laura: Why in your view is social mobility aspire to certain careers’. Once you get to a particular point in your so important? Events such as this are a good way for the career and achieve a certain level of success Shamir: As a firm, Bank of America Merrill students to hear from people from a range I think we all have a responsibility to give Lynch views social mobility as a key facet of of professions and backgrounds so they can direction to the younger generation. Part social diversity and inclusion. The bank has start to understand what is possible. I would of showing we are normal people means many social mobility programmes enabling encourage students to make the most of taking time out from our jobs to give back high-performing students to make valuable these opportunities. to the community. Gender balance – firm-wide data People % Female 2015 2014 Partners 17.0% 16.9% Other fee earners 47.1% 47.2% Business services 67.7% 67.6% For additional data by year or region, see www.cliffordchance.com Ethnic minorities 2015 2014 Partners* – New York/Washington, DC 5.0% 5.5% – London 5.3% 5.6% Other fee earners* – New York/Washington, DC 31.1% 29.9% – London 26.2% 24.0% Business services* – New York/Washington, DC 49.1% 52.2% – London 16.7% 17.1% * Self-reporting as ethnic minority A supportive culture Hein Tonnaer Partner, Amsterdam Aside from fielding the best hockey team in Amsterdam, Clifford Chance offered the training, support and teamwork partner Hein Tonnaer felt critical to his legal career. “The fact that Clifford Chance was different to the more traditional Dutch law firms with its team spirit and clear, international strategy made me want to join in 2001,” explains Hein. “The Clifford Chance Academy was also a big incentive.” “The range of courses has been hugely beneficial to my career and has helped me develop relationships with colleagues and gain a deep understanding of the firm and our clients. In particular, the Academy Development Centre event for senior associates and the Negotiation Skills course stood out for me, as did the Future Leaders Programme.” After six years at the firm, Hein left to gain experience on the ‘business side’, working as in-house counsel at a construction company followed by a period with a renewable energy company. When our Amsterdam office began expanding its project finance and asset finance practice, Hein took up the chance to rejoin the firm in 2010, becoming partner in 2015. “It was the right offer at the right time and I am very proud to continue to expand the practice as a partner,” he says. The supportive culture at Clifford Chance and the dedication of the people is also something which Hein highlights as a significant contributor to his development. “There are multiple tools and ways to get support, so it is crucial that you take the initiative and make use of them. The firm has not only given me opportunities but also truly supported me and the team throughout.” And it’s not just support from his fellow lawyers that Hein values. “Business services support is instrumental and helps create a great experience for the clients. From pitching, assisting with large closings to the final invoice, it’s all important.” 16 Clifford Chance LLP Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 On course for efficiency project manager, you’re not the subject matter expert so you need each team member to come up with options and solutions Amira Russell to the problem. The Coaching Skills course has enabled me to Project manager, London help subject matter experts come up with these options and work with them to decide on the best way forward.” When project manager Amira Russell first joined Clifford Chance in 2007, it was the firm’s reputation that attracted her. The firm’s Continuous Improvement Green Belt course also allowed Amira to improve her own project management skills, “The opportunity to work on large, global projects and with make a difference to the roles of others and improve efficiency some of the best people in their field was what drew me to the at the firm. Through the course, she developed a process which job,” says Amira. has enabled legal secretaries to reduce the time of sending In her role, Amira is responsible for bringing individuals together documents to storage by 60%. as teams to deliver projects efficiently. The Clifford Chance But for Amira, it isn’t just the formal support that’s critical Academy has helped her develop personally but has also to development at the firm. “The support of my colleagues increased the level of support she can offer. in my immediate team or project teams is hugely important “The Academy provides a wide range of courses which are to achieving goals. The people are willing to help and take easily accessible and, unlike at some other firms, the training is time to listen and give advice when you need it. That is as flexible and built around personal needs,” she explains. “As a important as all of the formal training.” Clifford Chance LLP 17 Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 We seek opportunities Community to positively engage with our local communities. Sporting chances Through our role as Official Law Firm of Rugby World Cup 2015, we have brought the excitement of the Tournament to our communities. Former All Blacks captain Zinzan Brooke delighted the children of Po Leung Kuk Residential Care Home in Hong Kong with a performance of the traditional Maori war dance, the haka, and presented a donation from the Clifford Chance Foundation, which will help fund a trip for the children to attend a kids’ rugby tournament in the UK. In London, our Tag Rugby Academy, in partnership with Tower Hamlets Youth Sports Foundation, was established for primary school children in East London. The launch was hosted by England international player Marland Yarde (pictured opposite). More than 30 volunteers supported the Academy, which culminated in a tournament involving 300 students wearing t-shirts they had designed themselves. England rugby player Christian Wade provided advice and presented the excited winners with their trophies. This is just one of the ways our work has improved the lives of people in our communities over the past year. Through partnerships with clients, charities, NGOs, alumni and our own people, we are having a positive impact on the individuals who need it most. Through fundraising, volunteering, pro bono advice and funding from the Clifford Chance Foundation, we have helped to improve access to justice, education and finance around the globe. £19.6m 18.5 time cost value of lawyers’ pro bono work average hours of pro bono per lawyer 18 Clifford Chance LLP Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 Investing in community relationships A central aspect of this commitment is our Community Building strong, enduring relationships goal of annually helping 100,000 people. is vital to who we are and what we do as We regularly exceed this target and in a firm. It is important for the work we do 2014/15 we helped nearly 192,000 people, with our clients and holds good for the meaning that since 2012 we have helped relationships we build with our communities. more than 480,000 people. Central to relationship-building is our This year saw a 1% increase in the number support for individuals and helping people of lawyers’ pro bono hours and a 5% gain access to justice, to education and to increase in business services’ volunteering finance. We believe that by contributing in hours (target was 10%). 52% of our lawyers these areas we can help people thrive in did pro bono work last year. Although this the communities where we do business. did not meet our overall target of 60%, a number of offices significantly outperformed We promote access to these rights by this level including London, the Middle East, giving financial support through the Clifford the Americas and our team in Romania. Chance Foundation and by offering our time and expertise through our pro bono The annual Corporate Responsibility and volunteering initiatives. Awards celebrate colleagues who have donated time and talent to help improve We have taken the decision to partner with the lives of people in need across the a group of NGOs working in the fields of world. The winners are voted for by fellow justice, finance and education because employees and in 2014 there was a record we believe that this strategic approach has vote, highlighting the depth of engagement the most impact. These NGOs operate in with community issues. The winners multiple jurisdictions, giving more of our included a colleague from Milan who helped people the opportunity to participate in pro Syrian refugees access food, shelter and bono or volunteering activities, and some medical care, a colleague in Dubai who are already working with our fee-paying organised a book collection for Sri Lankan clients giving us an additional shared school children, and a team from Frankfurt interest. Over time we envisage that the who acted as language mentors to young number of our strategic global pro bono immigrant women. and community outreach clients will grow and that more of our community investment Our people gain personal satisfaction will be directed to these organisations. from working on pro bono and community outreach programmes, and the work in turn Each year the firm’s global Corporate broadens their experience and knowledge. Responsibility Committee agrees how the Our commitment to the community is an Clifford Chance Foundation’s funds should important consideration for graduates be allocated for the next 12 months. This looking at us as a potential employer. allows us to adopt a strategic approach to giving and to measure the impact of The strongest and most enduring donations from across the firm. relationships need to be worked at. We are committed to keep working at our The desire to contribute to the community community relationships. is shared by our lawyers and people in business services roles. “ The desire to contribute to the community is shared by our lawyers and people in business services roles.” 4,440 hours of business services £1.2m Clifford Chance 108 partners on not-for volunteering time Foundation funding profit boards 20 Clifford Chance LLP Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 Client interview: beyond the traditional approach of endless and should continually strive to improve humanitarian handouts to a sustainable their respect for human rights in ways that solution that gives refugees the tools to tangibly improve the lives of people they Empowering a provide for themselves and make choices impact. We appreciate and value Clifford better solution about their own lives. Chance’s commitment to supporting human rights, particularly its commitment We achieve this through five integrated to supporting access to justice and finance Emily Arnold-Fernandez, strategies: individualised legal aid, community for all people. legal empowerment, policy advocacy, Founder and Executive Director, strategic litigation and movement-building. Asylum Access What has the support of Clifford Chance enabled you to achieve? Roger Leese, Asylum Access is one of our global Partner, London I’ll answer with an example: Martin, a pro bono partners, an international Colombian refugee in Ecuador, was fired from non-profit organisation working to his job at a flower plantation after requesting “The firm’s relationship with Asylum Access empower refugees in Africa, Asia his legally-mandated employment benefits. has developed in very exciting ways since it and Latin America. We talk to began in 2008. founder and executive director Clifford Chance’s early financial support enabled us to expand our work in Ecuador As we have got to know Asylum Access better, Emily Arnold-Fernandez. to offer legal services on a range of rights it has opened our eyes to the possibilities of violations. Asylum Access Ecuador took what can be achieved through the careful What does Asylum Access do? Martin’s case and, after filing a claim, his nurturing of relationships with dynamic Of the world’s 16 million refugees, the vast and ambitious NGOs. Our partnership has employer was ordered to pay him $1,200 majority remain in first countries of refuge deepened with more lawyers in more offices wages – the equivalent of four months’ work. within Africa, Asia or Latin America. getting involved and, I think, they have Approximately half the world’s refugees With hundreds of hours of pro bono support developed a greater sense of our strengths are locked in internment camps, where the from Clifford Chance lawyers, and financial and how best to work with us. average stay is 20 years. The other half live support from the Clifford Chance on urban margins, deprived of basic rights, Foundation, we opened operations in three We are now able to provide full-service most likely for as long or longer. new countries, Malaysia, Panama, and support to Asylum Access, bringing to bear Mexico, adding these to our portfolio often highly specialised expertise to help Asylum Access was founded to change this. them realise their ambitions. alongside our existing operations across We transform the human rights landscape Ecuador, Thailand and Tanzania. for refugees so they can live safely, move And as people in the firm become more freely, work, send children to school and In our materiality assessment, ‘ethics’ aware of Asylum Access and of the impact rebuild their lives. came out as the most important issue our work together is having, so they become for NGOs. What considerations are more interested in contributing to the In what ways do you seek to ‘empower’ important when choosing your partner relationship. Our aim, in effect, is to create your clients? relationships? a virtuous circle with more and more people We believe refugees are people with rights, As a human rights non-profit organisation, bringing their expertise to bear on behalf of not just people with needs. Our work moves Asylum Access believes all institutions can one our most outstanding NGOs.” Access to education Fundación DEHVI Community In Costa Rica, 34% of children live in Access to education is integral to society poverty. Fundación DEHVI works to improve and our programmes allow all colleagues the lives of children across the country in the firm, including those with no legal by providing education, food and a safe training, to make a difference. learning environment. Our lawyers in the US Literacy India have assisted with numerous legal issues Literacy rates in India are well below for the organisation and recently concluded regional and global averages, and women a fundraising effort which contributed nearly fall far behind men. We’re working with $1,800 to the ‘Sponsor 300 children in need Literacy India, which strives to provide through education’ project. under-privileged women and children with Access to finance the skills they need to be successful and independent. Our Global Shared Service Using our financial legal advisory skills and Centre is sponsoring the education of 80 resources, we work across our network to girls in West Bengal. We’re also providing improve access to finance with a focus on a Computer Workshop Programme to the field of microfinance. equip students with vital workplace skills. FINCA International Shanghai I CARE FINCA International offers financial services Volunteers from our Shanghai office have and products to small-scale businesses been working with HandsOn Shanghai on that have been turned down by traditional their ‘I CARE’ initiative, which provides banks. Last year, lawyers from our children with access to educational Washington, DC office held training opportunities they otherwise wouldn’t have. sessions for FINCA’s legal team to develop Over the past year, more than 50 volunteers their skills and enable the organisation to have been involved in environmental support more clients in Latin America. education, taking students from Yongmei The sessions received positive feedback Primary School to experience farm life and from FINCA: “The programme content and work, explore marine life and learn more support is highly recommended, professional about the environment at a wild animal park. and applicable to the world of microfinance.” Raising Aspirations Access to education Our Raising Aspirations days and Career Carousels in London and Hong Kong give local students from state schools the chance to discover different careers and offer an insight into working in the corporate world. The aim is to banish any preconceptions the students might have, particularly around the obstacles to becoming a lawyer, and show them a range of careers they could potentially achieve in the corporate world with tenacity and hard work. Volunteers from a broad range of careers across the firm and often our clients, including Bank of America Merrill Lynch, J.P. Morgan and Morgan Stanley, discuss their career paths and answer the students’ questions. Last year, almost 600 students attended sessions in London and Hong Kong and benefited from talks by colleagues across the offices, including lawyers – some of whom attended the same state schools as the students – and employees who have followed unconventional career paths. 22 Clifford Chance LLP Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 Oxfam our lawyers have helped LEYF secure a legislative framework governing involuntary By supporting the creation of community £1.25 million loan to enable it to open 10 admission of persons into psychiatric fishing enterprises, Oxfam has helped more nurseries, and are providing further hospitals, to the appeal of a Nigerian 515 Thai fisherfolk and their families secure advice to secure additional funding. asylum seeker’s rejected application. stable incomes and achieve financial independence. This promotes responsible, Access to justice Helsinki Foundation for Human Rights From protecting disabled citizens to sustainable investment in the fishing From upholding the rule of law to providing improving the security of human rights industry and ensures the fisherfolk are basic advice to citizens, as leaders in our defenders, the Helsinki Foundation for fairly paid. We’ve donated 470,000 baht to field it is our responsibility to use our skills Human Rights (HFHR) is dedicated to support further growth of the enterprises to provide access to justice for those who protecting human rights through education, and are advising on how to set the need it most. Furthermore, and in light of research and practical assistance. Working enterprises up as legal entities. changes, such as those in the UK, to the with HFHR, our lawyers in Warsaw have provision of free legal services, we seek to London Early Years Foundation represented a mentally disabled man enable access to legal support for the more The learning experiences children have forced to undergo psychiatric treatment, disenfranchised in our community. before age five are crucial but many miss an ex-police officer who was wrongfully out because of childcare costs. The PILnet detained and a migrant subjected to London Early Years Foundation (LEYF) PILnet works with lawyers around the world inhumane treatment in a detention centre. runs nurseries in some of London’s to deliver much-needed access to justice. most disadvantaged areas and provides Our lawyers in Milan have been providing subsidised nursery places. Through our pro bono support in a range of ways from relationship with the Social Business Trust, producing a memorandum on the Italian The Equality Effect Access to justice Safe education and access to justice are something most of us take for granted, but the threat of rape and sexual assault from their teachers, family and even the policemen appointed to protect them is a reality faced by many girls in Africa. The Equality Effect employs human rights law to challenge this oppression and achieve justice for women and girls around the world – that’s why it was the winner of our 2014 Access to Justice Award. Grameen Following a landmark ruling in Kenya that police failed to investigate the rape of 160 girls, The Equality Effect has been Access to finance using the money and pro bono time we awarded it to train police in Kenya and work with rape shelters and communities In Kenya, around 1.48 million people are pushed below the to secure justice and legal protection from violence for all of poverty line because of healthcare costs. the 10 million girls in Kenya. We’ve also been providing critical research into a similar project in Malawi. Our research into Many of the conditions which affect the poorest citizens are related rulings in England and Europe, and how they’ve been preventable and treatable, but medical help remains out of challenged on human rights’ grounds, is providing invaluable reach. Our global NGO partner, Grameen, is working to support to The Equality Effect. change this through the development of an affordable health insurance product and last year the Clifford Chance Foundation donated £250,000 to support the project. By preventing as well as treating illness, this project also has the potential to help people remain economically active and so maintain a stable income. Our lawyers are also providing pro bono legal advice to develop and ultimately deliver this essential product. We manage the Environment impact we have on the environment. Minimising our footprint Protecting the environment as a team is, in part, about taking individual positive action and that’s why we came together as one firm to mark World Environment Day in June. Around the world, we shared a common cause to raise awareness of today’s pressing environmental issues, demonstrate our commitment to action and show how we’re helping to realise these goals. Under the theme ‘Seven Billion Dreams. One Planet. Consume with Care.’, colleagues took part in a range of events, from tree planting in Hong Kong to an environmental quiz in Delhi, riverbed cleaning in Tokyo to community centre volunteering in Frankfurt. Although our environmental footprint is quite small in some of our offices with lower headcount, we are committed to monitoring and, wherever possible, reducing our impact. We work individually and in our offices to ensure we comply with local environmental policy, and are always re-evaluating to see where we can improve. Managing our environmental footprint and working towards being a sustainable business doesn’t just help the environment, it enables us to become more efficient and save money – meaning we can provide better value to our clients. 2.4% decrease in paper consumption 34 offices separate at least per FTE one type of waste for recycling Colleagues in our Tokyo office spent World Environment Day cleaning the riverbed of the Arakawa River 24 Clifford Chance LLP Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 A world of difference the cutting of paper consumption, the Environment As an organisation we have both a direct recycling of general waste and the recycling and an indirect impact on the world of office paper waste. Through improved around us. management of these costs and driving down waste, we can be a more cost We advise some of the leading businesses efficient business for our clients. in the world on the investments they make, be that a new wind farm in Africa or a The firm’s Executive Leadership Group is subway project in Peru, and offer guidance responsible for ensuring compliance with on how to create sustainable businesses the policy and measuring progress against and minimise their emissions. these objectives. Our Global Environment Group – As a firm we promote two environmentallycomprising 60 lawyers across our network themed events each year, helping to raise of offices – provides specialist advice to awareness of important issues and clients on all areas of Environmental and fostering a ‘one team’ approach. Health & Safety law. The practice covers The events for 2014/15 were Earth Hour on traditional areas such as pollution, waste, Saturday, 28 March and World Environment control of hazardous substances, as well as Day on Friday, 5 June. new and developing areas such as energy efficiency, carbon reduction, sustainability, For Earth Hour, organised by WWF and biodiversity and chemicals regulation. which we have supported for six years, we joined people around the world by dimming We also recognise that how we run our the lights in our network of offices to raise business – how we operate our offices, the awareness of sustainability issues and to buying decisions we make, the partners we show how adopting a simple habit, such select to work with – has a direct impact as turning off unused lights, when done on the environment. by enough people, can have a measurable We have implemented an environmental benefit to the environment. management system in all our offices, For World Environment Day, colleagues resulting in the award of the ISO 14001 from across the firm took part in a range certification in London and Amsterdam, of events, including tree-planting in Hong and the LEED in Washington. In 2009 our Kong, a vegetarian ‘butcher’ in Amsterdam Amsterdam office became climate neutral, and a river clean-up in Tokyo. Activities and London is about to embark on a such as these highlight the importance significant energy reduction programme of taking individual positive action to to include widespread adoption of LED protect our planet. lighting. It is also hoped that, by employing a continuous improvement approach, the As well as global events, local agendas office will achieve certification against the and initiatives are set by office managing ISO 50001 energy management standard. partners and office managers to ensure that there is an effective structure in place for Our environmental policy sets out the delivering compliance with the policy locally. standards of environmental performance we expect for all offices. There are minimum For the sake of the environment, we believe targets for the reduction of CO2 emissions, in thinking globally and acting locally. “ For the sake of the environment, we believe in thinking globally and acting locally.” 26 Clifford Chance LLP Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 Building on our ‘green’ goals Christine Neo, Office services manager, Singapore Clifford Chance operates from awarded the environmental Green Mark In addition, all water fittings have a Water 36 offices in 26 countries. In our Award – Gold standard by the Building and Efficiency Labelling Scheme rating, meaning buildings we are committed to Construction Authority, a government agency. they meet water efficiency standards required the very highest standards of by the Singapore Accreditation Council. We are very proud of that award as it environmental management. recognises the range of environmental The principal theme of the office is Christine Neo, office services measures we’ve installed in the office, ‘connections’, connecting people to one manager in Singapore, talks about which also boasts a contemporary and another and our people to their workplace. the office which features striking vibrant design to reflect the firm’s forwardWith this objective in mind we encourage blue glass meeting rooms, but looking and innovative approach. colleagues to minimise their impact on their which is also very, very green. work environment. We’ve fitted lots of energy saving features, including motion sensor lighting controls, There are lots of recycling stations in pantry Singapore – the city-state we work in – energy efficient lighting, and an individuallyareas for general waste, cans and plastics is on a green journey. Fifty years ago the controlled air-conditioning system in and all shredded documents are recycled. then Prime Minister Lee Kuan Yew planted meeting rooms. a mempat tree as part of a commitment The office is bold with a sleek, modern to green the urban landscape and create Some 90% of our office equipment is energy design. There is one nod to the past, ‘a City in a Garden’. star-rated and we’ve made extensive use however – much of the furniture has of materials certified under the Singapore been reused from our previous office! A similar ambition drove the design and Green Label Scheme, including paint, construction of our office in the Marina Bay and vinyl and carpet flooring products. Financial Centre district, which in 2013 was Targets and progress Not achieved Progressing Achieved 2014/15 targets 2014/15 performance Achievement level At least 30% female partners 17% Invest in a new learning management system Ongoing and virtual classroom tools Increase pro bono hours to match 2012/13 levels 55,353 60% of lawyers to undertake pro bono work 52% Strategic global pro bono and community outreach 4% clients to account for 10% of pro bono hours Develop strategic plans for all of the firm’s strategic 9 global pro bono and community outreach clients Review and refresh the community outreach Ongoing opportunities provided by the firm for our business services teams Decrease our Scope 1 & 2 (electricity & fuel) +1.11% CO2 emissions per FTE by at least 5% from the 2012/13 baseline by the end of 2017/18 Reduce paper consumption by 10% per FTE from -2.4% the 2012/13 baseline by end 2017/18 Every office, where possible, to recycle at least 30% 94% of general waste by 2017/18 Every office, where possible, to recycle at least 50% 92% of office paper waste by end 2017/18 Every office to ensure that at least 15% of paper has at 67% least a 30% post-consumer recycled content or comes from FSC® or other internationally recognised, certified sources showing a low carbon footprint by end 2017/18 28 Clifford Chance LLP Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 Commentary 2015/16 targets Our ambition is to achieve a more gender-balanced partnership We are currently in the process of reviewing our CR strategy (see comprising at least 30% female partners. Women accounted for page 9), to ensure that it reflects the most material issues for our one third of our promotions in London and APAC on 1 May 2015, stakeholders and the firm, and that our programme of activity is resulting in women making up 17% of our partnership. aligned with and supports our new vision and strategy. User testing for our new learning management system is underway Once that review is complete, we will set our strategic priorities and with global deployment scheduled in 2016. agree appropriate targets or indicators so we can track and report on our progress. Virtual classroom delivery is being reviewed as part of our wider IT strategy. In the meantime, we have invested in upgrades to some Until then, our working approach is set out below. This includes a of our existing tools, e.g. for mobile distribution of video content. combination of hard targets and key indicators that we will monitor over the course of the year. Total hours were 1% higher than in 2012/13; hours per FTE lawyer also increased to 18.5 (vs 18.3 in 2012/13). People • Review performance management processes and support for This represented a decrease of 2% on the previous year. learning and skills acquisition in line with the firm’s new vision and strategy. We continue to deepen our relationships with these clients to • Work towards a more gender-balanced partnership comprising at ensure we offer excellent service and the right opportunities for least 30% women. our people to be involved. • Invest in a new learning management system and virtual classroom tools to improve the accessibility, relevance and timeliness of the full MoUs have been agreed and signed off with nine clients and are range of learning options for our people. awaiting sign off with three clients. Community We are establishing supporters’ networks to enable business Strategic objectives services, alongside lawyers, to volunteer their expertise and time • Contribute locally through our pro bono and community outreach on behalf of strategic pro bono clients that are of particular interest work in the geographies where the firm does business. to them. • Undertake pro bono and community outreach work that is of high Our global head of people and talent will also take the lead value, utilises the skills and abilities of our people, and helps us build on co-ordination of business services volunteering on the global relationships that are of benefit to all our stakeholders. CR Committee. • Undertake pro bono and community outreach collaborations with our clients in partnership with best-in-class NGOs. This increase was attributable to aspects such as a busier • Undertake pro bono and community outreach work that helps commercial environment, an increase in emission factors etc. us recruit, retain and develop the best people. The emissions trend for Scope 1 & 2 is down in comparison • Deliver an excellent service to our pro bono clients. to last year. • Establish a volunteering commitment as an integral part of the Number of reams per FTE in 2012/13 was 44.63 compared Clifford Chance career, and something that enhances our ability to 43.56 in 2014/15. to meet the needs of our clients. Indicators • The number of partners leading a pro bono relationship or sitting on a not-for-profit board. 33 offices are currently meeting the requirement of recycling paper • The number of global strategic pro bono and community outreach (in 2012: 30, 2013: 32, 2014: 34). clients. • The number of clients with whom we undertake pro bono and 24 offices state they use either a paper type with a percentage of community outreach collaborations. recycled content or showing a low carbon footprint (in 2012: 20, • The impact of pro bono activities in business critical geographies. 2014: 23). • The number of lawyers and business services colleagues engaged in pro bono and community outreach. • The number of pro bono hours by lawyers. • The number of volunteering hours by business services colleagues. • The value our stakeholders place on our pro bono and community outreach work. Environment • To continue to progress towards our 2017/18 targets (see 2014/15 targets opposite). Clifford Chance LLP 29 Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 Meeting our on implementation of the policy within our Although due diligence in these areas is organisation, including identifying potential ongoing, a number of important steps have commitments human rights impacts with which we may been taken, most notably, in relation to our be involved and taking steps to ensure processes for accepting new clients and we address them appropriately. matters. Our Clearance Centre team, which reviews every new client and potential Our initial focus has been on three areas mandate to assess whether it is appropriate in which we expect our most salient human that we act, has been trained specifically Focusing on rights issues may arise: our supply chain; to take a more structured approach to our relationships with our people; and our understanding any potential human rights relationships with our clients. human rights in impacts of our client relationships. Any new Diligence undertaken with our procurement client or mandate identified as having a and human resources teams indicated that potential adverse human rights impact our operations the firm already has robust policies and processes to address potential human rights concerns that could arise in these is additionally reviewed against the firm’s policy commitment on human rights. and in our areas of our operations. As a law firm, it is in the area of client We have also been increasing our organisational awareness of business and human rights issues. Mandatory human relationships relationships that the most complex and nuanced considerations arise. As we seek rights training has been introduced for all of the firm’s lawyers and some members of to identify potential human rights impacts our business services teams. This training We are taking steps to identify any potential has been enthusiastically received. and address them appropriately, we must human rights impacts we might have also take into account our broad-ranging as an organisation and human rights Of course, this is just the beginning. There professional obligations. considerations in our relationships is much more work for us to do. The next with our clients. How firms balance these professional steps will be to develop a more systematic obligations with their responsibility to approach to assessing our actual and As a large, global business and a leader in our potential human rights impacts, ensuring respect human rights is an aspect of wider profession, and having been closely involved an appropriate and effective response, industry consultation through professional in the development of the UN Guiding tracking that and reporting on our record. associations, such as the International Bar Principles on Business and Human Rights, Our priorities include rolling out appropriate Association and the Law Society of England we embrace the opportunity to make a follow-up training programmes for our and Wales. Partners in the firm have actively positive contribution to business and society. lawyers to increase their sensitivity to contributed to this dialogue and we are Since we first adopted our human rights seeking to build on these insights, and on human rights questions and equipping policy in 2013 (see page 7 in our CR report associated discussions with stakeholders, them to address them appropriately. 2013), we have continued to make progress to inform our approach. Set governance Identify salient Manage Next steps issues • Human rights policy • Examine our business • Diligence of existing policies • Systematise ongoing due adopted by firm’s senior operations and the services and processes in diligence, tracking and management body we provide to identify procurement, HR and client reporting (Executive Leadership potential human rights relationship management • Further embed policy Group) and published impacts • Focus on client acceptance within internal processes internally and externally • Prioritise issues to assess and procedures • Review and revise client • Responsibility for policy and address acceptance processes • Further training for implementation delegated • Key issues: relationships our lawyers to the global CR Committee • Mandatory human rights with our suppliers, with our training for all lawyers • Further engagement in • Annual updates on people, with our clients development of industry progress to the Executive best practice, ensuring Leadership Group that is reflected in our own approach 30 Clifford Chance LLP Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 UN Global Compact Human Rights: UN Global Compact Principles Principle 1. Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. We have a proud history of supporting the underlying ideas Relevant GRI indicators: LA13, HR1, HR2, HR3, HR5, PR8 enshrined in the UN Global Compact’s Ten Principles, including Principle 2. Businesses should make sure that they are not helping to shape the legal and regulatory frameworks that underpin complicit in human rights abuses. the implementation of the principles, and working with organisations Relevant GRI indicators: HR1, HR2, HR3, HR5 and individuals as they seek to create a world where these principles are respected and upheld. Active participation in the UN Global Labour: UN Global Compact Principles Compact now plays a valuable role in shaping our thinking about Principle 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association our responsibilities as an organisation, and understanding where and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. there are opportunities for us to have a more positive impact. Relevant GRI indicators: HR1, HR2, HR3, HR5 Principle 4. Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms This report provides a number of examples of our work in support of forced and compulsory labour. of the Ten Principles and our website and client briefings provide a Relevant GRI indicators: HR1, HR2, HR3 fuller picture, both in terms of how we operate as a business and our Principle 5. Businesses should uphold the effective abolition provision of legal services to both private and public sector clients. of child labour. To support our reporting, we have prepared a Global Reporting Relevant GRI indicators: HR1, HR2, HR3 Initiative (GRI) index, published on our website. This focuses Principle 6. Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. on those indicators which we believe are most relevant to our Relevant GRI indicators: EC7, LA13, HR1 business and of greatest interest to our stakeholders. Environment: UN Global Compact Principles Principle 7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Relevant GRI indicators: EC2, EN18, EN26 Principle 8. Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Relevant GRI indicators: EN4, EN6, EN7, EN16, EN18, EN26, EN28, PR3, PR4 Principle 9. Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Relevant GRI indicators: EN4, EN5, EN6, EN7, EN18, EN26 Anti-corruption: UN Global Compact Principles Principle 10. Businesses should work against corruption in all its WE SUPPORT forms, including extortion and bribery. Relevant GRI indicators: SO2, SO3, SO4, SO6 “ We are proud to be a participant in the UN Global Compact and to make our contribution to the fundamental ideas it espouses in relation to human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption.” Matthew Layton, Clifford Chance managing partner Clifford Chance LLP 31 Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 Thank you A big thank you to some of our dedicated people Around our network, our dedicated people worked tirelessly to raise money for their favourite charities. Football tournaments Amsterdam, Hong Kong, London, Singapore, Toyko, Since they started in Tokyo 11 years ago, our charity football tournaments in collaboration with Morgan Stanley have spread to Amsterdam, Hong Kong, London and Singapore, raising money for local charities. Here you can see our Tokyo team, which put up a strong fight to reach the quarter-finals. Runs and walks New York, Paris, Washington, DC More than 100 people from our New York, Paris and Washington, DC offices took part in charity runs and walks for the American Heart Association, Central Park Conservancy and various breast cancer charities. In Paris, a group of our people, their families and some clients all joined in for a true team effort. Helping 100,000 people Q: What is it? Q: Who do we help? A: In 2012 we launched a strategic A: The firm works with 14 strategic global programme to help 100,000 people around pro bono and community outreach clients the world each year through our community so we can ‘join up’ the activities of colleagues, and pro bono work, and through funding by thereby having the greatest impact. the Clifford Chance Foundation. Individuals also support local organisations in which they have a special interest. 32 Clifford Chance LLP Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 US volunteer day Five Peaks Challenge New York, Washington, DC NY Volunteer Day 2015 London Each year, our New York and Washington, DC offices hold a Three teams from our London office took on the tough Five Peaks volunteer day, where colleagues help on a number of local projects Challenge in June in aid of the firm-supported charity Wooden ranging from volunteering with elementary school children to Spoon – climbing five mountains across the British Isles. Despite helping at a family shelter. This year, volunteers painted murals, treacherous weather, poor visibility and several minor injuries, all prepared military care packages and installed protective three teams completed the challenge – with one team finishing in marshland fencing. just 13 hours and six minutes! Iftar meals Food events Middle East Worldwide Colleagues across the Middle East raised more than £15,000 to Food has been a prominent theme in many of our fundraising provide Iftar meals to industrial workers during Ramadan. Without efforts around the world. We’ve held a range of events from cake these, the workers faced a long journey back to camp to break sales to pancake races, food collections to lunch money donations, their fast at the end of some of the hottest days of the year. to support a variety of local and global charities. In Hong Kong, our office teamed up with Feeding Hong Kong for its annual pancake race. Q: How successful has it been? Q: Who takes part? Q: What is the value of the programme? A: The goal of helping 100,000 people was A: We receive specific requests for pro A: Helping more than 100,000 people each initially a three-year target – it was achieved bono legal advice from some of our NGO year also benefits our people who participate. in one year. Since 2012 we have helped partners that we work with. Lawyers can Pro bono support and volunteering stretches more than 480,000 people … and counting. register interest to join one of the NGO client a person’s skills and experience; it can also teams. Business services colleagues are be one of the most rewarding things they do. encouraged to provide in-kind support. We believe it fosters a ‘one team’ culture and makes Clifford Chance a great place to work. Clifford Chance LLP Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 © Clifford Chance LLP, October 2015 Clifford Chance LLP is a limited liability partnership registered in England & Wales under number OC323571. Registered office: 10 Upper Bank Street, London E14 5JJ. We use the word ‘partner’ to refer to a member of Clifford Chance LLP or members, partners, directors, employees or consultants of Clifford Chance entities who are of equivalent standing and qualifications. This report is printed on Symbol Matt Plus which is made from pulp sourced from well managed forests and other controlled sources. Both the paper and the print factory are FSC® (Forest Stewardship Council®) certified. Designed and produced by luminous www.luminous.co.uk
