CSR REPORT 2014 GROWING RESPONSIBLY TOGETHER Carlsberg Group CSR Report 2014 Contents 2 CONTENTS APPENDICES 3 Message from our CEO 39 Section 1: Materiality assessment 5 About this report 40 Section 2: Data summary table 6 Our CSR strategy 44 Section 3: Independent assurance report 7 Our CSR framework 45 Section 4: Global Reporting Initiative table 8 Resources & Environment 51 Section 5: Reporting process and scope 20 Health & Well-being 53 Section 6: Definitions 29 People & Policies 54 Section 7: List of reporting sites Editor Carlsberg Group Corporate Affairs Design and production Kontrapunkt Proofreading Borella projects Carlsberg Group CSR Report 2014 CEO statement 3 MESSAGE In 2014, we continued the to align them more closely with existing recycling rates. In a number of markets, we pursuit of our strategic objective social challenges: Resources & Environment, involved our consumers at sponsored music FROM OUR Health & Well-being and People & Policies. festivals by conducting campaigns to avoid to integrate corporate social We are making good progress on improving waste from packaging. responsibility (CSR) throughout our impact related to each of these themes, CEO our business functions and but at the same time recognise that we are Our environmental efficiency decreased Group companies. on a journey and that across our different slightly in 2014, partly as a result of interegions there are areas where we need to grating newly acquired breweries into the further improve. reporting scope as well as reduced production. However, I am pleased to see that We executed on our global priorities, impleResources & Environment: many of our breweries continued to improve mented local projects and initiated a number optimising resource effectiveness their overall efficiency ratios. Our environof new commitments to guide our work goGlobal challenges such as climate change, mental efficiency figures still show us to ing forward in both the short and long term water scarcity and land degradation will be one of the most efficient global brewing for the benefit of all our stakeholders. increasingly require a strong, collaborative companies, but we will continue to drive response. Increasing demand for consumer further improvements in the coming years. In the Carlsberg Group, we are committed goods, combined with resource scarcity, to making decisions that have a positive places further demands on businesses to use Outside our breweries, we continued impact on our business and the communimaterials more efficiently and to remain proto address environmental challenges in ties in which we operate. Our ambition is to fi­table. At Carlsberg, we want to play our role collaboration with key partners. Good grow responsibly while enhancing quality of in addressing these challenges, both within examples were our continuing work within life for our consumers, our employees and our breweries and across our supply chain. the partnership with UNIDO in Russia, the other stakeholders. In recent years, we have introduction of climate-tolerant barley in worked to make CSR an integrated part of Within packaging, in particular, we have our agro projects with farmers and our our day-to-day business operations. As such, significant opportunities to reduce our collaboration with Water Benefit Partners we create shareholder benefits through CSR environmental impact, lower our cost base to develop a new approach to collective Jørgen Buhl improvements that have led to better risk and make more effective use of our materiaction on water scarcity. Rasmussen management, increased (cost) efficiency, als, thereby transforming waste into value. new business opportunities and enhanced Throughout 2014, we continued to impleHealth & Well-being: consumer support for the category. ment our sustainable packaging programme promoting responsible drinking aimed at increasing material efficiencies Beer consumed in moderation and in the right However, we are facing increasingly tough and obtaining cost savings. At the World context can be part of a healthy, balanced Our collaborative model has economic, social and environmental chalEconomic Forum in Davos, we launched lifestyle. We are proud that our products are helped us to improve our lenges to our business across our supply a partnership-driven initiative called the associated with celebration, friendship and chain and in society at large. We believe Carlsberg Circular Community, a platform for enjoyment of life. But there are situations in impact, but we recognise there that through our CSR activities we can help developing the next generation of packagwhich beer is consumed irresponsibly by some are areas where we need to to overcome these challenges by collaborating products optimised for recycling, reuse groups of people, causing harm to themselves improve further. ing with others, both within and outside our and innovative upcycling. Locally, our Group and society. In the Health & Well-being secindustry, to create more effective change. companies continued to drive local sustaintion, we outline how we continued in 2014 to Jørgen Buhl Rasmussen We are taking steps towards a more colable packaging. In Poland, we worked with drive our proactive approach to tackling the President & CEO laborative business model and have restructhree big customers to increase shopper misuse of alcohol and position beer as the tured our CSR priorities under three themes awareness of recycling, leading to improved responsible choice. We started to deliver on Carlsberg Group CSR Report 2014 CEO statement 4 our industry-wide and company-specific coma year of zero lost-time accidents. Across the SUSTAINABLE PACKAGING >6.4 billion mitments related to high-risk areas such as Group, our lost-time accident rates improved underage drinking, drinking and driving, and by 9%, giving a 42% improvement over the helping consumers to make informed choices. past three years. These commitments translate into local activ­ ities in our markets, such as the Drink with Highly regrettably, though, six contractors lost Respect campaign in Denmark. their lives while working for our companies. glass bottles refilled Our thoughts go to their families and we acPeople & Policies: knowledge that every accident and fatali­ty living by our CSR policies is one too many. To underline this, we are RESPONSIBLE DRINKING We remain committed to integrating the developing more comprehensive standards in principles of the UN Global Compact into our daily business. Our efforts to ensure that contractor management implemented as part of the Group-wide health & safety strategy. 115 global campaigns to our CSR policies are globally implemented and observed are at the core of this comLooking ahead, I believe we have implementpromote responsible drinking mitment. We updated our Business Ethics ed a number of initiatives, both globally and carried out Policy and initiated a Group-wide awareness locally, that will help us to build resilience into campaign to manage compliance risks. While our business, thereby preparing us for future BREWERY EFFICIENCY 5% we are making progress to build a stronger growth in an environment of heightened compliance culture across our organisation, global challenges. Correspondingly, we have this remains an area where we need to conmade slight adjustments to our commitments tinue to concentrate our efforts, as currently and targets in order to better align them with we operate in areas around the world where our business cycle through to 2017. business ethics risks are common. improvement in relative CO2 emissions compared with 2013 In 2014, Carlsberg participated as a founding As we grow our business, this will impact partner in the creation of the digital media on our footprint, but it will also provide platform “Collectively”. This seeks to drive CARLSBERG CIRCULAR COMMUNITY opportunities to use our world-class know­ conversation and action on sustainability ledge to improve the performance of newly acquired businesses. in order to inspire and accelerate the shift towards more sustainable behaviour – which 6 partners have joined the will in turn have a positive impact on our Carlsberg Circular Community A main focus in 2014 was to improve our businesses. This and other collaborations environmental and safety management in the will increasingly guide the way we work in 9% acquired operations of Chongqing Brewery the global marketplace. Moving forward, we HEALTH & SAFETY Group in China. We used our Group’s experwill increasingly focus on the longer term by tise, deploying internal experts from our local working more closely with our consumers and companies to conduct environmental and other partners. health & safety audits and identify areas for improvement in these new breweries. It was encouraging to see that many Group companies recorded excellent safety results; for example, in June Carlsberg India completed Jørgen Buhl Rasmussen improvement in lost-time accident rate across the Group Carlsberg Group CSR Report 2014 About this report 5 ABOUT THIS REPORT: Growing responsibly together Since Carlsberg was founded in 1847, Today, as one of the world’s In our third theme, People & new scope and present a more leading brewing companies, Policies, we concentrate on comparable overview going forour passion has been to brew quality this passion is stronger than our role as a growing global ward. Throughout the report, we of life for people and society. ever. However, the world is a company that employs more report on the commitments we very different place compared people every year and has an made for 2014, the actions we with 168 years ago – one that impact on local communities. have planned for 2015 to ensure is facing global environmental We prioritise the way we work, progress towards achieving our and societal challenges. We are how we secure safe workplaces targets, and where we need to communicating our response to in which people can develop, step up our efforts. these challenges through this how we contribute to communiCSR report. ties, and how we can continually Methodology and recognise and address areas assurance Thematic approach and regions where we need to We have started to transition our In 2014, we carried out a mateimprove. reporting disclosure standard riality assessment (see page 39) to the G4 Guidelines, a process to better understand the nature Collaboration in action that will be continued in 2015, of the challenges we are facing Throughout this report, we occa­ thereby moving towards a in terms of their relevance to our sionally delve a little deeper into greater degree of transparency stakeholders, our industry and a specific topic. In these “colfor our stakeholders. As in prethe Carlsberg business. Based on laboration in action” sections, vious years, we asked KPMG to the findings, we have regrouped we aim to provide thought leadassure selected information. The our priorities within three global ership on how to most effectassured information is indicated themes that our stakeholders ively formulate a collaborative on the relevant pages by the consider to be most closely response to a global challenge. text “Within KPMG’s assurance linked to our business. In doing so, we open ourselves scope”. KPMG’s conclusions can up to a broader, much-needed be found in the independent asUnder the theme of Resources debate with our stakeholders. surance report on page 44. & Environment, we focus on the challenge of increasingly Reporting scope scarce resources and the need Changes to our geographical SOCIETY & CONSUMER ETHICS & to manage the environmental footprint in 2014 are impacting impact of our operations across our sustainability agenda. For ENVIRONMENT HEALTH LEADERSHIP the supply chain while protecting the first time this year, we are the sources from which we draw reporting figures from our Indian Globally, resources are Focus on the impact There is a greater our natural raw materials. opera­tions as well as integratunder pressure. Comof pro­ducts on health demand for transparing environmental and health panies are required to and, more broadly, the ency, re-evaluation of The position and impacts of & safety figures from the newly take more responsibility related societal chalthe role of business our products in society, and our acquired breweries in Chongfor the environmental lenges has intensified. contributions to society, efforts to promote moderate conqing, China. We are continuing impact of their operaand renewed attention sumption where beer is enjoyed to use a three-year horizon for tions and their supply on ethics and human as part of a healthy lifestyle, are our target-setting, but have chain, and to help find rights. the focus of our Health & Wellreset our baseline to 2014 solutions to the problem being theme. (rather than 2013) to reflect the of resource scarcity. Carlsberg Group CSR Report 2014 Our CSR strategy 6 OUR CSR THE CARLSBERG STRATEGY WHEEL OUR CSR STRATEGY ELEMENTS THIRST FOR GREAT Great people. Great brands. Great moments Founded on the motto, Semper Ardens – Always Burning – we never settle, but always STRATEGY Our strategy is illustrated by a wheel with five interconnected levers, Our CSR strategy is divided into three elements that guide our thirst for the better We are stronger together because we share best practices, ideas, and successes. We brand as many, but stand as one With the courage each to dare, to try, to take risks, we constantly the bar. Weour representing raise strategic don’t brewing great beer. We brew a greater future – for ourapproach stop atpriorities. consumers eachcustomers, to and of our CSR ourthemes. communities, and our people This passion will continue to burn and forever keep us thirsty. At Carlsberg, we want to make U RSU E MAR K E T O P P O RT U NITI ES YP IN a positive decisions that haveCONSUMERS, AND INNOVATION impact BRANDS EC T IV EL SU PP OR PEOPLE • Embed a high performance culture EL nds T on our business, our employees, • Iconize Carlsberg our S O Braon F retain andour Articulating • Develop, commitment attract best in , Peo s We are committed to: creating our products in a way that optiRE • Outperform with winning portfolio of class people er ati O shareholders and the communities ple U CO R international and local power brands AS m nov BE mises and • Empower useengage of resources across our operations while minimising our people in which we operate. n ER • Accelerate scalable, consumer, R Co our impact on the environment; promoting responsible drinking; SO n & su A ST E ST G RO BU relevant innovation NB EF W and living by our policies and implementing our standards in all EE I TH IN SIN EFFECTIVENESS our operations& EFFICIENCY and activities. These commitments translate into E E SS • Create an efficient, individual consumerpriorities, and partnerships and specific priorities. relevant B G FOCU CUSTOMERS customer-focused organisation Corporate social responsibility (CSR) is an E MA RKE TS • Collaborate with customers to • Focus and prioritise to maximise return integral part of the way wedrivedo business category at growth BE A SIGNIFICA on investments Carlsberg. We look across• Create our abusiness winning route op-to market Ef • Continuously develop and implement fe Custo m • Win with winning customers in Carlsberg Group Ways of Working and erations and along the value chain to assess M AT U R & ctivene onand off-trade Best Practices where our products, operations and people • Be the industry benchmark in Effi ss AND cie n c y NT have the biggest social and environmenPoint-of-Purchase execution G Y Collaborating with others LO YE ers BA AN TH SOCIETY AND REPUTATION PL A tal impact, then set out commitments to L B E E CO M P We recognise that we cannot tackle the global challenges facing OW • Enhance our reputation as a responsible R R our business and societies alone. Collaboration, both internally improve this impact. In doing this, we aim to IN GR N global brewer within the Group and externally with our suppliers and other stakeTH mitigate current risks, anticipate future risks, E EE • Integrate Corporate holders, is critical forResponsibility Social ensuring that we can amplify our positive M R S o c i e ty & ET W throughout impactsour value chain around the world and target our efforts more effectively. improve the efficiency of our operations, save KE A B TS R e p u ta t i o n N CE • Improve the image of the beer category W E zvon costs and innovate our portfolio – all HE ES RE PR WE CE while creating value for our stakeholders. CHO OSE T BA L AN O CO M P E T E Collaboration is a cornerstone of our strategic approach. We identify relevant partners, both upstream and downstream Activating our priorities We respond to the global challenges by identifying priorities of our operations, to improve our impact within our three CSR themes (see page 7). For each of these sets through collective actions. WINNING We want to win Together we We are each Our consumers and We are engaged of priorities, , we develop clear actions and targets to measure BEHAVIOURS are stronger empowered to customers are theour heartprogress in the with society shortand medium-term perspectives. make a difference of every decision we make Our commitments are translated into prio­rities, which are activated by establishing measurable shortand medium-term targets and year-on-year actions. Our strategy comes to life through our commitments, collaborations and priorities. Carlsberg Group CSR Report 2014 Our CSR framework 7 OUR CSR Resources & Environment FRAMEWORK Our products depend on natural resources. As these resources are under pressure globally, we need to address the impact of our operations and products across the supply chain. We do this by embedding circularity in all our operations, brewing more We have developed a new efficiently and supporting healthy ecosystems. sustainability framework that captures and explains our CSR priorities. These are now centred around three overarching themes. Under the theme of Resources & Environment, our CSR activity is oriented towards addressing the societal challenge of the increasing scarcity of resources and the need to manage the environmental impact of our operations across the supply chain while protecting the sources from which we draw our natural raw materials. Resources and environment Health and wellbeing Pe The position and impacts of our products in society, and our efforts to promote moderate People & Policies Health & Well-being consumption where beer is enjoyed as part Working the Carlsberg way: We want our products to We want to create healthy and be part of a balanced lifestyle. of a healthy lifestyle, are the focus of our safe workplaces, set standards We promote moderate conHealth & Well-being theme. for our labour and human rights sumption, combat drinking and practices, conduct business driving and underage drinking, in an ethical manner and engageResources andPeople environment Health and wellbeing People responsibly and communicate and politics Resources Our third theme, People and environment & Policies, recognises Health and wellbeing and politics with communities. in our marketing. our role as a growing global company that each year employs more people from different cultures used to working with different norms. At Carlsberg, we are therefore implementing universal standards for the way we work, ensuring safe workplaces where people can develop, and prioritising how we contribute to communities. RESOURCES & ENVIRONMENT OUR COMMITMENT • Optimising resource effectiveness OUR PRIORITIES • Carlsberg Circular Community • Efficient brewing • Healthy ecosystems Carlsberg Group CSR Report 2014 Resources & Environment 9 RESOURCES & ENVIRONMENT Optimising resource effectiveness ACTIVATING OUR PRIORITIES ARTICULATING OUR COMMITMENT COLLABORATING WITH OTHERS TARGETS FOR 2017 We strive to optimise resource use across Many of the global resource challenges 1. 5-10% reduction in relative consumption our operations and proactively address our are upstream of our operations, along our for CO2 , energy and water 1 impacts on the environment to contribute to supply chain and within the communities in 2. 17 suppliers in the Carlsberg Circular a more sustainable future. which we operate. Community 3. 3 Cradle-to-Cradle® product certifications Globally, resources are under pressure. Resource scarcity, We partner with suppliers, farmers, peers and social organi4. Annual consumer-facing sustainable waste and land degradation are impacting on business and sations to address these challenges. By doing so, we leverpackaging activity by all Group companies society. Sustainable, affordable and accessible resources are age their expertise and combine it with our own to create a vital for our business if we are to drive shareholder value and stronger, collective response and make a positive contribu5. Improved return rate in markets where benefits for the communities in which we operate. We need tion to the communities in which we operate. returnable glass bottles are part of the to use our resources optimally: both within our breweries by long-term packaging strategy working efficiently and across our supply chain by preserving the ecosystems on which we depend and addressing the impact of our sourcing. 1 Compared with 2014 baseline, adjustable when relevant. Resources & Environment Carlsberg Circular Community 10 Ningxia Xixia Jianiang ACTIVATING OUR PRIORITIES Brewery raises the bar for CARLSBERG CIRCULAR COMMUNITY better bottle return practices. Visit carlsberggroup.com/csr Waste should not exist. Resources and products innovate partnership with key packaging suppliers aimed at eliminating packaging waste. We are also exploring other should be viewed and used as high-quality macircular solutions within and beyond our operations. terials optimised for reuse and recycling. Sustainable packaging Packaging contributes around 45% of our CO2 emissions. To This new circular thinking is imperative for sustaining the reduce our dependency on primary resources and preserve growth rates of our business and society at large. We are inpackaging materials, in 2013 we introduced the Sustainable creasingly applying circular strategies to our own operations Packaging Programme based on the concepts of reduce, and wider supply chain. reuse, recycle and rethink. We focus on solutions specific to the markets in which we operate by engaging our suppliers, A continuous striving to minimise the environmental impact customers and consumers in achieving our ultimate goal of of our operations and activities across the supply chain is eliminating the concept of waste. a good start, but it is not enough. We need to find more effective ways to decouple growth from environmental impact. Throughout 2014, we lightweighted our packaging products, Collaboration with others is essential for achieving this. To thereby lowering environmental impact and increasing conaccelerate our efforts, in 2014 we took the important first sumer convenience. We conducted our semi-annual packaging step of establishing the Carlsberg Circular Community, an benchmark to identify the potential for reducing the weight SELECTED KPIs 6 partners have joined the Carlsberg Circular Community 15 sites are capturing biogas from wastewater treatment 45 consumer-facing campaigns on sustainable packaging carried out* Carlsberg Italia pours all draught beer in DraughtMaster™ * Within KPMG’s assurance scope. Visit carlsberggroup.com/csr Resources & Environment Carlsberg Circular Community 11 and CO2 impact of our packaging, primarily renewable energy sources. We are routinely 2014 COMMITMENTS 2014 DELIVERIES glass, PET and aluminium bottles and cans. investing in new technologies and solutions. For example, our subsidiary Danish Malting Carlsberg Circular Community We will use the results to further reduce the Group is investing in new biomass boilers weight and complexity of our glass bottle powered by wood chips rather than conven1. Onboard at least 3 suppliers in the Community 1. Onboarded 6 partners in the Community portfolio in 2015. tional energy, which will make its heating 2. Conduct C2C assessments of at least 3 products 2. Conducted 5 C2C assessments close to CO2-neutral in the future. 3. Obtain 1 C2C product certification 3. Obtained C2C certification for Carlsberg and Supported by the right infrastructure, Somersby aluminium cans in the UK returnable glass bottles (RGBs) are the Working with consumers and most environmentally friendly single-serve customers Consumer awareness and engagement solution. In a number of markets, we are Building circularity across our value chain achieving return rates of 95-100%. We aim requires engagement with customers and 1. Drive consumer awareness on recycling 1. Ran 45 consumer-facing campaigns at through campaigns and customer cooperation 11 different companies to increase return rates in high-potential consumers to ensure that our packaging remarkets by sharing best practices and supmains in continuous material loops and does porting relevant local initiatives. A significant not end up in landfill or in the biosphere. Performance improvements remaining challenge is those markets with While some markets, such as Denmark, have 1. Collect more refillable glass bottles (RGBs) 1. Conducted benchmark on weight and return limited infrastructure and a lack of systemwell-established systems and a strong culture and reduce packaging weight through rates of RGBs atic performance measurement. of recycling, this is not the case everywhere. increased transparency and best-practice sharing 2. Completed RGB transparency survey and We therefore collaborate with retailers to suplaunched global best-practice site Within the Carlsberg Circular Community, port consumer recycling. In Poland, we have in 2014 we conducted five assessments uspartnered with Tesco Polska, the Eurocash ing the Cradle-to-Cradle® methodology. We Group, KOBA Recovery and the Our Earth Innovations and life cycle assessments are currently working with our partners to Foundation to create awareness of recycling, 1. Upgrade instant LCA tool and include liquids 1. Delivered first draft of final tool upgrade optimise packaging materials with a view to collecting 47 tonnes of glass in 2014. In the introducing the first packaged product with UK, we have supported the Every Can Counts Waste to Energy Cradle-to-Cradle® certification in 2015. campaign, engaging consumers at three festivals to encourage can recycling on-site. 1. Evaluate relevant breweries (>400,000 hl 1. Completed feasibility analysis capacity) on feasibility of biogas production Waste and by-products 2. Developed forecast and solution model to Circularity is becoming a more integrated We want to inspire consumers to think more improve energy mix and reduce CO2 in Asia part of our brewing operations. Waste and actively about circularity and broader susvia biogas recovery and use of biomass and natural gas by-products from the brewing process tainability. In 2014, we became a founding provide excellent opportunities for recycpartner of the digital media platform “Collect2. Initiate 1 Waste to Energy pilot in each of our 2. Not completed due to lack of feasibility 3 regions and standardisation effect ling. Today, many of our breweries recycle ively”, which aims to drive conversation and close to 100% of their total solid waste and accelerate the shift towards more sustainable by-products. Examples include brewer’s behaviour. grains sold as animal feed and the recovery of methane from the anaerobic digestion of wastewater to produce renewable energy for use at our breweries. Throughout 2014, a total of 15 breweries captured bio­gas from their wastewater plants. In total, 5.2% of our heating energy comes from Resources & Environment Carlsberg Circular Community 12 CARLSBERG CIRCULAR COMMUNITY 2015 COMMITMENTS Carlsberg Circular Community 1. Onboard 4 new partners (total of 10) RY NT AS 2. Obtain 1 more C2C certification (total of 2) EE SE SS SR M M EN STE T SY & EC O O I Consumer awareness and engagement OR RAW MATERIALS PT SU M G RS PP 1. Increase number of companies conducting consumer-facing sustainable packaging campaigns UP N E TIO CY PA LI ISA CL RT ER N IN S Innovations and life cycle assessments 1. Launch 1 sustainable packaging innovation Carlsberg 2. Introduce updated LCA tool in relevant business functions Circular Community DISPOSAL & BREWING & Wasteto Energy COLLECTION BOTTLING 1. Increase existing and evaluate new biogas recovery opportunities Inspired by Cradle-to-Cradle® N S N CO ER AT SU M M IO O BE ER ST RM VI S CU FO HA IN O UR & CH N O AN TI GE CONSUMPTION I CA UN MM CO Carlsberg and selected global suppliers have joined forces to rethink the design and production of packaging material and develop the next generation of packaging products that are optimised for recycling and reuse while retaining or improving their quality and value. Read more at www.carlsberggroup.com/csr Resources & Environment Collaboration in action 13 COLLABORATION IN ACTION HELLO AGAIN The future belongs to companies Using the Cradle-to-Cradle® design framethat can deliver sustainable work created by Professor Michael Braungart products to consumers. and William McDonough, we are developing a Cradle-to-Cradle® roadmap and assessment of our products. In the future, we will see increasing pressure on natural resources due to the rising As part of this initiative, together with our demand for consumer goods. This will mean founding partner Rexam, we recently received that businesses must use materials more bronze Cradle-to-Cradle® certification for our efficiently. However, the current efficiency Carlsberg and Somersby cans in the UK. Carlsberg and its suppliers are taking an approaches adopted by industry are unlikely Carlsberg’s UK customers can see their important step on the roadmap towards creating to be sufficient to bring about long-term, recycled cans back on the shelves in just six new benefits with packaging. This cooperation is sustainable change. weeks, with a 95% energy saving compared to the production of an aluminium can from new. a great example of companies planning together Reducing dependence on primary materials for for the future, creating solutions to the global the creation of consumer goods is one of the Our view of the future? We want all rechallenges that face us all. ways companies can ensure sustainable growth sources to maintain their value and quality Professor Michael Braungart, Cradle-to-Cradle® pioneer for their shareholders and society at large. throughout endless life cycles. Our goal is for packaging to have more than a “lifetime Join the debate at At Carlsberg, we have joined forces with warranty”; we want it to have an “after-life www.carlsberggroup/csr/conversations selected partners and suppliers to rethink warranty”. the design and production of packaging materials, and to develop the next generation of That’s the future we packaging products pre-optimised for recycwant to build, can by can. ling and reuse while retaining or improving their quality and value – often referred to as “upcycling”. Resources & Environment Efficient brewing 14 ACTIVATING OUR PRIORITIES Fredericia (Denmark) going EFFICIENT BREWING from bottom to top performance Visit carlsberggroup.com/csr Optimising resource consumption and manIn 2014, we introduced a new global resource efficiency aging environmental impact start within our strategy to strengthen performance across our global brewing sites over the next three years. The key elements of this own breweries and logistics operations. strategy are: (i) developing a tailored approach for each brewery; (ii) introducing global processes for high-impact By setting global standards, driving local improvements and sites; and (iii) pioneering new technologies through research implementing innovative solutions, we improve the efficiency and partnerships. of our resource use and reduce our impact. A specific focus for the year was to conduct audits of our Environmental management is at the core of our operations. newly acquired breweries in Chongqing, China, using internal This starts with our Group Environment Policy, which outexperts. These sites have now been included in our global lines the standards that all our brewing facilities and logistics reporting system, which will help strengthen their environoperations should meet. To continuously improve our use of mental performance in the coming years. resources, we have set year-on-year improvement targets for energy use, water consumption and CO2 emissions. Global programmes and local initiatives are carried out to help us achieve these targets and create shareholder and stakeholder benefits. SELECTED KPIs* Relative energy consumption Relative CO2 emissions1 Relative water consumption (kWh/hl) (kg CO2/hl) (hl/hl) 32 9 5 30 4 8 28 7 3 26 6 2 24 22 5 1 20 4 0 12 13 14 12 13 14 Carlsberg India invests 12 13 14 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 in water savings * Within KPMG’s assurance scope. 1 2012 and 2013 figures restated. Visit carlsberggroup.com/csr Resources & Environment Efficient brewing 15 Water consumption* Sustainable logistics 2014 COMMITMENTS 2014 DELIVERIES Water is a crucial resource for us and our Transportation of finished products to our communities. We are proud to be one of the customers contributes to our global CO2 Utility leadership world’s leading brewing companies when it emissions. We are continuously improving comes to consumption of water. New dediour transportation efficiency, switching to 1. Introduce ISO 50001 energy management 1. Introduced framework on ISO 5001 to utility system (EnMS) experts cated programmes, such as the introduction less CO2-intensive trucks, using rail wherof the total water management concept in ever possible and collaborating to find more Initiated several national EnMS certifications India, are further improving our efficiencies. innovative solutions. Throughout 2014, we 2. Launch new total water management (TWM) 2. Completed pilot water audit with true water We have integrated and included data from continued to implement our route planconcept pricing our new and existing Chinese and Indian ning/telematics and ecodriver training in Introduced water pricing methodology as sites into our reporting scope. Excluding six markets in Western Europe to reduce standard means of pricing these sites, our water efficiency improved distance driven and fuel consumption. We slightly from 3.31 hl/hl in 2013 to 3.27 hl/hl also continued to upgrade our global fleet Revised TWM initiative with conceptual design of water-recycling plants for 2 plants in India in 2014. Including our new sites, our water with more environmentally friendly trucks, efficiency decreased by 2.2% to 3.38 hl/ such as in the UK, where we invested in 98 hl. Compared with 2013, 37 sites improved higher-efficiency, cleaner trucks with Euro 6 Technology pioneer their ratios, and we expect to see continued engines. Our Swiss organisation was award1. Continue to develop supplier partnerships to 1. Continued strategic partnerships with packaging improvements in line with our year-on-year ed the Zurich Climate Prize for its pioneerimprove and innovate efficient technologies and brewery processing suppliers, e.g. optimistargets going forward. ing investment in the world’s first 18-tonne ing cooling demands and electrical energy conservation for filling lines electric truck. Energy and CO2 emissions* 2. Design resource-efficient and sustainable flag2. Developed standard engineering design and ship brewery plant guidelines for heating, CO2 recovery, comAddressing the challenge of climate change During the year, we began drawing up enpressed air and refrigeration plants requires reduced energy consumption and vironmental guidelines for our warehouses, increased use of cleaner and renewable and this will continue in 2015. Getting better sources, thereby lowering CO2 emissions. data quality to make the right decisions will 2015 COMMITMENTS Our energy efficiency and CO2 ratios are be another priority going forward. To this among the lowest in the industry, but we still end, we are working on a new management Utility leadership see scope for improvement. system that will allow us to better calculate 1. Develop ISO 50001 energy management system: standards and guidance on benchmarking, the CO2 emissions from our transportation monitoring and targeting in breweries, essential requirements on operation and maintenance of Our energy efficiency decreased by 4.9%, flows. Once fully operational, this system will utility plants and major consumers of utilities and our relative CO2 emissions increased by help us to set more specific targets for our 2. Improve utility benchmarking and targeting system 10.4%. While this was mainly caused by the global logistics emissions. 3. Conduct utility audits and implement improvement programmes focused on priorities in regions inclusion of new sites in our 2014 reporting scope, we are not satisfied with this result, 4. Develop total water management (TWM) concept/true water pricing to drive water conservation and driving improvements at these new sites 5. Analyse and plan for a low-carbon fuel strategy in Asia will be our key focus in the coming years. Compared with our 2013 baseline, it is, Technology pioneer however, satisfactory to see that our energy efficiency has improved by 2.3% to 27.4 1. Continue to develop efficiency solutions through supplier partnerships kWh/hl, with relative CO2 emissions from 2. Design resource-efficient and sustainable flagship brewery plant and standard equipment units; production sites decreasing by 5.0% to 6.2 complete utility plant standardisation for water and wastewater * Paragraph contains indicators and related explakg CO2/hl. nations that are within KPMG’s assurance scope. 3. Increase renewable energy consumption to change the energy mix and reduce our carbon footprint in Asia Resources & Environment Healthy ecosystems 16 Baltika Breweries’ Seven Rivers ACTIVATING OUR PRIORITIES initiative is recognised as one of HEALTHY ECOSYSTEMS Russia’s best CSR projects Visit carlsberggroup.com/csr Ecosystems and the services they provide are or our use of potable water in our breweries, we impact the instrumental for our company’s entire supply associated ecosystems. We are collaborating with others to better address this impact; from working with farmers to chain. We rely on healthy soil to grow the introduce new barley varieties, to global and local industrial barley from which our beer is made and on partnerships. clean fresh water to actually make the beer. Land and agriculture Healthy, productive agriculture is necessary to produce the As we come to better understand our impact and dependingredients for our products. At the same time, a significant ency on these ecosystems, we are striving to preserve their part of our environmental footprint is within agriculture. For value for business and the communities that rely on them. many years, we have been engaging directly with the farmers who grow our barley malt to improve the sustainability Beer is a natural product, its main ingredients being water, of their farming practices. We do this through various agro barley, malt and hops. All these raw materials depend on projects in our key growing regions, including Denmark, healthy ecosystems to maintain their value, and we as a Poland, Russia, India and China. Here, we facilitate know­ business depend on them. Through the various activities in ledge-sharing meetings between farmers, provide technical our value chain, whether the growing of barley by farmers agro support and organise audits to identify opportunities. SELECTED KPIs 1,750 farmers introduced our null-LOX variety in 2014 25 null-LOX varieties officially approved and scaled up for large-scale commercial production Working with farmers in Russia Visit carlsberggroup.com/csr Resources & Environment Healthy ecosystems 17 By implementing these best practices, we Wastewater treatment remains a key 2014 COMMITMENTS 2014 DELIVERIES are reducing the negative impacts on soil element in reducing our impact on local quality, for example from the use of artificial ecosystems. Our environmental policy sets Future resources fertilisers. These agro projects also play an out clear standards for the treatment of our important role in the economic development effluent. 1. Continue water source protection 1. Completed water risk analysis based on reported data and direct contact of the regions in which they are implemented. Our Russian agro projects, for instance, In Russia, our Seven Rivers clean-up pro2. Explore further purchase of renewable 2. Implemented renewable energy certificate energy certificates scheme provide nearly 15,000 jobs. ject, which targets ecosystems around the country’s major rivers, was recognised as 3. Achieve 1% improvement in renewable 3. Increased share of renewable energy to 5.2% energy consumption Drawing on our world-class research experone of the best CSR projects in the country. tise, we have introduced a series of revolutionary barley varieties that are more resistCollaborative responses ant to climate change and drought, generate Ecosystem services is a complex and relahigher yields for farmers and reduce energy tively new area for companies. We realise 2015 COMMITMENTS consumption in the malting process. These that in order to better understand our pioneering innovations help to secure our impact and create long-lasting change, we Future resources future raw material supply. need to collaborate. We are playing a leading role in the Beverage Industry Environmental 1. Continue water source protection (focused on water availability and risk evaluation) Water in the supply chain Roundtable (BIER) to develop principles for 2. Asia focus: Respond to water scarcity issues through advanced water reuse and recycling We operate in a number of regions around good ecosystem service stewardship. In this focused on 2-3 sites in India and screening of sites in China the world where water is scarce. In 2013, connection, we are consulting with a number we conducted a water risk assessment to of leading global organisations, such as better understand the specific issues in the World Business Council for Sustainable those regions and identify mitigating actions. Development. COLLABORATIVE MEMBERSHIPS A key regional focus for water scarcity measIn 2014, we continued our collaboration with ures is India. Due to lower-than-average the United Nations Industrial Development rainfall in the past two years and urbanisaOrganization (UNIDO) and implemented the tion in the industrial town of Aurangabad, first project as part of our five-year partnerwhere Carlsberg India has operations, ship. To catalyse the development of waterdemand for water has increased. This has shed projects, we take part in the publicresulted in reduced availability of water for private partnership Water Benefit Partners. production and the need to procure water This partnership is developing an innovative via tankers. In response to this challenge, results-based financing mechanism to supwe are implementing our total water manport water projects in water-scarce regions agement concept to reduce water consumpbased on the issuing and sale of water betion and ease the pressure on local water nefit certificates (WBCs). resources. We have invested in new equipment, including a pioneering water recycling plant, which will make Aurangabad one of the world’s most water-efficient breweries. Resources Carlsberg Group CSRCollaboration Report 2014 in & Environment action Chapter 18 COLLABORATION IN ACTION GROWING A 20,000-year-old product needs to be reinvented to prepare for the future. No barley, no beer. This grain is an absolute must in order for us to brew. And to brew logical objectives in order to satisfy both farmers and the brewing industry. Since TOMORROW’S BARLEY beer that is “probably the best”, it needs to the mid-1970s, Carlsberg and SECOBRA be of the highest quality. For centuries, farmRecherches have been collaborating on the ers and plant breeders have been creating breeding of malting barley. new varieties of barley, cross-breeding to improve yield and quality. But changes to Today, the collaboration focuses on accelerour climate require specific, sustainabilityated development of new, high-yielding, focused initiatives and collaboration throughdisease-tolerant malting barley varieties out the grain supply chain. And in scientific that have special properties for brewing, are research terms, we need them fast. adapted to a broad geographical area and different climatic environments, and are Through our long-term strategic In Carlsberg’s very own laboratories – the profitable for farmers. partnership with Carlsberg, we are very same scientific workspace set up by our founder, J.C. Jacobsen, in 1875 – we Originally developed by Carlsberg and now accelerating the development of new are working on the latest series of barley part of SECOBRA’s pipeline, null-LOX is the innovative brewing traits, thereby varieties, which are stronger and, not least, latest development in barley. It helps beer adapting malting barley for future more resilient to drought. This research is to stay fresher for longer and improves foam societal needs, providing benefits for of major importance not only for Carlsberg, stability. More than 25 null-LOX varieties but for all farmers growing barley worldwide, have been officially approved and scaled up all partners across the value chain and we are working with them to take these for large-scale commercial production. Nulland giving consumers an even better new varieties out of the breeding beds of our LOX barley is now being grown and tested in (Carlsberg) drinking experience. laboratories and into the fields. This requires fields in Denmark, Sweden, Finland, Poland, Gilles Fouquin, Directeur Général, SECOBRA a collaborative approach. France, Serbia, the Czech Republic, Belarus, Germany, the United Kingdom, Kazakhstan, SECOBRA Recherches, which has been at Portugal, Spain, Russia, Ukraine, Australia Join the debate at the forefront of barley development for and New Zealand – to name just a few. www.carlsberggroup/csr/conversations many years, has found a way to create a balance between agronomical and technoAs the climate changes, so should we! CIRCULARITY IN OUR VALUE CHAIN We are embedding more circularity in the various links of our value chain. AGRICULTURE MALTING We are introducing new barley varieties that are Danish Malting Group will start using more climate-resistant, use less energy and water in wood chips to make its heating close malting, and produce higher yields for our farmers (as well as making our Carlsberg beer taste better!). to CO2-neutral in the future. 20% less water is used to make our beer in 2014 than back in 2007 BREWING PACKAGING Brewer’s grains, once spent, are reused We buy renewable power certificates for all We use the cradle-to-cradle methodology to create for animal feed and soil improvement. our Western European breweries to stimulate the next generation packaging for 'upcycling' 3 (putting a bit of beer back in the demand for renewable energy. ground, so to speak). Cradle-to-Cradle® certified products by 2017 CONSUMERS In Denmark, consumers help us to achieve a Did you help to collect cans near 100% return of glass bottles. at one of last year's global music festivals? Cheers for that! A beer bottle can be reused 40 times (but we need our consumers to help!). HEALTH & WELL-BEING OUR COMMITMENT • Promoting responsible drinking OUR PRIORITIES • Moderate consumption • Underage drinking and drink driving • Responsible marketing Carlsberg Group CSR Report 2014 Health & Well-being 21 HEALTH & WELL-BEING Promoting responsible drinking ACTIVATING OUR PRIORITIES ARTICULATING OUR COMMITMENT COLLABORATING WITH OTHERS TARGETS FOR 2017 We want our products to be associated with Creating effective change requires 1. All print communication above A4 and celebration, friendship and enjoyment of partnerships and industry collaboration. digital and TVCs to carry responsible life. We have adopted a proactive approach drinking messages1 to promoting responsible drinking. Issues leading to irresponsible drinking are complex, and 2. All Group companies to implement at least there is no one-size-fits-all solution. However, we are cur1 responsible drinking programme Beer consumed in moderation and in the right context can rently working with relevant organisations and across our 3. 100% of packaging to carry health warnings industry to define and implement commitments that address be part of a healthy, balanced lifestyle. However, irrespons­ to discourage harmful drinking1 ible drinking can result in harm to individuals and societies. alcohol-related issues. Today, there are still too many situations in which this hap4. Launch responsible retail guidelines1 pens. Global commitments guide our local actions to address 5. 100% of companies to have a procedure for the negative effects of misuse and position beer as a healthy, ensuring compliance with our Marketing responsible choice, contributing positively to the well-being Communication Policy of our consumers around the world. 6. 100% of companies to include Marketing Communication Policy in agency agreements 7. 100% of relevant employees to be trained 8. Avoid producing alcoholic products with excessive amounts of added stimulants1 9. Avoid promoting the energising or stimulant 1 Part of global industry commitments for 2018. effects of additives to alcoholic products1 Health & Well-being Moderate consumption 22 The Drink with Respect ACTIVATING OUR PRIORITIES initiative in operation MODERATE CONSUMPTION at Roskilde Festival Visit carlsberggroup.com/csr Beer brings people together and, when mitments we have made within our industry and in tandem enjoyed in moderation, it can be part with important health-related organisations. We are part of the World’s Leading Alcohol Producers, the International Alliof a healthy, balanced lifestyle. We are ance for Responsible Drinking (IARD), the European Alcohol very conscious that overconsumption can and Health Forum (EAHF) and The Brewers of Europe’s Beer have severe harmful effects, and we are Pledge. Our responsible drinking commitments are activated committed to helping fight excessive locally by our Group companies. While we think these contributions are good, we are planning to do more by working with drinking and supporting consumers in others in the category and within society to address specific making responsible choices. areas that need collective solutions. Engaging consumers Our ambition is to be part of the solution to the problems The occasions when we have direct engagement with our caused by overconsumption. We love our beer, but we also acconsumers provide the best opportunities to encourage modknowledge the risk of excessive drinking. And we take action eration in consumption. We have drawn up new Group-wide at local, global and industry-wide levels. In 2014, we launched commitments to develop campaigns that promote moderaa new Responsible Drinking Policy to further strengthen our tion and discourage excess. These campaigns are often approach and focus our efforts. This policy reflects the combuilt around our well-known brands, which strengthens the SELECTED KPIs 56% of Group companies provide responsible drinking messaging on all marketing communication (digital, 62% of Group companies implemented responsible drinking programmes print, TVCs) Responsible drinking in Malaysia Visit carlsberggroup.com/csr Health & Well-Being Moderate consumption 23 message for the consumer. A good example are not satisfied with this and have identified is our Drink with Respect campaign, impleactions to improve this in 2015 and beyond. mented as part of our Tuborg brand. As part of the campaign, consumers are asked, in Offering consumers an a fun way, to explain why they are commitinformed choice ted to drinking with respect. At the 2014 We want to be open about the health Roskilde Festival in Denmark, the campaign aspects of beer, both the positive potential reached approximately 60,000 consumers health benefits of moderate drinking and over four days. the negative impacts of overconsumption. Through our commitments in IARD, we are In 2014, we launched In Sweden, we are working with our retail partner ICA to support responsible drinking supporting the World Health Organization’s global strategy to reduce the harmful use of a new non-alcoholic by offering free water at events in order to reduce overconsumption of alcohol. Also in alcohol. We support research into the health effects of beer consumption to provide a beer called Nordic. Sweden, Falcon Beer has supported rock solid fact base for regulation and recommenfestivals and developed the slogan “Rock dations on responsible drinking. with modesty and responsibility” around music sponsorships. In France, we commissioned and continue to provide ongoing support for an annual surAt the 2014 Future Music Festival Asia in vey on national alcohol consumption, sharing Malaysia, we implemented a broad camthe results with national authorities. 2014 COMMITMENTS 2014 DELIVERIES paign to encourage moderation. Using flyers, drinking tips and awareness, our messages Our primary packaging carries relevant inEncourage responsible drinking reached more than 10,000 people. formation on alcohol consumption, including 1. Implement moderation lines in our marketing 1. Moderation lines implemented for all brands by the risks to health of excessive drinking. communication for our global brands (all print 56.4% of companies Going forward, we aim to develop standard We have made a worldwide commitment above A4 and digital communication) platforms and integrate responsibility mesthat all our primary brands will carry health 2. Carry out responsible drinking programmes 2. Responsible drinking campaigns conducted sages into our global sponsorships. As part warnings by 2018. In 2014, 67% of our in 90% of our companies (compared to by 62% of Group companies either alone or in 69% in 2013) collaboration with local brewing associations of our renewed deal with the English Premier products carried health warnings.* League in 2014, perimeter boards at all Premier League games now convey responsible As part of our commitment to EAHF, we drinking messages. are expanding consumer choice by offering non-alcoholic beer. In 2014, we launched the 2015 COMMITMENTS In total, we ran more than 115 campaigns new non-alcoholic brand Nordic in Denmark. throughout 2014, often working together In Sweden, we launched a new Falcon nonEncourage responsible drinking with brewery associations and other stakealcoholic brand during the peak season, 1. Develop a dedicated responsible drinking programme for a flagship Carlsberg brand holders in our local markets. underlining our commitment to this category. As of 2014, 16% of the brands in our port­ 2. Continue to implement our global commitments Overall, the percentage of companies that folio have a non-alcoholic beer variant. 3. Include responsible drinking messages in our marketing communication conducted campaigns to promote responsible drinking went down, partially due to the acquisition of new companies in China. We * Within KPMG’s assurance scope. Health & Well-being Underage drinking and drink driving 24 Carlsberg helps launch the ACTIVATING OUR PRIORITIES International Alliance for UNDERAGE DRINKING AND Responsible Drinking (IARD) Visit carlsberggroup.com/csr DRINK DRIVING Sometimes, drinking alcohol is not the biggest impact and engaging with partners in the process. right thing to do, and some people should Since 2013, we have made a number of commitments in the areas of underage drinking and drink driving, and in 2014 not drink at all. We are trying to find soluwe added new commitments to the European Alcohol and tions that contribute to positive standards of Health Forum to strengthen our approach and support the behaviour by addressing high-risk contexts, EU Alcohol Strategy. but we cannot do this alone. Addressing underage drinking Beer products should be consumed as intended – by adults We want our products to be consumed responsibly by adults only and at appropriate times. For many years, we have at the right times. However, in many places around the been implementing programmes to prevent underage drinkworld, underage drinking and drink driving are happening ing, however more work needs to be done. This is a complex too frequently and causing harm to society. We are deterissue, and addressing root causes requires a collective apmined to play our part in finding solutions to these problems, proach by society that includes authorities, retailers, health and accordingly we are looking at where we can make the organisations and parents. SELECTED KPIs 115 responsible drinking campaigns carried out by Group companies in 2014 67% of fermented produced volume carried health warnings* Promoting responsibility at a GreenFest in China * Within KPMG’s assurance scope. Visit carlsberggroup.com/csr Health & Well-being Underage drinking and drink driving 25 In Russia, we are addressing underage In Malawi, we ran a nationwide Drive Re2014 COMMITMENTS 2014 DELIVERIES drinking through Baltika Breweries’ longsponsibly campaign in collaboration with the running Beer Patrol campaign, which inlocal police. Provide consumer and customer information volves multiple stakeholders, including local regulators, police and key opinion leaders. In Internally, we set out specific commitments 1. Expand use of responsible drinking messages 1. Responsible drinking messages provided on all and/or standardised symbols or communicamarketing materials by 56% of Group companies 2014, a specific focus was raising awareness to prevent drinking and driving by our tion to warn about irresponsible drinking in point-of-sale contacts, with our employemployees. We have internal measures to 2. Initiate development of responsible retail 2. Developed draft retail guidelines within the ees handing out stickers and memo cards to prevent the potential harmful effects of alcoguidelines International Alliance for Responsible Drinking shop assistants reminding them that the sale hol consumption by employees in job-related of alcohol to minors is prohibited. situations. All Group companies are required to have a risk management plan addressing In 2014, Carlsberg Danmark signed a colthe specific risk of our salespeople driving 2015 COMMITMENTS laboration agreement with bartenders’ asafter drinking in job-related situations. Mitisociations to promote responsible drinking in gating actions need to be implemented, such Provide consumer and customer information hotels and restaurants, recognising the paras the provision of taxi vouchers to sales1. Increase share of volume carrying health warnings ticular risk of underage drinking in this secpeople for use in connection with evening tor. In the UK, we participate in Drinkaware’s events. As part of our commitment to EAHF, 2. Continue to implement our global commitments annual Parent Talk awareness campaign, in the coming years we will install alcolocks 3. Embed responsible drinking messaging in major sponsorship deals which supports parents in educating children in all our newly acquired trucks in Western about the effects of alcohol. Europe. Preventing drink driving These actions, highly practical in nature, are Drinking and driving do not go together. helping us in our ambition to play a role in Globally, the practice is causing signifiaddressing high-risk areas related to alcohol cant harm to society. We have a long track use. And while we are content with the local record of playing a proactive role in adinitiatives and the global commitments, we dressing this issue. At the same time, strict know that there is more work to do in 2015 enforcement of drink-drive regulations by and beyond. authorities is needed to improve road safety. Our response to this challenge is centred on prevention through designated-driver programmes and safe-travel programmes promoting ride shares, free taxis and public transport. In 2014, we chaired a roundtable forum in St Petersburg discussing the issue of road safety and organised a “Don’t drink and drive” campaign in the city. In Laos, we collaborated with the Ministry of Education and Sports, local police and the district office in the capital Vientiane to organise safe-driving training sessions. Health & Well-being Responsible marketing 26 ACTIVATING OUR PRIORITIES GLOBAL COMMITMENTS AND MEMBERSHIPS RESPONSIBLE MARKETING Advertising beer products in the right way is ing materials, and at all points of contact with consumers in important for reducing irresponsible consumpall media. Compliance with the policy is driven by continuous training, pre-production policy verification procedures and a tion. By setting standards and making comGroup-wide governance system. mitments for our marketing communication, we aim to contribute to positive standards of Along with other alcohol-producing companies, we have drinking behaviour and promote the enjoysigned a number of international commitments such as the European Beer Pledge, CEO Global Commitments and the ment of beer socially and in moderation. World Federation of Advertisers’ Responsible Marketing Pact. These commitments strengthen our marketing codes and actions to address alcohol misuse while fostering collaboraOur Marketing Communication Policy sets the standards for tive action among our peers to drive stronger improvements ensuring that our marketing, advertising and other consumer and results. communication reflects our overall commitment to promoting responsible drinking in the right context by people of In 2014, we focused on delivering on these commitments legal drinking age. The standards apply to all our Group while consolidating the implementation of our policy across companies as well as to our suppliers of commercial marketthe business. We introduced a Group-wide requirement to SELECTED KPIs 90% of all Group companies have a compliance procedure in place 56% of companies carry responsible drinking messages on all their printed materials EUROPEAN ALCOHOL AND HEALTH FORUM Health & Well-being Responsible marketing 27 furnish our packaging with symbols or text 2014 COMMITMENTS 2014 DELIVERIES informing about the potential harmful effects of alcohol, or alternatively links to websites Comply with our Marketing Communication Policy with equivalent information. 1. Update training materials, track execution 1. Tracked all global execution and took corrective and follow up on non-compliance incidents action on non-compliance incidents Together with The Brewers of Europe, we are a founding member of European 2. 100% of companies to have procedures 2. Introduced specific procedures for all markets in place to ensure compliance with our MarketAlcohol and Health Forum, where we have ing Communication Policy in Western Europe introduced a number of new initiatives to 3. 100% of companies to include our Marketing 3. Introduced Group-wide agreement to include support the EU Alcohol Strategy to reduce Communication Policy in agency agreements our Marketing Communication Policy in agency harmful consumption. These include specific in Western Europe agreements in all markets targets to include responsible drinking messages in our marketing communication and at specific events such as music festivals. 2015 COMMITMENTS Going forward, we will continue to drive Comply with our Marketing Communication Policy the implementation of our policy across 1. Update policy and introduce digital guidelines the Group and closely align this with our global actions and industry commitments to 2. Implement actions to ensure that all print communications above A4 and digital and TVCs carry responsible drinking messages promote responsible drinking. Reflecting our increasing use of digital advertising, as part of our efforts within the World Federation of Advertisers we will update our policy next year to specifically cover digital marketing. CELEBRATE RESPONSIBLY (We’re not here to preach but you know what we mean). Our view? DON'T DRINK AND DRIVE (Think of all those iconic conversations with taxi drivers you would be missing.) Honestly, we rather sell 4 beers to a happy bunch than 5 to one irresponsible drinker. Our Action 115 campaigns last year to promote responsible drinking 62% of our companies are carrying out responsible drinking programmes (still some work to be done..) DRINK IN MODERATION (Drink with respect and know your limits). Our Action 67% of our products now carry health information 56% of our companies have responsible drinking messaging in all marketing communication PEOPLE & POLICIES OUR COMMITMENT • Working the Carlsberg way – everywhere OUR PRIORITIES • Health & safety • Labour & human rights • Business ethics • Responsible sourcing • Community engagement Carlsberg Group CSR Report 2014 People & Policies 30 PEOPLE & POLICIES Working the Carlsberg way ACTIVATING OUR PRIORITIES ARTICULATING OUR COMMITMENT COLLABORATING WITH OTHERS TARGETS FOR 2017 We aim to protect, develop and engage our We are using our Group-wide network to 1. Increase diversity and female employees. We want to make a positive share our expertise and best practices. representation at senior leadership level contribution to the communities in which we 2. Reduce lost-time accidents in Production operate. and Logistics by 40%1 By collaborating with suppliers, we improve standards throughout our supply chain. And we work with local and 3. Provide biannual training in the Business And we do this through the “Carlsberg way of working” global organisations to create value for society. Ethics Policy for all employees – by setting the right standards in our policies and guidelines. 4. Employees of the Group’s companies to carry out an aggregate total of 100,000 hours of voluntary activities annually The full set of targets is available 1 Compared with 2014 baseline. at carlsberggroup.com/csr. People & Policies Health & Safety Policy 31 HEALTH & SAFETY culture and performance: (i) high-risk activ­ 2014 COMMITMENTS 2014 DELIVERIES POLICY ities; (ii) policies and systems; (iii) leadership and organisation; and (iv) communicaRoad to zero accidents tions. All of these focus areas are driven by the global EHS Best Practice community and 1. Develop and revise new safety standards 1. Developed and implemented PPE, Traffic Standard, drafted SHAPE standard will give us a more robust programme to drive towards a zero-accident mindset. 2. Continue efforts in the H&S in Logistics initia2. Implemented a new 3-year strategy aligned tive with the EHS Best Practice community A safe and healthy working 3. Roll out an internal safety communication 3. Redesigned the EHS intranet, launched commuenvironment for our employees, In 2014, we worked closely with Logistics programme nication efforts and completed draft materials to develop a new Traffic Standard aimed at regardless of where they are for 1st 3 months to be launched in March 2015 reducing our risk in the areas of warehousoperating, is fundamental to the ing and transportation. We also collaborated 4. LTAR in Production: 7.8 4. LTAR in Production: 9.1 way we work at Carlsberg. By with Group Quality to develop an Integrated 5. LTAR in Logistics: 14.8 5. LTAR in Logistics: 17.4 setting standards, implementing Management System (IMS) geared towards ISO certification and combining 9001, robust systems and focusing on Policies and standards 14001, 18001 and 22000 under one manresponsibility and behaviour, agement umbrella. As part of the existing 1. Implement the 2nd phase of the coordinated 1. Implemented the 2nd phase of the roll-out certification roll-out we are instilling a dedicated OHSAS 18001 system, nine UK logistics sites 2. Certify 5 additional sites in Western Europe 2. Certified 9 logistics sites in the UK zero-accident culture across and one Ukrainian logistics site were certified. 2014 brought us new assets in China. 3. Certify 1 pilot site in Ukraine our Group. Utilising the vast experience from across the Carlsberg Group, we conducted a series of Leadership and organisation At Carlsberg, we have a simple vision – zero safety and health audits, which identified op1. Roll out a training programme as part of the 1. Developed and implemented a programme accidents. This ambition drives a culture of portunities that will help us reduce accidents Carlsberg Supply Chain Academy continuous improvement in our operations, at these breweries in the coming years. 2. Conduct at least 3 training sessions 2. 1st session conducted in January 2015 making health & safety (H&S) a natural part of everything we do. To achieve our ambiOne notable achievement was the Myanmar tion, as well as using our Health & Safety greenfield brewery reaching 1 million manPolicy as a foundation, we need to implehours without a lost-time injury during ment a comprehensive H&S programme with construction, a direct result of providing more 2015 COMMITMENTS a best-in-class mindset across the organisathan 5,300 man-hours of safety training to tion. We have to change the way we think the personnel working on the site. Other sigRoad to zero accidents and the way we are personally committed nificant accomplishments were the elimina1. Continue implementation of the SHAPE programme in order to ensure that we achieve the next tion of foot injuries at our Nepal site, through level of H&S performance. the implementation of new PPE standards, and the achievement of one year without a Policies and standards 2014 was a year of change in terms of H&S, lost-time accident in Croatia and India. 1. Continue phase 3 of the OHSAS certification for Western Europe and as part of the newly developed strategy we have defined our EHS Guiding Principles Although we did not meet our 2014 safety as well as four focus areas, each with its targets in Production and Logistics, we did Leadership and organisation own key actions to strengthen our H&S achieve an overall Group-wide reduction of 1. Complete phases 1 and 2 of the EHS Leadership Programme People & Policies Health & Safety Policy 32 9.9% in our lost-time accident rates. This sites. We look forward to 2015 as a year of SELECTED KPIs* reflects a continuing strong trend, with the substantial change that will bring reduced Group-wide lost-time accident rate coming risk and increased personal protection, Lost-time accident rate in Production Days lost rate in Production down by 42% in the past three years. Folthereby ensuring that we are offering safe (per 1,000 employees) (per 1,000 employees) lowing the inclusion in our reporting of sites and healthy working environments. 12 155 from our Indian and Chinese (Chongqing) 11 145 operations, we have now set ambitious new targets for 2017, including a 40% reduction 10 135 target for our Group-wide lost-time accident 9 125 rate. 8 115 Although we had no Carlsberg employee 7 105 fatalities, regrettably six contractors lost 12 13 14 12 13 14 20 their lives at our sites and we would like 20 20 20 20 20 to convey our deepest sympathies to the families affected. Any accident is one too Lost-time accident rate in Logistics Days lost rate in Logistics many, and we are working hard in the EHS (per 1,000 employees) (per 1,000 employees) Best Practice community to develop more 20 320 comprehensive contractor standards for 19 300 implementation in 2015. 18 280 In 2015, our main focus will be on continu17 260 ing the Zero Accident Campaign through implementation of SHAPE (Safety and 16 240 Health Assessment Program Excellence), 15 220 a programme that helps our sites to plan 12 13 14 12 13 14 20 20 20 20 20 20 actions for continuous improvement, build awareness, and engage management and the workforce in H&S activities. Despite significant improvements, maturity levels in safety and health still vary across the Group. * Within KPMG’s assurance scope. Through the SHAPE programme and other actions, we will address this issue while paying specific attention to high-risk areas and People & Policies Labour & Human Rights Policy 33 LABOUR & HUMAN RIGHTS POLICY Conducting business in feel engaged with the company, as well as of the Beer Selling Industry Council (BSIC), MY VOICE RESULTS accordance with international putting actions in place to develop women which has introduced a number of industry79% 78% for managerial positions in order to create a wide initiatives to address the issues relating standards, respecting individual to beer promoters in the region. In 2014, we more balanced employee base. employees and providing a saw improvements in the working conditions workplace in which those During 2014, we began reviewing our policy of the beer promoters, including their base engagement engagement employees can fulfill their against the UN Guiding Principles on Busisalary, and awareness of a grievance policy. score 2014 score 2013 ness and Human Rights to better understand potential are essential to the 90% 88% where our activities are linked to human Throughout 2014, we introduced a new success of a company. Clear rights. We identified that, while our Labour leadership competence framework defining policies, employee engagement Policy covers the provisions of the principles, the abilities, attitudes and knowledge that and career development an approach spanning several of Carlsberg’s are needed to realise our strategy. Our response rate response rate CSR areas is needed to address broader engagement survey showed that we are 2014 2013 opportunities form the core among the top employers in terms of emhuman rights issues. Defining this approach of our commitment. will be a focus for 2015. ployee engagement scores, and we are continuing to improve. However, the proportion In 2014, we developed an e-learning module of female managers within the Carlsberg Carlsberg sets high standards for creating to make our managers even more familiar Group did not change compared with the fair, respectable and safe conditions for all with our policy. The module has so far been previous year and our focus for 2015 will be our employees and for those who indirectly introduced in two countries and will be furto increase the number of female managers work with us. Our global Labour & Human ther rolled out in 2015. through various gender diversity actions. Rights Policy is enforced and compliance measured to safeguard those standards. As We asked the Danish Institute for Human For 2015, our priority will be to strengthen we are operating in the global marketplace, Rights (DIHR) to identify the key human our awareness and support of the UN Guidwe focus in particular on those markets rights-related impacts of our operations ing Principles. We will further roll out our where local labour practices and condiacross the value chain in Myanmar. The ree-learning module and continue to focus on tions do not meet the standards we have port will be made publicly available in 2015. gender diversity across the Group. set for ourselves across the Group. We do Based on DIHR’s findings, we will design this through targeted actions related to the action plans to prevent potential adverse context of these specific markets. impacts. The findings are currently being completed and will be made available as part Increasingly, we are looking at the broader of the opening of the brewery. scope of human rights and our impact in this area. We are providing opportunities for In Cambodia, we and our local joint venture our employees to develop their skills and partner Cambrew Ltd are founding members People & Policies Labour & Human Rights Policy 34 2014 COMMITMENTS 2014 DELIVERIES 2015 COMMITMENTS Talent management Policies and guidelines 1. Roll out leadership competence framework 1. Made leadership competences the yardstick for Use the e-learning module to create further awareness and understanding of the LHR Policy assessing performance and potential 2. Initiated a 360° feedback process for leaders based on leadership competences Training 3. Orientation to leadership competences built Evaluate the pilot and introduce it in other countries into and executed in global and local onboarding programmes Talent management Further roll out the leadership competence framework Diversity 1. Define at least 2 initiatives to 1. Amended and rolled out the Group recruitment achieve a higher degree of gender policy to increase female applicants for senior Diversity diversity in management positions management positions Continue with and initiate further gender diversity actions 2. Set targets (min. 33%) for intake into the leadership pipeline programme Employer branding 3. Started up an executive mentoring programme Carry out targeted communication of the updated Employer Branding and career site Employer branding 1. Introduce commitment to the Labour & 1. LHR Policy embedded in the Carlsberg Carlsberg Human Rights Policy into the Carlsberg Employer Branding and updated on the career site Group Employer Brand Policies and guidelines 1. Review the LHR Policy against the UN 1. Conducted a gap analysis Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights 2. Conduct a gap analysis of our LHR Policy against the UN Guiding Principles Training 1. Introduce new e-learning module on 1. Developed and introduced an e-learning module in LHR for Group HR and line managers in 2 countries 2 countries People & Policies Business Ethics Policy 35 BUSINESS ETHICS understanding of the updated policy, with 2014 COMMITMENTS 2014 DELIVERIES POLICY particular emphasis on the move to zero tolerance of facilitation payments. We emPolicy implementation barked on an ongoing programme to provide face-to-face training for senior manage1. Communicate updated policy in all markets 1. Updated policy communicated in a local in a language that at least 90% of local language in all markets ment in all high-risk markets and increase employees understand, with emphasis on engagement with our network of individuzero tolerance of facilitation payments Corruption and other unethical als with responsibility for business ethics in forms of conduct are major order to reinforce a culture of compliance. Data and documentation hindrances to sustainable Our whistleblower system was promoted 1. Optimise efficiency and documentation of 1. Rolled out COMS to Group functions, as well development and costly for to encourage employees to speak up about compliance work by implementing (COMS) as Carlsberg Norway (Ringnes) and Carlsberg Compliance Management System Danmark; provided business ethics e-learning businesses. Our founder, J.C. potential incidents. Training remained a key to all key employees in these markets via COMS Jacobsen, rooted Carlsberg’s priority for our business ethics network, with mandatory training for all key employees business practices in fair and (online and/or face to face). Our e-learning Awareness and compliance training ethical behaviour, and we strive tool, extended to additional markets, was 1. Continue training with greater focus on e1. Rolled out business ethics e-learning to learning additional markets to maintain these values in our further strengthened by the launch of our organisation today. new legal Compliance Management System (COMS). Another focus area was third-party screening, where we updated our screening We operate in a diverse, global marketplace tools, promoted them to all markets and proin which we are committed to growing and vided a number of targeted training sessions. 2015 COMMITMENTS developing Carlsberg’s business responsibly through sound, transparent operational Business ethics remains a high priority in Data and documentation practices. Our Business Ethics Policy and 2015. With the wider implementation of 1. Continue implementation of COMS to reach greater numbers of employees across the Group Guidelines outline the Carlsberg Group’s COMS, we will extend our e-learning tool 2. Roll out a risk assessment in COMS ethical stance, and support and guide our and ensure its availability in more Group lanemployees in making the right business deguages. We will also initiate a new business cisions. As we grow our business, it is crucial ethics risk assessment tool to make sure Third-party screening that we have business ethics on our agenda that we target our efforts most effectively. 1. Carry out third-party screening in all markets to ensure compliance with our policy across Building on the improved screening tools, we 2. Carry out ongoing monitoring of local market compliance with third-party screening our expanding operations. We must train will maintain our emphasis on compliance our employees and foster a clear compliance with third-party screening across the Group culture across the Group. by carrying out an audit in 2015. Building Awareness and compliance training on the improved screening tools, we will 1. Roll out e-learning in more Group languages In 2014, we renewed the focus on our busimaintain our emphasis on compliance 2. Continue face-to-face training of senior managers and on-site monitoring in all high-risk markets ness ethics activities in response to ongowith third party screening with ongoing ing monitoring that indicated we were not monitoring across the Group during 2015. uniformly achieving our aspirations. We therefore initiated a Group-wide awareness campaign to ensure communication and People & Policies Responsible Sourcing Policy 36 RESPONSIBLE this forum is the mutual recognition process, 2014 COMMITMENTS 2014 DELIVERIES SOURCING which aims to define common audit protocols and reduce audit fatigue. Using the POLICY Responsible Supplier Initiative SEDEX system, we share CSR audits with our industry peers and drive improvements 1. Close non-compliance incidents according to 1. Closed all non-compliances from 2013 findings from pilot in 2013 by actively following up on any non-compliances identified during the audits. 2. Continue to onboard suppliers in the 1. Initiated wave 2 in April 2014 with 17 suppliers Responsible Supplier Initiative A significant part of our social 2. Initiated wave 3 in September 2014 with and environmental footprint Throughout 2014, we continued to onboard 36 suppliers suppliers in our Responsible Supplier Initiacomes from our supply chain. 3. Conduct on-site audits of key suppliers in Asia 1. Completed or initiated 5 audits tive while focusing our audit efforts on Asian We are committed to ensuring suppliers with regard to our packaging and that our suppliers uphold the point-of-sale materials, which are categosame standards as our own ries that generally represent a higher risk 2015 COMMITMENTS of non-compliances. We added 53 suppliers companies. to SEDEX, which means that a total of 65 Responsible Supplier Initiative suppliers and 113 different supplier sites are 1. Close non-compliances 1. Follow up on and close non-compliances arising now registered in the system. During the from 2014 audits year, we supported our suppliers in clos2. Industry collaboration 1. Continue our membership of AIM-Progress By enforcing our policy, collaborating with ing all non-compliances arising from 2013 others and focusing on specific high-risk and audits. We also conducted 101 quality audits high-impact areas, we aim to improve the incorporating a dedicated CSR element. impact of our sourcing. For 2015, we will continue our Responsible At Carlsberg, our Supplier and Licensee Code Supplier Initiative to close non-compliances of Conduct sets standards for our suppliers arising from the audits conducted in 2014. that reflect our Group policies for Labour & We will continue to support industry colHuman Rights, Business Ethics, Environment laboration on responsible supplier standards and Health & Safety. These standards are through our membership of AIM-Progress. embedded in all global contracts. As part of our Responsible Supplier Initiative, we periodically audit suppliers to ensure compliance with our code. In so doing, we focus on those suppliers that have high impact or high embedded risk. Through our membership of the AIMProgress forum, we collaborate with other leading fast moving consumer goods (FMCG) manufacturers to enable and promote responsible sourcing practices and sustainable supply chains. Of particular relevance in People & Policies Community Engagement Policy 37 COMMUNITY many of them have a long track record of 2014 COMMITMENTS 2014 DELIVERIES ENGAGEMENT doing so. Their community initiatives focus on the global themes we address as a group, POLICY such as responsible drinking and sustainEmployee engagement – sustainable packaging able packaging, as well as more specific local 1. Introduce sustainable packaging initiatives in at 1. Sustainable packaging initiatives conducted least 3 markets by 9 Group companies with the involvement issues. of employees Businesses are so much more In France, Brasseries Kronenbourg’s foundaEmployee engagement – responsible drinking than just producers of goods and tion has supported more than 500 projects and contributed almost EUR 4m since 1996. 1. Develop global educational campaign for 1. Internal communication platform launched services. They are a nexus point implementation in selected markets in for exchanging experiences and sharing best In 2014, the foundation supported a wide in society, connecting people and variety of projects in the areas of culture, 2015-2016 practices 2. Both educationand retail-oriented youth communities. At Carlsberg, we are nature and solidarity, granting EUR 281,000 drinking prevention programmes conducted in 5 out of 44 markets committed to making a positive to projects run by nearly 40 social organisations. Around 265 Brasseries Kronenbourg impact on the communities in employees were involved in the foundation Employee volunteering which we operate, and we have throughout the year. 1. Improve our engagement score through 1. 17,648 hours spent by employees of Carlsalmost 170 years’ experience of employee volunteering, reaching 40,000 berg Group companies on volunteering doing precisely that. In Russia, Baltika Breweries is investing hours of voluntary employee activity broadly in community initiatives across the country. We continued our award-winning We operate in around 140 markets around Seven Rivers project aimed at cleaning up the world, with a brewery presence in over river-banks nationwide. Across the country, 2015 COMMITMENTS 40. We employ over 45,000 people, and we as part of our “Make the difference for your sell our products to millions of consumers. city” project, Baltika has set up more than Employee engagement – sustainable packaging We contribute to the creation of employ1,000 collection points to improve the col1. Execute different forms of sustainable packaging/recycling programme with employee involvement ment, thereby contributing, both directly and lection of glass bottles and avoid waste. As in at least 50% of Group companies indirectly, to the development of healthy, a result of this and other projects, in 2014 sustainable communities. alone we recycled nearly 200 million bottles. Employee engagement – responsible drinking Carlsberg has a long-standing tradition of We have set an ambitious target for 2017 1. Implement youth drinking prevention programmes in Group companies and reach 500,000 people below legal drinking age community engagement. Our founder, J.C. to reach 1.2 million people below the legal Jacobsen, was a pioneer in sharing know­ drinking age through engagement in pointledge and supporting society. Today, his of-sale and education programmes between Employee volunteering legacy lives on through the Carlsberg 2015 and 2017. We made a good start in 1. Group company employees to spend at least 40,000 hours on voluntary activities Foundation (see also “Collaboration in ac2014 and made this a high priority for scale tion”, page 38). A key focus of our commumarkets. But there is more work to be done, nity engagement is the involvement of our and partnering with local and international own employees in this work. organisations to accelerate our progress will be a core focus in 2015. Our local companies engage closely with the communities in which they operate, and Resources Carlsberg Group CSRCollaboration Report 2014 in & Environment action Chapter 38 COLLABORATION IN ACTION EXPORTING A The business of business is far more than business. As initiated by our founder, we use a unique foundation model to leverage our business for the benefit of society. 100-YEAR-OLD After more than 100 years of successful projects in Denmark, we are now ready to make our foundation concept global. First stop: Malaysia. The J.C. Jacobsen Foundation is a charity outreach organisation in Malaysia set up by Carlsberg in June 2014 to expand the brewery’s philanthropy and sustainability efforts for the benefit of Malaysian society at large. In 2015, the Foundation aspires to further extend its reach by exploring new educational projects and by continuing its water conservation efforts. Ultimately, the Malaysian Foundation is committed to showcasing TRADITION the philanthropic spirit of J.C. Jacobsen in The Foundation was named after Carlsberg’s Malaysian society, making a lasting impact founder, J.C. Jacobsen, as a reflection of his on those who are in need of support. passion for philanthropy and brewing. True By working together with the to the “golden words” of J.C. Jacobsen, the J.C. Jacobsen Foundation in Malaysia, Foundation aims to enhance the quality of life of Malaysians by supporting charitable we can preserve the important and non-governmental organisations (NGOs) ecosystems that exist in and within the focus areas of education and around the Selangor Waterfall. environment. The Foundation believes that Herbert Wong, Chairman of the Association quality education is the key to a society’s of Selangor Waterfall Supporters success, while quality environment is essential to the long-term viability of a nation. Join the debate at www.carlsberggroup.com/CSR/conversations In its inaugural year, the Malaysian Foundation used a collaborative model to create societal benefits, partnering with NGOs to create nationwide recycling campaigns and to protect ecosystems and biodiversity. Carlsberg Group CSR Report 2014 Section 1: Materiality assessment 39 Section 1 MATERIALITY ASSESSMENT Listening to our stakeholders At Carlsberg, we are committed to addressin the digital sphere. So for this reason In the third and final phase, we ran a series and impacts of our products in society, and ing the issues that are most relevant for we conducted our materiality assessment of workshops with relevant internal stakeour efforts to promote moderate consumpboth our business and our stakeholders as through a comprehensive “social listening” holders to get their input on the main issues tion where beer is enjoyed as part of a well as reporting the progress we are makanalysis of online content and communicaand themes that had been identified. The healthy lifestyle, are the focus of our Health ing on our CSR programme. This gives our tions in order to understand what our key ultimate aim was to obtain a “sense check” & Well-being theme. Our third theme, stakeholders transparency on our actions stakeholders are saying. and justification for the new sustainability People & Policies, recognises our role as a and ensures we live up to our responsibilities framework narrative and associated mesgrowing global company that employs more as a global citizen. Our materiality assessment saging on these issues. people every year and has an impact on comprised three phases local communities in many different regions In 2011, two years after Carlsberg introFirstly, we analysed online content generated The key findings from both the external around the world. For Carlsberg, the way we duced its new global CSR approach, we by our stakeholders to identify the issues social listening and the internal workshops work, the ensuring of safe workplaces where conducted a materiality assessment to dethat they were talking about, and therefore revealed a need for us to emphasise more people can develop, and contribution to termine whether the issues on which we had considered relevant, rather than asking strongly the connectivity between our opcommunities are therefore priorities. chosen to report matched those deemed a them to rank a predetermined list of issues. erational impacts and our CSR activities, and priority by our stakeholders. The input from In this way, we were able to capture issues to show how this enables us to respond to Making progress in these three focus areas this initial materiality assessment has since that could be of importance to Carlsberg, but broader societal issues and megatrends. requires us to collaborate with our partners guided us in our CSR work and in setting our are not currently on our radar. and stakeholders across our business and three-year targets. Based on the findings from these external throughout our supply chain. In this way, we Secondly, we examined the “share of and internal analyses, we have developed a can best achieve change at local level while During the second half of 2014, we began voice” given to different issues and the new sustainability framework that captures helping to respond to global challenges. adjusting our CSR approach, building on various subtopics within particular issues. and explains our CSR priorities. These are our existing collaborative approach. While This revealed how much particular issues centred around three overarching themes. By introducing this new framework, we aim our stakeholders tell us that the issues we dominated conversation, thereby providing to reaffirm the position that our founder, are addressing are still relevant to them, we insight into the priority issues and themes Under the theme of Resources & EnJ.C. Jacobsen, envisioned for the Carlsberg conducted an exercise to find out whether for stakeholders. In addition, we analysed vironment, our CSR activity is oriented Group as a company that brews highthe way we communicated about them, and the language and terminology being used, towards addressing the societal challenge quality beers but at the same time uses the the issues that we particularly focused on, which was instrumental in informing us how of increasingly scarce resources and the knowledge and reach of the organisation to corresponded with the expectations society we could better shape our CSR communicaneed to manage the environmental impact contribute to society. has of us. We recognise increasingly, when it tions to meet the needs and expectations of of our operations across the supply chain comes to these issues, discussions are takour stakeholders. while protecting the sources from which we ing place and perceptions are being formed draw our natural raw materials. The position Carlsberg Group CSR Report 2014 Section 2: Data summary table 40 Section 2 DATA SUMMARY TABLE ENVIRONMENTAL DATA Relative figures for beer and General production figures 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 soft drink production 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Number of reporting sites 74 75 76 75 101 Thermal energy (kWh/hl)* 23.5 21.1 21.0 20.0 21.4 Beer production (million hl) 99.4 99.1 100.7 100.3 107.0 Electricity (kWh/hl)* 8.8 8.1 8.1 8.0 8.0 Soft drink production (million hl) 10.1 11.7 12.2 13.0 13.6 Combined energy (thermal and electricity) (kWh/hl)* 32.3 29.2 29.1 28.0 29.4 Beer and soft drink production (million hl)* 109.5 110.8 112.9 113.3 120.6 CO2 emissions (kg CO2/hl)* 8.81 8.01 6.71 6.61 7.3 Malting (kt) 464.8 410.1 467.0 459.9 492.0 Water (hl/hl)* 3.5 3.3 3.3 3.3 3.4 Environmental performance data (beer, soft drink and malt production) Relative figures for malt production Total thermal energy (GWh)* 3,012 2,735 2,808 2,671 2,970 Thermal energy (kWh/tonne) 749.2 760.1 712.1 703.9 694.1 Total electricity (GWh)* 1,016 949 966 954 1,012 Electricity (kWh/tonne) 101.6 103.0 97.2 94.4 87.1 Total CO2 emissions (kt)* 1,0851 9961 8821 8481 982 Combined energy (thermal and electricity) 850.8 863.1 809.3 798.3 781.1 Total SO2 emissions (tonnes) 3,222 1,376 1,440 1,249 1,651 (kWh/tonne) Total NOx emissions (tonnes) 3,098 1,568 1,483 1,387 1,586 CO2 emissions (tonnes CO2/tonne) 0.27 0.24 0.22 0.20 0.19 Total water consumption (million m³)* 40.1 38.0 38.7 38.7 42.1 Water (m³/tonne) 2.8 2.5 2.1 2.0 2.3 Total wastewater discharged (million m³) 26.4 24.9 25.2 24.4 27.2 Other figures Total organic load (COD) before treatment (kt) 88.2 79.8 73.6 74.8 75.5 Complaints 55 47 42 38 93 Solid waste Number of sites that are ISO 14001-certified 47 60 60 60 69 Incinerated (kt) 4.4 6.6 7.1 7.3 9.3 Water source split To sanitary landfill (kt) 41.0 43.5 45.1 73.4 64.6 Special waste (kt) 0.43 0.79 0.32 0.4 0.7 Municipal water 54% 49% 51% 50% 49% Recycled (kt) 151.5 135.2 147.5 141.3 164.8 Own boreholes 40% 45% 43% 43% 43% Disposed of for land applications (kt) 284 209 244.5 174.1 173.7 Surface water 5% 6% 6% 7% 8% Other (kt) 0.8 0.8 8.3 6.2 21.0 Other 1% 0% 0% 0% 0% Total solid waste (kt) 483 396 452.8 403 434.1 Brewer’s grains and brewer’s yeast (kt) 1,299 1,341 1,317 1,379 1,409 * Within KPMG’s assurance scope (see KPMG’s Assurance Report, p. 44). Carlsberg Group CSR Report 2014 Section 2: Data summary table 41 ENVIRONMENTAL DATA – CONTINUED HEALTH & SAFETY Wastewater destination 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Figures for Production 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Public sewer with wastewater treatment 72% 71% 68% 68% 66% Number of lost-time accidents 233 195* 171* 145* 156* Public sewer without wastewater treatment 3% 5% 3% 4% 3% Lost-time accident rate 16.7 13.6* 11.4* 10.3* 9.1* On-site treatment, followed by discharge to Number of lost days 3,608 2,559* 2,306* 2,010* 2,207* river/lake 24% 24% 28% 27% 30% Days lost rate 258 178* 153* 142* 128.8* Other 0% 0% 1% 1% 1% Figures for Logistics Thermal energy mix Number of lost-time accidents 230 180 148 136* 150* Natural gas 73.2% 71.1% 69.7% 71.8% 68.0% Lost-time accident rate 27.2 21.6 19.0 16.7* 17.4* Coal 11.8% 12.7% 12.3% 11.0% 14.9% Number of lost days 4,810 2,991 2,457 2,087* 2,201* District heating 8.3% 8.4% 7.9% 7.2% 6.8% Days lost rate 568 359 316 256* 254.8* Heavy fuel 3.2% 2.6% 4.7% 4.4% 3.4% Renewable energy 1.6% 3.1% 3.5% 3.7% 5.2% Figures for the Group Light fuel 1.5% 1.5% 1.2% 1.2% 1.1% Number of lost-time accidents 540 457 367 326 352 Other 0.4% 0.6% 0.6% 0.7% 0.6% Lost-time accident rate 14.9 12.3 9.9 8.7 7.9 Number of lost days 9,761 6,831 5,489 4,830 5,118 CO2 emissions from refrigerants Days lost rate 270 184 147 129 115 HFC-based refrigerants (kt CO2)* N/A N/A N/A 11.3 12.9 Fatalities 2 2 0 4 0 Sustainable packaging Lost-time accidents by function Percentage of companies carrying out consumerPercentage in Production 43 43 47 44 44 facing sustainable packaging campaigns N/A N/A N/A 26 28 Percentage in Logistics 43 39 40 42 43 Number of consumer-facing sustainable Percentage in Sales & Marketing and Administration 14 18 13 14 13 packaging campaigns N/A N/A N/A N/A 45* Packaging mix Cans 23.1% 23.8% 24.8% 26.7% 26.1% RGB 29.4% 28.9% 29.2% 29.1% 33.7% NRGB 8.0% 8.6% 8.2% 8.1% 8.2% R-PET 1.6% 1.6% 2.2% 1.5% 1.0% PET 27.9% 27.4% 26.3% 25.7% 22.5% Kegs 8.0% 7.4% 7.4% 7.1% 6.6% Bulk 1.4% 1.8% 1.4% 1.2% 1.3% Other 0.6% 0.5% 0.5% 0.6% 0.4% * Within KPMG’s assurance scope (see KPMG’s Assurance Report, p. 44). Carlsberg Group CSR Report 2014 Section 2: Data summary table 42 COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT RESPONSIBLE DRINKING 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Total cash and in-kind donations (DKKm) 36 52 38 47 35 Percentage of companies implementing N/A 8010 7811 6912 6213 Number of cause-related marketing partnerships N/A 16 16 34 31 responsible drinking initiatives Percentage of companies investing in community 782a 862 853 854 825 Percentage of fermented produced volume N/A N/A N/A 7314 67* engagement initiatives with health warnings Number of community engagement activities 788 1,504 1,731 1,599 987 Responsible drinking campaigns N/A N/A N/A N/A 115 Distribution of activities BUSINESS ETHICS Environment 22% 22% 23% 22% 17% Sports 10% 13% 15% 14% 16% 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Responsible drinking 10% 10% 11% 12% 12% Education and culture 24% 22% 25% 28% 21% Number of face-to-face training sessions held on 118 184 184 184 144 the Business Ethics Policy Support of vulnerable groups 21% 10% 11% 11% 12% Total number of employees trained in the 6,234 6,653 3,795 5,798 5,674 Health and care 5% 7% 8% 6% 8% Business Ethics Policy** Natural disaster relief 4% 4% 3% 3% 5% Percentage of companies with mechanisms in 7815a 8415 8316 8817 8618 Other 14% 12% 4% 4% 9% place to avoid business ethics incidents Number of employees involved in community N/A 3,527 4,146 7,432 9,232 Number of markets that held business ethics 22 24 24 29 33 engagement activities training sessions Number of hours spent 22,590 29,465 32,104 23,162 17,648 Percentage of companies that have implemented N/A N/A 3519 6020 6821 Percentage of companies with voluntary employee N/A N/A N/A N/A 20% third-party screening procedures involvement in sustainable packaging/recycling initiatives Number of underage people reached through local N/A N/A N/A N/A 176,000 LABOUR AND HUMAN RIGHTS education and sales restriction campaigns addressing underage drinking 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 MARKETING COMMUNICATION Total workforce 41,402 42,670 41,708 40,435 46,097 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Percentage of employees by employment contract Percentage of companies with a procedure in 946a 946 977 978 989 place to track consumer complaints Permanent employees 93 93 93 90 82 Number of reported incidents of non-compliance 10 7 5 4 6 Temporary employees 7 7 7 10 18 with Marketing Communication Policy Percentage of employees by employment type Number of sales, marketing and innovation N/A 235 251 251 490 employees trained through the marketing Full-time 94 94 93 92 94 communication e-learning tool Part-time 6 6 7 8 6 * Within KPMG’s assurance scope (see KPMG Assurance Report, p44). ** Under the Policy, key employees must be trained every second year. Carlsberg Group CSR Report 2014 Section 2: Data summary table 43 LABOUR AND HUMAN RIGHTS – CONTINUED Percentage of employees by employment category 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Employee turnover percentage by gender 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Total presidents and senior managers 2 2 2 2 2 Male 76 75 71 70 72 Total managers 10 11 11 11 11 Female 24 25 29 30 28 Total specialists 36 39 39 40 41 Total workers 52 48 48 47 46 Hours of training Average for the Group 18 17 13 33 15 Percentage of employees by gender Male 74 74 73 74 72 Collective bargaining Female 26 26 27 26 28 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements 69 68 71 71 71 Percentage of management level by gender Policy implementation status Male 76 76 77 76 76 Female 24 24 23 24 24 Percentage of labour and human rights procedures and processes implemented as average for the Group 87 89 93 95 94 Percentage of employees by age Younger than 18 0.05 0.03 0.03 0.00 0.02 RESPONSIBLE SOURCING 19-29 24 23 23 23 23 30-39 35 35 35 34 34 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 40-49 26 26 26 26 27 50 or older 15 16 16 17 16 Number of integrated quality audits 54 76 121 142 101 Employee turnover 1 CO2 emissions are restated with updated emission factors for 13 24 out of 39 companies. Employee turnover percentage 12 16.5 14 15 15 2010-2013. Source: CO2 Emissions from Fuel Combustion – 2013 14 Restated. edition, OECD/IEA. 15 32 out of 38 companies. 2 32 out of 37 companies. 16 33 out of 40 companies. Employee turnover percentage by age 3 34 out of 40 companies. 17 35 our of 40 companies. Younger than 18 0 0 0 0 0 4 34 out of 40 companies. 18 38 out of 44 companies. 5 36 out of 44 companies. 19 14 out of 40 companies. 19-29 41 43 41 37 36 6 34 out of 36 companies. 20 24 out of 40 companies. 30-39 30 32 32 31 31 7 37 out of 38 companies. 21 30 out of 44 companies. 40-49 15 14 15 19 18 8 38 out of 39 companies, restated. 2a 28 out of 36 companies. 9 42 out of 43 companies. 6a 34 out of 36 companies. 50 or older 15 11 12 13 15 10 28 out of 35 companies. 15a 28 out of 38 companies. 11 29 out of 37 companies. 22 Restated. 12 24 out of 35 companies. Carlsberg Group CSR Report 2014 Section 3: Independent assurance report 44 Section 3 INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE REPORT To the readers of the 2014 • In the section “Health & Safety Policy”; surance Engagements other than Audits or • Visits to three production sites in Norway, CSR Report data on “Lost-time accident rate” in Reviews of Historical Financial Information, Russia and Vietnam to review data and We were engaged by the Executive Board Production and Logistics respectively, and issued by the International Auditing and the design and implementation of validaof Carlsberg A/S (“Carlsberg”) to provide “Days lost rate” in Production and Logistics Assurance Standards Board. This Standard tion procedures at local level. assurance on selected information in the respectively (pp. 31-32 and 41). requires, amongst other things, that the as• An analytical review of the data for the Carlsberg Group CSR Report 2014 (“the surance team possesses the specific know­ selected indicators within the assurance Report”). The Executive Board is responWe do not provide any assurance on the ledge, skills and professional competences scope submitted by all production sites for sible for the preparation of the Report, achievability of Carlsberg’s objectives, needed to provide assurance on sustainconsolidation at corporate level. including the identification of material targets and expectations. ability information, and that it complies with • Evaluating relevant internal and external issues. Our responsibility is to issue an the requirements of the Code of Ethics for documentation, based on sampling, to deassurance report based on the engageProcedures performed to obtain a limited Professional Accounts of the International termine whether the selected information ment outlined below. level of assurance are aimed at determining Federation of Accountants to ensure their is supported by sufficient evidence. the plausibility of information and are less independence. Scope extensive than those to obtain a reasonable Conclusion Our engagement was designed to obtain level of assurance. Work undertaken Based on the procedures performed, as limited assurance on whether the followOur procedures included the following: described above, nothing came to our attening information is presented, in all material Reporting criteria and • A risk analysis, including a media search, tion to indicate that the selected information respects, in accordance with the reporting assurance standard to identify relevant issues within the is not presented, in all material respects, in criteria: For the information covered by our engageassurance scope for Carlsberg during the accordance with the reporting criteria. • In the section “Carlsberg Circular Commument scope, Carlsberg applies criteria as reporting period. nity”; data on “Number of consumer-facing detailed in section 5, Reporting Process and • Reviewing the suitability of the reporting Amsterdam, Copenhagen, campaigns on sustainable packaging” (pp. Scope, section 6, Definitions, and section criteria. 2 March 2015 2 March 2015 KPMG Advisory, part KPMG Statsautoriseret 10-12 and 41). 7, List of Reporting Sites. It is important to • Evaluating the design and implementaof KPMG Advisory N.V. Revisionspartnerselskab • In the section “Efficient brewing”; data on view the assured information in the context tion of the systems and processes for the “Energy consumption”, “CO2 emissions”, of these criteria. We believe that these collection, processing and control of the Wim Bartels Henrik O. Larsen Partner State Authorised Public “Water consumption” and “HFCs” and recriteria are suitable in view of the purpose selected information. Accountant lated explanations (pp. 14-15, 40 and 41). of our assurance engagement. • Interviews with the relevant staff at corp­ • In the section “Underage drinking and orate level responsible for collecting, condrink driving”; data on “Percentage of We conducted our engagement in accordsolidating and carrying out internal control fermented produced volume with health ance with the International Standard for procedures on the selected information. warnings” (pp. 24-25 and 42). Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000: AsCarlsberg Group CSR Report 2014 Section 4: Global Reporting Initiative table 45 Section 4 GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE TABLE The Carlsberg Group uses the G4 Guidelines “in accordance” criteria (www.globalreportevery profile or performance indicator we The GRI G4 Guidelines encourage disagwithout meeting the “in accordance” criteria ing.org). apply is linked to a specific section of either gregation of information where feasible, but to produce an overview of our CSR progress. our Annual Report (AR), our company webacknowledge that the level of disaggregaThe framework provides organisations with This is our sixth year reporting in accordance site (www.carlsberggroup.com), our Ecotion may vary by indicator. We will continue principles and indicators to measure and with the GRI. KPMG provided assurance on nomic Contribution to Society (ECS) report to develop the maturity of our reporting report their economic, environmental and selected environmental and safety indicators or the CSR section on our company website. systems and procedures so we can improve social performance. based on the International Standard for the level of disaggregation in the future Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000. In total, we report on 63 indicators. In order with a view to meeting the core criteria in The following GRI table shows how we to simplify the table, we have included only our next report. started to transition our CSR progress data To increase the transparency and comprethe indicators for which we provide either from 2014 to the new G4 Guidelines – while hensibility of the table, we indicate whether full or partial data. recognising the need to further develop our our level of disclosure covers the GRI suite of performance indicators to meet the requirements fully or partially. In addition, GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES: GRI PROFILE Profile Description Location and comments Level of reporting UNGC principle Strategy and Analysis G4-1 Statement from the CEO and Supervisory Board CSR 4; AR 11-13 Organizational Profile G4-3 Name of the organization Back page G4-4 Primary brands, products, and services www.carlsberggroup.com/brands G4-5 Location of headquarters Back page G4-6 Countries where the organization operates www.carlsberggroup.com/markets Carlsberg Group CSR Report 2014 Section 4: Global Reporting Initiative table 46 GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES: GRI PROFILE Profile Description Location and comments Level of reporting UNGC principle G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form AR 42-50; http://www.carlsberggroup. com/investor/shareholders/Pages/ Shareholders.aspx G4-8 Markets served www.carlsberggroup.com/markets G4-9 Scale of the organization CSR 43-44, 54 AR 6-10 G4-10 Workforce breakdown (contract, type, gender) CSR 43 G4-11 Coverage of collective bargaining agreements CSR 43 G4-12 Description of supply chain AR 31; http://www.carlsberggroup. com/Company/organisation/ Corporate_functions/Organisation_ CSC/Pages/default.aspx G4-13 Significant changes during the reporting period CSR 51 G4-14 Addressing the precautionary approach or principle CSR 3-4, 14-17 G4-15 External charters, principles, or other initiatives endorsed CSR 4, 11, 17, 22, 26 AR 12-13 G4-16 Memberships of associations CSR 4, 11, 17, 22, 26 Indentified Material Aspects and Boundaries G4-17 Report coverage of the entities in the consolidated financial statements AR 16-24 G4-18 Process for defining the report content and the Aspect Boundaries CSR 39 G4-19 Material Aspects identified CSR 7, 39 G4-20 Aspect Boundary within the organization CSR 7, 39 G4-21 Aspect Boundary outside the organization CSR 7, 39 G4-22 The effect of any restatements of information provided in previous reports CSR 5, 14, 43 G4-23 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the Scope and Aspect Boundaries CSR 4, 14, 31 Carlsberg Group CSR Report 2014 Section 4: Global Reporting Initiative table 47 GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES: GRI PROFILE Profile Description Location and comments Level of reporting UNGC principle Stateholder Engagement G4-24 List of stakeholder groups engaged CSR 17: UNIDO, BIER, Water Benefit Partners; CSR 22: IARD, EAHF; CSR 26: WFA, ICAP, Brewers of Europe G4-25 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders CSR 9, 21, 30 G4-26 Approach to stakeholder engagement CSR 39 G4-27 Response to key topics and concerns raised CSR 39; www.carlsberggroup.com/csr Report Profile G4-28 Reporting period The report covers the 2014 calendar year G4-29 Date of most recent previous report CSR Report 2013 published on 28 February 2014 G4-30 Reporting cycle Annually, quarterly G4-31 Contact point for questions csr@carlsberg.com G4-32 ‘In accordance’ option, GRI Content Index and External Assurance Report Use GRI 4 Guidelines without meeting the ‘in accordance’ criteria G4-33 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance CSR 44 Governance G4-34 Governance structure AR 42-50 Ethics and Integrity G4-56 Values, principles, standards, code of conduct and code of ethics CSR 35-36 Generic Disclosures on Management Approach G4-DMA Disclosures on Management Approach CSR 39 Carlsberg Group CSR Report 2014 Section 4: Global Reporting Initiative table 48 GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES: GRI SPECIFIC MANAGEMENT PROFILE APPROACH AND PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Profile Description Location and comments Level of reporting UNGC principle Economic Economic Performance G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed ECS report 6 G4-EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization's activities CSR 18 7 due to climate change Indirect Economic Impacts G4-EC7 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services supported CSR 37-38,42ECS 3,5,7 Environmental Energy G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organization CSR 15, 40 8 G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption CSR 15, 40 8-9 G4-EN7 Reductions in energy requirements of products and services CSR 14-15 8-9 Water G4-EN8 Total water withdrawal by source CSR 40 8 Emissions G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 1) CSR 14-15, 40 8 G4-EN16 Energy indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 2) CSR 14-15, 40 8 G4-EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions CSR 15, 40 7-9 G4-EN21 NOX, SOX, and other significant air emissions CSR 40 8 Effluents and Waste G4-EN22 Total water discharge by quality and destination CSR 41 8 G4-EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method CSR 40 8 Products and Services G4-EN27 Extent of impact mitigation of environmental impacts of products and services CSR 4, 10-13 7-9 Carlsberg Group CSR Report 2014 Section 4: Global Reporting Initiative table 49 SPECIFIC GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES: GRI MANAGEMENT PROFILE APPROACH AND PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Profile Description Location and comments Level of reporting UNGC principle Social Labor Practices and Decent Work Employment G4-LA1 Total number and rates of new employee hires and employee turnover by age group, CSR 43 6 gender and region Occupational Health and Safety G4-LA6 Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and CSR 31-32, 41 1 total number of work-related fatalities, by region and gender Training and Education G4-LA9 Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, and by employee category CSR 43 G4-LA10 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued www.carlsberggroup.com/careers employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings G4-LA11 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews, CSR 33 by gender and by employee category Diversity and Equal Opportunity G4-LA12 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee category CSR 43 6 according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of AR 44, 57-58, 159-162 diversity Supplier Assessment for Labor Practices G4-LA14 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using labor practices criteria CSR 36 1-6 G4-LA15 Significant actual and potential negative impacts for labor practices in the supply chain CSR 33 1-6 and actions taken Human Rights Investment G4-HR1 Total number and percentage of significant investment agreements and contracts that CSR 33 1-6 include human rights clauses or that underwent human rights screening Carlsberg Group CSR Report 2014 Section 4: Global Reporting Initiative table 50 GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES: GRI SPECIFIC MANAGEMENT PROFILE APPROACH AND PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Profile Description Location and comments Level of reporting UNGC principle Assessment G4-HR9 Total number and percentage of operations that have been subject to human rights CSR 33 1-6 reviews or impact assessments Society Local Communities G4-SO1 Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, impact CSR 42 assessments, and development programs Product Responsibility Customer Health and Safety G4-PR1 Percentage of signifiant product and service categories for which health and safety CSR 24 1,2 impacts are assessed for improvement Product and Service Labeling G4-PR3 Type of product and service information required by the organization’s procedures for CSR 24 product and service information and labeling, and percentage of signifcant product and service categories subject to such information requirements Marketing Communications G4-PR7 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes CSR 42 concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship, by type of outcomes Carlsberg Group CSR Report 2014 Section 5: Reporting process and scope 51 Section 5 REPORTING PROCESS AND SCOPE 1 Reporting approach and criteria trols more than 50% of the voting rights have been included in the 2014 reporting Clarity Scope of the CSR reporting or that it otherwise controls. scope. We strive to make our CSR reporting access­ We have started to transition to the G4 • Carlsberg India, covering six production ible and easy to read. We have worked with Guidelines. Thus far, we have applied these Joint ventures and companies over which sites, has been included in this year’s usability and web experts to ensure that the principles without meeting the “in accordCarlsberg does not have the opportunity reporting scope. performance data and reporting content are ance” criteria to produce an overview of our to exercise management control are not understandable and well communicated on CSR progress. In this document we cover included in the reported data. However, we Ensuring data quality our corporate website. the relevant and significant social, ethical work constantly with our partners to ensure In gathering information about our CSR and environmental issues for the financial a continuous focus on CSR issues. performance, we have applied the widely Accuracy and reliability year 1 January to 31 December 2014. Our used principles of balance, clarity, accuracy, Since 2009, we have used a dedicated CSR GRI table includes references to our Annual If a majority-owned entity is acquired during reliability, timeliness and comparability. reporting system to help us collect data Report and the report Economic Contributhe financial year, the entity will be included from local sites and consolidate this at tion to Society, which cover our financial in the reporting for the following year. Please find additional information on each Group level. Every year since 2009, we have and economic performance. Together, this of the topics below: improved the definitions of our performance information supplies our stakeholders with Comments on boundary setting: indicators in order to help our entities report an overview of our social, environmental • The following sites have been closed/ Balance accurate and reliable data. However, we and economic performance. sold since 2012 and have therefore been We are committed to communicating honalso recognise that there is still a challenge excluded from 2014 reporting: Huocheng estly and openly about our performance, ahead in order to obtain a complete and We receive recommendations on our CSR Brewery, China (June 2013), Hami Brewboth when it has improved and when it has fully aligned overview of all our CSR data, activities and reporting from our assurance ery, China (Dec. 2013). not. Our aim is to provide our stakeholders especially when it comes to local procedures provider, KPMG, and continuously analyse • The following site is not included even with sufficient information about our comfor data gathering. Our reporting system competitors’ and industry initiatives. though it is majority-owned: Qitai Maltpany so that they are able to make their has been developed by Enablon, an intering (China). own judgements concerning the Carlsberg national provider of CSR software solutions. Boundary setting • The following Chinese companies have Group’s position and role in the societies The system gives us a high degree of control Entities included in the performance data become majority-owned during 2013: where we do business. over the data-gathering process, helps local include majority-owned subsidiaries, defined Chongqing Brewery Co.; Chongqing companies to compare data year on year, as companies that the Carlsberg Group Jianiang Beer Co., Ltd.; Chongqing Brewand also allows instant consistency checks directly or indirectly owns, in which it conery Guoren Co., Ltd. These three comduring the data-gathering phase. panies with a total of 22 production sites The scope and boundary described in this section mainly relate to CSR data gathered primarily through 1 our CSR reporting and management system. We have appointed KPMG to provide indeWithin the environmental data, any referpendent assurance regarding selected ecoence to “production site” or “site” refers to nomic, environmental and safety indicators. sites where we produce beer, soft drinks or In the various sections, we indicate which malt, as well as combinations of these, and data has been assured. For further details, the consumption at these sites. see p. 44. The term “production site” does not include Timeliness off-site consumption such as logistics and Internally, we report our CSR data with off-site administration. varying degrees of frequency, determined by the nature of the data. Where necessary, Definitions for environmental indicators and we revise the reporting frequency in order health & safety are available in section 6, p. to strike the right balance and obtain the 53. right data at the right frequency. Our annual data gathering and external reporting Targets are aligned with the financial data gathering We communicate two different kinds using the calendar year. of plans and targets: • One-year short-term commitments. Comparability • Three-year targets and objectives. Our reporting criteria and indicators are inspired by the G4 Guidelines – but do not These have been developed by each of the meet the “in accordance” criteria. We will functional owners of the CSR focus areas. continue to switch our reporting indicators to the new G4 framework during 2015. In the These targets may be adjusted according to GRI table (section 4, pp. 45-50), we have significant changes in the business, such as listed whether our reporting is fully or parmajor acquisitions and divestments, when tially in line with the GRI indicator definitions. these are made before the target date. To the extent possible, we include such changes We include threeor five-year data, as re­ by applying scenario planning to our targetcommended by GRI, for all data for which a setting process. comparable three-year or five-year history is available. Definitions Some differences in the interpretation of some indicators at site level were identified during the reporting process. However, we do not believe these differences are material for the validity of the reported data. Carlsberg Group CSR Report 2014 Definitions 53 Section 6 DEFINITIONS DEFINITIONS Indicator name Indicator definition Unit Total thermal energy consumption Total thermal energy consumption for beer, soft drink and malt production GWh Total electricity consumption Total electricity consumption for beer, soft drink and malt production GWh Total water consumption Total water consumption for beer, soft drink and malt production m3 Total production of beer and soft drinks Total fermented and non-fermented products produced hl Total CO2 emissions Total fossil carbon dioxide emissions (direct and indirect ­emissions) emitted due to energy used for beer, soft drink and malt production 1 kt CO2 Specific thermal energy consumption Thermal energy needed to produce one hectolitre of beer and soft drinks kWh/hl Specific electricity consumption Electricity needed to produce one hectolitre of beer and soft drinks kWh/hl Specific water consumption Water needed to produce one hectolitre of beer and soft drinks hl/hl Specific CO2 emissions Fossil carbon dioxide emissions (direct and indirect emissions) emitted from the energy used to produce one hectolitre of beer and soft drinks kg CO2/hl CO2 emissions from refrigerants Impact from refrigerants refilled or recharged in any system at a brewery or malting site. Expressed in CO2-equivalents kt CO2 Lost-time accidents (LTA) in Production and Occupational accidents that result in employees being unable to perform the full range of their normal duties for at least one day, Number Logistics excluding the day of the accident (LTA) Lost-time accident rate (LTAR) in Production Number of LTAs x 1,000 / number of FTEs Rate and Logistics (LTAR) Days lost (DL) in Production and Logistics Days absent from work (excluding the day of the accident) due to lost-time accidents Number (DL) Days lost rate (DLR) in Production and Number of DLs x 1,000 / number of FTEs Rate Logistics (DLR) Full-time equivalents (FTE) in Production Number of employees on payroll, where part-time workers are converted into FTEs by an equivalent proportion Number and Logistics and one person counts as maximum 1 FTE (FTE) Number of customer-facing sustainable Campaigns towards consumers with the purpose of reducing the environmental impact of packaging by, for example, encouraging correct disposal Number packaging campaigns of used packaging through recycling messages Percentage of fermented produced volume Volume of packed fermented products that carry health warning symbols and/or equivalent text and/or an address of a website containing Percentage with health warnings equivalent information divided by total fermented production volume x 100% 1 CO2 emissions are restated with updated emission factors for 2010-2013. Source: CO2 Emissions from Fuel Combustion – 2013 edition, OECD/IEA. Carlsberg Group CSR Report 2014 Section 7: List of reporting sites 54 Section 7 LIST OF REPORTING SITES 1 COUNTRY COMPANY SITES Western Europe Bulgaria Carlsberg Bulgaria Pirinsko, Shumensko Croatia Carlsberg Croatia Koprivnica Denmark Carlsberg Danmark Jacobsen Brewhouse, Saltum, Carlsberg Fredericia Carlsberg Breweries Not a production site Danish Malting Group DMG Denmark Estonia Saku Õlletehase Saku Finland Sinebrychoff Kerava France Brasseries Kronenbourg Kronenbourg Obernai Germany Carlsberg Deutschland Holsten-Brauerei AG (Hamburg), Mecklenburgische Brauerei Lübz Greece Mythos Brewery Thessaloniki Italy Carlsberg Italia Varese Latvia Aldaris Aldaris Riga Lithuania Svyturys-Utenos Alus Utena, Klaipeda Norway Ringnes E.C. Dahls Bryggeri, Trondheim, Farris, Gjelleråsen, Imsdal Poland Carlsberg Polska Okocim Brewery, Brzesko, Kasztelan Brewery, Szczecin Brewery Danish Malting Group – Polska Danish Malting Group Polska Sp. z o.o., Slodownia Strzegom Sp. z o.o. Serbia Carlsberg Srbija Carlsberg Srbija, Celarevo Sweden Carlsberg Sverige Falkenberg, Ramlösa Sverige Switzerland Feldschlösschen Rhäzüns, Rheinfelden, Sion Carlsberg Supply Company Not a production site UK Carlsberg UK Northampton 1 The reporting sites described in this section relate to CSR data gathered primarily through our CSR reporting and management system. Carlsberg Group CSR Report 2014 Section 7: List of reporting sites 55 COUNTRY COMPANY SITES Eastern Europe Azerbaijan Baltika Baku Baku Brewery Belarus Olivaria Olivaria Kazakhstan Carlsberg Kazakhstan Derbes Brewery (Almaty) Russia Baltika Breweries Baltika Brewery St Petersburg, Baltika Don Brewery Rostov-Na-Don, Baltika Khabarovsk, Baltika Novosibirsk, Baltika Samara, Baltika Tula, Pikra Brewery Krasnoyarsk, Vena Chelyabinsk, Yarpivo Brewery Yaroslavl, Yarpivo Voronezh Ukraine Carlsberg Ukraine Lvivska Brewery (Lviv), Slavutich Zaporozhye, Slavutich Kiev Uzbekistan Carlsberg Uzbekistan Tashkent Asia China Xinjiang Wusu Group Akesu Brewery, Kashi Brewery, Urumqi No. 2 Brewery, Wusu Brewery, Korle Brewery, Yining Brewery Carlsberg Brewery G ­ uangdong Carlsberg Brewery, G­ uangdong (Huizhou) Ningxia Group Ningxia Xixia Jianiang Brewery Yunnan Group Kunming Huashi Brewery Yunnan Dali Beer Co. Ltd Carlsberg Brewery Hong Kong Not a production site Carlsberg Hong Kong Not a production site Chongqing Brewery Co. Mawangxiang Brewery, Dazhulin Brewery, Hechuan Brewery, Liangping Brewery, Wanzhou Brewery, Yongchuan Brewery, Qianjiang Brewery, Fuling Brewery, Daliangshan Brewery, Jiuhuashan Brewery, Bozhou Brewery, Gansu Jinshan Malting Plant Chongqing Jianiang Beer Co., Ltd. Liuzhou Brewery, Liupanshui Brewery, Panzhihua Brewery, Xichang Brewery, Boke Brewery, Shizhu Brewery, Yibin Brewery Chongqing Brewery Guoren Co., Ltd. Guoren Lixian Brewery, Guoren Changde Brewery, Guoren Yongzhou Brewery India Carlsberg India Kolkatta, Alwar, Aurangabad, Paonta Sahib, Hyderabad, Dharuhera Laos Lao Brewery Lao Softdrink Company Vientiane (Pepsi), Lao Brewery Vientiane, Lao Brewery Pakse Malawi Carlsberg Malawi Carlsberg Malawi Brewery Ltd. (CMBL), SOBO Blantyre, SOBO Lilongwe, MDL, SOBO Mzuzu Carlsberg Group CSR Report 2014 Section 7: List of reporting sites 56 COUNTRY COMPANY SITES Asia – continued Malaysia Carlsberg Malaysia Carlsberg Kuala Lumpur Nepal Gorkha Brewery Gorkha Brewery Singapore Carlsberg Singapore Not a production site Vietnam SEAB (South East Asia Brewery) SEAB Hanoi Hue Vietnam Hue Brewery (Hue), Hue Brewery (Phu Bai)
