KOZLODUY NPP PLC COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2014 Dear Friends, It is a pleasure to present you the Communication on Kozloduy NPP plc progress for 2014. The past year was particularly significant for us. We celebrated 40 years since the start-up of the first nuclear power unit – four decades of safe and reliable operation, steady growth and success. Throughout these four decades we have worked for the progress of our national economy, to provide light and heating to each home. Let us always remember that in 1974 Bulgaria became the eleventh country worldwide to launch successful use of nuclear energy for peaceful purposes. In 2014, Kozloduy NPP generated a total of 15 866 652 MWh electrical power (gross). The company has operated successfully both on the regulated and the liberalised markets. This guarantees our financial stability and enables us to plan in good confidence all the activities related to the extension of the Units 5 and 6 operational life. As always, safety has been our top priority. In the summer of 2014 we received the OSART Follow-up Mission. It confirmed that the plant has been strictly observing the recommendations and suggestions included in the exit report of the operational safety review missions. The positive assessment we have received from the International Atomic Energy Agency is of high importance for us. It is a sign that confirms that Kozloduy NPP has performed in compliance with the best international practices in nuclear energy. A very important objective lies before the management team of our plant to guarantee the future operation of the nuclear units. I believe that the excellent achievement data we share with you in this Communication will enhance your confidence that Bulgaria will continue having well-developed nuclear energy over the coming decades. I am happy to confirm that Kozloduy NPP again declares its support for the Ten principles of the UN Global Compact in the area of human rights, labour, the environment and anti-corruption. In this Communication we describe our activities to integrate the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and everyday work. We also assume the responsibility for sharing this information with other interested parties via our communication channels. Yours sincerely, Dimitar Angelov Chief Executive Officer Kozloduy NPP plc HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES In the scope of the activities during the year Activities and results Kozloduy NPP confirmed that it adopts Within the framework of the Safety Culture sustainable and socially responsible policies Enhancement Project Kozloduy NPP values providing stable benefits for the people, were defined: communities and markets, and strives for ? Safety first creating conditions for adherence to all the ? Commitment, mutual respect and principles and norms which are the basis of the recognition UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights. ? Personal responsibility and honesty at The Company's Management officially work declared its Kozloduy NPP plc management ? Strive for perfection and mastering POLICY via the Company's Management knowledge Policy STATEMENT, which is made available No discrimination is tolerated at the to the public, understood, applied and workplace concerning gender, ethnic, religious maintained at all organizational levels, and or political indications. Of all employees in the clearly defines the commitments regarding the Company 32% are women and regardless of priorities for ensuring the highest level of the specificity of the industry branch 9,7% of safety, efficient and competitive production, them are management personnel at various qualified, competent and motivated personnel, levels. In 2011 the Management of the and financial stability. Since 2013 a Code of Company entered into a commitment Ethics is in place in the Company, aiming to regarding involvement of women in the specify the expected behaviour of employees process of management by signing an explicit on basis of the Company's espoused values declaration in accordance with the European while implementing the UN Global Compact Commission initiative. universal principles. The Code of Ethics Everyone in the Company is entitled to should be observed by working on site of freely express their opinion on any issue by KNPP external organizations as well. means of: 2014 Communication on progress 3 Opinions Section a heading in the career promotion depending only on the internal information system, to raise employees' initiative, professional and discuss important for the qualification, gained experience and personal employees topics as well as to put qualities as well as the results achieved at questions to the Management. work. CEO visiting day weekly, each KNPP The Company sustains its continual efforts employee is entitled to discuss personal related to its personnel development by: or business issues with the CEO. Individual development plans At various intervals the Heads of Opportunities for free participation in various management levels conduct the recruitment procedures meetings with staff to discuss work, Personnel training. This is organized by current issues, problems, which have a Training Centre of our own, licensed occurred, in order to create a positive to perform initial and continuing training environment for reporting errors. for the Company's staff as well as the Access to all other managers is not staff of external organizations limited and meeting with them can be performing activities on KNPP site. organised observing their current work Kozloduy NPP strives to apply the Lifelong load. learning principle in order to achieve smart and Opinion poll boxes are located at sustainable growth. The approaches to various places around the plant, encourage knowledge enhancement in the enabling staff to express viewpoints, Company are: post signals or complaints to the CEO. training and qualification enhancement Weekly, a voluntary inquiry This additional paid study leave week's question aims at investigating scholarships for disadvantaged people staff opinion on up-to-date for the granting tools and materials for the Company topics. practical classes at school Every employee of the Company is free provision of paid and unpaid internships to be a member of any association with encouragement for the young regard to their interests and in some of intelligent people them Kozloduy NPP appears to be a Specific activities implemented: corporate member as well. • Agreements for cooperation with The Company's Management implements leading Bulgarian universities a policy of correct labour relations by means of • Contracts signed with the Bulgarian setting up a common and espoused with the Academy of Science for 6 doctorates employees development strategy. Respect for • Students in training the individual, protection of the rights and • Participation in the One Day Manager interests of workers and employees, ensuring initiative their social status are among the the plant • Participation in job fairs management priorities. • Participation in the WANO Moscow The Company provides equal rights and Centre initiative to attract young people opportunities for work, development and to take part in the WANO activities 4 2014 Communication on progress The company has its own Occupational a pregnancy, birth or adoption leave to the Medical Centre. In the specialized for the extent of 410 days for each child, 45 of those purpose premises the preliminary and obligatory being before delivery. The benefits preventive periodic medical check-ups by all pregnant women employees receive equal specialists as envisaged in Regulation No.29 90% of their average daily remuneration/social regarding health norms and requirements security wage base for the last 24 calendar related to work in ionizing radiation months. environment are performed. The Occupational The Company ensures the possibility for Medical Centre analyzes the health status of each woman to pass free gynaecological the employees, develops and proposes examination on yearly basis, while those at the measures to improve the labour conditions age beyond 35 have their medical check-ups and eliminate health risks. twice a year. The Company provides Kozloduy NPP plc employees have the possibility for the pregnant workers and opportunity for complete recreation in the employees to trace their condition and consult holiday houses of the Company. a competent obstetrician on site of Kozloduy The Company gives all its employees and NPP. their families opportunities for cultural life via According to the internal rules the the House of Culture as well as for practising Company supports employees when different sports at the Sports and Recreation becoming parents by a lump sum benefit. Complex. There are 28 sports sections at the These same rules provide for allowances for Company and more than 400 members. women employees with reproductive Concerning the special role of women in problems. social life Kozloduy NPP implements all legal forms to care about and support women in order to assist them to perform their maternal commitments and not to deprive them of their professional development opportunities. Women at the Company have their right of 2014 Communication on progress 5 LABOUR STANDARDS The Company has in place a well with those specified in the Labour Code and in organized explicit human resources the Branch Enterprise Agreement. management policy to ensure equal The Company's commitments with regard opportunities in the staff recruitment process, to the labour norms are evident within the in training, development and motivation while following processes: strictly observing labour law. The Staff staff recruitment; management policy is developed in occurrence, modification and suspension compliance with the main objective of the of labour relations; Company declared by the Management to training of workers and employees; provide safe, efficient and environmentally tracking the health status of workers and friendly electricity generation, maintaining employees; sufficient number of certified, excellently provision of health and safety at work trained and highly motivated personnel. including work place risk assessment The Trade Union organizations at and developing preventive prescriptions Kozloduy NPP and the Company's with regard to risk minimizing; Management execute an Enterprise corporate social programme management; agreement which ensures the protection of individual work performance assessment, the personnel's rights regarding labour and etc. insurance relations as well as the additional Activities and results: social benefits. In the recruitment process for Kozloduy For the period 2013 2014 there is a signed NPP employees the principles of the Law on Enterprise agreement in place at Kozloduy Protection against Discrimination, the Law on NPP plc which provides considerably more Protection of Personal Data as well as the favourable conditions for staff in comparison internal documents are observed and no 6 2014 Communication on progress influence is tolerated regarding nationality, Company as high. race or ethnic belonging of job applicants, their Being a responsible employer, Kozloduy gender, age, convictions or religion. The NPP systematically makes efforts to maintain recruitment process for the job applicants is health and safe labour conditions to ensure transparent and provides access to protection and professional risk prevention. information and results for any applicant at any Kozloduy NPP has successfully stage of the procedure, all details made public implemented a system for safety and health on the website of the Company. management at work in compliance with the The Plant interior regulations clearly define international standard OHSAS 18001:2007 the working hours requirement, taking leaves, under the project BG 051ÐÎ001, Health and etc., and the Enterprise Agreement explicitly Safety Prevention. bans individuals under the age of 18 to be Plant employees are provided with employed. Individuals working at specific personal protective equipment, free conditions have reduced working hours and wholesome food, reduced working hours, use additional paid annual leave. compulsory occupational accident risk Staff motivation surveys are annually insurance for the employees working in high conducted at Kozloduy NPP plc, the results occupational risk conditions. then are used by the Management as grounds An evidence for the success of the applied to plan and implement further activities. The measures is the permanently established recently completed survey, for example, trend at Kozloduy NPP for reduction in the showed that more than 90% of the number of lost working days due to work respondents assessed the level of safety injuries. during execution of work and health care at the 2014 Communication on progress 7 ENVIRONMENT The Company Management gives high Activities and results: priority to protection of people's health and the In its capacity of an organization operating environment from adverse effects associated nuclear facilities, Kozloduy NPP plc takes with the activities implemented at the site of continuous, systematic and overall control of Kozloduy NPP plc. the activities, products and services which The Company's policy on environment have detrimental effect on the environment management is focussed towards achieving and people's health. Kozloduy NPP plc the following goals: environmental protection and management is preservation of the atmosphere and based on the following principles: cleanness of atmospheric air; applying the requirements of the national protection and management of waters and European legislation regarding within the area of Kozloduy NPP plc; environmental protection and safe management, minimization and management; utilization of non-radioactive waste; maintaining compliance with the energy efficiency and assessment of the conditions of the permits issued to the influence of resources and materials Company by the environmental used on the environment; authorities; minimization of the risk of occurrence of systematic planning and reporting of the environmental damage and incidents. implementation of environmental policy, There is a specialised environmental unit objectives and programmes; in the nuclear power plant which is responsible implementation of effective monitoring for shaping and establishing the corporate and supervision of processes and policy on decreasing the negative and activities which could have detrimental increasing the positive effects on the effect on the environment; environment resulting from plant activities. providing and maintaining the necessary 8 2014 Communication on progress resources for prevention and/or ashes, containing natural radioactivity. This mitigation of undesirable effects on effect corresponds to the world trends for people and the environment; limiting the emissions responsible for the maintaining and increasing the ozone layer depletion. Company's staff competence and safety The Company effectively uses the natural culture in terms of environmental and energy resources by obtaining all protection; necessary permits according to the current appropriately informing suppliers about regulations, plans and programmes in the Company's policy on environmental compliance with the best industry practices. protection; Environmental protection monitoring is maintaining the public updated on the implemented through a set of measures for status of and measures for environmental monitoring, control of plant environmental protection. releases into the atmosphere and Kozloduy NPP plc management is hydrosphere, radioactive and conventional committed to maintain and improve waste processing and storage. Continuous environmental management as an integral radiation monitoring in the 30-km zone is part of the Integrated Management System of implemented through the plant automated the Company. information systems which are integrated with Kozloduy NPP safety is of main priority and the similar national system. is subject to independent state supervision by More than 5000 analyses of the main the Bulgarian Nuclear Regulatory Agency at environmental components as waters, soils, the Council of Ministers of Republic of fodder, foods, etc., were conducted and the Bulgaria, the Ministry of Environment and results demonstrated there were no adverse Waters and the Ministry of Health. The trends as a result of Kozloduy NPP operation. radioecological state of the environment within There are more than 4000 trees and the region of the Plant is compliant with protective vegetation spreading on more than requirements of the active legislation in the 450 000 square metres within the green space field of radiation protection. of Kozloduy NPP. Continuous care is being In 2002 Bulgaria ratified the Kyoto Protocol taken for maintaining the Plant site green which is a serious step towards decreasing the space. The adjacent green areas were entirely greenhouse gasses emissions. The electricity renovated during the last year. The entry and production of the NPP practically does not exit roads, the Police Check Points and generate any greenhouse gases and building entrances were renovated under contributes significantly to the preservation of Landscape Architecture Projects. The the environment. For example, during the abundance of animal and fish species electricity generation in 2014, Kozloduy NPP characteristic of the region and typical for the saved the harmful impact on the public and the Danubean Basin speaks for the well preserved environment of about 18.96 million tons of and carefully maintained environmentally carbon dioxide (CO2), 109 thousand tons of friendly Plant site. sulphur dioxide (SO2), 23 thousand tons of nitrogen oxides (NOX) and 3 thousand tons of 2014 Communication on progress 9 ANTI-CORRUPTION Kozloduy NPP plc opposes all forms of taken by the Company are as follows: company or public corrupt practices in precise and transparent regulations of compliance with the UN Anti-corruption donations; such donations are not given Convention to which the Republic of Bulgaria to political parties; has been a party since 2006. Intolerance of strict accountancy which is subject to and opposition to the corrupt practices is a international and external audits; responsibility of each employee of the the Company has restricted its cash Company. The Company has established payment to a minimum, no cash register rules, preventive measures are implemented, is used and payments are received only misuse and corruption risks are managed. The by bank transfers. Cash payment sums Code of Ethics of Kozloduy NPP plc covers for our suppliers are limited; specific policies for conflict of interest, the employees of the Company are well personal benefits and gifts, fair and equal informed about anti-corruption issues. attitude towards suppliers and compliance Kozloduy NPP plc senior management with the Global Compact principles. expresses their and their employees' Investigations, law cases or other relevant confidence and commitment to further apply events connected with corruption and bribery the Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact in are conducted according to the requirements the field of human rights, labour standards, the of the legislation and Company documents. environment and anti-corruption as a basis of Activities and results: their plans and daily activities towards Opposition to the corrupt practices is a achieving sustainable and harmonious future responsibility of each employee of the development of the Company and society as a Company. The Company has established whole. clear rules and preventive control of possible abuse or corruption. Some of the measures 10 2014 Communication on progress Contents Introduction 1 Human rights principles 3 Labour standards 6 Environment 8 Anti-corruption 10 KOZLODUY NPP PLC Kozloduy 3321 Bulgaria Tel.: +359 973 72020 Fax: +359 973 80591 e-mail: info@npp.bg www.kznpp.org
