Sysmex Sustainability Report 2015 Full Version Contents 1 Contents/Editorial Policy 52 Involvement with Stakeholders 2 Corporate Philosophy 53 Involvement with Customers 3 Message from the Chairman and CEO 54 Ensuring Quality and Safety 58 After-Sales Support/Scientific Activities 5 Sysmex at a Glance 62 Stable Supply 7 Expanding our Lineup of Immunoassay 63 Enhancing Customer Satisfaction and Third-Party Evaluations Highlight Analyzers and Reagents That Contribute 65 Contributing to Resolution of to the Early Detection and Treatment of 1 Infectious Diseases, Cancer and Healthcare Issues 67 Involvement with Shareholders Other Diseases 69 Involvement with Business Partners 9 73 Involvement with Employees Highlight Opening of i-Square, a Core Instrument 74 Respecting Human Rights and Diversity Factory Focused on Delivering 77 Employee Evaluation, Treatment, 2 High-Quality Products in a Stable Manner and Human Resource Development 83 Ensuring a Work-Life Balance 87 Respecting Workers’ Rights 11 88 Considering Safety and Health Highlight Employee Volunteers Conduct Fund-Raising 92 Corporate Citizenship Activities 3 Campaign to Help Fight Cancer 93 Policy on Corporate Citizenship Activities and Philanthropy 94 Activities to Promote a Healthy Society 13 Global CSR Activity Highlights 98 Contributing to Local Communities 103 Promoting Employees’ Social 13 Japan 17 China Contribution Activities 15 Americas 18 Asia Pacific 104 Environmental Conservation Activities 16 EMEA* * Europe, the Middle East and Africa 105 Environmental Policy 19 Sysmex’s CSR Activities 106 Environmental Management 20 CSR Management 111 Environmentally Conscious Products and Services 22 Mid-Term CSR Plan 113 Environmental Consciousness at 24 Results of Dialogue with Stakeholders Business Oﬃces 26 Summary of CSR Data 117 Other Environmental Considerations 30 External Evaluation 119 Green Procurement 35 Corporate Governance 122 Environmental Data 42 Compliance 124 Guideline Comparative Table 50 Risk Management 136 Independent Opinion Editorial Policy Sysmex publishes the annual “Sysmex Sustainability Report” Organizations covered in the hopes of communicating its approaches and activities Sysmex Group (Sysmex Corporation and its subsidiaries both in Japan and concerning corporate social responsibility (CSR) to stakeholders abroad). In this report, “Sysmex” refers to the Sysmex Group as a whole. and facilitating dialog with them. This report is available as a full “Sysmex Corporation” refers to the Company on a stand-alone basis. version and in digest form, as well as on the Company’s website. Period covered Informational content of each media Primarily fiscal 2014 (from April 1, 2014 to March 31, 2015). Some activities • Sysmex Sustainability Report 2015 (Full Version), CSR Site: conducted outside this period are also included. Comprehensive information Provides exhaustive coverage of the Company’s CSR initiatives Date of publication • Sysmex Sustainability Report 2015 (Digest Version): August 2015 Excerpts of key information only Contains excerpted content the Company wishes particularly to Previous version: August 2014 communicate to stakeholders Guidelines referenced Inquiries about this report • The Global Reporting Initiative (GRI)'s Sustainability Reporting CSR Promotion Department, Sysmex Corporation Guidelines, Edition 3.1 1-5-1, Wakinohama-Kaigandori, Chuo-ku, Kobe, Hyogo, 651-0073, Japan • The Japanese Ministry of the Environment's Environmental Reporting Tel +81-78-265-0500, Fax +81-78-265-0524 Guidelines (2012 ed.) 1 Corporate Philosophy Core Behaviors To our Customers We deliver reassurance to our customers, through unmatched quality, advanced technologies, superior support, and actions that consistently reflect the viewpoint of our customers. We constantly look out for our customers’ true needs, and seek to generate new solutions to satisfy those needs. To our Employees We honor diversity, respect the individuality of each employee, and provide them with a workplace where they can realize their full potential. We value the spirit of independence and challenge, provide employees with opportunities for self-fulfillment and growth, and reward them for their accomplishments. To our Business Partners We deliver commitment to our client companies through broad-ranging partnerships. We strive to be a company that can grow in step with our trade partners, through respect and mutual trust. To our Shareholders Our shareholders can rest assured that we will continue to improve the soundness and transparency of our management policies, while promoting information disclosure and close communications. We commit ourselves to a consistent yet innovative style of management, in order to achieve sustainable growth and increased shareholder value. To Society We carry out our business in strict compliance with laws and regulations, as well as in adherence to high ethical standards. As a responsible member of society, we play an active role in resolving environmental issues and other problems that impact our society today. 2 Message from the Chairman and CEO We address the shared desire of all people to remain healthy by providing products and services backed by leading-edge technologies and building trust and confidence. Contributing to the Advancement of Healthcare emerging markets, with these products we expect to provide through Testing advanced testing in numerous regions and circumstances. In line with our mission of “shaping the advancement of healthcare,” which is defined in the “Sysmex Way,” the Building Trust and Confidence among corporate philosophy for the Sysmex Group, Sysmex works Stakeholders to contribute to the development of healthcare and the In keeping with its corporate philosophy, Sysmex prioritizes healthy lives of people. Since our founding in 1968, we have the building of trust and confidence among its stakeholders. created a wide spectrum of products and services in the In fiscal 2014, we responded to growing global demand in-vitro diagnostics field based on advanced technologies, for testing by reorganizing our instrument manufacturing and the Group’s products are used in more than 190 countries structure, creating a system to ensure the stable delivery of around the world. products of even higher quality. We opened the doors of In recent years, the environment surrounding the i-Square, a new factory in the city of Kakogawa, Hyogo healthcare business has changed dramatically. In advanced Prefecture, and expanded the factories at two Group countries, new needs are emerging as populations age and companies in Japan. These moves will approximately triple attention focuses on individually optimized healthcare our future supply capacity at our four factories, including (personalized medicine). Meanwhile, emerging markets— Kakogawa Factory. We also set up a logistics center within including China and countries in Southeast Asia and Central i-Square to directly link our manufacturing and distribution and South America—are working to expand their healthcare functions. At the same time, we revised our product packaging infrastructures and offer more sophisticated healthcare in materials and promoted such reforms as increasing loading line with their economic development. ratios. In addition to making logistics more efficient, these In this environment, testing is playing an increasingly moves are helping to reduce our CO2 footprint. Overseas, important role in illness prevention, early detection and the we augmented production capacities at our reagent determination of treatment methods. We aim to swiftly factories in Singapore and Germany. As well as ensuring address these changes in the environment and respond to high levels of quality and production efficiency, we strove people’s desire to remain healthy by meeting increasingly to make these factories even more comfortable places for diverse and advanced testing needs. employees to work. In fiscal 2014, we launched the HISCL-800, a new product Besides its business-related initiatives, Sysmex also in the HISCL-Series of automated immunoassay analyzers undertook a variety of social contribution activities. For that aids in the diagnosis of infectious diseases, cancers, heart example, because as a healthcare company we believe in diseases and autoimmune diseases and in monitoring their contributing to a healthy society through sports, we have courses of treatment. This product inherits such series supported the Kobe Marathon since its inception. We were characteristics as minute samples, a high degree of sensitivity a special sponsor of the fourth Kobe Marathon, which was and fast measurement, and is compact, being approximately held in November 2014, and our volunteers supported event 60% the width of existing models. We also introduced the operations in such ways as providing water to runners. XN-L-Series, a compact automated hematology analyzer. Overseas, we conduct a host of social contribution Aimed primarily to meet demand at small and medium-sized activities tailored to the characteristics of individual regions. facilities in advanced markets and expected growth in To help stamp out cancer, one of the world’s most deadly 3 diseases, in fiscal 2014 we launched the Sysmex Against Cancer campaign in the EMEA* region. Employee volunteers from different locations joined together in planning and conducting a variety of fund-raising events, with proceeds donated to the World Cancer Research Fund. * Europe, the Middle East and Africa Aiming to Make Further Progress with a New Mid-Term Management Plan We have recently formulated a new Group mid-term management plan to guide Sysmex through fiscal 2017. In addition to developing high-value-added products that anticipate customers’ needs and rolling out a global business strategy, this plan calls for the Company to augment management soundness and transparency by revising its internal control system. These measures are intended to enhance our sustainable corporate value. We will also reinforce interactive communication with diverse stakeholders. When formulating our mid-term management plan, we also revised our mid-term CSR plan. This plan is based on the 10 principles of the United Nations Global Compact, which the Company joined in 2011, and ISO 26000. The plan calls for further globalization of our businesses and re-establishes targets for future activities based on the increasingly diverse and sophisticated demands and expectations of our stakeholders. Sysmex aims to continue achieving sustainable growth going forward and strives to earn the trust of all our stakeholders. As we undertake these endeavors, I ask for your further understanding and support going forward. July 2015 Hisashi Ietsugu Chairman and CEO 4 Sysmex at a Glance Supporting the Lives and Health of People Worldwide by Providing the Instruments, Reagents and Software used in In-Vitro Diagnostics* Addressing the Problems Faced by Patients and Healthcare Professionals Reducing the Burden on Patients Helping Physicians Diagnose Swiftly Reducing the Burden for Laboratory Technologists and Enhancing Efficiency Sysmex products are in use near you. 3 1 1 3 2 1 2 5 * In-vitro diagnostics are a type of laboratory testing. Whereas In-vitro diagnostics involves tests conducted directly on patients’ bodies, such as electrocardiograms and ultrasound, with In-vitro diagnosis tests are performed on samples (specimens) taken from a patient’s body, such as blood and urine, analyzing the shape and number of constituents and cells contained in these samples. Integrated System from R&D to After-Sales Support R&D Production Sales After-sales Support 1 Hospitals Hematology Field Urinalysis Field Hematology, which involves measuring Urinalysis entails testing for and analyzing the number, type and the presence of sugar, protein size of red, white and other blood or blood in the urine, aiding in cells, allows the presence of anemia or the diagnosis of a variety of infectious disease to be determined. diseases. XN-Series XN-2000 UF-1000 i Automated Hematology Analyzer Automated Urine Particle Analyzer Hemostasis Field Life Science Field Hemostasis supports the diagnosis and Leading-edge technologies are used to analyze genes and proteins, treatment monitoring of the mechanism performing molecular diagnostics related to diseases, centering that prevents blood from clotting (as in on cancer. hemophilia) or disorders resulting from The One-Step Nucleic Acid Amplification (OSNA) method that Sysmex has thrombi (as with cerebral infarction). developed can be used to detect target genes in lymph nodes quickly, easily and with a high degree of precision. This technology is currently eligible for CS-5100 Automated Blood Coagulation Analyzer insurance coverage in testing for breast cancer, colorectal cancer and stomach cancer. The technology is also a focus of R&D attention in realizing personalized medicine, including for studying the effectiveness of anti-cancer agents. Immunochemistry Field Immunochemistry is performed on blood serum, the supernatant fluid isolated after blood separates, to test for the presence of the hepatitis virus, measure thyroid hormone and check for cancer. HISCL-5000 RD-100 i Automated Immunoassay System Gene Amplification Detector 2 Animal Hospitals 3 Sports Training Facilities Our products for animals help manage the health Our health monitoring analyzer measures ures of dogs and cats, as well as aquarium dolphins hemoglobin levels without blood sampling pling and and zoo animals. ondition. is used as a tool for monitoring athletic condition. pocH-100iV Diff ASTRIM FIT Automated Hematology Analyzer Health Monitoring Analyzer 6 Highlight 1 Expanding our Lineup of Immunoassay Analyzers and Reagents That Contribute to the Early Detection and Treatment of Infectious Diseases, Cancer and Other Diseases Launch of a Compact and High-Performance Immunoassay Analyzer to Meet 1 Diverse Needs around the World As a way of measuring proteins and other substances in is space-saving, with a footprint approximately 60% the the blood, immunochemistry testing has a wide range of width of the HISCL-5000. This instrument, which offers applications, from diagnosis of infectious diseases, cancers, high functionality and performance, as well as being heart diseases and autoimmune diseases to monitoring the space-saving, is expected to contribute to high-value-added course of treatment. As such, immunochemistry testing testing in emerging markets such as China and other Asian plays an essential role in the early detection of diseases countries that are slated for future growth. Contributing to and determination of therapeutic effects. To meet a variety testing efficiency, the interface employs a large, 21-inch of testing needs related to immunochemistry testing, Sysmex color touch-panel display and uses large icons to ensure a has expanded its lineup of HISCL-Series automated high level of visibility and operability. immunoassay analyzers. This model works with the Sysmex Network In September 2014, we launched the HISCL-800, which Communications Systems (SNCS)* to determine the status carries forward such HISCL-Series characteristics as minute of a customer’s instrument and pre-empt malfunctions. samples, a high degree of sensitivity and fast measurement This functionality helps in configuring a testing environment (requiring only 17 minutes). At the same time, the HISCL-800 that is convenient and instills customer confidence. * A separate agreement is needed to use this service. HISCL-800 Automated Immunoassay System Diseases for which immunochemistry tests contribute to diagnosis and monitoring of courses of treatment Infectious Cancer Heart Autoimmune diseases disease diseases Principal characteristics of HISCL-Series fully automated immunoassay analyzers Rapid measurement requiring only 17 minutes Minute samples (10–30μL) High sensitivity • Increased testing efficiency • Highly reliable testing results Instrument width approximately of the existing model, the HISCL-5000 60 % • Reduced burden on patients Space-saving 7 What is viral hepatitis ? C One of Japan’s most A New Reagent That Helps to prominent infectious diseases 2 Reduce the Burden on Patients B Affecting some May lead to liver cirrhosis and hepatocellular carcinoma 3 million people When Diagnosing Hepatic Virus-Induced Diseases In January 2015, Sysmex’s new reagent for the HISCL-Series, the HISCL M2BPGi Assay Kit, received approval for health insurance coverage in Japan. This reagent is able to determine in a short period of time the degree of liver Characteristics of the new reagent, HISCL M2BPGi fibrosis progression (hepatic fibrosis). Reduces the burden on patients Left untreated, viral hepatitis, one of Japan’s leading infectious diseases, can progress from chronic hepatitis and and leads to more efficient testing liver cirrhosis to hepatocellular carcinoma. To treat this Quickly determines liver fibrosis progression disease, determining the degree of hepatic fibrosis due to the hepatitis virus is key. At present, the typical testing with only a blood sample process involves living tissue diagnosis, or taking a biopsy Asymptomatic Chronic Liver Hepatocellular of the liver tissue. This method requires hospitalization, virus carriers, placing a substantial burden on the patient on both the hepatitis cirrhosis carcinoma acute hepatitis physical and economic fronts. Degree of liver fibrosis progression Using the HISCL M2BPGi Assay Kit and HISCL-Series ≒ Potential development into liver cirrhosis, immunoassay analyzers (HISCL-5000/2000i /800) allows hepatocellular carcinoma the degree of hepatic fibrosis progression to be quickly measured with only a blood sample. This method is expected to reduce the burden on the patient and lead to more efficient testing. Contributing to the Automation of Testing for Atopic Dermatitis and Greatly 3 Reducing the Time Required for Diagnosis In April 2014, Sysmex began offering the HISCL TARC Assay Kit for diagnosing atopic dermatitis. Time required to measure An objective approach to diagnosing atopic dermatitis TARC production volume involves measuring the amount of a substance called TARC* produced in the blood, thereby evaluating the severity of Substantially the disease and measuring therapeutic effects. In the past, these tests have been performed manually, typically requiring reduces testing time more than three hours. By using a HISCL-Series instrument To approximately and the HISCL TARC Assay Kit, this testing can be automated, reducing testing time to only around 17 minutes. By further expanding its lineup of immunoassay analyzers and reagents, Sysmex aims to contribute to enhancing the quality of testing and reducing the burden on patients. * An abbreviation for thymus and activation-regulated chemokine, a substance that causes cells in the blood to migrate to the skin, resulting in allergic 1/11 of manual method (From approximately 3 hours, 15 minutes to around 17 minutes) inflammation. Customer Impressions from Using the HISCL-800: “Easy to Use and Hassle Free” Comment We decided to introduce the HISCL-800 because it was perfectly sized for our laboratory and because of the quick, polite and reliable responses of Sysmex’s sales, support and scientific personnel. In addition to the instrument itself being compact, all the necessary reagents can be stored within the instrument, which makes the lab neat and tidy. The touch-screen monitor makes the instrument easy to use and it requires hardly any maintenance. From my perspective, the HISCL-800 is easy to use and hassle free. Momoyo Sakai, Chief of Clinical Laboratory, Healthcare Corporation TOSEIKAI, Suwa Maternity Clinic 8 Highlight 2 Opening of i-Square, a Core Instrument Factory Focused on Delivering High-Quality Products in a Stable Manner Rearranging the Group’s Overall Production System to Meet Growing Demand 1 for Testing Sysmex leverages its advanced “made in Japan” technological system. We reorganized our structure to manufacture capabilities to manufacture IVD instruments that are shipped compact models at the Kakogawa Factory, as well as the to customers in more than 190 countries. Sysmex Medica and Sysmex RA factories. Sysmex Medica Recent years have seen increasing healthcare and testing (Himeji, Hyogo Prefecture) specializes in the assembly of needs in China and other emerging markets, as well as units for high-end models, and Sysmex RA (Shiojiri, Nagano advanced countries, and demand for our instruments has Prefecture) focuses on the manufacture of peripheral grown sharply. In response to these conditions, in June equipment for IVD instruments. 2014 Sysmex established i-Square, a new factory in the city These revisions will allow the Sysmex Group to triple of Kakogawa, Hyogo Prefecture, with a site area of 30,000 its instrument manufacturing capacity, thereby meeting square meters. We took the establishment of i-Square as growing global needs. an opportunity to revise the Group’s instrument production Configuring a System to i-Square Features Manufacturing 2 Manufacture and Supply High-Quality Products Efficiently Uncompromising pursuit of high The manufacturing area at i-Square is designed around the concept of manufacturing high-quality products through a quality combination of people and technology, promoting the use of Utilization of ICT in “digital manufacturing.” The Smart Pro manufacturing ICT support system directs workers and testing personnel, (Information and accumulates working and testing results, and creates Communications manufacturing and testing records. Linking with Smart Pro Screen from a 3D moving manual Technology) are 3D “moving manuals” that use displays to demonstrate in manufacturing operations to workers using three-dimensional animations, resulting in high-quality, highly efficient manufacturing. i-Square also serves a central function in managing i-Square Features Logistics instrument logistics. Whereas in the past instruments manufactured at our factories were stored in external Achieves highly efficient operations warehouses, i-Square houses an internal logistics center that directly links the manufacturing and logistics functions. This system allows inventories to be managed as products are manufactured. By significantly improving operational efficiency, the new arrangement enables us to provide instruments to the market more swiftly than in the past. Directly linking the manufacturing and logistics functions 9 Overview of Instrument Manufacturing Locations Sysmex, Sysmex Sysmex Medica Sysmex RA Eventually Approximately i-Square Kakogawa Factory Location Site area Kakogawa, Hyogo Prefecture Approx. 30,000m2 Kakogawa, Hyogo Prefecture Approx. 12,000m2 Himeji, Hyogo Prefecture Approx. 7,300m2 Shiojiri, Nagano Prefecture Approx. 6,100m2 Tripling the Group’s Floor space Approx. 20,000m2 Approx. 9,800m2 Approx. 4,400m2 Approx. 6,000m2 Overall Instrument Main products High-end models Compact models High-end units Peripheral equipment Manufacturing Capacity Responding to Growing Global Needs for Testing I-Square Consideration for the Environment 3 and the Local Community Using Natural Energy i-Square is designed to minimize environmental impact. at i-Square LED lighting and solar power modules have been introduced to conserve energy and lower CO2 emissions. Furthermore, Reducing the factory is surrounded by a variety of greenery, with trees, water and light in abundance. A mound of earth near the Environmental Impact entrance of i-Square serves as an important symbol for the Generating 110 factory. Made with excess soil from construction that was left in place rather than being carted away, the hillock serves as a reminder of this reduced environmental impact. kWh through The industrial complex where the factory is situated Solar Power adjoins a housing area, and numerous schools are located (Accounting for 10% of all power used at i-Square) nearby. Sysmex has set aside a portion of its site as an In fiscal 2014, greenhouse gas access road for students commuting to school, and has emissions at Sysmex’s factories received a certificate of appreciation from the city of and primary business offices were Kakogawa for its contribution to children’s safety during down 9% year on year per unit of sales, although the absolute their commute to school. number increased due to the Going forward, Sysmex plans to continue its efforts to establishment of i-Square reinforce its manufacturing and logistics structures to take and other factors. the environment into consideration while ensuring the stable provision of high-quality products around the world. Employee An Easy Factory for Employees to Work in, and Convenient for Hosting Tour Guests Comment i-Square is a marriage between natural beauty and functionality. The facility is “people-friendly” in that in addition to being a comfortable place to work, it is convenient for hosting tour guests and people in the surrounding community, and features an abundance of trees, water and light. The manufacturing area is characterized by a pillarless, astylar configuration. This arrangement allows layouts to be flexibly adjusted as demands dictate. Wataru Kaneshika, Production Control Department, Instrument Production Division, Sysmex Corporation 10 Highlight 3 Employee Volunteers Conduct Fund-Raising Campaign to Help Fight Cancer 1 “Sysmex Against Cancer” Campaign Cancer is the world’s deadliest disease. Given that the research on cancer. In these ways, the Company is working number of deaths from cancer is forecast to continue proactively to contribute to society by fighting cancer. increasing, in addition to improving treatment methods In fiscal 2014, employee volunteers at Group companies there is a growing need to address the illness through in the EMEA*2 region launched the cancer-fighting campaign prevention and early detection. Sysmex manufactures and “Sysmex Against Cancer.” sells products that assist in the early detection of cancer. *1 For details, please see the section on page 15 of this report, entitled “Making Ongoing Contributions to Organizations That Support Cancer Prevention We also make donations*1 to the American Cancer Society and Research” and other organizations that work to prevent and conduct *2 Europe, the Middle East and Africa Leading in a Number of Fund-Raising World Cancer Status 2 Activities in the EMEA*1 Region The World’s As part of the Sysmex Against Cancer campaign, a dedicated website has been set up to publicize the host of events Deadliest Disease employees have planned and to solicit donations. These funds are donated to the World Cancer Research Fund*2, Deaths from Cancer 13.0 million Throughout the world, an estimated 14.0 million people fell ill with cancer which raises awareness of cancer prevention and supports research. These activities span the entire EMEA region, from Russia to South Africa, from the United Kingdom to the Middle East. Events are diverse, including sales of food, precious stones and caps, holding auctions and hosting 8.2 in 2012, and around 8.2 million people died from the disease. By lectures by specialists. As of April 2015, a total of 162 events million 2030, these figures are forecast to had been held. climb to 22.0 million and 13.0 *1 Europe, the Middle East and Africa million, respectively. *2 The World Cancer Research Fund is a non-profit organization headquartered Source: World Cancer Report in London, England. The fund promotes awareness of cancer-prevention 2014, International Agency for measures and provides funding for scientific research on the relationship Research on Cancer between cancer and such factors as food, exercise and obesity. 2012 2030 (Estimate) (Forecast) Employee A Major Project Combining the Efforts of Employees in 15 Countries Comment Many people in our lives are affected by cancer in one way or another. Sysmex is no exception. Sadly, two of our beloved colleagues passed away from cancer on the same day. As people involved in healthcare, this event led us to wonder what we might be able to do, and we launched the “Sysmex Against Cancer” campaign. On April 12, 2015, employees in 15 countries combined their energies to take part in a major project. Jos van de Ven, IVD Division, Sysmex Nederland 11 Conducting Contribution Activities through 3 the NN Marathon Rotterdam On April 12, 2015, one of the largest projects so far in the Amassing Donations through Sysmex Against Cancer campaign was held to raise funds Sysmex Against Cancer through the 2015 NN Marathon Rotterdam. Each year, more than 20,000 runners take part in this event, which is Contributing to the World the largest marathon in the Netherlands. Some 96 Sysmex Cancer Research Fund employees—92 from Europe, one from the Middle East and €241,733 three from Africa—ran in the marathon. When participants applied to take part in the marathon, they agreed to try and raise funds for the World Cancer Research Fund. As a result of these activities, by the end of April 2015 the Sysmex Against Cancer campaign had raised a total of (Approximately ¥31.5 million) €241,733 (approximately ¥31.5 million*) which it contributed Contribution presentation to the World Cancer Research Fund. Through this campaign, ceremony we plan to continue contributing to the fight against cancer. Going forward, in tandem with employees and local communities Sysmex will continue working proactively on social contribution activities that address the various problems society faces. *Calculated at €1.00 = ¥130.32, the exchange rate on March 31, 2015 Sysmex employees who participated in the NN Marathon Rotterdam Overview of the Sysmex Against Cancer Campaign 162 Fund-Raising Activities, Including Participation in the NN Marathon Rotterdam Taking part in a host of fund-raising activities 12 Global CSR Activity Highlights Japan Space-saving In the Hematology Field, Approximately Launch of Compact Models in the XN Family In December 2014, Sysmex launched the XN-L-Series (XN-550, XN-450 and XN-350) of automated multiparameter hematology analyzers. These compact models are part of the Company’s flagship model in the hematology field, the XN-Series. The width of the system 70 the width of current products* % comprising the new series and its data processing unit have been reduced to about 70% that of current compact models*. In addition, the new series offers high levels of performance and operability, and is aimed at smalland medium-sized healthcare facilities, as well as emergency laboratories at large-scale institutions. * Compared with the XN-350 and XS-800i (main instrument plus data processing unit) XN-550 XN-450 XN-350 Establishment of a New Development Base Technical Training at the Monozukuri for Companion Diagnostic Drugs Training Center In the area of cancer treatment, demand is growing to realize and Sysmex has established the Monozukuri Training Center at its promote personalized medicine, which is optimized for individual Kakogawa Factory to provide technical training for new patients. In line with this trend, expectations are growing for employees, as well as part-time and temporary employees. companion diagnostic drugs, which are used to predict the This center was expanded in fiscal 2014 as part of the renovation efficacy and side effects of drugs before using them as treatment. work conducted at Kakogawa Factory, increasing the number To accelerate R&D on companion diagnostic drugs, in December of training topics it handles. We have also shared this center’s 2014 Sysmex established a new base on Kobe Port Island to educational know-how with other factories to augment on-site develop these drugs and provide lab assay services. human resource development. Total Number of People Undergoing Training at the Monozukuri Training Center 1,000 669 709 238 302 Base for companion diagnostic drug development and lab assay services 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 (FY) 13 Sponsorship of the Kobe Marathon 2014 Introduction of a Social Contribution Sysmex Corporation has been a special sponsor of this event Point Program to Encourage Employee since its inception. With a theme of “Thanks and Friendship,” Volunteer Activities the Kobe Marathon is meant to express the gratitude of the Sysmex introduced a Social Contribution Point Program in April people of the Kobe area to everyone who assisted in the 2014. Under this program, employees earn individual points reconstruction of the region following the Great Hanshin-Awaji for taking part in social contribution activities, as well as for Earthquake. For the fourth marathon, held in November 2014, participating in social contribution events sponsored by the Sysmex supplied bib numbers to runners and fielded volunteers Company. The Company makes a donation corresponding to the who provided operational support. Sysmex also exhibited at the number of points accumulated at the end of each fiscal year. Kobe Marathon Under this program, in fiscal 2014 Sysmex donated ¥970,000 EXPO. worth of measles vaccines, antimalarial mosquito nets and emergency medical kits to developing countries via UNICEF. The result of the Social Contribution Program in Fiscal 2014 Approximately 28 % of Group employees in Japan participated, a total of 837 people. A total of ¥972,200 was donated, corresponding to 9,722 points. • Measles vaccines: 10,600 doses • Emergency medical kits: 78 • Antimalarial mosquito nets: 770 Volunteers providing water (136 Group employees and their family members participated) Human Resource Average training hours per employee (fiscal 2014) Development Based Approximately on Four Concepts 28 Based on its four concepts for human resource development, Sysmex Corporation operates a training system offering selective, rank-based and elective training that seeks to nurture personnel in a planned and hours gradual manner. In fiscal 2014, on average each employee underwent 28.2 hours of training, and average per-employee expenditure amounted Average training expenditure to ¥157,789*. Furthermore, in April 2015 Sysmex opened the Global per employee (fiscal 2014) Communication Center in Okuike, Ashiya, Hyogo Prefecture. This new Approximately facility aims to serve as a gathering place for people of diverse cultures ¥160,000 and values, encouraging communication in surroundings that provide a break from everyday routines and foster broader networks. * This figure indicates training provided by the Human Resources Department and excludes certain types of training, such as self-development and training related to specialized work for divisions. Four Concepts of Human Resource Development Link training, evaluation and 1 work (show results) Promote globalization of 2 the Sysmex Group Invest in ongoing human 3 resource development Be a company that cultivates 4 human resources and personal growth New employee training Global Communication Center (theater room) 14 Global CSR Activity Highlights Americas Providing Extensive Customer Support to Boost Satisfaction Survey Customer Satisfaction Ranks Sysmex America No.1 Sysmex America, the regional headquarters for the Americas, has striven over many years to provide customer support to ensure that instruments operate soundly at customer sites. As one indicator of the success of such support, the company has received the top ranking among manufacturers of hematology analyzers in an IMV ServiceTrak survey (sponsored by IMV) of customer satisfaction for 15 consecutive years. for 15 Consecutive Sysmex America has also won the Ace-Award (sponsored by Confirmit) for four consecutive years for excellent corporate results on customer Years feedback. Furthermore, the company scored well in an independent survey conducted in 2014, receiving an overall rating of 9.1 out of a 10.0 scale for customer satisfaction. IMV ServiceTrak Results (Out of 10 possible satisfaction points) 9.18 8.95 8.63 8.45 2013 2014 Competitor 1 Competitor 2 Competitor 3 Recording a video showing customers how to use an instrument Sysmex Americas Industry Avg. Making Ongoing Contributions to Selected for the Companies That Care Honor Organizations That Support Cancer Roll for the Seventh Consecutive Year Prevention and Research Recognized for its corporate citizenship activities and proactive To achieve its goal of contributing to a healthy society, Sysmex efforts to make the workplace motivating for employees, America regularly donates to organizations that support cancer Sysmex America was selected for the Companies That Care prevention and research. In fiscal 2014, the company donated Honor Roll, sponsored by Companies That Care, a U.S. nonprofit a total of $79,000* to the American Cancer Society, the organization. This was the seventh year in a row the company American Heart Association and the Leukemia & Lymphoma has been selected for this honor. Society. The company’s employees also actively participated as volunteers in events held by these societies. * Including donations received through fund-raising campaigns Employees and their families who participated in fund-raising events 15 Global CSR Activity Highlights EMEA * *Europe, the Middle East and Africa Support for Helping Non-profit Organization to Curb Building Medical the Increase in Infrastructure in Kenya In fiscal 2010, Sysmex donated hematology analyzers in support of ILFAR, a non-profit organization dedicated to building an HIV/AIDS treatment infrastructure in Kenya, and Sysmex has continued to provide support since then. ILFAR provides education about HIV/AIDS and conducts regular free screening in the area. In September 2014, the HIV Infection organization provided free screening for more than 2,300 residents of the village of Pumwani, Kenya. In fiscal 2014, Sysmex made a donation to ILFAR corresponding to the screening costs for 1,100 people. Hematology analyzer donated by Sysmex Performing treatment Providing Training for Distributors Improving Health through Sports and Employees In fiscal 2014, Sysmex Europe opened the Sysmex Gym, fitted Conducting highly precise testing requires an appropriate level out with various types of sports equipment. The gym offers of technological and scientific knowledge. To foster this training in various sports, including kick-boxing and pilates. expertise, Sysmex Europe, the regional headquarters for EMEA*, To foster an interest in sports among numerous employees, has established the Sysmex Academy to provide training for the gym offers entry-level training by professional coaches, key distributors and employees alike. The company has also and specialists provide massages, creating an environment set up training centers in various EMEA regions, providing an where gym-goers can enjoy maintaining their health. education system that offers instruction supervised by the Sysmex Academy. * Europe, the Middle East and Africa Training at the Sysmex Academy Sysmex Gym 16 Global CSR Activity Highlights China Providing Leading-Edge Scientific Information to Healthcare Professionals Since 1998, Sysmex has conducted scientific seminars for healthcare professionals in China, where economic development and population growth are leading to rapid growth in demand for healthcare and 780 Participants from testing. On November 1, 2014, we held the 17th Sysmex Scientific throughout Seminar in China in the city of Kunming. Attended by 780 people from throughout China, the seminar disseminated leading-edge information China on laboratory testing. Seminar underway Greeting by President Ietsugu Collaborating with a College to Wuxi Reagent Factory Named a “Fiscal 2014 Cultivate Engineers Trusted Company” by the Jiangsu Province China, where testing demand is growing at a rapid pace, faces Food & Drug Administration an urgent need to provide laboratory testing instrument In fiscal 2014, the Sysmex Wuxi Factory was named a “Fiscal engineers with the requisite specialized knowledge and 2014 Trusted Company” by the Food & Drug Administration technological skills. To address this need, Sysmex Shanghai and in Jiangsu Province, where it is located. The authority selected the Shanghai Medical Instrumentation College (SMIC) together the Wuxi Factory for this distinction from among all companies operate a training center for engineers. In fiscal 2014, five in Jiangsu Province involved in the manufacture of medical SMIC instructors with advanced instruction credentials and equipment, based on their legal compliance. three Sysmex Shanghai engineers with extensive operational and technological experience participated in this project. Engineers in training Sysmex Wuxi 17 Global CSR Activity Highlights Asia Pacific Expanding Our Reagent Factory Production in Singapore to Capacity to Ensure a Stable Supply Approximately Triple Sysmex is augmenting its reagent production capacity to ensure a stable supply of reagents to meet a growing demand for testing, particularly in emerging markets. In fiscal 2014, Sysmex renovated its factory in Singapore, prioritizing efforts to take the global environment into account, ensure high manufacturing quality and efficiency, and allow for future product additions. Production capacity at this factory will be steadily increased to approximately three times its former level. Production area inside the factory Building housing the new reagent factory Contributing to Testing Quality Improvements and the Philippines. Sysmex also provides technological and in Asian Countries academic expertise to local healthcare professionals. Sysmex is supporting efforts to put in place healthcare * External quality control: A process for confirming the accuracy of measurement data by comparing such data from the diagnostic instruments of specific institutions infrastructure and enhance the quality of healthcare in emerging with those of the reference counter (an instrument that provides measurement data markets and developing countries in Asia. For example, we work accepted as standard) and other institutions with local governments and academic societies to provide external quality control* in an effort to standardize testing Providing Free Screening for a Genetic Blood results. We continued these efforts in fiscal 2014, supporting Disorder in Indonesia external quality control in countries including Mongolia, Thailand In Indonesia, a large number of people are affected by thalassemia, an illness marked by symptoms such as dizziness, but people Major Support Activities in Fiscal 2014 with mild cases may not even be aware that they have the • Conducted external quality control twice each in the fields of hematology and clinical chemistry disorder. To address • Concluded an ongoing contract with the Mongolian Ministry of Health to this situation, in May Mongolia provide external quality control support • Performed lectures at a seminar attended by institutions participating in 2014 Sysmex external quality control Indonesia conducted • Conducted external quality control four times in the hematology field Thailand • Performed lectures at a seminar attended by institutions participating in a free screening event external quality control that attracted more Philippines • Conducted external quality control three times in the hematology field than 2,000 people. • Concluded a contract with the Cambodian Ministry of Health to provide Cambodia support for external quality control in the hematology field Screening event 18 CSR Management Mid-Term CSR Plan We conduct CSR activities in accordance We have formulated a Mid-Term CSR Plan with the corporate philosophy for the for the period from fiscal 2015 through fiscal Sysmex Group and the 10 Principles of the 2017, and we conduct our CSR activities United Nations Global Compact. accordingly. Results of Dialogue with Summary of CSR Data Stakeholders We introduce a host of data related to our We consider opportunities to engage directly stakeholder and corporate citizenship in dialog with our stakeholders important, activities, as well as environmental and we reflect their opinions and requests in preservation activities. our CSR activities. External Evaluation We have been selected as a member of representative SRI indexes. We have also received a variety of awards and commendations from third-party organizations. 19 Basic Policy Sysmex CSR Builds Trust and Confidence through Practice of the Sysmex Way Sysmex CSR builds trust and confidence among all its stakeholders through the practice of the Sysmex Way, the corporate philosophy of the Sysmex Group. The Sysmex Way indicates the way the most basic corporate activities ought to be conducted, consisting of three elements necessary for continued growth: Mission, Value and Mind. The mission expresses the expansion of our business from activities centered on the field of diagnostics—a focus since our establishment—to the broader healthcare domain with its even closer connection to human health. In this manner, the mission asserts our aim of contributing toward the realization of a society filled with abundance, health and joy. The Core Behaviors clarify provision of specific value to customers, employees, business partners, shareholders, society and all our stakeholders. For example, to provide reassurance to all members of society we carry out our business in strict compliance with laws and regulations, as well as in adherence to high ethical standards. We also consider it important to play an active role in resolving environmental issues and other problems that impact our society today. Promoting CSR Activities Based on the Global Compact's 10 Principles and ISO 26000 Sysmex joined the United Nations Global Compact in February 2011 to become more proactive in its CSR initiatives. We have formulated a mid-term CSR plan and are undertaking CSR activities based on these 10 principles, as well as ISO 26000, the international standard for social responsibility. 20 The UN Global Compact's 10 Principles Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labour Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Activities to Instill the Corporate Philosophy A Senior Executive Officer Living in the United States Conducts Courses in Japan Themed on the Sysmex Way A senior executive officer of Sysmex, who is also CEO of Sysmex America, held a course for various departments in Japan aimed at instilling the Sysmex Way. In the course, he discussed the relationships between the Company’s operations and the Sysmex Way, the impact this philosophy has on customers and his experiences in the United States. The course was followed by questionThe course underway and-answer session featuring a lively exchange of views. 21 Mid-Term CSR Plan Formulation of a New Mid-Term CSR Plan Responding to Increasingly Diverse and Sophisticated Social Requirements and Expectations In May 2015, Sysmex formulated a new Mid-Term CSR Plan in response to increasingly diverse and sophisticated social requirements and expectations. Regarding ongoing themes such as risk management and customer satisfaction, we will reinforce our structures from a global perspective. We also set new targets to increase employee satisfaction in order to maintain and enhance an attractive and pleasant working place. For the future, we plan to incorporate the opinions of stakeholders and define material issues. Mid-Term CSR Plan (Fiscal 2015–2017) Mid-Term Specific Developments Category Measures CSR Issues (Fiscal 2015) Organizational Reinforcement of Deploy a global risk Reinforce the risk governance our global risk management system management structural management base structure Strengthen measures Step up countermeasures to counter significant against information leaks Group risks Promote global fair trade Roll out global business continuity measures Reinforcement of Ensure thorough Create a complaints the compliance compliance and expand management system system application related to fair trade Expand the scope of our compliance policy Reinforce the global Draft and implement compliance structure improvement measures based on evaluations by external specialists 22 Human rights Cultivation and Promote an active role Increase the ratio of /Labor practices promotion of for women female recruits diverse human Conduct career resources advancement training for women Recruit diverse global Increase hiring ratio of human resources non-Japanese human resources Promote global talent Implement programs to management cultivate global human resources Maintenance or Increase employee Promote awareness improvement of an satisfaction activities with the aim of attractive and utilizing various programs pleasant working environment Environment Environmental Promote Reduce greenhouse gas impact reduction of environmentally emissions of products products, services friendly products and and services and operational services activities (Including achieving the Group target values outlined in Sysmex Eco-Vision 2020) Reduce the Curtail use of energy, environmental impact waste and use of water of business activities resources (Including achieving the Group target values outlined in Sysmex Eco-Vision 2020) Fair operating Promotion of CSR Continue to promote Select new business practices procurement CSR procurement partners based on new procurement policies and promote awareness among existing business partners Consumer Improvement of Create a global Conduct a global issues customer customer satisfaction customer satisfaction satisfaction evaluation system survey Community Promotion of Conduct corporate Continue to conduct involvement and corporate citizenship activities corporate citizenship development citizenship based on the Policy on activities activities Corporate Citizenship Increase the number of Activities and employee volunteers by Philanthropy promoting a social contribution points program 23 Main Dialogue Achievements in Fiscal 2014 Dialogue with Customers Conducted survey on degree of customer satisfaction in each region (Sysmex Corporation and overseas Group companies in each region) Held scientific seminars in each region (Sysmex Corporation and overseas Group companies in each region) Ongoing customer training program incorporating customer feedback in each region (Sysmex Corporation and overseas Group companies in each region) 37th Sysmex Scientific Seminar Held user group meetings to communicate accurate product knowledge (Sysmex Thailand) Dialogue with Employees Investigated desire concerning career design, including interest in working overseas or changing jobs through a voluntary reporting given to all employees, with results made use of in HR rotation (Sysmex Corporation) Opened the Global Communication Center in the city of Ashiya, in Japan, as a place for people of diverse cultures and values to congregate, break from everyday operations and roles, and engage in discussion and the expansion of networks (Sysmex Corporation) Opinion exchange meeting held at Held briefings and opinion exchange meetings related to the Tokyo Office the human resource development system at various offices (Sysmex Corporation) Conducted collective bargaining with the labor union and held labor–management meetings on topics such as workplace environment improvement (Sysmex Corporation) Held dialogues with labor unions (Sysmex Vietnam, Jinan Sysmex, Sysmex Wuxi) Dialogues with Business Partners Held procurement policy briefings for business partners in Japan to enhance their understanding of CSR procurement (Sysmex Corporation) Held briefings for all assemblers, sharing important information on managing process changes on medical instrument unit assemblies (Sysmex Medica) Conducted meetings with distributors to explain the Sysmex business plan, among other matters (Sysmex RUS) Procurement policy briefing Held a business partner meeting (Sysmex Asia Pacific) 24 Dialogue with Shareholders and Investors Held the 47th Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders (Sysmex Corporation) Held the 12th Technology Presentation for institutional investors and analysts (Sysmex Corporation) Held informational meetings for individual investors (Sysmex Corporation) Conducted two company tours during the year for shareholders (Sysmex Corporation) Company tour for shareholders Dialogue with Members of the Local Community Held event for local community interaction at R&D core Technopark (Sysmex Corporation) Participated in math and science education-focused 7th Science Fair in Hyogo event for high school students (Sysmex Corporation) Participated in the Aim High Urban Mentoring Initiative conducted by a U.S. NPO and advised local high school students (Sysmex America) Local community interaction event at Technopark 25 Summary of CSR Data Customers Fiscal Fiscal Fiscal Related Category 2012 2013 2014 Articles People undergoing training at the Sysmex Corporation Monozukuri Training Center 669 709 1,000 P13 (cumulative) Instruments registered with the on-line quality control service (cumulative, 23,829 28,723 31,859 P60 worldwide) Inquiries received by the Sysmex 95,612 97,085 95,767 P58 Corporation Customer Support Center Customer satisfaction rating with the Sysmex Corporation Customer Support 86.7 85.3 91.6 P63 Center* (%) * Research by Sysmex Corporation. Customer satisfaction rating in the United States* (out of 10 possible points) 9.0 9.1 9.1 P15 * Research by Sysmex America 5.42* Customer satisfaction rating in the United * 6 points represented States* (out of 10 possible points) 8.95 9.18 P15 full marks in * Research by IMV ServiceTrack. this fiscal year only. Employees (All figures are results for Sysmex Corporation.) Related Category Fiscal 2012 Fiscal 2013 Fiscal 2014 Articles Total 46 68 61 Of which, men 28 43 40 New-graduate Of which, 18 25 21 P75 recruits women Of which, 5 7 12 non-Japanese Total 33 42 69 Of which, men 29 31 47 Mid-career Of which, 4 11 22 P75 recruits women Of which, 2 1 1 non-Japanese 26 Turnover* Turnover * Regular employees 40 29 42 only, excluding people (people) P78 who have reached the mandatory retirement age Turnover (%) 3.2 1.4 1.96 Employment of Number of 49 47 47 people with people P76 disabilities Percentage 2.08 1.94 1.86 Applicants 9 16 20 Reemployment of People workers after the 8 16 20 reemployed P76 mandatory retirement Percentage 89 100 100 reemployment New registrants 9 3 5 Reemployment of personnel leaving Number 1 0 1 for reasons of reemployed P84 childcare or Percentage nursing care 11 0 20 reemployment Contract 12 6 15 employees Promotion to regular Temporary P78 1 3 4 employees employees Total 13 9 19 Work-related 0 0 0 deaths Work-related 3 2 3 injuries Frequency of work-related 0.63 0.41 0.58 injuries Industrial Severity of P89 accidents work-related 0.01 0.00 0.00 injuries Total work days 63 2 20 lost Total actual number of 4,731,407.25 4,895,594.75 5,129,491.25 working hours Days granted 43,600 45,348 47,000 Days taken 22,727 22,335.5 22,255.5 Paid leave P84 Percentage of 52.1 49.3 47.4 days taken People taking Women 23 29 48 pre-and P84 post-maternity Men 0 0 0 leave 27 People taking Women 25 31 41 P84 childcare leave Men 0 1 3 People taking Women 42 51 50 shorter work P84 hours for Men 0 0 0 childcare People taking Women 0 2 1 nursing care P84 leave Men 0 1 0 Percentage of Women 100 100 100 people returning P85 after childcare Men 100 100 leave People taking accumulated paid 33 62 26 P84 leave People on flex-time arrangement 1271 1618 1678 P84 Total during Children in 40 33 34 year in-house daycare P84 center At fiscal 27 28 23 year-end Training expenditure per 100,000 122,396 157,789 employee (yen) Training results* * From fiscal 2013, Training time excludes temporary per employee 10 10.9 28.2 P14 employees, part-time employees and (hours) executives Number of training 13 12 22 programs Total 15 29 124 Number of interns Of which, P101 accepted 3 6 3 non-Japanese Note: Some figures have been revised from ones disclosed before, owing to changes in definition. Fiscal Fiscal Related Category 2013 2014 Articles Female managers (%) Sysmex Corporation (%) 4.8 5.3 P76 (Director level or above) Overall Group (%) 10.6 11.6 28 Category Fiscal 2014 Men 63% Regular employees, employees on Japan loan, and fixed-term (part-time) Women 37% employees Men 65% Regular employees, employees on Americas Women 35% loan and executives Men 58% Regular employees, employees on Percentage of men and EMEA*2 loan, fixed-term employees and women in the Group*1 Women 42% executives Men 61% Regular employees, employees on China Women 39% loan and executives Men 61% Regular employees, employees on Asia loan, fixed-term employees and Pacific Women 39% executives *1 Excluding HYPHEN Biomed, Sysmex Inostics and Sysmex Partec *2 Europe, the Middle East and Africa Corporate Citizenship Activities Category Fiscal 2014 Expenditures for corporate citizenship activities Approximately 324,954,000 (Sysmex Corporation, yen) Related Category Fiscal 2014 Articles Donations to the World Cancer Research Fund (Group companies in EMEA* , euros) Approximately 241,700 P12 * Europe, the Middle East and Africa Related Category Fiscal 2012 Fiscal 2013 Fiscal 2014 Articles Donations to cancer-related Approximately Approximately Approximately organizations (Sysmex America, P15 78,800 100,000 79,000 US dollars) Environmental Conservation Activities (Related articles indicate the scope of range of calculation.) Fiscal Fiscal Fiscal Related Category 2012 2013 2014 Articles CO2 emissions from logistics (t-C02/1000 0.12 0.15 0.14 P112 ton-km) Greenhouse gas emissions at business 8.63 7.98 7.28 P113 offices Unit of sales* (t-CO2/￥100 million) Business office recycling rate (%) 89.5 88.9 90.3 P114 Water use at reagent factories Units (1,000 20.8 22.0 21.4 P115 m3/1,000 boxes * Owing to revisions in the scope of data, greenhouse gas emissions per unit of sales have been revised from figures reported for the preceding fiscal year. 29 Inclusion in Socially Responsible Investment (SRI) Indexes Selection for Representative SRI Indexes Socially responsible investment (SRI), assessing and screening corporate performance in dimensions like environment and social fairness as well as economy for a sustainable society, is drawing attention. Sysmex Corporation has been selected as a member of the FTSE4Good Index*1, a leading SRI index, since fiscal 2008. We have also been selected as a member of the Asia Pacific Index of the Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes*2 since fiscal 2012. In addition, since fiscal 2011 we have been designated for Ethibel Excellence*3 by Forum Ethibel, a Belgian SRI evaluation organization. Furthermore, in fiscal 2014 we were included as an Ethibel Pioneer*3 , a distinction bestowed on particularly excellent companies. *1 FTSE4Good Index: SRI index developed and managed by the U.K. FTSE Group, a joint venture between the Financial Times newspaper and the London Stock Exchange. *2 Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes: SRI index developed through collaboration between S&P Dow Jones Indexes of the United States and Robeco SAM, a Swiss research specialist in the area of socially responsible investment. *3 Ethibel Pioneer, Ethibel Excellence: Select stocks chosen for demonstrated performance above a certain level in terms of CSR issues related to observance of human rights and environmental contributions. 30 Recognition and Commendation by Third Parties 2015 March Received the Award for Excellence at the 18th Environmental Communication Awards for the Sysmex Sustainability Report 2014 March Ranked first in the Toyo Keizai ranking of the top 300 Excellent Companies for New Employees March Selected for the Companies That Care Honor Roll 2015* * Companies That Care Honor Roll: A corporate ranking that designates companies that contribute to the welfare of employees, their families and local community, based on a survey conducted by the Center for Companies That Care, an NPO. 2014 December Received an overall rating of 73rd of 538 companies in the NICES ranking by Nikkei Inc. October Received the Minister of Education, Culture, Sports, Science and Technology Encouragement Prize for Invention for one invention and The Encouragement Prize for Invention for three other inventions October Ranked 30th of 439 Companies in the overall Nikkei ranking of Companies that Motivate People October Selected by the Securities Analysts Association of Japan for Excellence in Disclosure to Individual Investors August CC-1001 automated hematology analyzer certified under the 3rd Heritage Program of Legacy Analytical Instruments/Scientific Instruments July Received an award from the city of Kobe for efforts to promote citizens’ health and contribute to an improved awareness of nutrition June Received Fiscal 2014 Hyogo Prefecture Invention Awards for the Direct Nucleic Acid Amplification Method and the Liquid Suction Supervision Method April Received the Fiscal 2014 Commendation for Science and Technology (Development Category) by the Minister of Education, Culture, Sports, Science and Technology for the Development of a Method for Analyzing Formed Elements in Urine April Baddhi Factory wins local environmental award (Sysmex India) March Selected for the Companies That Care Honor Roll 2014 (Sysmex America) March Ranked 50 out of 100 companies as a Great Place to Work (Sysmex Europe) 2013 December Received the German Design Award (sponsored by the German Design Council) for the XN-2000 automated hematology analyzer and XN reagents November Received the Chairman's Prize from the Hyogo Institute of Invention and Innovation for one invention and The Encouragement Prize for Invention for three other inventions at the Kinki Local Commendation for Invention November Selected in the Top Workplaces survey of regional organizations by the Chicago Tribune (Sysmex America) October Selected for excellence in disclosure to individual investors at the Awards for Excellence in Corporate Disclosure, sponsored by the Securities Analysts Association of Japan October Received the Good Design Award, sponsored by the Japan Institute of Design Promotion, for the ASTRIM FIT health monitoring analyzer July Our online network support service, Sysmex Network Communication Systems (SNCS), received a Grand Prix at the IT Japan Award 2013, sponsored by Nikkei Computer (published by Nikkei Business Publications, Inc.) 31 June Received the Hyogo Prefecture Invention Award for Specimen Analyzers and White Blood Cell Classification and Counting Method/White Blood Cell Classification and Counting Kit April Received the Fiscal 2013 Commendation for Science and Technology(Development Category) by the Minister of Education, Culture, Sports, Science and Technology, for development of the method of classifying and counting particles by automated hematology analyzer March Selected to the Companies That Care Honor Roll 2013 (Sysmex America) January Received Germany’s iF Product Design Award for the XN-2000 automated hematology analyzer and XN reagents 2012 November Received The Encouragement Prize of the President of Japan Patent Attorneys Association for one invention, and The Encouragement Prize for Invention for three inventions at the Kinki Local Commendation for Invention Awards October Received commendation at the Securities Analysts Association of Japan Corporate Disclosure Study Group Awards October Selected one of the 2012 Best Places to Work in Healthcare in recognition of its high level of employee satisfaction （Sysmex America） * Best Places to Work in Healthcare: Ranking of companies selected and recognized by employees from the healthcare industry as good places to work. Based on research by industry publication Modern Healthcare August Sysmex 2011 Annual Report awarded a bronze medal in the Healthcare Technology category of the 26th Annual International ARC Awards (held by MerComm, Inc., of the United States) August Received Healthcare’s Hottest Award* in recognition of rapid sales growth (Sysmex America) * Healthcare’s Hottest Award: Healthcare companies with continuous growth that have generated a minimum of $20 million in annual revenue in most recent fiscal year are selected based on research by industry publication Modern Healthcare May Received the award for contribution to industrial development of Hyogo in recognition of initiatives to the Kobe Chamber of Commerce and contributions invigorating regional industry Received Hyogo Prefecture Invention Award for Hematological analyzer sampling probe cleaning composition and method of using and Automated hematology slide preparation unit March Selected for Companies That Care Honor Roll 2012 (Sysmex America) March Selected as among Germany’s Best Employers in 2012* in recognition of its high level of employee satisfaction (Sysmex Europe) * An employee satisfaction survey of over 400 companies conducted by a German researcher February Received 2012 Achievement in Customer Excellence Award* for high-quality service (Sysmex America） * A program recognizes outstanding achievement in customer, employee and partner satisfaction by MarketTools, USA. January Selected for inclusion in the 2012 Global 100 (100 most sustainable companies in the world) 2011 December Selected one of the 2011 Best Places to Work in Healthcare(Sysmex America) November Received the Good Design Gold Award 2011 for its highly rated in vitro diagnostic system employing the Sysmex’s new Silent Design® August Received Technology Award from the Japan Society of Clinical Chemistry for ‘A Novel CK-MB Activity Assay Kit L-System CK-MB Using Anti-human Mitochondrial CK Antibodies' 32 May Received the Invention Award in the 2011 National Commendation for Invention, sponsored by the Japan Institute of Invention and Innovation, for technologies related to its white blood cell classification and counting method and associated reagents March Won the Hyogo Governor's Award in the 3rd Hyogo Manufacturing Technology Awards March Selected for Companies That Care Honor Roll 2011 (Sysmex America) February Sysmex Technopark R&D Tower received CASBEE Architectural Award (1st City of Kobe Design Award, CASBEE Category Architectural Award) January Received Nikkei Annual Report Award 2010 (presented by Nikkei Inc.) for the attractive layout, design and overall balance of our annual report 2010 November Received the Director-General of the Patent Office Encouragement Award (1 award) and Invention Encouragement Award (3 awards) in the Kansai Region Commendation for Invention The OSNA method received the Best Ideas in Healthcare 2010* award (hosted by Diario Médico) in Spain * From 2002, Diario Médico, the leading medical newspaper publisher in Spain, has selected the best initiatives, products or projects leading to significant improvements in healthcare. In 2010, out of 506 ideas, Sysmex's OSNA method received the Best Ideas in Healthcare 2010 award in the research and pharmacology field October Received the Minister of Economy, Trade and Industry Award in the Intellectual Property Achievement Award Received the Kobe Environmental Achievement Award August Sysmex Annual Report 2009 won the Gold Award in the healthcare category of the 2009 Vision Award July Honored with the Invention Award in the National Commendation for Invention April Received the Hyogo Prefectural Invention Award March Selected for Companies That Care Honor Roll 2010 (Sysmex America) February Our initiative to turn food waste into compost recognized as a Hyogo Biomass eco Model* (organized by the Hyogo Prefectural Government) * Recognizing pioneering initiatives in the efficient utilization of biomass in Hyogo Prefecture 2009 October Our R&D hub, Technopark, received the Encouragement Award of the Urban Green Space Award* (organized by the Urban Green Space Development Foundation) * Commends companies that have achieved outstanding results in improving the environment by using trees, flowers, and other greenery, thus contributing to the creation of lush urban neighborhoods September Our R&D hub, Technopark, received the Promotion Award of the Best of New Offices award* * Commends offices that incorporate originality and ingenuity, are comfortable and functional, stimulate sensitivity, and enhance creativity September Received Honorary Award from the Mongolian Health Minister in recognition of our investigation and support for external quality control April Selected as one of Daiwa Investor Relations’ 580 companies that maintain outstanding Internet IR Site for our IR site March Our IR site received the Gómez IR Site Ranking Excellent Award March Selected for Companies That Care Honor Roll 2009 (Sysmex America) 33 2008 December Our R&D hub, Technopark, assessed as the first-ever CASBEE* class S (highest class) facility in Kobe City * Comprehensive Assessment System for Built Environment Efficiency: Assesses buildings in terms of the global environment, earthquake performance, barrier-free functions, landscape, etc. November Received one Commissioner of the Japan Patent Office Invention Incentive Award and three Invention Incentive Awards in the 2008 Kinki Local Commendation for Invention (organized by the Japan Institute of Invention and Innovation) October Received the Fiscal 2008 Kobe Men & Women Iki-iki Business Establishment Award (organized by the Kobe City Government) March Our Sustainability Report 2007 received the Encouragement Award given as a part of the Environmental Communication Awards (organized by the Ministry of the Environment of Japan) 2007 December The Sysmex Annual Report received the Special Award in the Nikkei Annual Report Awards 2007 November Received a Shibucho-award (Award from the Branch Director) and two Invention Incentive Awards in the 2007 Kinki Local Commendation for Invention (organized by the Japan Institute of Invention and Innovation) April Our reagent technology for measuring immature cells in the blood received the 2007 Minister of Education, Culture, Sports, Science and Technology Award (organized by the Ministry of Education, Culture, Sports, Science and Technology of Japan) 34 Corporate Governance System Overview of the Corporate Governance System Sysmex has adopted the corporate auditor system since April, 2005. The current management organization consists of nine members of the Managing Board (one of whom is an outside member of the Managing Board), four corporate auditors (including two outside auditors), and 20 executive officers (seven of whom are also members of the Managing Board), and the Company has adopted the executive officer system to increase the speed of decision making in the conduct of business and respond quickly to changes in the business environment. Corporate Governance Structure The Managing Board consists of nine members. The board meets regularly once a month to deliberate on important management issues and convenes extraordinary meetings as necessary. The Global Strategy Committee consists of the chairman and CEO and senior executive officers. As a rule, this committee meets once a month to deliberate on the Group’s management direction and important strategic issues. The Steering Committee consists of the chairman and CEO and senior executive officers. The committee meets once a month, in principle, serving as a consultative body to the chairman and CEO to deliberate on important matters concerning the Group’s business. In addition, the Group Management Reporting Committee consists of the chairman and CEO and senior executive officers, directors of overseas regional headquarters, people in charge of domestic affiliated companies and division managers. The committee meets once a quarter, in principle, reporting important matters concerning the Group’s operations. Furthermore, the Operating Committee consists of managers of divisions. The committee meets once a month to find solutions to cross-functional problems. 35 Reason for Adopting a Corporate Governance System Sysmex positions reinforcing corporate governance as an important management issue. We have adopted the current system in the aim of enhancing corporate soundness and transparency and boosting management speed and efficiency. Development Status of the Internal Control System On April 22, 2015, the Managing Board resolved to have systems in place to ensure that the execution of duties by directors is compliant with the law and the Articles of Incorporation and systems required to be in accordance with Ministry of Justice ordinances for ensuring the appropriateness of operations for joint-stock companies. The content of this resolution is provided below. System for Ensuring the Execution of Duties by Members of the Managing Board and Employees Is Compliant with the Law and the Articles of Incorporation Sysmex and its subsidiaries (the Sysmex Group ) defines compliance as the conduct of open and aboveboard business activities on the basis of observance of laws and regulations and high ethical standards and maintains a system to ensure compliance as described below. Recognizing that compliance countermeasures are the first and most important way to maintain society’s trust and counter risk, the Sysmex Group operates a groupwide risk management system, under which the Compliance Committee is established as the umbrella organization for compliance. The Sysmex Group has formulated a Global Compliance Code that applies to employees and members of the Managing Board and rigorously ensures compliance through education and training. The Sysmex Group promotes the rapid detection and correction of violations of the law or the Articles of Incorporation by means of an internal compliance-related reporting system, and conducts audits of the compliance structure by means of the Internal Audit Office. System for the Retention and Management of Information Related to the Execution of Duties by Members of the Managing Board The Sysmex Group has formulated Global Document Management Regulations. In accordance with these regulations, the Group appropriately retains and manages minutes of Managing Board and other important meetings, as well as other information relating to the execution of duties by members of the Managing Board, and maintains the information in a state available for inspection as necessary. Regulations Concerning the Management of Risk and Other Systems To maintain a structure concerning risk management, the entire Sysmex Group complies with risk management regulations established by the Risk Management Committee for the integrated management of risk throughout the Group and strives to mitigate risk. The Risk Management Committee endeavors to discover foreseeable risks, select the most important of these risks, clarify the sections responsible for coping with risks, establish countermeasures and confirm the implementation status of these countermeasures. Systems to Ensure That Members of the Managing Board Execute Their Duties Efficiently The Sysmex Group has positioned the Managing Board as the institution to make important management decisions and supervise the execution of duties. The Company has introduced the executive officer system to be capable of making swifter operating decisions and reinforce management functions in order to respond quickly to changes in the business environment. The Sysmex Group clarifies decision-making procedures and ensures efficient business operations based on organization regulations, scope of authority regulations, regulations concerning the management of affiliated companies, and others. In addition, the Group formulates mid-term plans and annual management plans, periodically confirms the progress made with those plans and takes any necessary measures. 36 Systems to Ensure the Appropriateness of Business Activities in the Corporate Group, Comprising the Company and Its Subsidiaries Sysmex ensures compliance throughout the Sysmex Group in accordance with its Global Compliance Code, which applies to members of the Managing Board and employees throughout the Sysmex Group. In conformance with regulations established with respect to risk management, Sysmex maintains a groupwide risk management system. Internal audit offices are in place at subsidiaries, and Sysmex’s Internal Audit Office conducts audits of the Sysmex Group as a whole from a regional and companywide perspective. Based on its regulations relating to the management of affiliated companies, Sysmex respects the autonomy of the management of subsidiaries and other affiliated companies and ensures the appropriateness of business activities throughout the Sysmex Group by such means as periodic reporting on the details of their business activities and advance discussion concerning important matters. Assignment of Employees to Assist Corporate Auditors Employees in the Internal Audit Office assist Sysmex’s corporate auditors with their auditing activities, as necessary. At the request of the corporate auditors, Sysmex provides full-time staff to assist the Board of Auditors. To ensure that these assistants report exclusively to the corporate auditors, members of the Managing Board discuss with the Board of Auditors in advance personnel matters related to these assistants (such as appointments, transfers and disciplinary actions). Policy on Handling Audit Expenses Sysmex has in place a budget corresponding to the annual audit plan in order to defray the expenses required for the execution of duties by the corporate auditors. Procedures are handled appropriately in the event additional expenses are required for the execution of duties by the corporate auditors. Systems Related to Reporting to the Corporate Auditors and Other Systems for Ensuring Effective and Efficient Auditing by the Corporate Auditors If a member of the Managing Board or employee of the Group discovers a violation of the law or the Articles of Incorporation or a material fact that poses risk of causing significant damage to the Sysmex Group, that fact is promptly reported to the corporate auditor according to the prescribed regulations and procedures. The corporate auditors also attend Managing Board and other important meetings, read important documents such as approval requests, and request explanations from members of the Managing Board and employees of the Sysmex Group as necessary. Sysmex prohibits dismissal or any other disadvantageous treatment to members of the Managing Board and employees of the Sysmex Group who report information as outlined above. Status of Internal Audits and Audits by Corporate Auditors The Internal Audit Office, composed of 10 members, confirms and evaluates internal controls and the status of management and execution from the perspective of sound Group development. The office submits reports based on these results and promotes operational appropriateness through its improvements, advice and proposals. In these ways, the office also performs internal audits to contribute to the sound management of the Group. The Board of Auditors consists of four corporate auditors, two of whom are outside auditors. The corporate auditors attend the Managing Board and Steering Committee meetings and maintain systems for appropriately supervising the conduct of business on the part of the members of the Managing Board. The corporate auditors also maintain close communications with the Internal Audit Office, exchanging information and opinions as necessary, and confirm and evaluate the appropriateness of business execution. The Board of Auditors will continue to enhance management soundness by engaging in appropriate supervision of the execution of business as stipulated by law. The Board of Auditors works closely with the accounting auditors on the audit plans report (annual) and the audit results reports (annual), exchanging information and opinions as necessary, such as when conducting internal control audits related to financial reporting. The Company has contracted with Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu LLC to perform a certified public accountants audit. In addition to conducting an audit of the entire Sysmex Group, the 37 Company maintains an environment that makes it possible to rapidly cope with changes in the accounting system. The Company has contracts in place with several law offices and maintains a structure to solicit and obtain advice on important matters as necessary. Outside Members of the Managing Board and Outside Corporate Auditors The Company has one outside member of the Managing Board and two outside corporate auditors. Susumu Nishiura was appointed as an outside director in the hope that he would execute his duties as an outside director adequately utilizing his abundant experiences and deep insight in corporate management. Mr. Nishiura is formerly of TOA Corporation, a Sysmex business partner. He stepped down as director of TOA in June 2010. TOA has no special relationship with Sysmex. As we judge there to be no concern about any conflict interest with Mr. Nishiura and the general shareholders, we have notified the Tokyo Stock Exchange that he is an independent executive. No transactional or other interest-based relationships exist between Mr. Nishiura and Sysmex. Kuniaki Maenaka was appointed as an outside corporate auditor in the hope that he would make use of his accounting and financial expertise as a certified public accountant to contribute to management soundness and transparency. Mr. Maenaka is formerly of Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Limited, with which Sysmex has in place an agreement regarding public accountancy audits. However, he stepped down from Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu in September 2010, and during his employment there he had no connection with accounting audits of Sysmex. As of March 31, 2015, Mr. Maenaka owned 4,000 shares of Sysmex stock, which we do not judge to be material. Koichi Onishi was appointed as an outside corporate auditor in the hope that he would audit the Company adequately utilizing his abundant experience and deep insight as a corporate manager. Mr. Onishi is formerly of Nippon Koshuha Steel Co., Ltd., and no special relationship exists between that company and Sysmex. As we judge there to be no concern about any conflict interest between the two outside corporate auditors and the general shareholders, we have notified the Tokyo Stock Exchange that they are independent executives. Furthermore, no transactional or other interest-based relationships exist between these outside corporate auditors and Sysmex. The outside members of the Managing Board and outside corporate auditors attend meetings of the Managing Board and the Board of Auditors, and they are provided with access to various internal databases that enable them to obtain necessary information. In addition to exchanging opinions at meetings of the Board of Auditors, systems are in place to exchange information with the outside corporate auditors as necessary, providing them with adequate information for conducting effective audits. Although we have not established clear standards and policies with regard to independence in selecting outside members of the Managing Board and outside corporate auditors, during the selection process we refer to the Tokyo Stock Exchange’s Standards for Determining the Independence of Independent Executives. We also consider each candidate’s work history and relationship with Sysmex to determine that they are sufficiently independent to discharge the duties of independent executives from a standpoint of independence from Sysmex’s management team. 38 Messages from an Outside Members of the Managing Board and Outside Corporate Auditors Steering Committee meetings are a time of lively, forwardlooking discussion, and the Managing Board takes due account of the results of Steering Committee considerations in making its decisions. During discussions, I consider it import to ensure that my viewpoint incorporates increasing sales, securing profits and ensuring the appropriateness of investments in growth for enhancing corporate value. The positioning of our long-term management targets and Susumu the content of the mid-term management plan that went into Nishiura effect in the fiscal year ending March 31, 2016, are aimed at Member of the additional business expansion. Achieving these goals may Managing Board require large-scale investments in growth, but confirming the (Outside) effects of these investments and their profitability are also an important part of my assignment. Also, in recent years Sysmex has globalized and rapidly expanded its fields of operation. Internal rules need to be renewed and structures reset to take these developments into account. As an outside member of the Managing Board, I intend to concentrate specifically on the internal control system, particularly compliance, as well as the risk management system. My role as an outside corporate auditor is to look objectively at the conclusions handed down through the management decision-making process from a third-party, shareholderoriented perspective. At the same time, in filling the role I believe I invigorate the internal corporate culture and management sentiment in a novel way. I aim to speak and act in ways that reflect my work experience, which is entirely as an accountant working in the Kuniaki overseas business arena, by concentrating in particular on Maenaka how overseas markets and overseas stakeholders view our Corporate Auditor management, whether our actions match their expectations (Outside) and whether we are properly fulfilling our social responsibilities worldwide. I intend to continue conducting my tasks from the viewpoint of whether management is operating in an accountable manner in the scrutinizing eyes of overseas and domestic stakeholders and whether management is contributing to increases in corporate value. Also, I will work to ensure that the risk that tends to occur at quantitative and qualitative development stages is being appropriately understood and preemptively addressed and remain alert to any sign of problems relating to internal control. 39 This was the first year of my appointment, and I spent a significant amount of time getting the lay of the land. I visited the Company’s domestic branches, sales offices and Group companies, making a real effort to put aside any opinions I might have formed and consider the true state of things where they occur and look at conditions in an objective light. At meetings of the Steering Committee and Managing Board, Koichi Onishi I make it a point to ask questions from a proactive Corporate Auditor governanceand compliance-oriented perspective; this may (Outside) simply be a matter of course for people within the Company. As one might expect in a rapidly growing company, there is a pervading and palpable sense of energy among the employees. I believe it may be necessary for the front line of business to ensure that various regulations and further measures are in place. Going forward, I intend to continue viewing the Company from an outsider’s perspective, while doing my utmost to enhance corporate value via thorough corporate governance and compliance. 40 Compensation Paid to the Members of the Board and Corporate Auditors Total Executive Compensation by Executive Category, Breakdown of Total Compensation by Category, and Number of Executives Receiving Compensation Total Compensation breakdown, by category executive (Millions of yen) Executive Number of compensation category Basic Stock Retirement executives (Millions of Bonuses yen) compensation options benefits Members of the Managing Board 799 236 125 437 8 (excluding outside members) Corporate auditors (excluding 36 36 2 outside corporate auditors) Outside 11 11 4 executives Total Compensation, including People Awarded Compensation in Excess of ￥100 Million Compensation breakdown, by category Total (Millions of yen) executive Executive Company compenName Basic category category Stock Retirement sation compenBonuses (Millions options benefits sation of yen) Members Hisashi of the Sysmex 59 43 191 293 Ietsugu Managing Corporation Board Policies and Methods of Determining Executive Compensation Amounts and Calculation Methods Sysmex determines executive compensation amounts and calculation methods by making a clear link between operating performance and responsibility for achievement. Compensation for members of the Managing Board divides broadly into fixed and variable portions. Fixed compensation is determined on the basis of a member’s position, while variable compensation varies depending on performance. Compensation for corporate auditors comprises only a fixed portion. Compensation amounts are discussed and determined by the Managing Board following deliberation by the Compensation Committee. 41 Compliance Structure Pursuing Open and Aboveboard Business Activities Based on our Group philosophy, the Sysmex Way, we define our view of compliance as conducting business activities not only in compliance with applicable laws and regulations, but also based on fairness and high ethical standards. In accordance with this definition, we have established a Global Compliance Code, in which particularly important conformance rules and behavioral guidelines for all Group executives and employees to abide by are compiled. We take advantage of various training opportunities to enhance awareness of the code, as part of our efforts to ensure that our business activities are compliant with laws and regulations in each country and region in which we operate. We revised the compliance structure in October 2013, establishing the Compliance Committee independently from the Risk Management Committee. In addition, we are encouraging compliance in a manner that reinforces the relationship between the Group Compliance Officer and the officer of Group companies. In May 2014, we revised our global compliance code, adding text to describe our thoughts on ethics in relation to research and development, prevention of bribery, adherence to international guidelines such as the Universal Declaration on Human Rights, as well as research and development. We also set forth a bylaw for revising this code once every two years, in principle, to respond to changes in our internal and external environments. We also formulated the Sysmex Promotion Code to spell out in greater detail and more specifically two elements of the Global Compliance Code: 2．To Promote Fair Dealing and Free Competition and 9．Distinction between Public and Private Matters and No Conflicts of Interest, and we are conducting awareness activities in this regard. Compliance System 42 Sysmex Global Compliance Code 1. To Ensure Safety of Our Products and Services to Customers In all of our corporate activities, we will make it a matter of priority to provide our customers with safety and security. 2. To Promote Fair Dealing and Free Competition We will deal with our customers and business partners in a just and fair manner and will conduct transactions under appropriate conditions. As regards our relations with other companies in the same line of business, we will not illegally, dishonestly or unreasonably restrict their business, nor will we engage in the public defamation of those companies. 3. Fair and Proper Information Disclosure and Exercise of Complete Information Control Our corporate information, such as our group’s financial conditions and business activities, will be disclosed in a fair, prompt, correct and clear manner in accordance with applicable laws and regulations and we will exercise strict control over confidential information collected through our business activities so as not to cause any infringement to the rights of third parties. 4. . Implementation of Appropriate Research and Development Activities When carrying out our research and development, we will protect the dignity and human rights of the trial subjects and their privacy in the research of genes and other matters, and will comply with applicable laws and regulations and carry out our research activities in accordance with high ethical standards. 5. To Respect Intellectual Property We respect both the rights of our own company’s intellectual properties and the intellectual properties of others. We will not unlawfully acquire or utilize any confidential business information or the proprietary assets of others. 6. To Maintain International Peace and Safety We will comply with exportand import-related laws and regulations, and will not be engaged in any transaction likely to impede maintenance of international peace and safety. 7. To Conduct Proper Accounting and Appropriate Tax Payments We will always apply the appropriate accounting treatment and recognize tax obligations set forth in applicable tax laws and accounting regulations and standards. 8. To Respect Human Rights and to Improve Occupational Health and Safety We will support the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and Core Labour Standards, and respect the fundamental human rights of each person and will not infringe thereon by such acts as discrimination, harassment, etc. We will also comply with applicable laws and regulations, endeavor to improve occupational health and safety, and will not force any unfair labor practice on the personnel of the company. 9. Distinction between Public and Private Matters and No Conflicts of Interest We will not attempt to gain any personal profit in performance of our duties, and will not make any unauthorized use of our group’s assets, goods and information, nor will we perform such personal acts that may cause harm to our group’s business activities or reputation. 43 10. To Maintain Sound Relationships with Society We will comply with applicable laws and regulations related to anti-bribery statutes and comply strictly with applicable laws when making political donations, if allowed under local law. We will not be intimidated by antisocial activities, behavior and groups, and will never maintain any relationship with them. 11. To Preserve the Global Environment We will comply with environment-related laws and regulations, etc. and pay attention to the environment throughout our business activities based on international standards, etc. for the environment in an endeavor to preserve and improve the global environment. Revised May 2014 Third-Party Evaluations of Group Structure to Promote Compliance and Its Operational Status We confirm the appropriateness of our compliance-related initiatives and regulations with respect to social conditions and various laws and regulations, revising our content as needed. To reinforce our compliance promotion structure, in fiscal 2014 we revised our Global Compliance Regulations, which form the basis for these activities. We also invited outside institutions to evaluate our Group structure to promote compliance and its operational status. We are considering improvements to issues that were identified. We also take appropriate steps to verify that designs and other aspects of our products do not violate laws and regulations. In fiscal 2014, we created a checklist to confirm that designs of products for which we are filing pharmaceutical applications are in line with regulatory content, and completed the process of confirming their compliance. Establishment of an Internal Reporting System In principle, we aim to resolve any compliance-related issues within the organization but have established Campanula Lines for resolving issues that are difficult to address internally. In the interest of resolving issues at an early stage, Campanula Lines allow our employees to seek consultations and file reports via telephone, postal mail or e-mail through two lines (in-house and external). Any information received is handled anonymously to protect those providing the information from any adverse reactions. Also, such internal reporting systems are in place at overseas Group companies. In fiscal 2014, we fielded 17 consultations from Group companies in Japan. We conducted factual inquiries for consultations and dealt with each of them appropriately 44 Campanula Lines Internal Reporting System Compliance Education Continuously Providing Education on Compliance Compliance managers are in place at each Group company, and Sysmex provides compliance education for all employees. We have produced a Compliance Handbook and distributed a copy to each Group company employee in Japan to ensure that all employees are thoroughly compliance-aware. At Group companies in Japan, in addition to conducting regular compliance education each year we set key themes and conduct education at related departments according to these themes. Educational themes in fiscal 2014 were the Global Compliance Code, promoting fair trade and ensuring transparency in relationships with medical institutions. We prepared new video-based educational materials to promote understanding of the Global Compliance Code in particular. We also conduct compliance education at Group companies overseas, in accordance with conditions in individual countries. Main Compliance Education in Fiscal 2014 (Japan) (1) Global Compliance Code Conducted e-learning Prepared video-based educational materials to promote understanding (2) Promoting fair trade Conducted e-learning related to anti-bribery legislation Explained revisions of the Sysmex Promotion Code to Sysmex TMC and Sysmex CNA (3) Ensuring transparency in relationships with medical institutions International Business Management Division’s members are trained about Sunshine laws* and transparency guidelines * Sunshine laws: A vernacular term for laws such as those that have been put into place in the United States, France and other countries that make it a legal obligation for healthcare companies to disclose information about payments to doctors and doctor-education hospitals. 45 Main Compliance Education in Fiscal 2014 (Overseas) Jinan Sysmex (China): Conducted compliance education as part of training related to work improvements Sysmex Wuxi (China): Conducted compliance education for all employees Sysmex Asia Pacific: Conducted training on work improvements Sysmex Indonesia: In addition to occasions when new employees joined the company, provided opportunities for compliance education throughout the year Holding a Lecture Presentation on Laws and Regulatory Systems Related to Medical Instruments An awareness of the laws and regulations in the countries where our products are sold is an important part of promoting global compliance. In December 2014, we held a lecture presentation by members of the Beijing Institute of Metrology and Testing (BIMT), which conducts field trials for regulatory applications in China, when they came to Japan for training. More than Lecture presentation underway 80 people attended, including members of our Regulatory Affairs and Research departments. Participants listened to lectures about recent revisions, particularly to China’s Pharmaceutical Affairs Law. The lectures were followed by a question-and-answer session involving a lively exchange of views. Security Export Control Establishing a Security Export Control Structure Sysmex formulates internal control regulations in this regard, and registers for approval with the regulatory authorities at the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry. Under the Compliance Committee we have established a Security Export Control Committee. Based on our internal control regulations, this committee strives to reinforce our security export control system and thoroughly verify the destinations and purposes of our export of commodity and technology. We conduct workshops and e-learning to raise awareness of security export controls and export administration regulations in the United States, as well as performing audits to ensure thorough controls. Furthermore, to strengthen the security export control system for the Group as a whole, we are introducing management systems that link with enterprise resource planning (ERP) systems at regional headquarters overseas in an effort to ensure management thoroughness and increase efficiency. 46 Intellectual Property Management To Respect Intellectual Property Sysmex accords third-party intellectual property rights the same level of respect as it does its own. Each new product development project involves a patent review to decide what patents to apply for to protect our own intellectual property and review third parties’ intellectual property information. As a part of this review, a patent application study committee is convened, where Intellectual Property members and R&D engineers draw up patent application policies and plans for technologies under development. At the same time, the committee investigates the status of third-party intellectual property rights, thereby minimizing any risks associated with intellectual property. Research Ethics Conducting Appropriate R&D Activities Being involved in clinical research and development and human genome and genetic analysis research, Sysmex has adopted the Ethics Regulations on Clinical Research and Development and Human Genome and Genetic Analysis Research, whose basic policies include respect of human dignity and thorough protection of personal information. Sysmex has also established a Research Ethics Examination Committee, which includes outside members such as legal and science experts, in order to review research content. The list of committee members and examination results are disclosed on our website, thus ensuring transparency. In relation to animal testing and recombinant genetic testing, we have also set up the Testing Control Committee to deliberate on whether testing plans satisfy related legislation. Bribery Prevention Promoting Compliance with Applicable Laws in Japan and Overseas Sysmex is striving to prevent corruption based on the 10th principle of the Global Compact, that Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. We have prepared a practical guide that covers applicable laws not only in Japan, but also in the United States, the United Kingdom, China and other major countries, and use this guide in universal awareness activities. 47 Tax Transparency Appropriate Tax Payments and Disclosure Item 7 of the Global Compliance Code for Sysmex Corporation provides for conducting proper accounting and appropriate tax payments. Furthermore, in line with the international consensus we employ OECD guidelines when pricing internal transactions among Group companies overseas. We disclose Group payments of corporate and other taxes in financial and other reports, as well as the reasons for differences with effective statutory tax rates. Sysmex Group Compliance Code (Excerpt) 7. To Conduct Proper Accounting and Appropriate Tax Payments We will always apply the appropriate accounting treatment and recognize tax obligations set forth in applicable tax laws and accounting regulations and standards. 7-1 Appropriate tax return procedures We will adhere to tax laws and regulations applicable to jurisdictions both domestic and foreign, following appropriate and compliant tax return procedures. 7-2 Proper accounting procedures We will fully comply with tax laws, external accounting standards and internal accounting procedures, including global, regional and local, related to accounting entries of transactions such as sales and expenditures. Also, we will maintain accurate and complete records of all slips invoices, receipts, books, records and other documents material to financial transactions and will not make false or misleading entries. 7-3 Preparation of fair and transparent financial statements We will prepare and distribute financial statements that fairly and accurately reflect the financial performance of the company and fully comply with applicable laws, regulations and accepted accounting standards, and will not conduct illegal acts such as deliberate the misstatement of accounts. 48 Principles for Transparency in Relationships with Medical Institutions Introduction Sysmex, with its Group corporate mission of Shaping the advancement of healthcare, conducts business activities with the aim of providing reassurance to its various stakeholders, including customers. As part of this objective, at every stage of our operations—from research and development to manufacturing, sales and after-sales support—we are increasing the number of opportunities for collaboration with medical institutions and medical professionals. We believe that maintaining a strong sense of ethics as we go about these activities is important in securing broader society’s understanding of us as a company. In 2012, the Japan Association of Clinical Reagents Industries formulated guidelines for ensuring the transparency of relationships between corporate activities and medical institutions. Concurring with the gist of these guidelines, Sysmex Corporation and Sysmex International Reagents make public information about funding they provide to medical institutions. Disclosure Method We disclose relevant information for the previous fiscal year on our website. Start of Disclosure Information concerning the start of fiscal 2013 is disclosed in fiscal 2014. Target of Disclosure This information is based on the Guidelines on Transparency of Relationships between Corporate Activities and Medical Institutions established by the Japan Association of Clinical Reagents Industries. 49 Risk Management Structure Promoting Risk Management by Establishing a Dedicated Committee To control groupwide risk management activities, Sysmex established a Risk Management Committee, which is chaired by a risk management officer, the Group’s chief executive in charge of risk management. The risk management officer is a senior executive officer of Sysmex Corporation who, as chair of the Risk Management Committee, identifies major risks having the potential to significantly impact the Group’s business and consistently observes the results of risk response and monitoring by individual divisions and affiliated companies. For everyday risk management, committees other than the Risk Management Committee, as well as departments and affiliated companies, respond independently to operational risks. We clarify the responsibilities and roles of the Risk Management Committee for responding to significant risks to the Group, and have in place a risk management structure for responding to these risks swiftly and decisively. Risk Management Structure 50 Disaster Response Creation of a Structure for Responding Swiftly in Times of Emergency Sysmex has formulated a business continuity plan and regulations on disaster response, putting in place systems to ensure a rapid response in times of emergency. In addition, we have introduced at affiliated companies in Japan the safety confirmation tools Sysmex Corporation employs as a means of emergency communication. This system allows us to quickly determine the safety of members across the Group. We regularly conduct disaster drills at the Group’s business offices, including those of affiliated companies in Japan, to instill an understanding of actions required in times of disaster. The groupwide backbone IT system that Sysmex Corporation operates is located at external, disaster-resistant data centers. In addition, we created a backup structure so that we can quickly switch to a backup system in the event that disaster renders our regular system inoperable. Information Security Conducting Ongoing Training to Increase Awareness and Ensure Rules Are Entrenched Sysmex handles data about its customers, as well as on the entities with which it collaborates on R&D and other testing. We recognize the importance of upholding information such as this, as well as of other important corporate secrets, and view the leak of such corporate secrets as an important risk for the Group. Accordingly, we have in place structures to prevent this risk from materializing. For this reason, Sysmex Corporation and its affiliated companies in Japan conducts ongoing training for all employees at the divisional manager level and below to impress upon them the importance of and increase awareness of information management and entrench our rules on managing corporate secrecy. In fiscal 2014, we conducted e-learning related to managing corporate information secrecy. In addition, in the Sales & Marketing East / Japan and Sales & Marketing West /Japan divisions, we conducted training on personal information protection for managers and directors. 51 Involvement with Customers Involvement with Shareholders We deliver reassurance to our customers, Our shareholders can rest assured that we through unmatched quality, advanced will continue to improve the soundness and technologies, superior support, and actions transparency of our management policies, that consistently reflect the viewpoint of our while promoting information disclosure and customers. We constantly look out for our close communications. We commit ourselves customers’ true needs, and seek to generate to a consistent yet innovative style of new solutions to satisfy those needs. management, in order to achieve sustainable growth and increased shareholder value. Involvement with Business Involvement with Employees Partners We honor diversity, respect the individuality We deliver commitment to our client of each employee, and provide them with a companies through broad-ranging workplace where they can realize their full partnerships. We strive to be a company potential. We value the spirit of that can grow in step with our trade independence and challenge, provide partners, through respect and mutual trust. employees with opportunities for self-fulfillment and growth, and reward them for their accomplishments. 52 We deliver reassurance to our customers, through unmatched quality, advanced technologies, superior support, and actions that consistently reflect the viewpoint of our customers. We constantly look out for our customers' true needs, and seek to generate new solutions to satisfy those needs. Ensuring Quality and Safety After-Sales Support / Scientific Activities We have created a global management structure and are working to ensure the We help to improve the efficiency of our quality and safety of our products and customers’ operations by providing services. meticulous after-sales support and disseminating extensive scientific information. Stable Supply Enhancing Customer Satisfaction and Third-Party In response to growing global needs for Evaluations testing, we are reinforcing our structure for supplying instruments and reagents. We conduct customer satisfaction surveys and take to heart the resulting opinions and requests as we develop and improve products and services. Contributing to Resolution of Healthcare Issues We contribute to the resolution of a host of healthcare issues by using advanced technologies to create innovating products and services. 53 Quality Assurance Quality Policy By shaping the advancement of healthcare, our global business activities contribute to the creation of a fulfilling and healthy society. Core behavior 1. We understand our customer’s needs, and provide products and solutions that meet or exceed their expectations. 2. We act based on our customer’s viewpoints by realizing that Quality is customer satisfaction . 3. We seek to reassure our customers by establishing the highest quality assurance standards and using them to enhance the quality of all aspects of our business. 4. We continually create innovative value for our stakeholders by developing and applying new and unique technologies and knowledge. 5. We comply with all relevant national or regional regulations and standards to provide safe products. 6. We maintain and continually improve the effectiveness of our quality management system. 7. We establish quality objectives consistent with this quality policy, and measure our performance against them. Revised in May 2007 Building a Global Quality Management System Sysmex has constructed a system to ensure compliance with laws and regulations around the world based on Quality Policy and Sysmex Corporation Quality Compliance Policy, and we act accordingly. With regard to our quality management system, nearly all Group companies handling development or manufacturing functions have constructed management systems in line with Quality education and obtained certification under the ISO 9001 or ISO 13485*1 international standards. Of our 57 Group companies, 31 have received ISO 9001 certification and 18 have obtained ISO 13485 certification. Sysmex also conducts management reviews and audits of quality activities at its principal Group companies to confirm that the management system is operating properly. In addition to quality policy training for all employees, we conduct specialized quality education targeting specific departments Session in the Global RAQA and job types. In fiscal 2014, we performed training on Meeting 54 quality complaint processing and product recall. We also conducted training related to laws and regulations applied in China. To share quality-related information throughout the Group and reinforce our systems, once a year we hold the Global RAQA (regulatory affairs/quality assurance) Meeting, at which Quality Assurance Department managers from Sysmex Corporation, the regional headquarters in the Americas, EMEA*2, China and the Asia Pacific region, and affiliates gather. In fiscal 2014, this meeting took place in Japan in October and was attended by members of the regulatory affairs and quality control departments of our various regional headquarters and overseas affiliated companies. Participants took part in departmental discussions and factory tours, confirming and sharing the newest information about quality assurance. *1 Quality management system for the design and manufacture of medical devices *2 Europe, the Middle East, Africa Reinforcing Structures to Maintain and Improve Product Quality Used in laboratory testing, Sysmex’s products play a vital role in protecting people’s lives and good health. Being fully aware of this responsibility, Sysmex is making constant efforts to maintain and improve product quality by building various systems, not to mention complying with safety standards around the world at the design and development stages. In addition to creating and revising operational standards for instrument manufacturing with the aim of reinforcing quality control, in fiscal 2014 we set up the QMS Enhancement Project to augment quality improvement activities on production lines. Also, Sysmex Europe’s reagent factory completed compliance with good manufacturing practice (GMP) as defined by pharmaceutical legislation in Germany. In the product development stage, we verify product quality by setting five quality gates in the process leading up to market launch. Also, when we market products that are manufactured by others, we verify their quality by conducting periodic audits of the manufacturers and meticulously inspecting the products. As well as these efforts, in the unlikely event of a defective product we have systems in place to quickly identify and respond to the problem. The Sysmex global quality complaint processing system, which was implemented in April 2011, allows us to gather quality information in a timely way from markets around the world. When we receive information about a bug or malfunction, we immediately look into the cause and cease distribution of the product. We also share information globally about bugs and malfunctions, as well as corrective and preventive actions. 55 Focusing on Quality Training in the ICH Business Unit (ICH-BU) Of Sysmex’s three business units, the products handled by the ICH* Business Unit (ICH-BU) are particularly important to advanced diagnosis and medical judgments about treatment methods. To continue supplying highly reliable products, Sysmex ensures that the employees and specifically the engineers in this business unit undergo thorough quality training. Group training In fiscal 2014, we conducted group training for beginning engineers at the ICH-BU on the theme of quality-aware design. The program consisted of five basic levels and four applied levels and encouraged an accurate understanding of product evaluations (adequacy evaluations) and qualitycharacteristic design. Furthermore, in January 2015 we conducted group training for all ICH-BU employees to communicate the importance of enhancing the quality of healthcare-related products and product design considerations based on risk management. * An acronym taken from the initial letters of immunochemistry testing, clinical chemistry testing and hemostasis testing. 56 Quality and Safety Information Sharing Customer Feedback on Product Quality and Safety within the Company At Sysmex, information on product quality and safety is centrally controlled at the Vigilance Division. This division investigates and analyzes such information from customers, and feeds their analysis results to relevant customers while also sharing them with design, manufacturing and other related functions, so that these findings may be applied to quality improvement and product development. Product Quality and Vigilance Control System Collection and Repair Information Posted on Our Website Sysmex posts information about product collection and repair on its website under Important Product Notices. Working Aggressively to Stamp out Counterfeit Reagents To assure accurate testing results, Sysmex asks its customers at healthcare facilities to use Sysmex-branded instruments and reagents together. In recent years, however, reagents disguised as Sysmex reagents have been found in circulation in some areas. The use of such counterfeit reagents cannot guarantee the reliability of testing results and, in some cases, can be harmful to patients’ health. Sysmex continuously monitors markets for counterfeit reagents. When they are discovered, we work with local government institutions and judicial organs to ensure thorough enforcement. We also caution medical institutions against the use of counterfeit reagents by placing advertisements in newspapers. 57 After-Sales Support Responding to Inquiries Rapidly and Responsibly In Japan, Sysmex Corporation maintains a Customer Support Center, where experienced staff members with expert knowledge cater to customers 24 hours a day, 365 days a year (separate agreement required). By creating a database containing maintenance histories and the details of past inquiries from customers to ensure quick reference, the center responds to inquiries and requests both quickly and carefully. In fiscal 2014, the VOC (Voice of Customer) Group that we set up in fiscal 2013 collected and analyzed some 12,000 customer comments received in the Japanese market. We fed back the results to related departments for use in new product development and operational improvement activities. Going forward, we intend to extend the scope of these activities globally. Inquiries to Customer Support Center Responding to inquiries at the Customer Support Center Supporting Customers’ Quality Control on a Daily Basis At hospitals and other healthcare institutions, instrument and reagent precision is controlled to maintain consistent testing data reliability. In most cases, the condition of instruments and reagents is checked by comparing the measurement results of materials known as control blood with reference values and results on a daily basis. Sysmex supports quality control by providing control blood. Customer instruments are connected to the Customer Support Center via our online Sysmex Network Communication Systems (SNCS). Measured values of control blood sent via the SNCS from customer instruments are received by the Customer Support Center, which tallies and compares these values with its other data results on the same instruments, detects signs of abnormalities and returns the analysis results to the customer. This service also helps to prevent trouble by using information from the sensors placed on various instruments, the number of operations and maintenance periods. 58 Holding a Global Meeting on After-Sales Support In October 2014, we held a Global Meeting on After-Sales Support to share after-sales support issues and perspectives on a global basis. The meeting was attended by 44 people responsible for practical operations in eight regions, including regional headquarters overseas. Through workshops themed on customer support associated with the sales launch of XN-Series automated hematology analyzers and providing SNCS service , information was shared about the issues faced in various regions and value to be provided to customers in those areas, leading to animated discussions. We also decided to step up our overall SNCS service enhancement initiatives through the Global SNCS Team, whose objective is to share information globally, and by launching working groups to jointly address priority issues Meeting underway that have recently arisen. Going forward, we will continue to enhance groupwide after-sales support quality through close communications beyond regional boundaries. Utilizing ISO to Raise the Level of Quality Control In fiscal 2013, Sysmex Corporation obtained ISO/IEC 17025*1 certification for the calibration service it provides for hematology analyzers. Sysmex provides SNCS*2 and eQAPi*3 external quality control programs for general testing, hematology, clinical chemistry, immunology and other testing. We are the first organization in Japan to receive this ISO/IEC 17043*4 accreditation, not only in the laboratory testing field but also across all industries. These certifications enable Sysmex to provide customers with high-quality services as an ISO accredited Calibration Laboratory and Proficiency Testing Provider. In fiscal 2014, we calibrated around 640 hematology instruments according to ISO/IEC17025, issuing calibration certificates bearing the certification symbol to guarantee the instruments traceable*5 according to internationally standard measurement methods. We also expanded our ISO/IEC 17043 certification region to include, in addition to Japan, Europe, Africa, the Middle East and Taiwan, enabling us to issue ISO/IEC 17043 certifications in these areas, as well. We plan to continue expanding areas. *1 ISO/IEC 17025: International standard on general requirements for the competence of testing and calibration laboratories. *2 ISO/IEC 17043: International standard on conformity assessment—general requirements for proficiency testing. *3 SNCS: Refer to the above section entitled Supporting Customers’ Quality Control on a Daily Basis. *4 eQAPi: A large-scale real-time external quality assessment program. This service involves analyzing the results of measurement data in real time, which contributes to improving the accuracy of everyday testing. *5 Traceable: Assuming that measuring instrument calibration is conducted on the basis of higher measurement standards, the calibration history can be traced back clearly to primary standards, which are national and international standards. 59 Instruments Registered with the On-Line Quality Control Services (SNCS, eQAPi) (Worldwide, Cumulative) Overseas Example (Europe): Training Center in Belgium Receives ISO 29990 Certification In fiscal 2014, Sysmex Belgium’s training center received certification under the international ISO 29990 standard. This international standard, which is related to learning services in non-formal education and training, verifies that the center’s programs and trainers meet certain quality levels. Sysmex Nederland has also received this certification. Scientific Activities Holding Scientific Seminars for Clinical Professionals Sysmex keeps clinical professionals updated on scientific information by sponsoring seminars and study sessions for doctors and medical technologists. In June 2014, venues in Sapporo, Tokyo, Kobe and Fukuoka were linked by satellite relay to hold the 37th Sysmex Scientific Seminar. Themed on Ongoing Advances in Disease Biomarkers—Changing Cancer Treatment through 37th Sysmex Scientific Seminar Biomarkers at the Front Line of Disease Biomarker Research, the seminar was attended by 825 people. Publishing Scholarly Magazines We distribute the Sysmex Journal International (Japanese, English and Chinese editions) to medical institutions and university libraries in more than 100 countries throughout the world, thus keeping many clinical professionals updated on current clinical medicine and healthcare testing. 60 Overseas Example (Asia): Holding Scientific Seminars in South Korea, Malaysia and Vietnam Sysmex holds scientific seminars in various other Asian countries in addition to China. In fiscal 2014, we held these seminars in three countries: South Korea, Malaysia and Vietnam. The seminars in South Korea took place in Seoul in December 2014 and February 2015. The second seminar attracted 100 physicians specializing in laboratory testing Scientific seminar in Malaysia from throughout the country and featured lectures on hematology and other breaking topics. Participants commented that the content and atmosphere of the seminar had improved compared to a seminar held in the previous fiscal year. Overseas Example (Vietnam): Supporting Customers’ Academic Events Sysmex Vietnam holds seminars to help customers learn how to use Sysmex products accurately. The company also supports a number of academic events aimed at cultivating a deeper understanding of hematology and other fields in which Sysmex has expertise. 61 Stable Supply of Diagnostic Instruments Establishing New Factories and Expanding Facilities to Meet Growing Global Demand Sysmex maintains the right number of the correct types of products in the right locations in its inventories to ensure its ability to provide a stable supply of testing instruments. We have also constructed a new factory and are expanding our facilities to meet growing global demand. We have established the new i-Square instrument factory in the city of Kakogawa, Hyogo Prefecture. Construction on this facility was completed in June 2014. i-Square employs a seismically isolated structure to protect its production infrastructure and warehouse even in the event of an earthquake and allow stable supply to continue. In addition, in fiscal 2014 we completed construction to expand production facilities at affiliated instrument manufacturers in Japan. Stable Supply of Reagents Setting Appropriate Inventory Levels and Promoting Alternatives to Materials Subject to Procurement Risks With regard to reagents, in addition to setting appropriate inventory levels we are working from several angles to ensure supply stability. As disaster-preparedness measures, we diffuse risk through overseas manufacture and address procurement risk by promoting alternative materials. In fiscal 2014, we augmented our reagent production capabilities in Asia and Europe by increasing reagent Reagent factory in Germany production capacities in Singapore and Germany. At our Seishin Factory, we revised our reagent manufacturing processes to meet rising demand in China, shorting production lead times. At the same time, we conducted a risk assessment on reagent material supply. 62 Enhancing Customer Satisfaction Conducting Customer Satisfaction Surveys in Japan and Overseas Sysmex Corporation conducts surveys of customers who attend its national seminars and exhibitions, asking them to evaluate Sysmex’s sales and service activities. We also conduct questionnaire surveys related to the Customer Support Center of people who take part in customer training held by the Solution Center. In 2014, 274 people responded to this survey. Their satisfaction level was 91.6%, up 6.3 percentage points from the preceding year. We respond swiftly and make improvements in response to the requests and opinions we receive in this way, as part of our effort to enhance customer satisfaction. We visit in person customers who have purchase new products so that we can hear firsthand their opinions and impressions about product functions and operability, and feed this information back to the product development departments. In addition to these initiatives, we are creating a customer relationship management (CRM) system to comprehensively manage various customer-related information. In fiscal 2014, we added customer-input collection functionality to our CRM system and began feeding the information collected back to design and development departments. We are utilizing this system to develop products and make operational improvements in response to customers’ wishes. When customers visit us from overseas and tour our offices and factories, we take this as an opportunity to solicit their opinions. Group companies overseas also conduct their own customer satisfaction surveys. Overseas Example (All Countries): Reinforcing Global Sales and Support Networks Sysmex established new subsidiaries in Colombia in May 2014 and Australia in November. Also, in April 2014 we began conducting direct product sales and support in India in the fields of hemostasis and clinical chemistry, adding such activities to those already taking place in the field of urinalysis. Healthcare needs in these regions are growing in line with economic expansion, aging populations and rising healthcare spending. Accordingly, we are reinforcing our sales and support systems to meet customer needs more accurately and swiftly. 63 Evaluation of Social Contributions through Business Activities CC-1001 Certified under 3rd Heritage Program of Legacy Analytical Instruments/Scientific Instruments In the 3rd Heritage Program of Legacy Analytical Instruments/Scientific Instruments, Sysmex received certification for its CC-1001 automated hematology analyzer. The Heritage Program of Legacy Analytical Instruments/Scientific Instruments, established in 2012 by the Japan Analytical Instruments Manufacturers’ Association and the Japan Scientific Instruments Association, is the only heritage program in Japan in the category of analytical and Award ceremony scientific instruments. The program’s aim is to recognize the heritage of analytical instruments and scientific instruments that have contributed in an important way to the lives, economy, education and culture of the Japanese populace. The CC-1001 was recognized as being the first automated hematology analyzer developed in Japan, and the world’s first to employ the conductance method. The instrument was also evaluated highly for demonstrating Japan’s unique CC-1001 automated hematology developments in technology and instruments on a world analyzer scale and its substantial contribution to the establishment and operations of healthcare diagnostic systems in Japan. 64 Developing Products and Technologies That Help to Resolve Healthcare Issues Working to Popularize Simple and Inexpensive Testing for HIV/AIDS We welcomed Partec into the Sysmex Group in 2013. Partec has a strong presence in research domains and in the market for detecting infectious diseases such as HIV and malaria. Partec is a pioneer in the flow cytometry (FCM) method, in 1968 becoming the first company in the world to commercialize research equipment employing this method. Products that Partec has developed for emerging markets and developing countries using this technology have Compact and portable instruments to test for infectious contributed to the treatment and monitoring of patients diseases suffering from the world’s three leading infectious diseases: HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis and malaria. Compact and portable, its instruments can be used in environments where medical treatment facilities are lacking, and the reagents they use cost only a fraction of those offered by competitors. To provide easy access to testing, the company is rolling out mobile laboratories in various regions. Particularly in Africa, Partec accounts for a major share of the market in testing Deployment of mobile for HIV/AIDS. laboratories in areas lacking infrastructure Going forward, Sysmex will leverage its global network to increase recognition and adoption of Partec’s products in Asia and Central and South America as well as Africa. In this manner, we are working to help improve healthcare environments in various emerging markets and developing countries. 65 Receiving Manufacturing and Marketing Approval for a Reagent to Monitor therapeutic Gains on Chronic Myelogenous Leukemia (CML) CML is a disease that occurs as a result of chromosomal abnormalities in the blood cells. Using molecularly targeted drugs is an effective method of treatment, and treatment guidelines in Japan and other countries recommend the use of genetic testing* to monitor therapeutic gains. However, in Japan the reagent that has received manufacturing and sales approval from the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare for use in genetic testing based on Japan’s ipsogen BCR-ABL1 Mbcr IS-MMR guidelines has not been sold. DX reagent Sysmex Corporation therefore began working toward the manufacture and sale of a reagent that was effective for monitoring based on the guidelines. In August 2014, Sysmex became the first organization in Japan to receive approval to manufacture and market the ipsogen BCR ABL1 Mbcr IS-MMR DX reagent, and insurance coverage was approved in April 2014. Hereafter we plan to introduce the product into the Japanese market. * The practice guideline on hematopoietic malignancies (2013 edition) created by the Japanese Society of Hematology recommends using the BC R-ABL1 mRNA test for monitoring accuracy and reporting results according to international standards Other New Products and Services (Fiscal 2014) Launch of new ASTRIM FIT product for non-sampling measurement of estimated hemoglobin levels Introduction of the HISCL TARC Assay Kit to help evaluate the severity of atopic dermatitis through simple blood testing Sales launch of the LC-1000 exfoliative cell analyzer, aimed at contributing to efficiency improvements in cervical cancer screening tests 66 Our shareholders can rest assured that we will continue to improve the robustness and transparency of our management policies, while promoting information disclosure and close communications. We commit ourselves to a consistent yet innovative style of management, in order to achieve sustainable growth and increased shareholder value. Information Disclosure General Meeting and Informal Meetings for Shareholders Valuing opportunities for direct dialogue with our shareholders, we make an effort to encourage the participation of as many shareholders as possible at the General Meeting of Shareholders. After the general meeting, we hold informal meetings to promote interaction with shareholders. As in the previous year, in fiscal 2014 the theme of the meeting was Sysmex, Informal meeting for instilling confidence. After using panels and video to provide shareholders explanations about our business and IR activities, personnel measures and global social contribution activities, as well as third-party evaluations of Sysmex, we opened the floor for comments and questions. We accommodate shareholders who are unable to attend on the day by enabling them to exercise their voting rights in writing or over the Internet. Furthermore, we contribute to the readability of convocation and resolution notices. We also prepare English-language versions for overseas shareholders, print color convocation notices and post the same information on our corporate website. Further Enhancing Information Disclosure We make it a rule to disclose any information that we believe will affect investment decisions in light of our own standards, as well as to observe applicable laws and regulations concerning securities trading and the Rules on Timely Disclosure of Corporate Information by the Issuer of Listed Security and the Like established by stock exchanges. In addition to biannual briefings on financial results (after year-end and after the second quarter), Sysmex has held a conference call following the announcement of business results in the first and third quarters in an effort to further enhance information disclosure. 67 External Evaluation Chosen for Excellence in Disclosure to Individual Shareholders for Third Consecutive Year In fiscal 2014, Sysmex received an award for the third consecutive year. In the 2014 Awards for Excellence in Corporate Disclosure, sponsored by the Securities Analysts Association of Japan, we were selected for excellence in disclosure to individual investors. Out of the more than 251 companies evaluated, we were ranked second. As a distinction for having received this high evaluation for the three most recent consecutive years, we received a letter of Awards for Excellence in commendation citing the Company’s ongoing commitment to Corporate Disclosure award ceremony maintaining a high level of disclosure. We were given high marks for our explanations at briefing meetings for individual investors, including our chairman and CEO's explanations in his own words, as well as video distribution of the content of these meetings and easy-tounderstand materials incorporating photos and figures. We were evaluated highly for the construction of our website for individual investors that allows for easy searches of our business content and strengths. Our shareholder newsletter also scored highly for its extensive content. 68 We deliver commitment to our client companies through broad-ranging partnerships. We strive to be a company that can grow in step with our trade partners, through respect and mutual trust. CSR Promotion throughout the Value Chain Putting in Place a Procurement Policy that Takes CSR into Account Sysmex Corporation has formulated a procurement policy that expresses its basic considerations on selecting suppliers and conducting procurement transactions, and is promoting its deployment across the value chain. In fiscal 2013, we revised the policy to promote CSR through procurement. We also added a clause about formulating business continuity plans (BCP) as befits a company that is developing its business globally in the healthcare field, and another on promoting business activities and CSR in compliance with the laws, regulations and social conventions of host countries. When confirming our business partners’ CSR activities, we conduct CSR surveys containing such topics as occupational health and safety, handling human rights issues and preventing bribery of officials in Japan and overseas. In fiscal 2014, we received survey responses from 225 of our 269 business partners. We also conducted CSR surveys of seven new potential business partners and interviewed their managers to check the status of their CSR activities. 69 Procurement Policy In shaping the advancement of healthcare, the Mission set forth in the Sysmex Way corporate philosophy, we deliver commitment to our business partners through equitable and fair procurement activities. We also strive to be a company that can grow in step with our trading partners in a spirit of mutual trust and encouragement. Operating in strict compliance with laws, regulations, and contracts, and adhering to high ethical standards, we carry out consistent procurement of components and raw materials that meet the levels of quality required by healthcare providers. We closely follow these policies in our endeavors to supply products that customers worldwide can use with confidence. Similarly, we hope that our business partners will cooperate with us in the following seven areas as we continue to create and enhance unique and creative values. We ask our valued business partners to: 1. Assure quality to the requisite degree for healthcare products 2. Build a system for reliable supply 3. Refine technological capabilities that contribute to the development of healthcare 4. Create stable business foundations and formulate business continuity plans (BCP) 5. Promote business activities and CSR in compliance with the laws, regulations and social conventions of host countries 6. Carry out environmental management to help conserve the global natural environment 7. Supply products at reasonable prices and engage in aggressive cost-reduction programs Revised in March 2014 Reinforcing Relations with Business Partners We strive to enhance relations with our business partners so we can conduct business together based on their understanding our business directions and procurement policy. In fiscal 2014, we held procurement policy briefings for our business partners in Japan. We emphasized the importance of CSR to Sysmex and explained the content of responses Procurement policy briefing we like to see from our business partners. 70 Aiming to Improve the Quality of Supplied Parts and Raw Materials Our ability to provide high-quality products to customers in a stable manner depends on maintaining or improving the quality of the raw materials and parts we procure. We prepared a Quality Assurance Agreement that defines the quality requirements in 2009, and after also preparing a handbook to improve understanding of the content we have since been concluding this agreement with suppliers. We conduct quality audits without fail on new procurement partners to ensure that quality management systems are operating appropriately. For existing procurement partners, we inspect products for quality when they are delivered, conducting quality audits if deemed necessary as a corrective or precautionary measure. Holding Briefings to Share the Importance of Managing Process Changes When manufacturing medical instruments, process change management is extremely important for identifying manufacturing processes to be changed and managing those changes to ensure against any impact on quality. Sysmex Medica, a Group company that manufactures high-end units for testing instruments, held a briefing in December 2014 for business partners that handle unit Briefing for assemblers assembly. Sysmex Medica called for all assemblers to attend the briefing, which explained the impact medical instrument quality defects could have on the Company and the importance of process change management. Attendees were enthusiastic with their questions, leading to an animated discussion. Ensuring Thorough Compliance in Transactions Conducting Internal Awareness Activities to Ensure Compliance with Procurement-Related Legislation We have in place an electronic procurement system (Sysmex Trade Mission, or STM). In addition to preventing the reduction of payments to inappropriate levels, as well as avoiding product returns, each year we conduct training on this system. In fiscal 2014, we provided explanations to employees newly assigned to departments that place orders for R&D materials, as well as new employees, about how to use STM, points of caution from the receipt of ordered materials through to payment, and compliance with all laws, including the Act Against Delay in Payment of Subcontract Proceeds, etc., to Subcontractors (Subcontract Act). We also conducted education for employees newly assigned to the Procurement Department about the Subcontract Law, our procurement policy and CSR. 71 Explaining Policies on Compliance to Distributors Sysmex rigorously ensures compliance to build sustainable and fruitful partnerships with its distributors. We prohibit employees from abusing any dominant bargaining position, offering excessive entertainment, presents or the like when dealing with distributors. At the same time, we take advantage of opportunities presented by product briefings, which are held on occasions such as new launches, to share our policies and activities with our distributors, helping them Distributor meeting (Russia) to deepen their understanding of the importance of compliance. We engage in continuous communications with our overseas distributors through regular meetings at their locations as well as teleconferencing and meetings. In fiscal 2014, Sysmex RUS held its first distributor conference in Moscow. Also during the year, Sysmex Asia Pacific conducted its biennial business partner meeting, this time in Sri Lanka. 72 We honor diversity, respect the individuality of each employee, and provide them with a workplace where they can realize their full potential. We value the spirit of independence and challenge, provide employees with opportunities for self-fulfillment and growth, and reward them for their accomplishments. Respecting Human Rights Employee Evaluation, and Diversity Treatment, and Human Resource Development We support the Universal Declaration on Human Rights and ILO’s Core Labour We endeavor to treat employees fairly. Also, Standards, work to prevent human rights we have in place a host of human resource abuses and strive to ensure and utilize development programs, providing diverse human resources. opportunities for self-fulfillment and growth. Ensuring a Work-Life Respecting Workers’ Rights Balance Based on the principles of Global Compact We have in place a childrearing support and and ILO’s Core Labour Standards, we uphold a variety of other programs to support a the freedom of labor association and work-life balance among our employees. recognize the right to collective bargaining. Considering Safety and Health To foster a safe and good working environment, we have established a Safety and Health Committee at each of our offices, chaired by the executive at the head of that office. 73 Respecting Human Rights Adhering to the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and ILO’s Core Labour Standards Sysmex has formulated guidelines describing particularly important rules and behaviors for compliance with basic respect for human rights as indicated in 8. To Respect Human Rights and to Improve Occupational Health and Safety of Sysmex’s Global Compliance Code. This code clarifies a variety of discriminatory actions that are not tolerated; prohibits sexual harassment, power harassment and other acts that ignore human rights; underscores prohibitions on child labor and forced or compulsory labor; and seeks to ensure a safe and comfortable workplace environment. We also conduct training programs as needed to ensure the code is put into practice. In May 2014, we updated our compliance code, addressing global human rights issues as a global company. We set forth clearly our adherence to the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and ILO’s Core Labour Standards. Sysmex Group Compliance Code (Excerpt) 8. To Respect Human Rights and to Improve Occupational Health and Safety We will support the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and Core Labour Standards, and respect the fundamental human rights of each person and will not infringe thereon by such acts as discrimination, harassment, etc. We will also comply with applicable laws and regulations, endeavor to improve occupational health and safety, and will not force any unfair labor practice on the personnel of the company. 8-1 Prohibition of discrimination and harassments We must not discriminate with regard to a person’s sex, age, nationality, race, origin, belief, religion, social status, lineage, illness or physical disability, nor must we behave in a manner that ignores the dignity of other people, including such acts as sexual harassment, power harassment, etc. 8-2 Privacy protection We must acknowledge the diverse values of people as individuals, and must respect privacy of each and every person. We must not unnecessarily disclose private information we acquire in the course of work to any other third person and must not seek to obtain private information unnecessarily. 8-3 Elimination of forced labor and child labor We must not engage in unjust labor practices by detaining someone against his or her will. We must not hire children below the minimum age of employment set forth by applicable laws or regulations. 74 8-4 Assurance of safety and health at workplaces We must adhere to laws and regulations related to safety and health practices so that every employee may work with peace of mind, and must maintain and enhance the mental as well as physical health of every employee so that a safe and comfortable working environment can be established. Consultation and Reporting Systems Related to Human Rights Sysmex has set up Campanula Lines as an internal reporting system for Group companies in Japan to enable consultation related to sexual harassment and power harassment, among other topics. We also have internal reporting systems in place at Group companies overseas. Conducting Training to Prevent Human Rights Abuses Sysmex Corporation strives to prevent human rights abuses by conducting training to prevent harassment and impart a proper understanding of working. We also strive to prevent human rights abuses. In fiscal 2014, we conducted training for newly appointed managers on such topics as harassment, personnel administration and the Workers Dispatch Act. We also held harassment training for all employees at the Kakogawa Factory, including managers. Ensuring Diversity Embracing Diverse Personnel through Diversity and Inclusion Sysmex Corporation has evolved from the practice of diversity, which simply welcomes diverse human resources, to the more extensive practice of diversity and inclusion. This approach involves creating a working environment that is amenable to a wide variety of human resources, recruiting and stationing them without regard for nationality, race, gender or physical disability. Aiming to Equalize Employment Opportunities Sysmex Corporation recruits new employees based the evaluation of individuals, without regard for gender, nationality, race, age, employment history or disability status. Specifically, we instituted year-round hiring to offer equal opportunities to people who had already graduated or had studied overseas and therefore might be at a disadvantage. To ensure our ability to recruit personnel around the world, we conduct Company briefings and interviews overseas, as well as conducting Web-based briefings and interviews. In fiscal 2014, foreign personnel made up 19.7% of new recruits, including mid-term hires. 75 Promoting Employment of People with Disabilities Sysmex Corporation encourages the employment of people with disabilities. Targeting long-term employment, we design working conditions to maximize individuals’ aptitudes and skills. In fiscal 2014, employment of people with disabilities amounted to 1.86%. In addition to focusing on the hiring of people with disabilities, we are introducing Ostomates (toilets for people who have had colostomies or urostomies) and other barrier-free facilities, each month a Safety and Health Committee member visits workplaces to confirm that facilities are easily navigable by wheelchair. These are examples of our ongoing efforts to create a working environment that is amenable to people with disabilities. Employing Seniors—System for Reemploying PostMandatory Retirement Age Workers Sysmex Corporation’s mandatory retirement age is 60, but we have in place a system for rehiring until age 65 people who have retired at the mandatory retirement age and still wish to work. In fiscal 2014, 20 people who had reached the mandatory retirement age were rehired according to internal rules, up from the previous year’s 16. Cultivating Female Leaders One aspect of our efforts to support the success of women is an initiative to cultivate female leaders. In fiscal 2014, two female employees participated in a program run by Japan Women’s Innovative Network (J-Win), an NPO that supports diversity management. This program gathers women in the interest of career development, irrespective of business type or category, aiming to forge mutual support networks. Providing opportunities for mutual training has proven successful at cultivating leaders. In fiscal 2014, our percentage of female managers* increased by 0.46 percentage point, to 7.29% from 6.83%. ※ Managers indicate people who have subordinates or who are of a rank equivalent to those with subordinates. Overseas Example (United States): Formulation and Enactment of an Affirmative Action Program Sysmex America has designed and put in place an affirmative action program aimed at encouraging diversity. The company also operates a variety of systems to support work-life balance among its employees. 76 Employee Evaluation and Treatment Equitably Evaluating Personnel Based on Abilities and Accomplishments Sysmex Corporation values the spirit of independence and challenge, provides employees with opportunities for self-fulfillment and growth, and rewards them for their accomplishments. Based on the principle of fair treatment, Sysmex’s basic approach toward evaluation is to reward employees for capabilities that contribute to the enhancement of corporate value as well as for producing accomplishments. In addition to evaluating employees for their successes, we evaluate the processes leading to employee growth (competency evaluations). To achieve fairness and ensure that employees understand their evaluations, we show employees their evaluation results and their superiors’ comments. Basic Principles of the Personnel Management System 1. Ensuring long-term employment Establishing a double-linear-type competence-based rating frame that enables a diversity of employees to maximize their skills, and providing opportunities for self-realization and growth 2. Promoting the development and cultivation of diverse human resources Establishing competence-based rating standards and promoting cultivation of human resources and normalization of career advancement through clarification of promotion criteria Evaluating not only accomplishments but also the processes of producing achievements (realization capability) in order to promote human resource development and the reform of corporate culture 3. Rewarding employees for capabilities that contribute to the enhancement of corporate value as well as for producing accomplishments Simplifying the relationship between evaluation and reward. Creating a remuneration structure that is easy for everyone to understand and that rewards employees in accordance with their contribution, role, competency and accomplishments Supporting Employee Career Design Sysmex Corporation employs a voluntary reporting system for all employees. The system affords each employee with the opportunity to consider their own career directions and life plan, as well as to affect their own skills development and placement according to the content of their reports. 77 Employment Figures (Status of Hiring and Turnover) Sysmex Corporation recruited 130 new hires in fiscal 2014, 42 people left the Company, and the turnover rate was 1.96%. As a result, the total number of employees (non-consolidated basis) as of March 31, 2015 was 2,323. Citing our high rate of retention for people three years after being hired, we tied for first in the Toyo Keizai ranking of Excellent Companies for New Employees. Hiring Contract and Temporary Employees to Regular Positions Sysmex Corporation actively hires contract employees and temporary employees as regular personnel. We have clarified our internal regulations for hiring people working on limited, fixed-term contracts, offering them fair opportunities for promotion. We put this information on our intranet to encourage thorough understanding of these rules. When renewing temporary employees’ contracts, for employees that meet certain conditions we notify temporary placement agencies of the possibility of employing such personnel directly. Through the ongoing application of these systems, 19 contract and temporary employees were promoted to regular positions in fiscal 2014. Introducing Internal Awards Systems to Motivate Employees In fiscal 2011, Sysmex introduced the Group CEO Award system for recognizing individuals, organizations or groups that contribute most significantly to the realization of the Sysmex Way, our Group corporate philosophy, sharing these achievements throughout the Company each year. We provide awards for one individual and one group. To motivate R&D engineers and heighten awareness of intellectual property, Sysmex Corporation has also introduced three patent award systems: the Patent Grand Prize/Patent Prize of Distinction, the Patent Meister and the Filing Commemoration Prize. We also present a Quality Award for success in quality improvements. Overseas Example: Personnel Systems at Regional Headquarters Our regional headquarters for the Americas, EMEA*, China and Asia Pacific have in place personnel systems in line with the legal frameworks and cultures of these regions. In general, we use management by objectives approaches to evaluate personnel. To some degree, we also employ competency evaluations in the Americas, EMEA* and Asia Pacific. We use talent management education for cultivating personnel and conduct level-based training. In addition, these headquarters have in place an employee exchange program with Sysmex Corporation in Japan to promote global personnel intercourse and training. * EMEA: Europe, the Middle East and Africa 78 Human Resource Development Human Resource Development Based on Four Concepts Based on its four concepts for human resource development, Sysmex Corporation operates a training system offering selective, rank-based and elective training that seeks to nurture personnel in a planned and gradual manner. In fiscal 2014, on average each employee underwent 28.2 hours of training, and average per-employee expenditure amounted to ￥157,789*. Furthermore, in April 2015 Sysmex opened the Global Communication Center in Okuike, Ashiya, Hyogo Prefecture. This new facility aims to serve as a gathering place for people of diverse cultures and values, encouraging communication in surroundings that provide a break from everyday routines and foster broader networks. * This figure indicates training provided by the Human Resources Department and excludes certain types of training, such as self-development and training related to specialized work for divisions. New employee training Four Concepts of Human Resource Development 1. Link training, evaluation and work (show results) 2. Promote globalization of the Sysmex Group 3. Invest in ongoing human resource development 4. Be a company that cultivates human resources and personal growth Three Core Training Systems Training Type Objective Selective training Cultivate global leaders Cultivate future management personnel Rank-based Acquire the minimum level of understanding and expertise in training management and issue resolution required at each level Promote communication between departments Elective training Obtain practical expertise, knowledge and skills on business （Sysmex College） execution Gain various types of business management expertise Outline of the Global Communication Center Location : Ashiya, Hyogo Prefecture Site area : 33,399m2 Floor space : 2,914m2 Facilities : Training room, conference room, collaboration space, theater room, lodging facilities, cafeteria, etc. Global Communication Center (theater room) 79 Focusing on the Cultivation of Global Human Resources Sysmex focuses on developing global human resources, which are core to its global business. We introduced the Global Apprentice Program targeting younger employees in fiscal 2011. We solicit participants internally for this program, which offers employees the opportunity to work at overseas subsidiaries and is open to employees who aim to develop global careers. The objective of the program is to foster a core of global personnel within the Company. Employees strengthening ties through the Global Apprentice Upon their return, the employees participate in debriefing Program meetings, where they report on their experience working in overseas market environments. This approach helps to convey information about overseas conditions to Sysmex in Japan. By the end of fiscal 2014, a total of 25 employees had been dispatched overseas through this program. Promoting a Global Personnel Exchange Program Sysmex introduced the Global Personnel Exchange Program in fiscal 2012 to promote mutual exchange between employees in Japan and at Group companies overseas. The program aims to strengthen ties through deeper mutual understanding. In fiscal 2014, a total of 20 employees from the Americas, EMEA*, Asia Pacific, China and Japan regions underwent Discussion forum training under this program in November. They experienced operations at headquarters in Kobe and participated in discussion and forums, as well as deepening relations through customer visits. In December 2014, Japanese employees visited Sysmex Europe in Germany, fostering mutual understanding by experiencing operations there and participating in opinion exchanges. * EMEA: Europe, the Middle East and Africa Interacting with employees in other regions through operational experiences Enhancing the Skills of Employees in Manufacturing Workplaces Enhancing the technical skills of employees who are involved in manufacturing is important for Sysmex, which produces medical equipment. Accordingly, Sysmex Corporation has established the Monozukuri Training Center to provide hands-on training throughout the year in the knowledge and skills needed to manufacture Sysmex products. Training at the Monozukuri Training Center 80 Training to Generate New Innovation During a one-year period from September 2013, Sysmex Corporation’s Central Research Laboratories undertook an initiative known as Developing an Organization for Radical Innovation. The Central Research Laboratories has three primary roles: generating innovations, tracking leading technology trends and resolving issues raised by business departments. In its role as the Group’s intellectual powerhouse, it is important Activity logo for the laboratories to generate innovations that deliver technology transformations and create value—in short, radical innovations. The activity involved dividing the laboratories up into seven technology teams, each of which took on the challenge of boosting innovation in their respective areas. At the results presentation in September 2014, members described the objectives their teams had set, their activities over the past Results presentation year and what their thoughts were on these themes going forward. We plan to continue this initiative. Overseas Example (France): Conducting Language Training to Enhance Communications within the Group As numerous languages are used throughout Europe, communicating with other regions is an important task. In addition to English, employees need to be proficient in many countries’ official languages. HYPHEN Biomed, a Sysmex Group company in France, brought in Englishand Frenchlanguage instructors in fiscal 2014 and set up a new language training program. This program divides students into groups, providing instruction depending on their proficiencies and needs. The courses work to raise language skills through coursework using DVDs and other materials, as well as role plays and discussions, and tests are conducted to evaluate progress. A number of students of this program commented on how it has improved their communications within the Group. Overseas Example (Germany): Actively Supporting Employees’ Personal Growth In addition to specialized skill development and personal development courses for employees, Sysmex Europe has in place a language training programs (English and Japanese), and all employees undergo training on a regular basis. For example, Sysmex Europe conducts Sysmex Academy providing product-related training and HR Academy to enhance soft skills like team-building, leadership and language proficiency through face-to-face lectures or e-learning. It also has On-Boarding Training* to support employee growth. * On-Boarding Training: An internal training method used to help newly hired employees to fit in organization’s environment quickly 81 Overseas Example (Asia Pacific): Concentrating on Boosting Employees’ Skills Sysmex Asia Pacific collaborates with outside institutions to give all employees access to online training via Sysmex University and has set up a monthly e-learning program. By introducing employee skill development programs and cross-training to encourage mutual skill-building, the company works to help its employees develop their capabilities. Alongside systems such as these, each employee’s plan for individual growth is set and the progress is checked every year. 82 Systems to Support Both Work and Child-Rearing Providing a Host of Leave Systems and Supporting ChildRearing with an In-House Daycare Center Sysmex Corporation has created diverse programs to provide support, from pre-natal to child-rearing. In addition to leave systems for fertility treatments and morning sickness, we offer child nursing leave until a child reaches two years of age, a system for shorter working hours until a child reaches junior high school age and a flex-time system that differs by type of work. When an employee needs to take time off work to nurse a child, they can do so under a In-house daycare center, Sysmex program that allows them to use accumulated paid leave in Kids Park addition to statutory leave. In line with the growing demand for male employees to participate in childcare, we are considering a system that would allow men to take special leave prior to their spouse giving birth, offering two additional days to be taken within one month of the birth to make any necessary preparations. Employees are also eligible for nurturing leave, under which they can take special leave of three consecutive days Next-generation support to care for children up to one year of age. certification logo (nicknamed Kurumin ) We have set up Sysmex Kids Park, an in-house daycare center that accepts babies and toddlers, at Technopark, our core R&D base. The center offers short-term as well as full-time daycare, so that employees whose spouses work on a part-time basis or who find it difficult to take care of their children due to caretakers’ illness, bereavement or other circumstances may also temporarily utilize the service. Furthermore, we provide a reemployment system to enable employees who were forced to suspend their career paths due to child-raising with opportunities to resume their work. In recognition of its planned implementation of such systems, Sysmex Corporation received the next-generation support certification logo (nicknamed Kurumin ) from the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare. 83 Use of Principal Support Systems (Fiscal 2014) System Description Users Shorter work hour Until a child completes the sixth year of elementary 50 system for child school rearing (Statutory requirement: Until the child reaches three years of age) Leave of absence Childcare leave: until the child turns two 92 system (Statutory requirement: In principle, until the child (childcare leave, reaches one year of age) childbearing leave) Accumulated paid Accumulated paid leave for up to 10 days of annual 26 leave system paid vacation from previous years can be taken for child nursing or short-term nursing purposes (Statutory requirement: Five days per fiscal year, 10 if two or more children or subject family members) Reemployment system System to reemploy people who previously left the 5 enrollment Company for childcare or nursing-related reasons In-house daycare Daycare center provides care for infants and children 23 children system up to entry into elementary school, which is available for full-time or temporary childcare. Other Programs to Support a Work-Life Balance Supporting Nursing Care, Corporate Citizenship Activities and Others One of Sysmex Corporation’s systems to realize a work-life balance among its employees offers short-term nursing care leave if seven or more consecutive days are required for the recovery of a family member undergoing medical consultations or to accompany family during hospital stays. This time can be deducted from accumulated paid leave. In April 2014, we introduced a unique income indemnity system to provide a nursing care leave stipend, aiming to help offset the loss of income from taking leave, as well as unexpected expenses, for people taking one month or more of nursing care leave. Furthermore, we have a system for rehiring employees whose careers have been interrupted due to nursing care. In addition to these, we have introduced a volunteer leave system. This program enables employees participating in social contribution activities to take up to 10 days of leave in a year, two of which are accounted for as paid leave. Other programs include donor leave, whereby bone marrow and other donors receive up to five days of paid leave each time. Through diverse systems of this nature, Sysmex works to support a work-life balance. 84 Supporting a Return to the Workplace Following Leave In February 2013, Sysmex Corporation introduced a new support system to facilitate the smooth return to work of employees who have taken childrearing or nursing care leave, and the employee is loaned a tablet or notebook PC that he or she can use to connect to the Sysmex email system and intranet. Three months prior to returning to work the employee on leave can begin viewing in-house only company information. We require employees to consult with their superiors before commencing use of this system. This provides an opportunity to communicate about working styles after returning to work before that time is actually reached. Being cut off from the workplace can be an obstacle to a later smooth return. However, this set-up allows the employee to access Company information at home in real-time, and enables better communications with colleagues through email. This IT-based system helps the employee get through the leave period without experiencing the torment of feelings of alienation and loneliness, and also allows the employee to play an active role at the workplace upon his or her return. Promoting the Use of Systems that Support a Work-Life Balance Sysmex Corporation provides a dedicated site on the Internet to provide easy-to-understand explanations of its programs for supporting a work-life balance. We also hold briefings to promote awareness. Employees receive individual e-mail notifications about programs that we particularly wish to encourage. In fiscal 2014, we conducted briefing sessions at headquarters to raise awareness of work-life balance and encourage the use of new leave systems. Efforts to Enhance Employee Satisfaction We conduct employee satisfaction surveys targeting all employees of the Sysmex Group in Japan. Survey results are fed back to individual departments, where they serve as a basis for enhancing satisfaction levels further. Departments whose survey scores are flat receive visits from human resources department members, who offer advice on improvements. Going forward, we will accelerate these initiatives with a view to meeting the employee satisfaction targets in our Mid-Term Management Plan and Mid-Term CSR Plan. Overseas Group companies are also conducting employee satisfaction surveys and undertaking initiatives to raise satisfaction levels. 85 Overseas Example (United States): Operating Numerous Systems to Help Manage Work-Life Balance Sysmex America caters to diverse working styles by allowing employees to work at home and provide them with equipment necessary to do so. Employees who wish to may also opt for part-time or flex-time working arrangements. To make every day work more comfortable, Sysmex America has a casual dress code. The company also has in place a number of leave programs in addition to paid leave, such as congratulatory and condolence leave, family leave and healthcare leave. To encourage employees to make full use of their vacation time, Sysmex America works with outside purveyors of travel, shopping and other leisure services to offer employee discounts. If a family member should suddenly fall ill, employee can receive support from third party making contracts with Sysmex America in order to facilitate a balance between childcare, nursing care and work. 86 Upholding the Freedom of Labor Association and Recognizing the Right to Collective Bargaining Participating in the Global Compact and Supporting Core Labour Standards Sysmex is a member of the Global Compact and provides clear notice that it respects the ILO’s Core Labour Standards of the Global Compliance Code. In addition, we uphold the freedom of association and recognize the right to collective bargaining. All full-time employees of Sysmex Corporation, except those holding managerial posts and some in back-office operations, are members of the Sysmex Union, the in-house labor union. In fiscal 2014, membership accounted for 62.3% of employees. Sysmex Vietnam, as well as Jinan Sysmex and Sysmex Wuxi in China, have formed labor unions that regularly conduct collective bargaining. Labor–Management Dialogue Engaging in Dialogue with Labor Unions at Group Companies Sysmex Corporation engaged in collective bargaining with the Sysmex Union in May 2014, agreeing to raise base salaries through weighted allocations based on evaluations and job grades. We held 11 council meetings between labor and management in fiscal 2014, discussing such topics as personnel evaluations, wage optimization and management of working hours. Group companies overseas also take part in labor–management dialogue according to conditions in each region. Employee Opinions Reflected in Management Sysmex conducts a Corporate Culture Survey of all Group employees every two years, and we analyze replies to questions on over 100 categories to gain an understanding of unspoken rules and values within the organization, as well as of the degree of effectiveness of various measures. This is useful in discovering and resolving the issues surrounding the Group. 87 Assurance of Safety and Health at Workplaces Explicitly Ensuring Occupational Health and Safety in the Global Compliance Code Sysmex’s Global Compliance Code clearly states the Company’s goal of ensuring occupational health and safety, and we are conducting a number of activities in this vein. Sysmex Group Compliance Code (Excerpt) 8-4 Assurance of safety and health at workplaces We must adhere to laws and regulations related to safety and health practices so that every employee may work with peace of mind, and must maintain and enhance the mental as well as physical health of every employee so that a safe and comfortable working environment can be established. Promoting Cooperation between Executives and Employees on Occupational Safety and Health To ensure the health and safety of its workers, Sysmex Corporation has formulated Safety and Health Regulations. At each business site, we hold regular meetings of the Safety and Health Committee, which is chaired by the executive at the head of that office, and are attended by employee representatives. These meetings are held in the interest of creating a safe working environment. In addition to examples of near misses and occupational accidents, the committee tours workplaces to identify risks and, from a risk management perspective, determine causes and deliberate shortand long-term countermeasures. Health and safety topics are also discussed at council meetings between labor and management. A system is in place for reporting to the executive officer in charge of human resources, thereby ensuring management awareness regarding health and safety risks and dealing with those risks. As preparation for an accident or sudden illness, employees are given training on emergency measures, how to evacuate when an accident occurs and how to handle machinery and raw materials that are potentially dangerous. We conduct AED training and regular courses to train citizen emergency response personnel. We also conduct disaster-preparedness training, and in fiscal 2014 we conducted disaster drills at all locations, including the newly established i-Square. In fiscal 2014, the frequency of work-related injuries was 0.58 (3 injuries, 0 deaths) and the severity rate was 0.00. 88 Frequency and Severity of Work-Related Injuries (Sysmex Corporation) Preventing Overwork Sysmex Corporation focuses on reducing long working hours, which can impair physical and mental health. In addition to complying with related legislation, we have in place internal standards for working outside regular hours or on holidays that are stricter than the guidelines set by the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare. Employees who exceed these standards are required to communicate this fact to their superiors, submit a voluntary check form and, if necessary, meet with an industrial physician. Overseas Example (Brazil): Obtaining Certification under OHSAS 18001* Sysmex Brazil has acquired OHSAS 18001 certification, an international standard for occupational health and safety management systems. * OHSAS 18001: This standard, issued in 1999 based on BS 8800, which was, developed by the British Standards Institute (BSI) in 1996, consists of some 30 certification bodies and standardization organizations in various countries. 89 Overseas Example (China): Making Factory Workplaces Safe and Comfortable At our factory in Wuxi, one of two reagent factories in China, we have introduced personnel management based on OHSAS 18001. We have established a Safety and Health Committee, work to determine the status of any work-related injuries and are promoting numerous initiatives, such as operational improvement and disaster training. At our other Chinese regent factory, in Jinan, we have sought to create an environment where employees can work in safety and comfort by ensuring that the workplace is both safe and clean. For example, we have mechanized the conveyance of heavy products in the aim of reducing workplace accidents. We also use natural lighting in workplaces, which has a refreshing effect, to create bright and healthy-feeling spaces. We have expanded our employee welfare facilities, such as the dining hall and recreation areas, and made a biotope and walkways that impart a refreshing natural feeling. Maintaining and Improving Health Maintaining and Improving Employees’ Health Sysmex Corporation encourages employees to undergo thorough physical examinations and cancer tests for women, in addition to regular health checkups, for the early detection of illness. Annual Kokoro no Health Checks are also performed annually to confirm mental health and to uncover any harassment-related situations. We provide channels for health consultations throughout the Company, and have in place systems where employees can meet with industrial physicians and public health nurses. We also have established an employee assistance program (EAP), enabling employees to seek help easily. Should long-term leave become necessary, we provide economic compensation and have introduced a system to ease employees back into the workplace when they recover, providing an environment where they can work with confidence. As welfare facilities to encourage health maintenance, on the grounds of the Solution Center—the Company’s customer service headquarters—Sysmex Corporation provides sports grounds and tennis courts, as well as a gymnasium with training equipment. We hold events and seminars as needed to raise employee awareness of physical health maintenance. Employee cafeterias also offer healthy menu options. Holding Health Events Sysmex has introduced a campaign that takes advantage of opportunities to heighten employee awareness of health. In fiscal 2014, we held wellness fairs in June and February, erecting panel displays and offering consultations with managerial dieticians. In addition, we conducted a clean blood experience event, where employees could measure the status of their blood flow. This event was instrumental in Wellness fair raising awareness of blood from a health perspective. 90 Overseas Example (United States): Placing a Fitness Room That Is Free to Employees To encourage health awareness, Sysmex America provides a fitness room that employees are free to use. Each year, the company pays health and fitness allowances to help employees purchase any equipment they may need. Furthermore, Sysmex America subsidizes health checks and influenza vaccines. Fitness room 91 As a responsible member of society, we play an active role in resolving environmental issues and other problems that impact our society today. Policy on Corporate Activities to Promote a Citizenship Activities and Healthy Society Philanthropy Through activities such as participation in a Sysmex contributes actively to society’s medical industry development project, we health and local communities. We also take part in a variety of activities to support the voluntary efforts of our contribute to the advancement of healthcare employees. and the creation of a healthy society. Contributing to Local Promoting Employees’ Communities Social Contribution Activities Having operations in locations around the world, Sysmex takes part in numerous We have formulated a Social Contribution activities aimed to help resolve the issues Point Program to encourage employees’ local communities face. active participation in volunteer activities. 92 Policy on Corporate Citizenship Activities and Philanthropy Formulation of a Policy Indicating Our Directions on Corporate Citizenship Activities Policy on Corporate Citizenship Activities and Philanthropy Sysmex actively carries out corporate philanthropic activities to promote a healthy society and vibrant community, and also facilitates our employees’ personal participation in volunteer efforts. Contribution to a healthy society Sysmex actively utilizes its resources in the healthcare field to carry out philanthropic activities and promote the building of a healthy society. Cooperation toward a vibrant local community Sysmex acts as a responsible and socially-conscious corporate citizen by cooperating with the local community through donations, sponsorships and involvement in philanthropic programs. Facilitation of employees’ volunteer efforts Sysmex will facilitate employees’ participation in volunteer efforts as citizens of the world, members of Sysmex group that contribute to healthcare in the world, and emphasize community involvement and development. Established May 2012 93 Activities in Japan Participation in the Kobe Medical Industry Development Project The Kobe Medical Industry Development Project aims to create a focal point among healthcare industries in Kobe through industry–government–academia cooperation. In March 2014, Sysmex Corporation opened Sysmex IBRI within the Translational Research Informatics Center, one of the project’s core facilities. Sysmex IBRI is an open lab that promotes collaborative research between various medical institutions and companies and aims to further expand our scope of research. Funding of University Courses Since fiscal 2004, Sysmex Corporation has contributed funds to a course at the Kobe University Graduate School of Medicine. Personalized medicine is a challenge that has arisen in recent years, and this course is aimed at promoting advances in developing and verifying the utility of new laboratory testing methods, thereby contributing to its realization. In addition to achieving accuracy in diagnoses, this research also contributes to the establishment of methodologies that can provide patients with efficient treatment with few side effects, and we expect the research to make significant contributions to society. The Nakatani Foundation of Electronic Measuring Technology Advancement, established to promote the development of electronic measuring instruments, became a public interest incorporated foundation in 2012 and changed its name to the Nakatani Foundation for Advancement of Measuring Technologies in Biomedical Engineering. This foundation provides the Nakatani Award and grants for research in the field of biomedical measurements and related technologies. Fiscal 2014 marks the foundation’s 30th anniversary of establishment. In commemoration, the foundation expanded its research grants and extended its grantgiving activities to include grants for overseas study and to promote science education at the junior and senior high school level. From the time of its launch through fiscal 2014, the foundation has provided 347 grants amounting to a cumulative* ￥745.67 million. * The cumulative amount of grant money includes Special Research Grants, which are for two-year. 94 Participating in the Global Health Innovative Technology Fund Sysmex is working on development of testing technologies targeting malaria, dengue fever, HIV and other diseases, as well as developing products to contribute to the diagnosis of infectious diseases in emerging markets and developing countries. In June 2015, Sysmex decided to participate in the Global Health Innovative Technology (GHIT) Fund*, which states its vision as one in which the crushing burden of infectious disease no longer prevents billions of people in the developing world from seeking the level of prosperity and longevity now common in the industrialized world, and aims to contribute to healthcare in developing countries by applying technological innovations developed in Japan. In addition to supporting the fund through contributions, we will look for ways to utilize our diagnostic reagents technologies for infectious diseases and thus contribute to global healthcare standardization and quality improvements. * The Global Health Innovative Technology Fund (GHIT Fund) is an international non-profit organization that promotes Japanese drug discovery and development with the aim of controlling infectious diseases that are particularly widespread in developing countries, including AIDS, tuberculosis, malaria and neglected tropical diseases (NTDs). The organization is the first Japanese public–private partnership, with members including representatives from the Japanese government, the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), the pharmaceutical industry, and the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation. By promoting collaboration among Japanese and overseas research institutions and providing grant funding, the GHIT Fund encourages drug discovery and the development of diagnostic reagents. Continuing to Support Blood Donations Sysmex, which provides the testing instruments used for blood donations, is also an active participant in blood donations. Several times each year, employees at Technopark, the Kakogawa Factory, the Ono Factory, the Seishin Factory and other facilities cooperate with the blood donation activities of our local Red Cross center in Hyogo Prefecture. In fiscal 2014, we conducted blood drives at all our business offices in Japan, including twice at our new location, i-Square. In total, 247 employees participated in these activities. To increase our support for the Japanese Red Cross Society as a healthcare company, in fiscal 2014 we registered as a blood donation supporting company. Employees participating in a blood donation 95 Conducting a Training Course for Citizen Emergency Life-Saving Technicians Each year, Sysmex Corporation holds a training course for citizen emergency life-saving technicians at Technopark or the Solution Center. Certified by the fire department and the city of Kobe First Aid Support Team (FAST), this course is designed to train people in appropriate responses in the event of illness or injury. In addition, each year since 2008 we have conducted Basic Training course for citizen Life-Saving Certification for Sysmex Corporation employees. emergency life-saving technicians In fiscal 2014, 11 employees at the Tokyo Office underwent this training. By encouraging as many people as possible to gain life-saving knowledge and skills, we contribute to a confident society. Participating in International Cooperation Efforts Sysmex takes part in international cooperation efforts by Japan’s Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA) by providing materials and instruments (either by extending yen credit or through outright donation) aimed at raising the level of healthcare in emerging and developing countries. Every year, Sysmex hosts trainees visiting Japan through JICA trainees JICA programs at its research facilities. In fiscal 2014, we conducted training four times at i-Square and other facilities for participants from Africa, Asia Pacific and Central Asia. As a new initiative, in February 2015 we conducted a training seminar for JICA personnel. Trainees learned first about the Company’s personnel systems and then took part in an exchange of opinions. Participating in and Exhibiting at MIRAI EXPO’15 Sysmex participated in and exhibited at MIRAI EXPO’15, an exhibition for the general citizenry held in Kobe as part of the General Assembly of the Japan Medical Congress 2015 Kansai during a nine-day period from March 28, 2015. Operated under the concept of an exhibition about your life and medicine, this participatory event aimed to introduce recent medical, healthcare and health-related technologies to people of all ages, from children through adults. Children enjoying learning about blood To set the mood for this event, as a local company Sysmex took part by exhibiting at a joint booth with Kawasaki Heavy Industries, Ltd., and Medicaroid Corporation. Through quizzes and various experiential activities at the Sysmex booth, we prepared a variety of content to help numerous participants to learn about blood in an enjoyable manner. 96 Producing Illustrated Books to Promote Education and Awareness We produce an illustrated book to promote education and awareness of illness and testing. We distribute this book to hospitals and clinics, which place it in waiting rooms and other locations. Because the book features easy-to-understand explanations in narrative form of the characteristics of illnesses, as well as their testing and treatment, it draws the interest of children and others who have little knowledge about medicine. Overseas Activities Supporting a Program to Commend Excellent Healthcare Institutions (Indonesia) In November 2014, Indonesia’s Ministry of Health awarded particularly excellent healthcare institutions, or puskesmas, handling regional primary healthcare and conducting health preservation activities. Commendations were awarded in two categories, urban and rural, with three puskesmas receiving awards in the former category Award ceremony and six in the latter. Through this award program, the Indonesian government is working to improve the functions of healthcare institutions within the country. Sysmex Indonesia supported the program, along with other healthcare companies. 97 Contributing to Community Development Holding events for communication with local community Every year, Sysmex Corporation invites community residents to its offices to strengthen its relationship with the local community. In May 2014, we opened the gardens at Technopark for an event in which some 600 members of the local community joined and strolled about the grounds. On the day of the event, lectures were held on such topics as the state of breast cancer treatment and personalized medicine and cervical cancer screening. Participants also Open gardens at Technopark took part in a health check using ASTRIM FIT, our product for checking estimated blood hemoglobin levels without sampling. Through activities such as these, we sought to spark interest in healthcare and testing. In July, Technopark received an award from the city of Kobe for its efforts to promote citizens’ health and contribute to an improved awareness of nutrition. In addition, as in the previous year, in October we opened Minato Ijinkan the Minato Ijinkan to the general public. A historical edifice constructed in 1906, the structure had become decrepit and was closed to the public in 2008. In September 2012, Sysmex rented the building, performed renovations and now uses it as a guest house. In addition to making the building open to the public, we held a photo exhibit introducing the history of Kobe and arranged for other enjoyable events. Some 200 people visited. We plan to open Minato Ijinkan to the public on a regular basis going forward. Supporting Various Events and Organizations to Stimulate the Local Community and Contribute to Cultural Development Sysmex Corporation supports local development through donations and sponsorship. For example, Sysmex is a regular sponsor of Kobe Luminarie, an annual illumination event that originated as a memorial for the victims of the 1995 Great Hanshin−Awaji Earthquake and which is held in the hopes of reconstructing/restoring Kobe and all of Hyogo Prefecture. We also cooperate with the Kobe Oji Zoo’s Animal Sponsor Program. The program invites individuals and businesses to support the zoo by sponsoring particular species of animal at the institution. We elected to support the giant pandas. In addition, we support the following organizations and events. 98 Stimulating the Local Community 44th Kobe Festival Kobe Seaside Bon Odori 87th Hyogo Prefectural Elementary, Junior High and High School Art Show Third Hyogo Concert by the Japan Virtuoso Symphony Orchestra Others Supporting Culture-Related Programs C.A.P. Umi no Ue Project Hyogo Prefectural Museum of Art Et al. Others Global Health Innovative Technology Fund (GHIT Fund) Global Human Resource Development Community Japan Public–Private Partnership Student Study Abroad Program Japan Association for the United Nations World Food Programme Foundation for Computational Science Save the Children Nakatani Foundation for Advancement of Measuring Technologies in Biomedical Engineering Kobe Biomedical Innovation Cluster Hiroshige Kagawa Project for Connection with Huge Paintings Tohoku and Kobe 2015 Et al. Sponsoring Local Sports Team To energize local Kobe sports teams, Sysmex Corporation sponsors Vissel Kobe, a Japanese professional J. League soccer club. In addition to promoting the local community, through such initiatives Sysmex aims to contribute to a healthy community through sports. Overseas Example (Asia Pacific): Conducting Various Activities to Address Problems in Local Communities Sysmex Group companies in the Asia Pacific region take part in various local community contribution activities under the Greener Sysmex Project, seeking to help resolve the issues faced by local communities. In fiscal 2014, regional headquarters Sysmex Asia Pacific conducted New Year Helping, a fund-raising activity. The total of US$7,650 raised through employee donations and Donating testing instruments to company contributions went to provide food, powdered milk hospitals (Sri Lanka) and kerosene to 306 destitute households at the start of the new year. We also take part in such community activities as those described below. At a Business Partner Meeting held in Sri Lanka, we donated our testing instruments to local hospitals and provided items for a first aid room to school. (Sysmex Asia Pacific) 99 To support the local Orang Asli ( local aborigines ) a team of employees contributed by constructing housing and through endowments. (Sysmex Malaysia) We held a dinner party after Ramadan for single mothers and orphans in the local community. All employees participated in providing traditional foods and a magic show. (Sysmex Malaysia) We provided contributions and conducted fund-raising activities for an organization supporting children with cancer, heart disease and auditory abnormalities. (Sysmex New Zealand) Overseas Example (Germany): Contracting out Some Work to Organizations Supporting People with Disabilities Sysmex Europe supports initiatives to promote the autonomy of people with disabilities by outsourcing activities such as sorting materials at its reagent factory to supporting organizations and welcoming people with disabilities to work on its production lines. Support for Disaster-Affected Areas Support for Disaster-Affected Areas in Indonesia and Malaysia On December 12, 2014, a major landslide occurred in Indonesia’s Banjarnegara region. Some 108 people lost their lives in the disaster, and 600 people in 105 households required evacuation. Given this situation, Sysmex Indonesia conducted a fund-raising event from December 15, contributing the collected funds to purchase diapers, towels, toothpaste and other everyday items to send to the affected area. On December 20, the company and its local distributor Providing everyday items to a made a contribution to assist people in the disaster-affected disaster-affected area in Indonesia area. Going forward, we plan to continue providing long-term support. Also, in December 2014 Sysmex Malaysia collaborated with local medical institutions to provide food, drinks and other emergency items to 100 families affected by flooding on Malaysia’s eastern seaboard. 100 Contributing to the Education of the Next Generation Supporting the Education of Youth Sysmex Corporation cooperates in the Try-yaru Week workplace experience program held for Hyogo Prefecture junior high school students. We also take part in the Science Fair in Hyogo, an event participated in by companies, universities and research institutions, at which math and science high school students in Hyogo Prefecture annually present their research results. At the 7th Science Fair in Hyogo, held in February 2015, we provided a health check experience that involved ASTRIM FIT, our product that measures estimated hemoglobin levels without the need for blood sampling. We also put up posters explaining our business. The ASTRIM FIT proved popular, being tried by nearly 200 people. Hosting Internships and Company Tours Sysmex Corporation accepts ambitious students on internship programs. In fiscal 2014, we hosted 75 students from three universities in Hyogo Prefecture, providing an opportunity to learn about the role public health nurses play at companies. In addition, we hosted a tour of i-Square, our new instrument factory, and the Solution Center for 63 junior college students studying laboratory testing. We also actively host students from overseas. In fiscal 2014, we Student interns from India accepted three students from the Indian Institute of Technology to teach them about Sysmex’s unique technologies. In addition, 25 students from Cranfield University in the United Kingdom joined Kobe University students in a tour of the Sysmex Corporation Solution Center. This tour was part of a one-week Japanese company experience program in which students visited multiple companies. Sysmex Asia Pacific also conducts company tours for students of local technical schools. 101 Nature Preservation and Clean-up Activities Forest Conservation Activities Sysmex, which uses water in its core reagent production activities, recognizes that contributing to local watershed protection is an important social responsibility. The Company also aims to contribute to the preservation of biodiversity. For these reasons, in fiscal 2013 we began taking part in forest maintenance activities based on the Enlist the Participation of All Citizens in Creating Woodland project being promoted by the Hyogo Prefectural Government. To this end, we took responsibility for a two-hectare portion of the 17-hecatre Kawai Kaiteki Forest near our reagent factory in the city of Ono, Hyogo Prefecture. We dubbed this portion the Sysmex Forest and set about making the Satoyama (a human-influenced natural environment) a place of tranquility for people and wildlife. Thinning the forest Sysmex Forest Clean-up Activities Employee volunteers from Sysmex’s business offices around Japan take part in efforts to clean areas around their business offices. In fiscal 2014, some 700 employees took part in these activities. At Sysmex New Zealand, employees conduct a clean-up activity on Motutapu Island on the company’s Volunteer Day. Located in New Zealand’s north, Motutapu Island is known for its abundant nature. Employees taking part in clean-up Employees participating in activities (Sysmex New Zealand) clean-up activities (Sysmex Medica) 102 Systems to Facilitate Employees’ Efforts toward Social Contribution Introduction of a Social Contribution Point Program to Encourage Employee Volunteer Activities Sysmex introduced a Social Contribution Point Program in April 2014. Under this program, employees earn individual points for taking part in social contribution activities, as well as for participating in social contribution events sponsored by the Company. The Company makes a donation corresponding to the number of points accumulated at the end of each fiscal year. Under this program, in fiscal 2014 Sysmex donated ￥970,000 worth of measles vaccines, antimalarial mosquito nets and emergency medical kits to developing countries via UNICEF. The result of the Social Contribution Program in Fiscal 2014 Approximately 28% of Group employees in Japan participated, a total of 837 people. A total of ￥972,200 was donated, corresponding to 9,722 points. Measles vaccines: 10,600 doses Emergency medical kits: 78 Antimalarial mosquito nets: 770 103 We carry out our business in strict compliance with laws and regulations, as well as in adherence to high ethical standards. As a responsible member of society, we play an active role in resolving environmental issues and other problems that impact our society today. Environmental Policy Environmental Management We have formulated an environmental policy We have obtained international ISO 14001 and core behaviors for the creation of a certification at our major business offices in fulfilling and healthy society through Japan and overseas, and we undertake environmental conservation activities. other activities in a planned manner. Environmentally Conscious Environmental Products and Services Consciousness at Business Offices Our products and services comply with laws and regulations, and we pursue initiatives to We endeavor to identify and reduce reduce environmental impact. environmental impact at our business offices, including direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions, waste discharge and water use. Other Environmental Green Procurement Considerations Sysmex promotes green procurement to We examine the impact of our businesses on reduce the environmental impact of its the environment from various angles and products. introduce countermeasures as necessary. Environmental Data Sysmex quantitatively monitors environmental burden to efficiently promote environmental conservation activities. 104 Environmental Policy By shaping the advancement of healthcare, our global environmental conservation activities contribute to the creation of a fulfilling and healthy society. Core behavior 1. We deliver reassurance to all people by carrying out business activities in an environmentally conscious manner. 2. We strive to provide eco-friendly products and services while giving careful thought of environmental issues throughout their life cycles. 3. We strive to conserve energy and resources, reduce wastes, promote recycle and properly control chemical substances in all business activities. 4. We comply with all applicable national or regional environmental regulations, standards and agreements. 5. We continually improve our environmental conservation activities and work diligently prevent pollution and minimize the impact our products have on the environment. 6. We contribute to society through environmental conservation activities as a member of the community, while educating and raising the environmental consciousness. 7. We establish environmental objectives and targets consistent with this environmental policy, and measure our performance against them. Revised May 2009 105 Environmental Management System Promoting Environmental Activities Sysmex is pursuing groupwide to achieve the targets set in the Sysmex Group Environmental Action Plan (Sysmex Eco-Vision 2020), which was set in fiscal 2010 and revised in fiscal 2015. We have also formulated a new Mid-Term Environmental Action Plan for the fiscal years 2015 to 2017. The plan sets target values for reducing CO2 emissions in Japan domestic and inter-regional transportation. To reflect the effects of improved loading efficiency, we have revised the measurement units from per unit of freight ton-km to per unit of parent-only sales. In fiscal 2013, we established Global Environmental Management Regulations to reinforce Group environmental management by clarifying the roles and responsibilities of Group companies. We have assigned a senior executive officer and senior managing director of Sysmex Corporation as environmental management officer to oversee and control Group environmental management. We have in place a global environmental management system under which we promote environmental activities in individual regions and fields of operation under his instruction. Mid-term environmental targets (fiscal 2015–2017) Provide eco-friendly products and services Reduce CO2 emissions from Japan domestic and inter-regional transportation by 45% (per unit of parent-only sales) Reduce greenhouse gas emissions at business offices by 40% (per unit of consolidated sales) Achieve a recycle rate of 92% or higher at all business offices Reduce water usage at reagent factories by 7% (per unit of amount of production) Acquiring ISO 14001 Certification Sysmex is working toward the acquisition of ISO 14001, the international standard for environmental management, for the Group’s principal affiliated companies. As of April 30, 2015, 22 companies had obtained this certification. In fiscal 2013, we integrated our certifications for ISO 14001 in Japan, adding Sysmex RA and Sysmex Medica certifications to those for Sysmex Corporation and Sysmex International Reagents. In fiscal 2014, we also added i-Square, our newly operational factory. By centralizing the environmental activities of Group companies in Japan and seeing the state of progress and issues as a Group, we aim to enhance our management. 106 Acquiring ISO 14001 Certification Company Name Site Acquired in Sysmex Europe Neumunster Factory November 1999 Head office October 2011 Sysmex Corporation Kakogawa Factory April 2000 Technopark February 2002 Head office February 2002 Solution Center November 2005 i-Square February 2015 Sysmex International Reagents Ono Factory March 2001 Seishin Factory June 2007 Sysmex Medica March 2001 Sysmex RA June 2008 Sysmex Brazil May 2006 Sysmex America December 2009 Sysmex Reagents America December 2009 Sysmex New Zealand May 2011 Sysmex Deutschland October 2011 Sysmex France February 2012 Sysmex India March 2012 Sysmex Asia Pacific April 2012 Sysmex Spain April 2012 Sysmex Middle East March 2013 Sysmex Wuxi June 2013 Conducting Environmental Auditing In fiscal 2014, the four Group companies for which certification in Japan has been integrated conducted evaluation of compliance, internal audits and external audits by a third-party auditing organization. The internal audit found two nonconformities, and corrective actions for these nonconformities were completed. External audits found no nonconformities. 107 Environmental Objectives and Results (Fiscal 2014) Sysmex Group Environmental Action Plan (Sysmex Eco-Vision 2020)/ Mid-term Environmental Objectives Sysmex Eco-Vision Mid-term 2020 Long-term Environmental Activities/Achievements Environmental Objectives in FY 2014 Objectives(FY2020) (FY2013 – (Revised Edition) 2015) Promoted efforts toward RoHS directive compliance Promoted product development for reduced power consumption Promoted a switchover of Promote Promote eco-friendly protein raw materials used eco-friendly products and service in reagents from animal products and models derivatives to artificially service models synthesized protein Promoted reduction in materials used in product containers and packaging Environment Promoting Eco-Friendly consciousness Service Models in product life For exports, promoted shift cycle process from air to ocean transport Reduce carbon Fiscal 2014 Result: 0.14 Reduce carbon dioxide (t-CO2/thousand dioxide emissions emissions for logistics ton-kilometers) for logistics by by 50% (per unit of Base year (fiscal 2010): 30% (per unit of freight ton-km: Japan 0.14 (t-CO2/thousand freight ton-km: domestic and interton-kilometers) Japan domestic regional Unchanged against base and inter-regional transportation)*1 year transportation) *1 (Emissions were down 5.9%, from 5,400 t-CO2 in the base year to 5,083 t-CO2.) 108 Installed equipment (including thorough air conditioning controls, installation of energy efficient fluorescent lighting, placement of motion detectors to activate staircase lighting) as measures against global Reduce warming (each business greenhouse gas Reduce greenhouse gas office) emissions at emissions at business Purchased electricity from business offices offices by 50%(per unit power companies using by 25% (per unit of consolidated sales)*2 renewables (Sysmex of consolidated Europe) sales)*2 Reduced CO2 emissions by using solar power (Sysmex Europe Reagent Factory) Fiscal 2014 result: 7.28 (t-CO2/￥100 million) Environment Base year (fiscal 2008): consciousness 10.07 (t-CO2/￥100 million) at business Down 28% against base offices year Conducted review of waste disposal companies Achieve a recycle Achieve a recycle rate (Technopark) rate of 90% or of 93% or higher at all Reuse of packaged on higher at all outsourced items (Sysmex business offices*3 business offices *3 Wuxi) Fiscal 2014 result: 90.3% Installed water purifying equipment (Jinan Sysmex) Reused industrial waste Reduce water Reduce water usage at water after treatment usage at reagent reagent factories by (Sysmex India) factories by 3% 10% (per unit of (per unit of Fiscal 2014 result: 21.4 amount of amount of (m3/thousand boxes) production)*4 production) *4 Base year (fiscal 2008): 21.5 (m3/thousand boxes) Down approximately 1% against base year *1 Sysmex Corporation *2 Scope of data: All factories and major business offices [Factories] Sysmex Corporation (Kakogawa Factory, i-Square), Sysmex International Reagents (Ono Factory, Seishin Factory), Sysmex Medica, Sysmex RA, Sysmex Europe (Reagent Factory), Sysmex Brazil, Sysmex Reagents America, Sysmex India, Sysmex Asia Pacific, Jinan Sysmex, Sysmex Wuxi [Major Business Offices] Sysmex Corporation (head office, Technopark, Solution Center), Sysmex Europe, Sysmex America, Sysmex Shanghai, Sysmex Asia Pacific 109 *3 Scope of data: All factories and major business offices where products and/or chemical substances are handled [Factories] Sysmex Corporation (Kakogawa Factory, i-Square), Sysmex International Reagents (Ono Factory, Seishin Factory), Sysmex Medica, Sysmex RA, Sysmex Europe (Reagent Factory), Sysmex Brazil, Sysmex Reagents America, Sysmex India, Sysmex Asia Pacific, Jinan Sysmex, Sysmex Wuxi [Major Business Offices] Sysmex Corporation (head office, Technopark, Solution Center) *4 Scope of data: Reagent factories (nine locations) Sysmex International Reagents (Ono Factory, Seishin Factory), Sysmex Europe (Reagent Factory), Sysmex Brazil, Sysmex Reagents America, Sysmex India, Sysmex Asia Pacific, Jinan Sysmex, Sysmex Wuxi 110 Reducing the Use of Substances with Environmental Impact Conforming with Regulations Application of the revised RoHS Directive* (which was amended in July 2011) to Sysmex's diagnostic instruments and diagnostic instruments for animals begins from July 2016. To ensure its compliance with this revised RoHS Directive, Sysmex is conducting parts inspections on products shipped to Europe. * RoHS Directive: A directive prohibiting the use of hazardous substances in electrical and electronic devices sold in the European Union. This directive calls for the cessation of use of heavy metals (lead, cadmium, mercury and hexavalent chromium) and specified bromine containing flame retardants (PBB and PBDE). Developing Environmentally Conscious Products To help reduce energy consumption and waste for its customers, Sysmex undertakes technological developments aimed at reducing electricity used by its IVD instruments and lowering the amount of reagents used. To lower the environmental impact generated when transporting its products, Sysmex strives to make its products more lightweight, with more compact capacity, and use fewer packaging materials. We are also working to make packaging methods more efficient. Establishing Eco-Friendly Diagnostic Reagent Raw Material Production Sysmex has established a method of producing from silkworms the proteins used as raw materials in its diagnostic reagents. Our protein production contracting service business using this technology has also been fully operational since fiscal 2012, and we are already taking orders from a number of pharmaceutical companies. In the past, proteins were cultivated with equipment such as tanks to control for environmental factors (such as sterility, temperature and oxygen concentrations), using cells from Silkworms to produce proteins mammals and other animals; the new approach reduces energy consumption substantially. As silkworms can be cultivated at room temperature, simply by using shelves and breeding containers and providing them with food, we anticipate energy savings and waste reduction. 111 Eco-Friendly Service Promoting Eco-Friendly Service Models Sysmex is lowering environmental impact by making service more efficient. For example, in addition to expanding the functions of the Customer Support Center, we are minimizing downtime for diagnostic instruments in use by constructing the SNCS (Sysmex Network Communication Systems) to maintain interactive communication with customers. This approach enables Sysmex representatives to make customer visits that are regular and effective, reduce rates of automobile use for service and curtail CO2 emissions. Reducing CO2 Emissions for Logistics We are also promoting efforts to reduce CO2 emissions generated in logistics processes. We are shifting from air to ocean freight when shipping products overseas, but urgent shipments often require products to be transported by air. We have undertaken initiatives to increase shipping container loading efficiency and conduct ocean transport in a more planned manner to reduce the need for rush shipments. Enhancing our loading simulations has enabled us to adjust the timing of product shipments, increase our loading ratio in shipping containers and optimize instrument packaging sizes, boosting storage and loading ratios. In these ways, we are gradually reconfiguring the entire distribution logistics process. As a result, in fiscal 2014 CO2 emissions fell 7.4% year on year. CO2 emissions from logistics Notes: Range of calculation is CO2 from warehouse in Japan to customers within Japan and that to overseas seaport or airport. 112 Reducing Greenhouse Gas Emissions Promoting Reductions in Electricity Use We are promoting various measures at each site, in order to reduce greenhouse gas emissions at our business offices. At our business offices including factories, we are implementing energy-saving measures to meet each office’s characteristics, such as thoroughly monitoring room temperatures in summer and winter, installation of moving detectors to activate staircase lighting, and introducing energy-efficient fluorescent and LED lighting, etc. We have LED lighting (Ono Factory) installed demand monitoring functions* to control overall electricity use in some business offices. As a result of these initiatives, in fiscal 2014 greenhouse gas emissions (unit per consolidated sales) were down approximately 9% from the preceding fiscal year. * Functions for continuously measuring maximum electrical demand (demand value) for 24-hour periods and sounding an alarm if the level exceeds target values, as well as reporting on electricity use on a daily and monthly basis. Greenhouse gas emissions at business Some figures have been revised from ones disclosed before, owing to review of the scope. Notes: Scope of the data: Factories and major business offices [Factories] Sysmex Corporation (Kakogawa Factory, i-Square), Sysmex International Reagents (Ono Factory, Seishin Factory), Sysmex Medica, Sysmex RA, Sysmex Europe (Reagent Factory), Sysmex Brazil, Sysmex Reagents America, Sysmex India, Sysmex Asia Pacific, Jinan Sysmex, Sysmex Wuxi [Major Business Offices] Sysmex Corporation (head office, Technopark, Solution Center), Sysmex Europe, Sysmex America, Sysmex Shanghai, Sysmex Asia Pacific 113 Reducing Waste Maintaining Stable Annual Recycling Rates We are continually striving to reduce waste and increase our recycling rate through such efforts as reviewing waste disposal companies. Sysmex Wuxi, for example, has worked on reducing waste by reusing PE bags used for materials packaging in production and development offices and also for trash bags as housewares. We also reduced waste by automating production lines Jinan Sysmex. In Japan, we are promoting the use of garbage disposer to generate fertilizer from garbage at employee cafeterias in business offices that generate substantial amounts of garbage. We are continuously conducting various approaches at each sites. Through these approaches, the Group is maintaining a stable recycling rate from year to year. Business office recycling rate Scope of data: All factories and major business offices where products and/or chemical substances are handled [Factories] Sysmex Corporation (Kakogawa Factory, i-Square), Sysmex International Reagents (Ono Factory, Seishin Factory), Sysmex Medica, Sysmex RA, Sysmex Europe (Reagent Factory), Sysmex Brazil, Sysmex Reagents America, Sysmex India, Sysmex Asia Pacific, Jinan Sysmex, Sysmex Wuxi [Major Business Offices] Sysmex Corporation (head office, Technopark, Solution Center) 114 Reducing Waste and Appropriately Processing Wastewater Promoting Initiatives at Individual Bases We are working to improve efficiency of water use and reduce water use volume. At Sysmex India, for example, factory wastewater is purified and used as watering for the green space in the facility. However, due to the start of operations at our new factory, i-Square, water use increased. As a result, in fiscal 2014 total water usage was up approximately 6% from the previous year. However, water use per unit of production decreased approximately 3%. Water Use at Reagent Factories Scope of data: Reagent factories (nine locations) Sysmex International Reagents (Ono Factory, Seishin Factory), Sysmex Europe (Reagent Factory), Sysmex Brazil, Sysmex Reagents America, Sysmex India, Sysmex Asia Pacific, Jinan Sysmex, Sysmex Wuxi Environmental Consideration when Establishing Factories Introducing Environmentally Conscious Design, Facilities and Equipment, and Operating Processes When establishing new business offices and factories, we work to minimize environmental impact resulting from their operation by introducing environmentally conscious design, facilities and equipment, and operating processes. A mound of earth near the entrance of i-Square serves as an important symbol for the factory. Made with excess soil from construction that was left in place rather than being carted away, the hillock serves as a reminder of reduced environmental impact. 115 Overseas Example (India): The Baddhi Factory of Sysmex India Places First in a Local Environmental Award In April 2014, Sysmex India’s Baddhi Factory was selected as the top recipient in the small-scale factory division of the Environment Best Practice Awards, a prestigious local environmental award. The Baddhi Factory is situated in the Nalagarh Industrial Zone, one of India’s leading industrial zones. For this award, a team of local experts with detailed knowledge of environmental and social topics conducted audits of the 3,000 factories within this zone. Eight factories conducting particularly outstanding initiatives received this award. 116 Reducing CO2 Emissions from Company Cars in Japan Raising Driver Awareness and Promoting the Use of More Fuel-Efficient Vehicles To reduce CO2 emissions from some 400 company cars in Japan, we are working to visualize travel distances and fuel used by each Company car and heighten driver awareness. We are also introducing fuel-efficient vehicles and hybrid cars. At branches and sales offices in Japan, we are improving fuel efficiency by conducting eco-driving courses and introducing fuel-efficient vehicles. Such measures have helped to reduce gasoline consumption by 3% year on year, but because of a major increase in the use of trucks to deliver products to Sysmex Medica, diesel fuel consumption rose 68%. As a result, fiscal 2014 CO2 emissions by Company cars in Japan were up approximately 1% from their level one year earlier. Managing and Processing Harmful Substances Enforcing Stringent Management and Appropriate Processing at Business Offices Sysmex International Reagents uses biological substances as raw materials of products, and Technopark uses them as experimental materials for research and development. As these substances have infection potential, as a measure of precaution, they are managed strictly such as limit of location to storage and use them according to the manual, and furthermore, these substances are carefully segregated from general waste for proper disposal. For other harmful substances, we work to prevent aerial drift, dispersion and groundwater permeation through countermeasures addressing both facilities and management methods. In these ways, we endeavor to keep emissions below statutory standard values. In fiscal 2014, we refurbished waste drop-off sites at the Seishin Factory and introduced new biochemical oxygen demand (BOD) alarm equipment at the Ono Factory. These systems aim to prevent the emissions of liquids containing organic matter. 117 Reducing Paper Use Promoting Digital Data Sysmex Corporation has introduced tablet computers to promote paperless meetings. This approach reduces paper use and waste volumes, as well as eliminating such processes as printing and distributing documents prior to meetings. Meeting efficiency is also improved, as data can be distributed digitally to meeting participants beforehand. We have also reduced paper use by using digital data rather than paper when presenting drawings of product parts to suppliers. Promoting Green Procurement Cooperating with Business Partners to Promote Environmentally Conscious Procurement Sysmex has formulated green procurement standards, and works with business partners to promote environmentally conscious procurement. Furthermore, we aim to procure environmentally conscious parts and materials, and publish on our website the chemical substances we are reducing or eliminating the use of in our products. 118 Promoting Green Procurement Formulating Green Procurement Standards We have formulated green procurement standards, which describe our fundamental stance on environmental considerations in our procurement activities. Green Procurement Standards Through our global corporate activities in the healthcare field, we are contributing to the creation of a fulfilling and healthy society. 1. Objectives In accordance with its environmental policy, the Sysmex Group strives to fulfill its corporate social responsibility by promoting global environment conservation. Accordingly, we endeavor to promote the manufacture of environmentally friendly products by encouraging the procurement of raw materials and parts that have low impact on the global environment. Sysmex aims to cultivate motivated environmental conservation activities among our suppliers and enable us to work together toward the development of a sustainable society. 2. Green Procurement Initiatives The Sysmex Group practices green procurement to ensure that its procurement activities promote a reduction in the environmental impact of the Company’s products and reduce the environmental impact of all production activities, including those of our suppliers. We promote the two items below as specific green procurement initiatives. 1） Promote the procurement of raw materials and parts that have lower environmental impact. 2） Expand business with suppliers that take a proactive approach toward environmental conservation. 3. Scope of Application These standards apply to the procurement of raw materials, parts and products by Sysmex Group companies. 4. Control of Chemical Substances in Products The Sysmex Group requires the selection of materials and parts for the products it develops and produces to be based not only on the requisite quality, performance and economic feasibility, but also on the minimization of environmental impact. Therefore, raw materials and parts that do not employ the chemical substances described below shall be adopted: 1） Substances prohibited according to restrictions on chemical substances contained in products shall not be contained. 2） Those in which the chemical substance amounts defined under restrictions on chemical substances contained in products shall be monitored. 3） Those for which the environmental impact of the chemical substance in terms of atmospheric pollution, water contamination, soil pollution, etc. shall be low. 4） Environmental impact data for materials shall be disclosed. 119 5） In relation to packaging materials, when all of the aforementioned factors are identical, that with the lowest volume of contained chemical substances shall be selected. Revised November 2014 Working with Suppliers According High Evaluations to Procurement Partners Undertaking Motivated Environmental Conservation Activities Sysmex is working proactively to address the important societal issue of environmental protection. We ask our business partners to fully understand the importance of our activities and cooperate with green procurement. Based on its green procurement standards, in addition to quality, price, delivery schedules and technological development capabilities, Sysmex accords high evaluations to suppliers that undertake motivated environmental conservation activities. We ask our suppliers for their cooperation on the following points. 1. Configuration and Operation of Environmental Management Systems When commencing transactions with business partners, the Sysmex Group indicates clearly the importance it places on motivated environmental conservation activities. To this end, we confirm whether potential suppliers have in place environmental management systems certified by third parties. 1 ）ISO 14001 certification 2 ）Simplified environmental management system certification 2. Provision of Environmental Information on Raw Materials and Parts The Sysmex Group asks suppliers to provide the following environmental reports in cooperation with Sysmex’s environmental conservation activities. 1 ）Data on harmful chemical substances contained in raw materials and parts 2 ）Certification against the use of substances targeted by European RoHS regulations 3 ）Information on raw materials and parts compliant with European RoHS regulations 3. Environmental Measures by Suppliers to Their Outsourcing Partners The Sysmex Group also asks suppliers to request that their outsourcing partners configure environmental management systems and cooperate in providing environmental information. We ask suppliers to take responsibility for managing their outsourcing partners in this respect. Revised November 2014 120 Limiting the Use of Chemical substances in Products Specifying Prohibited Substances, Substances to Be Reduced and Target Countries Based on its green procurement standards, Sysmex publishes on our website the dealing with chemical substances (substances with environmental impact) contained in the products it manufactures and sells, as well as their constituent parts, devices and materials. 121 Environmental Impact of Business Activities INPUT Fiscal 2013 Fiscal 2014 Electricity use (thousands kWh) 34,519 35,988 City gas (thousands m3) 1,185 852 LPG (m3) 5,671 6,268 LNG (m3 ) 0 0 Heavy oil (kL) 0 0 Kerosene (kL) 68 70 Diesel oil (kL) 19 19 Gasoline for domestic fleet (kL) 795 778 Diesel for domestic fleet (kL) 11.7 19.7 Water use (thousands m3) 346 368 Office paper (t) 50 49 PRTR (t) 7.9 0.15 OUTPUT Fiscal 2013 Fiscal 2014 Greenhouse gas emissions from 20,194 21,472 business offices (t-CO2) CO2 emissions from domestic company 1,830 1,856 cars (t-CO2) Total waste emissions (t) 1,274 1,353 Recycling rate (%) 89.1 90.0 Wastewater volume (thousands m3) 144 164 PRTR (t) 4.8 0 122 Factories, all Sysmex Corporation business offices, affiliated companies in Japan and regional headquarters [Factories] Kakogawa Factory, i-Square, Sysmex International Reagents (Ono Factory, Seishin Factory), Sysmex Medica, Sysmex RA, Sysmex Europe (Reagent Factory), Sysmex Reagents America, Sysmex Brazil, Sysmex Asia Pacific, Sysmex India, Jinan Sysmex, Sysmex Wuxi [Other Sysmex Corporation Business Offices] Head office, Technopark, Solution Center, offices, branches, sales offices and service centers (Sendai, Sapporo, Morioka, Kita Kanto, Nagano, Niigata, Tokyo, Chiba, Nagoya, Shizuoka, Kanazawa, Osaka, Kyoto, Kobe, Hiroshima, Takamatsu, Okayama, Fukuoka, Kagoshima, Metropolitan Area Service Center), R&D Center, Protein Development Center, BMA Laboratory Other affiliated companies in Japan: Sysmex CNA Regional headquarters: Sysmex Europe, Sysmex America, Sysmex Shanghai, Sysmex Asia Pacific Factories and all Sysmex Corporation business offices (recycling rates exclude offices, branches, sales offices and service centers) (Refer to 1.) Factories and major business offices where products and/or chemical substances are handled [Factories] (Refer to 1.) [Business Offices] Technopark, Solution Center Factories in Japan and all Sysmex Corporation business offices [Factories in Japan] Kakogawa Factory, i-Square, Sysmex International Reagents (Ono Factory, Seishin Factory), Sysmex Medica, Sysmex RA [Other Sysmex Corporation Business Offices] (Refer to 1.) Domestic Group business offices with ISO 14001 certification Sysmex Corporation (head office, Technopark, Solution Center, Kakogawa Factory, i-Square), Sysmex International Reagents (Ono Factory, Seishin Factory), Sysmex Medica, Sysmex RA 123 ISO 26000 The chart below includes the seven core subjects of the ISO 26000* and indicates the location of Sysmex Sustainability Report that correspond to individual subjects. * ISO, the International Organization for Standardization, released an International Standard providing guidelines for social responsibility named ISO 26000 in November 2010. Core Subjects Location Organizational Governance P35 Corporate Governance P20 CSR Management P3 Message from the Chairman and CEO Human Rights P73 Involvement with Employees Labor Practices P73 Involvement with Employees The Environment P104 Environmental Conservation Activities P9 Highlight 2 Fair Operating Practices P42 Compliance P69 Involvement with Business Partners Consumer Issues P53 Involvement with Customers P7 Highlight 1 Community Involvement and P92 Corporate Citizenship Activities P11 Highlight 3 Development GRI Sustainability Reporting Guidelines The chart below includes the categories for disclosure required under the GRI* Sustainability Reporting Guidelines, Edition 3.1 and indicates the website that correspond to individual categories. * GRI is an acronym for the Global Reporting Initiative. GRI was established in 1997 as an international institution to create and disseminate international guidelines related to corporate sustainability reporting. GRI Sustainability Reporting Guidelines, Edition 3.1 Location Strategy and Analysis 1.1 Statement from the most senior decisionmaker of P3 Message from the the organization (e.g., CEO, chair, or equivalent Chairman and CEO senior position) about the relevance of sustainability to the organization and its strategy. 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities. P3 Message from the Chairman and CEO Website: Investor Relations 124 Organizational Profile 2.1 Name of the organization. Website: Company Information 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services. Website: Company Information 2.3 Operational structure of the organization, including Website: Company main divisions, operating companies, subsidiaries, Information and joint ventures. 2.4 Location of organization's headquarters. Website: Company Information 2.5 Number of countries where the organization Website: Company operates, and names of countries with either major Information operations or that are specifically relevant to the P3 Message from the sustainability issues covered in the report. Chairman and CEO 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. Website: Investor Relations 2.7 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, Website: Company sectors served, and types of Information customers/beneficiaries). 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization. Website: Company Information 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period Website: Investor regarding size, structure, or ownership. Relations 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period. P30 External Evaluation Report Profile 3.1 Reporting period (e.g., fiscal/calendar year) for P1 Editorial Policy information provided. 3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any). P1 Editorial Policy 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.) P1 Editorial Policy 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or P1 Editorial Policy its contents. Report Scope and Boundary 3.5 Process for defining report content. 3.6 Boundary of the report (e.g., countries, divisions, P1 Editorial Policy subsidiaries, leased facilities, joint ventures, suppliers). See GRI Boundary Protocol for further guidance. 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or P113 Environmental boundary of the report. Consciousness at Business Offices P117 Other Environmental Considerations P119 Green Procurement P122 Environmental Data 125 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, Website: Investor leased facilities, outsourced operations, and other Relations entities that can significantly affect comparability from period to period and/or between organizations. 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of P1 Editorial Policy calculations, including assumptions and techniques underlying estimations applied to the compilation of the Indicators and other information in the report. 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided in earlier reports, and the reasons for such re-statement (e.g., mergers/ acquisitions, change of base years/periods, nature of business, measurement methods). 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary, or measurement methods applied in the report. GRI CONTENT INDEX 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard P124 Guideline Disclosures in the report. Comparative Table ASSURANCE 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report. If not included in the assurance report accompanying the sustainability report, explain the scope and basis of any external assurance provided. Also explain the relationship between the reporting organization and the assurance provider(s). GOVERNANCE 4.1 Governance structure of the organization, including P35 Corporate committees under the highest governance body Governance responsible for specific tasks, such as setting strategy or organizational oversight. 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest P35 Corporate governance body is also an executive officer. Governance 4.3 For organizations that have a unitary board P35 Corporate structure, state the number and gender of members Governance of the highest governance body that are independent and/or non-executive members. 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to P35 Corporate provide recommendations or direction to the highest Governance governance body. P87 Respecting Workers’ Rights 4.5 Linkage between compensation for members of the P35 Corporate highest governance body, senior managers, and Governance executives (including departure arrangements), and the organization's performance (including social and environmental performance). 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance body P35 Corporate to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided. Governance 126 4.7 Process for determining the composition, P35 Corporate qualifications, and expertise of the members of the Governance highest governance body and its committees,including any consideration of gender and other indicators of diversity. 4.8 Internally developed statements of mission or P2 Corporate values, codes of conduct, and principles relevant to Philosophy and Core economic, environmental, and social performance Behaviors and the status of their implementation. P42 Compliance P54 Ensuring Quality and Safety P69 Involvement with Business Partners P93 Policy on Corporate Citizenship Activities and Philanthropy P105 Environmental Policy P119 Green Procurement 4.9 Procedures of the highest governance body for P20 CSR Management overseeing the organization's identification and P22 Mid-term CSR Plan management of economic, environmental, and social P106 Environmental performance, including relevant risks and Management opportunities, and adherence or compliance with internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct, and principles. 4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest governance P35 Corporate body's own performance, particularly with respect to Governance economic, environmental, and social performance. P106 Environmental Management COMMITMENTS TO EXTERNAL INITIATIVES 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary P20 CSR Management approach or principle is addressed by the P22 Mid-term CSR Plan organization. P106 Environmental Management 4.12 Externally developed economic, environmental, and P20 CSR Management social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the organization subscribes or endorses. 4.13 Memberships in associations and/or national/international advocacy organizations. STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the P24 Results of organization. Dialogue with Stakeholders 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders P20 CSR Management with whom to engage. 127 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including P20 CSR Management frequency of engagement by type and by P24 Results of stakeholder group. Dialogue with Stakeholders 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the organization has responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting. Economic Management Approach P3 Message from the Chairman and CEO ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE EC1 CORE Direct economic value generated and distributed, Website: Investor including revenues, operating costs, employee Relations compensation, donations and other community investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments. EC2 CORE Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization's activities due to climate change. EC3 CORE Coverage of the organization's defined benefit plan obligations. EC4 CORE Significant financial assistance received from government. MARKET PRESENCE EC5 ADD Range of ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local minimum wage at significant locations of operation. EC6 CORE Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on P69 Involvement with locally-based suppliers at significant locations of Business Partners operation. EC7 CORE Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management hired from the local community at locations of significant operation. INDIRECT ECONOMIC IMPACTS EC8 CORE Development and impact of infrastructure P94 Activities to investments and services provided primarily for Promote a Healthy public benefit through commercial, inkind, or pro Society bono engagement. P98 Contributing to Local Communities EC9 ADD Understanding and describing significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of impacts. 128 Environmental Management Approach P3 Message from the Chairman and CEO MATERIALS EN1 CORE Materials used by weight or volume. EN2 CORE Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials. ENERGY EN3 CORE Direct energy consumption by primary energy P122 Environmental source. Data EN4 CORE Indirect energy consumption by primary source. P122 Environmental Data EN5 ADD Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency P122 Environmental improvements. Data EN6 ADD Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable P111 Environmentally energy based products and services, and reductions Conscious Products in energy requirements as a result of these and Services initiatives. EN7 ADD Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption P111 Environmentally and reductions achieved. Conscious Products and Services WATER EN8 CORE Total water withdrawal by source. P122 Environmental Data EN9 ADD Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of No incident water. EN10 ADD Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused. BIODIVERSITY EN11 CORE Location and size of land owned, leased, managed P98 Contributing to in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high Local Communities biodiversity value outside protected areas. EN12 CORE Description of significant impacts of activities, P98 Contributing to products, and services on biodiversity in protected Local Communities areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. EN13 ADD Habitats protected or restored. P98 Contributing to Local Communities EN14 ADD Strategies, current actions, and future plans for managing impacts on biodiversity. EN15 ADD Number of IUCN Red List species and national No incident conservation list species with habitats in areas affected by operations, by level of extinction risk. EMISSIONS, EFFLUENTS, AND WASTE EN16 CORE Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions P122 Environmental by weight. Data 129 EN17 CORE Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by P113 Environmental weight. Consciousness at Business Offices EN18 ADD Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and P113 Environmental reductions achieved. Consciousness at Business Offices EN19 CORE Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight. P113 Environmental Consciousness at Business Offices EN20 CORE NO, SO, and other significant air emissions by type Non-disclosure because and weight. of small amount of emissions EN21 CORE Total water discharge by quality and destination. P122 Environmental Data EN22 CORE Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. P122 Environmental Data EN23 CORE Total number and volume of significant spills. P106 Environmental Management EN24 ADD Weight of transported, imported, exported, or No incident treated waste deemed hazardous under the terms of the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally. EN25 ADD Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity No incident value of water bodies and related habitats significantly affected by the reporting organization's discharges of water and runoff. PRODUCTS AND SERVICES EN26 CORE Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of P111 Environmentally products and services, and extent of impact Conscious Products mitigation. and Services P113 Environmental Consciousness at Business Offices P117 Other Environmental Considerations P122 Environmental Data EN27 CORE Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed by category. COMPLIANCE EN28 CORE Monetary value of significant fines and total number No incident of non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance with environmental laws and regulations. 130 TRANSPORT EN29 ADD Significant environmental impacts of transporting P111 Environmentally products and other goods and materials used for the Conscious Products organization's operations, and transporting and Services members of the workforce. P117 Other Environmental Considerations OVERALL EN30 ADD Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type. Social Labor Practices and Decent Work Management Approach P3 Message from the Chairman and CEO EMPLOYMENT LA1 CORE Total workforce by employment type, employment P26 Summary of CSR contract, and region, broken down by gender Data LA2 CORE Total number and rate of new employee hires and P77 Employee employee turnover by age group, gender, and Evaluation, Treatment, and Human Resource region. Development LA3 CORE Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees, by significant locations of operation. LA15 CORE Return to work and retention rates after parental P26 Summary of CSR leave, by gender. Data LABOR / MANAGEMENT RELATIONS LA4 CORE Percentage of employees covered by collective P87 Respecting bargaining agreements. Workers’ Rights LA5 CORE Minimum notice period(s) regarding operational changes, including whether it is specified in collective agreements. OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY LA6 ADD Percentage of total workforce represented in formal P87 Respecting joint management–worker health and safety Workers’ Rights committees that help monitor and advise on P88 Considering Safety occupational health and safety programs. and Health LA7 CORE Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and P88 Considering Safety absenteeism, and number of workrelated fatalities and Health by region and by gender. P26 Summary of CSR Data LA8 CORE Education, training, counseling, prevention, and P88 Considering Safety risk-control programs in place to assist workforce and Health members, their families, or community members regarding serious diseases. LA9 ADD Health and safety topics covered in formal P87 Respecting agreements with trade unions. Workers’ Rights P88 Considering Safety and Health 131 TRAINING AND EDUCATION LA10 CORE Average hours of training per year per employee by P77 Employee gender, and by employee category. Evaluation, Treatment, and Human Resource Development LA11 ADD Programs for skills management and lifelong P77 Employee learning that support the continued employability of Evaluation, Treatment, and Human Resource employees and assist them in managing career Development endings. LA12 ADD Percentage of employees receiving regular P77 Employee performance and career development reviews, by Evaluation, Treatment, and Human Resource gender. Development DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY LA13 CORE Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of P26 Summary of CSR employees per employee category according to Data gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity. EQUAL REMUNERATION FOR WOMEN AND MEN LA14 CORE Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men by employee category, by significant locations of operation. Human Rights Management Approach P3 Message from the Chairman and CEO INVESTMENT AND PROCUREMENT PRACTICES HR1 CORE Percentage and total number of significant investment agreements and contracts that include clauses incorporating human rights concerns, or that have undergone human rights screening. HR2 CORE Percentage of significant suppliers, contractors and P69 Involvement with other business partners that have undergone human Business Partners rights screening, and actions taken. HR3 CORE Total hours of employee training on policies and P42 Compliance procedures concerning aspects of human rights that P74 Respecting Human are relevant to operations, including the percentage Rights and Diversity of employees trained. NON-DISCRIMINATION HR4 CORE Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken. FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AND COLLECTIVE BARGAINING HR5 CORE Operations and significant suppliers identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining may be voilated or at significant risk, and actions taken to support these rights. 132 CHILD LABOR HR6 CORE Operations and significant suppliers identified as P74 Respecting Human having significant risk for incidents of child labor, Rights and Diversity and measures taken to contribute to the effective P69 Involvement with abolition of child labor. Business Partners FORCED AND COMPULSORY LABOR HR7 CORE Operations and significant suppliers identified as P74 Respecting Human having significant risk for incidents of forced or Rights and Diversity compulsory labor, and measures to contribute to the P69 Involvement with elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory Business Partners labor. SECURITY PRACTICES HR8 ADD Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization's policies or procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations. INDIGENOUS RIGHTS HR9 ADD Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous people and actions taken. ASSESSMENT HR10 CORE Percentage and total number of operations that have been subject to human rights reviews and/or impact assessments. REMEDIATION HR11 CORE Number of grievances related to human rights filed, addressed and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms. Society Management Approach P3 Message from the Chairman and CEO LOCAL COMMUNITY SO1 CORE Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, impact assessments, and development programs. SO9 CORE Operations with significant potential or actual negative impacts on local communities. SO10 CORE Prevention and mitigation measures implemented in operations with significant potential or actual negative impacts on local communities. CORRUPTION SO2 CORE Percentage and total number of business units analyzed for risks related to corruption. SO3 CORE Percentage of employees trained in organization's P74 Respecting Human anti-corruption policies and procedures. Rights and Diversity P69 Involvement with Business Partners SO4 CORE Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption. 133 PUBLIC POLICY SO5 CORE Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and lobbying. SO6 ADD Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political parties, politicians, and related institutions by country. ANTI-COMPETITIVE BEHAVIOR SO7 ADD Total number of legal actions for anticompetitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes. COMPLIANCE SO8 CORE Monetary value of significant fines and total number No incident of non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance with laws and regulations. Product Responsibility Management Approach P3 Message from the Chairman and CEO CUSTOMER HEALTH AND SAFETY PR1 CORE Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts P54 Ensuring Quality of products and services are assessed for and Safety improvement, and percentage of significant products and services categories subject to such procedures. PR2 ADD Total number of incidents of non-compliance with P54 Ensuring Quality regulations and voluntary codes concerning health and Safety and safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes. PRODUCT AND SERVICE LABELING PR3 CORE Type of product and service information required by procedures, and percentage of significant products and services subject to such information requirements. PR4 ADD Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and service information and labeling, by type of outcomes. PR5 ADD Practices related to customer satisfaction, including P58 After-Sales results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction. Support / Scientific Activities P63 Enhancing Customer Satisfaction and Third-Party Evaluations MARKETING COMMUNICATIONS PR6 CORE Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and P42 Compliance voluntary codes related to marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship. 134 PR7 ADD Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship by type of outcomes. CUSTOMER PRIVACY PR8 ADD Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data. COMPLIANCE PR9 CORE Monetary value of significant fines for No incident noncompliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services. 135 Independent Opinion On Reading the Sysmex Sustainability Report 2015 Katsuhiko Kokubu Professor, Graduate School of Business Administration, Kobe University Addressing Social Issues through Main Businesses By providing the market with a variety of testing instruments, Sysmex helps to alleviate the burden on patients, as well as on the technologists who perform testing. Also, as “Highlight 1” points out, ongoing efforts to reduce the amount of space instruments require compared with existing models also encourages the proliferation of these instruments. Reducing the amount of pain and effort associated with testing and providing instruments that require less space leads to less pain and suffering for many people. I applaud Sysmex highly for developing new products with these objectives in mind, thereby undertaking CSR activities as part of its main business. Global CSR Activities Sysmex is a global company with bases in locations around the world. Via CSR activities through its main business and its volunteer efforts, Sysmex introduces the status of its own initiatives in each region. I find it wonderful to see the initiatives the Company’s global employees are undertaking of their own accord. It is important to conduct activities that match the needs of individual regions, but if it were to undertake initiatives in collaboration with local communities as a global company under the Sysmex name, I believe this would be an embodiment of Sysmex’s fundamental policy of cooperative endeavors and bring even more energy to bear. Materiality and Establishing Indicators Sysmex’s CSR activities are arranged and described by stakeholder group. This approach has the advantage of making it easy to access information in areas of particular interest, but to me it seems difficult to ascertain their level of importance and priority. To promote the “Sysmex Way,” I believe the next step would be to identify activities that Sysmex considers important and those that society requests, and then to disclose their materiality for Sysmex. Publicizing key performance indicators (KPIs) in line with these issues would make it easier to track progress and demonstrate to people outside the Company Sysmex’s state of progress on CSR management. Integrated Reporting in the Digest Version In the world of CSR reporting, there is an increasing focus on “integrated reports,” which report briefly on both financial and CSR information. Sysmex’s “Digest Version” focuses strictly on CSR. I believe the time may have come to combine this with financial reporting and move toward an integrated report. This would require an editorial policy that takes institutional investors into account, but I believe it would also lead to a higher level of reporting of CSR information. 136 1-5-1, Wakinohama-Kaigandori, Chuo-ku, Kobe 651-0073, Japan Tel +81-78-265-0500 Fax +81-78-265-0524
