Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 Statement of Support TO OUR STAKEHOLDERS I am pleased to reaffirm Anixter International’s support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. In this annual Corporate Responsibility report, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. Sincerely yours, Robert J. Eck President and Chief Executive Officer 2 | 2015 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Table of Contents Expanding Our Corporate Responsibility Message . . . . . . . . . . 5 Human Rights. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6 Labor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8 Health and Safety. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10 Corporate Sustainability. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12 Charitable and Social Responsibility Programs. . . . . . . . . . . 20 Leveraging Environmentally Friendly Technologies. . . . . . . . . 22 Environmental Product Compliance . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 24 Anti-Corruption. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 26 2015 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT | 3 A Sustainable Path SM 4 | 2015 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT EXPANDING OUR CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY MESSAGE In his first quarter state of the company video message to global employees, President and CEO Bob Eck reemphasized Anixter’s ongoing commitment to corporate responsibility by highlighting its importance to both the organization and stakeholders. This year, Anixter added a presentation segment on corporate responsibility led by the senior director of corporate sustainability and environmental product compliance in its Rapid Start class, a week-long employee orientation workshop. The 30-minute presentation introduces new employees to Anixter’s Corporate Responsibility program by highlighting various accomplishments featured in the Corporate Responsibility report. Since launching the Corporate Responsibility Web page on anixter.com in recognition of Earth Day 2014, Anixter has added additional content to the site, including comprehensive details on Anixter’s Supplier Code of Conduct, Business Partner Compliance Program and Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption program. With increasing year-over-year page views and document downloads, the Web page is trending to exceed more than 5,600 unique visitors this year and the Corporate Responsibility report continues to be the site’s most frequently downloaded item by stakeholders. 2015 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT | 5 HUMAN RIGHTS Anixter is committed to treating all employees fairly, courteously, respectfully and with dignity by supporting a workplace that is free from demeaning, intimidating, offensive, abusive or harassing behavior. With company policies that clearly state a commitment to human rights and that are endorsed by president and CEO Bob Eck and Chairman of the Board Sam Zell, Anixter complies with applicable employment laws and regulations around the globe and does not tolerate unlawful discrimination of any kind. 6 | 2015 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT POLICIES AND PROGRAMS ACCOMPLISHMENTS HUMAN RIGHTS PROTECTION CONFLICT MINERALS RULE Anixter upholds human rights based on its policies and regular • In compliance with the Conflict Minerals Rule under management reviews combined with regularly engaging with peers and experts in the field. The following is a list of related policies the Dodd-Frank Act, Anixter successfully filed its and programs that support these ongoing efforts: Form SD and Conflict Minerals Report with the SEC • Human Rights Policy in 2015 for the 2014 calendar year. • Global Business Ethics and Conduct Policy • Reaffirmation of Equal Employment Opportunity Policy • A nixter’s Conflict Minerals Policy Statement was • Conflict Minerals Policy Statement the second most downloaded item by stakeholders • Anti-Harassment Policy from Anixter’s Corporate Responsibility Web page • Anti-Retaliation Policy in 2015. • Workplace Violence and Response Policy • Reaffirmation of Policy on Confidentiality • A nixter continued surveying suppliers for conflict • Employee Personal Data Protection Policy and Notice minerals by using a risk-based approach to support • Global Health and Safety Policy its annual SEC reporting obligations. • Nondiscrimination in employment and personnel practices • Comprehensive health and welfare benefit programs • Business Integrity Line and other communication mechanisms All human rights policies and programs are administered by the Executive Compliance Committee, chief compliance officer, regional compliance officers and the Human Resources, Legal and Internal Audit organizations. TOWARD CONFLICT-FREE SUPPLY CHAINS Anixter supports industrywide efforts to identify, reduce and eliminate the use of conflict minerals that originate from the Democratic Republic of the Congo and surrounding countries, which are believed to be financing groups that are responsible for human rights violations. Anixter is committed to fully complying with the conflict minerals requirements included in the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission’s (SEC) Dodd-Frank Act, which requires publicly traded companies to perform due diligence as to the existence and source of conflict minerals in their supply chains. U.S. SUPPLIER DIVERSITY PARTNERSHIPS Anixter is committed to the participation of small, minority, women-owned and disabled veteran business enterprises. Anixter will use reasonable efforts to provide opportunities whenever practical for subcontracting, purchasing or reselling, teaming arrangements and mentor-protégé programs. To help its U.S. customers report on SUPPLIER DIVERSITY their indirect diversity purchases •W  ithin the U.S., Anixter spent more than $84 million with over 645 small, minority, from Anixter, Anixter has continued women-owned and disabled veteran business to distribute electronic diversity enterprises over the last 12 months. reports each quarter as it has done since 1999. 2015 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT | 7 LABOR Anixter strives to create a positive and safe work environment — free of discrimination, harassment and inappropriate conduct and one in which employees treat each other fairly and with dignity and respect by: •S  upporting and upholding the elimination of discriminatory practices with respect to employment and occupation • P romoting and embracing diversity in all aspects of business operations •S  upporting the elimination of all forms of forced, bonded or compulsory labor •S  upporting the freedom of association and the right to choose a collective bargaining representative, if desired • P roviding a safe and healthy working environment for all employees •C  ondemning all forms of child exploitation and supporting the elimination of exploitative child labor. 8 | 2015 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT POLICIES AND PROGRAMS ACCOMPLISHMENTS EMPLOYEES ARE HEARD ANNUAL EMPLOYEE CERTIFICATION In addition to reporting a suspected issue through local AND TRAINING management, Human Resources, the Legal department or a compliance officer, employees around the globe can call a toll• Annual online training and certification free number or access the Business Integrity Line website to ask acknowledging compliance with the ethics or compliance-related questions or to report a suspected Global Business Ethics and Conduct issue. Communications can be made anonymously where permitted by local laws. The call center and website are managed Policy was issued to all employees. by an independent, third-party provider and all submissions or • Annual information security awareness conversations are kept confidential and shared only with those necessary to respond or investigate a report. training is required for all U.S. employees. • Annual affirmation of adherence to EMPLOYEE COMMITMENT Anixter’s labor policies and programs are communicated through: Anixter’s security policies is required for • Anti-Harassment Policy all global employees. • Anti-Retaliation Policy • Global Business Ethics and Conduct Policy • Workplace Violence and Response Policy • Global Health and Safety Policy • Employee Personal Data Protection Policy • Competitive employee benefit programs • Nondiscrimination in employment and personnel practices • Employee notices of right to join or form unions for purposes of collective bargaining, if desired • Annual compensation benchmarking analysis • Business Integrity Line and other communication mechanisms. U.S. MILITARY VETERAN RECRUITING Anixter is a military-friendly organization and actively recruits U.S. military veterans as they transition out of careers in the Army, Air Force, Navy, Coast Guard and Marines. HEALTH AND WELLNESS FAIRS U.S. MILITARY VETERANS HIRING In 2015, Anixter held its annual health Anixter participated in three U.S. and wellness fairs at its Glenview, IL, military veteran recruiting events headquarters and at its largest distribution facility in Alsip, IL. Available that led to filling multiple full-time to more than 1,100 employees, these positions. Anixter’s U.S. business fairs included basic healthcare screenings, units hired more than 40 U.S. educational information and free flu military veterans in 2015. shots offered by 22 local wellness and healthcare providers. 2015 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT | 9 HEALTH AND SAFETY The Health, Safety and Environmental program is designed to create, implement and maintain a healthy and safe working environment for all employees, visitors and contractors. Everyone at Anixter is part of this program. Anixter is committed to providing employees with a safe and healthy work environment through its: • Global Health and Safety Policy • Global Safety and Environmental Management System • Quality Management System • Continuous location management education • Equipment safety training • Electronic notification and mandatory staff training on policy modifications • Certification or compliance to: ISO 9001:2000 Quality Management System, ISO 14001:2015 Environmental Management System and OHSAS 18001 International Occupational Health and Safety Management System • Business Integrity Line and other communication mechanisms. 10 | 2015 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ACCOMPLISHMENTS OPERATING SAFELY WORKPLACE VIGILANCE • Anixter’s global Health, Safety and Environmental • On a quarterly basis, the HS&E senior director (HS&E) teams work to make sure compliance continuously monitors global operations elements are met and that the guidelines of the and reviews the global safety action list with Global Safety and Environmental Management management. This allows Anixter to address any System are followed. These teams make resources current concerns and prioritize future actions. available and define responsibilities to enable the company to operate in a manner that provides a safe and healthy workplace for employees, visitors FACILITY INSPECTIONS and contractors while also protecting the environment. Anixter used an external auditor to AUDITS AND CERTIFICATIONS voluntarily complete human element • Internal and external compliance audits were inspections at 12 global facilities. successfully completed at two international locations for ISO 14001:2004 Environmental These inspections focused on fire Management System and one U.K. location protection systems, sprinklers, for the Five Star British Health and Safety Certification. As a result of the audits, all sprinkler control valves and hot work locations maintained their certifications. areas. Additional facilities will be reviewed in 2016. ONGOING TRAINING AND EDUCATION This year, the HS&E teams: • Provided HS&E oversight on five continents and nine languages • Distributed 13 compliance reinforcement newsletters • Completed 150 compliance site audits • Trained 37,633 employees in group settings, 4,146 online and 616 through written tests. 2015 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT | 11 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY Through its Corporate Sustainability program, Anixter seeks to continuously improve business processes to control and reduce the impact associated with its targeted environmental aspects of energy, waste, materials and natural resources and transportation. By targeting measurable results within each environmental aspect combined with using A Sustainable PathSM approach, which focuses on the economic, environmental and social impacts of the organization, Anixter balances environmental responsibility and return on investment. 12 | 2015 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT PROGRAM GOALS ACCOMPLISHMENTS ENERGY ENERGY GREEN BUILDING CERTIFICATIONS Anixter continues to operate and evaluate additional facilities for various green building certifications based upon lease durations and payback Anixter reduces energy use through calculations. Green buildings help lower operational costs, minimize carbon innovative technologies, equipment emissions and provide a comfortable environment for employees. Anixter’s and control systems. green building certified portfolio consists of the following facilities: 1. T he 167,000-square-foot corporate headquarters located in Glenview, IL, attained the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA) ENERGY STAR certification in 2014 and 2015. WASTE 2. T he 61,000-square-foot annex office building located next to our headquarters in Glenview, IL, attained U.S. Green Building Council LEED® (Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design) certification in 2014 and EPA ENERGY STAR certification in 2014 and 2015. Anixter minimizes waste by capitalizing on opportunities to 3. The 21,000-square-foot multitenant facility in St. John’s, Newfoundland reduce, reuse and recycle. attained LEED Silver in 2014. 4. The 195,000-square-foot facility in Edmonton, Alberta, attained LEED Silver in 2011. MATERIALS 5. The 457,000-square-foot Alsip, IL, facility attained LEED certified in 2007. AND NATURAL ENERGY-EFFICIENT LIGHTING RESOURCES Depending upon the duration of lease terms and payback calculations, facilities’ lighting systems can range from advanced systems that include Anixter consumes fewer materials daylight harvesting, zone scheduling, dimmable ballasts/drivers and and natural resources by increasing advanced occupancy control sensors to energy-efficient systems that recycled content in consumables include fluorescent fixtures and LED lighting. while simultaneously pursuing source ADVANCED LIGHTING CONTROL SYSTEMS reduction strategies. This year, Anixter operated 15 international warehouse buildings that used advanced wireless control systems and high-efficiency dimmable fluorescent fixtures that through October saved more than 587,400 kilowatt hours of energy when compared to the previous systems’ energy TRANSPORTATION consumption baseline data. Anixter lowers transportation emissions by using outsourced third-party carriers and internal fleet vehicles that operate in the most environmentally efficient manner possible and by enforcing a global no idling policy at warehouse locations. 2015 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT | 13 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY: ACCOMPLISHMENTS 2015 LED LIGHTING INSTALLATIONS ONGOING DATA CENTER EFFICIENCIES As energy prices continue to decrease, Anixter is rapidly Anixter continues to consolidate and virtualize servers in its increasing the use of energy-efficient LED lighting and data center, which currently uses 30 physical servers to host advanced wireless technologies to manage energy more than 650 virtual guest devices. After upgrading mainframe consumption and lighting controls within its buildings. processors, speed and capacity were increased without altering power consumption. This year, the following six Anixter locations were retrofitted or built to completely use LED lighting for warehouse Due to the decrease in data center cooling requirements, illumination and advanced lighting control systems: Anixter continues to successfully use an air conditioning auto changer that rotates the shutdown of one of three air conditioning 1. Reno, NV – 249,400-square-foot warehouse units each month. 2. Phoenix, AZ – 65,000-square-foot warehouse 3. Memphis, TN – 93,300-square-foot warehouse U.K. ENERGY AUDITS To meet the requirements set forth by the U.K. Environment Agency 4. Alsip, IL – 457,000-square-foot warehouse and Department of Energy & Climate Change’s Energy Savings 5. Cranbury, NJ – 282,200-square-foot-warehouse Opportunity Scheme (ESOS), Anixter U.K. successfully had energy (target Q4 2015/Q1 2016) audits performed on six buildings in 2015. The audits reviewed each building’s energy consumption and energy efficiency and 6. Mexico, City, Mexico – 191,190-square-foot presented recommendations for improvement. The ESOS audit warehouse (Anixter’s first international location to recommendations are currently under review by management use LED lights.) for implementation consideration. The next ESOS audit will be These combined building LED lighting systems are conducted in four years. projected to save more than 1.1 million kilowatt hours of energy annually. ENERGY STAR PRODUCTS Anixter continues to successfully recycle and replace obsolete global printers with energy-efficient ENERGY STAR rated products. For example, over the last year the U.S. Enterprise Content Management Team and the Central and Latin America (CALA) business units collectively replaced more than 80 printers across the network. SOLAR ENERGY HISTORIC LED LIGHTING INSTALLATIONS The 142,000-square-foot Willebroek, Belgium, Anixter buildings that have previously converted to LED lighting facility — Anixter’s largest in continental in prior years include the 58,000-square foot Windsor, CT, warehouse, the 59,000-square-foot Detroit, MI, warehouse, and Europe — successfully started attaining solar the entire LEED Certified 61,000-square-foot Glenview, IL, annex energy from rooftop solar panels in late 2011, office building. In addition, the parking lot lamps at the Glenview, which powers roughly half the facility. Due to IL, headquarters and annex office buildings were also converted to LED lighting. The LED lighting installations within the buildings recent solar panel enhancements, the location have saved more than 117,500 kilowatt hours of energy through successfully attained 27 percent of its October. The Glenview parking lot lamps, while not separately energy from the rooftop solar panels which measured, are expected to save more than 200,100 kilowatt is a record. This is 12.5 percent higher hours of energy annually based upon the replacement of the previous lighting system. than the original 2012 solar energy consumption target of 14.5 percent. 14 | 2015 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT GLOBAL RECYCLING SNAPSHOT By city: ACCOMPLISHMENTS • T he Brisbane, Australia, location will successfully recycle by year-end roughly 71,590 pounds of paper, obsolete electronics, cardboard and wood. WASTE • T he Dubai, UAE, location will successfully recycle by year-end roughly 24,180 pounds of paper, cardboard and plastics. • T he Willebroek, Belgium location will successfully recycle by year-end roughly 117,600 pounds of paper, plastics, REDUCING LANDFILL WASTE cardboard and wood. Anixter leases its global buildings in order to remain flexible to By country: successfully meet both customer and market demands. Leasing, combined with periodic divestitures and acquisitions, causes •S  even of Anixter’s largest U.K. locations will successfully recycle by year-end roughly 1.1 million pounds of cardboard, wood, the physical locations, building sizes and waste tonnages to paper, metal, obsolete electronic equipment and plastics. continuously change. To help manage these changes, Anixter • T he Singapore facility will successfully recycle by year-end roughly has successfully outsourced various disposal services over the 17,000 pounds of wood, cardboard, plastic and paper and over last several years to specialized waste brokers that help reduce 25,600 pounds of obsolete electronic equipment. landfill waste, lower operating costs and increase recycling •B  razil will successfully recycle by year-end more than tonnages. Over the last 12 months, Anixter had 199 global 3,110 pounds of cardboard, metal, paper and wood. locations successfully outsourced to waste brokers. •C  hile will successfully recycle by year-end more than MATERIAL RECYCLING FACILITIES 3,880 pounds of cardboard, paper, plastics and wood. Four U.S. locations use specialized single stream material •C  olombia will successfully recycle by year-end more than recycling facilities that use a combination of manual and 4,890 pounds of cardboard, paper and plastic. automated equipment to extract recyclables from the trash. •M  exico will successfully recycle by year-end more than The combined average recyclable recovery rate from the four 26,125 pounds of cardboard, plastics and wood. facilities is 94 percent, which based on the annualized • P eru will successfully recycle by year-end more than projection of waste tonnage as reported by Anixter’s waste broker 8,970 pounds of cardboard, paper and wood. will result in more than 129,300 pounds of recyclables being • In 11 countries alone, Anixter collectively will successfully recycle recovered annually. by year-end more than 3.5 million pounds of scrap copper and other metals. NORTH AMERICAN 1.8 million lb. RECYCLING SNAPSHOT of cardboard The North American operations 2.6 million lb. of 1.6 million lb. maintain the largest square single stream/mixed of wood footage building footprint and recyclables (paper, total number of employees. cardboard, glass, This graphic provides a metals, plastics, etc.) snapshot of key North American recycling volumes by using annualized projections 38,980 lb. based on fixed and intermittent of plastics service frequencies combined 68,240 lb. of with industry guidelines and 46,715 lb. of obsolete forklifts estimates for commodity obsolete electronic and warehouse weights and waste container equipment recycled equipment capacity utilization as furnished and 160 working laptops and desktop by Anixter’s waste broker. computers donated to Canadian schools 2015 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT | 15 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY: ACCOMPLISHMENTS Within North America, Anixter RECYCLING AUDITS Anixter’s internal ISO audit team reviewed 13 office and successfully implemented warehouse locations across North America to ensure the 11 new recycling programs locations’ recycling programs, which can consist of paper, cardboard, wood, metal, plastic and empty writing instruments, that will divert an estimated were being effectively supported by management and used by 270,200 pounds of cardboard staff. Once again, all the locations successfully passed the audit and single stream/mixed team’s screening criteria. recyclables from landfills annually. PAPER SHREDDING While Anixter endeavors to minimize paper consumption as much as possible, paper use is often a business necessity. SUPPLY CHAIN SOLUTIONS By using recycled content paper along with implementing Anixter’s Supply Chain Solutions team provides customers location level paper recycling and shredding programs, internationally with various value-added services such as: Anixter seeks to limit its overall environmental impact. • K itting of multiple line items into a single finished good part For example, 41 U.S. and Canadian locations collectively number to ease ordering, reduce waste at the job site and shredded and recycled more than 132,100 pounds of paper. improve job site receiving It should be noted that a significant amount of recycled paper • P reassembling of racks, cabinets and cameras prior to was generated this year due to the Glenview headquarters shipping to improve job-site productivity and lower overall and annex locations repositioning of more than 500 employees project costs. between the two buildings. • P roviding job-site waste diversion documentation, REUSE PROGRAMS when requested by customers, for performing the Anixter locations around the world successfully harvest and above services to help earn points for green building reuse select inbound packaging and shipping materials received certification projects. from supplier partners when they are in like-new condition and •S  even Anixter locations across five countries collectively meet our strict quality standards. For example, this year Anixter’s diverted and recorded more than 27,700 lb. of cardboard, Brazil, Chile, Mexico and Peru locations successfully reused wood and plastics for customer specific green building projects. more than 5,000 wooden pallets, 2,300 cardboard boxes and 940 wooden reels. RECYCLING FLUORESCENT LAMPS Anixter’s recently transitioned outsourced fluorescent lamp RECYCLING PRINTER CARTRIDGES maintenance and recycling program currently incorporates By returning the empty printer toner and ink cartridges back 31 U.S. buildings and will successfully recycle more than to office supply providers for reuse, Anixter helps prevent 700 lamps this year. thousands of pounds of plastic and metal from entering landfills annually. For example, Anixter’s Tri-Ed business successfully REEL CONSOLIDATION collected and recycled more than 170 toner cartridges across its The Anixter-designed, reusable PARAPULLSM paralleling reels can North American locations. accommodate various cut-to-length cables of the same gauge onto a single multichambered wooden reel. Because each PARAPULL reel is reused on average six times, their ongoing use helps preserve natural resources while eliminating Over the last 12 months, Anixter processed more empty reel disposal costs and waste from job sites that than 1.5 million custom cable cuts for customers frequently end up in landfills. Customers using a single from 150 global warehouse locations. By providing PARAPULL reel can eliminate between two to four individual cable cut to the exact length required by the wooden cable reels on a job site, which reduces shipping and handling costs while increasing contractor productivity. customer, job-site cable waste is virtually eliminated. Anixter shipped more than 2,020 reusable PARAPULL reels Job-site costs are also reduced as the need to to customers over the last 12 months. purchase, cut and control master cable reels and the resulting short cable lengths, or leftover cable, no longer exists. 16 | 2015 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ACCOMPLISHMENTS REDUCING CABLE REELS AT THE JOB SITE Anixter’s READY!SM Layer service offering reduces the total number of cable reels needed at a job site by adding multiple layers MATERIALS AND of cable to a single reel chamber. As more layers are added, NATURAL RESOURCES fewer reels are needed. Having fewer reels at a job site reduces transportation costs, transportation emissions and, when wood reels are used, tree consumption. In 2015, the Anixter-developed and Anixter-supported nextREADY! Layer provides further value when combined with Anixter’s generation WMX warehouse management system successfully PARAPULL or PARASPINSM services that use returnable reels. incorporated more than 500 enhancements that improved Over the last 12 months, U.S. locations have shipped more than performance, increased operational efficiencies and expanded 1,000 READY! Layer reels to customers’ job sites. user functionality in the 10 facilities across North America that currently use it. One such enhancement is called BOM (bill of REUSABLE METAL REELS material) Staging, which allows the WMX system to drive Anixter offers electrical contractors the option of receiving cutsequential tasks based upon task completion. BOM Staging to-length cable on reusable metal PARASPIN reels that have allows cable to move through the various stages of the value-add five independent spinning chambers from which to pull cable. processing areas, such as cable twisting or dying, in a paperless Customers using a single PARASPIN reel can eliminate four and seamless fashion. individual wooden cable reels on a job site, which reduces shipping As the WMX system was designed to quickly incorporate and handling costs while increasing contractor productivity. operational changes to meet customer or market demands, As the PARASPIN reel completely eliminates the use of wood two of the central focus areas in 2016 will be to rollout a and is reusable, natural resources are preserved and cable reel WMX Lite system in smaller and midsized facilities and add the waste and disposal costs are eliminated at the job site. WMX system into additional larger buildings. Over the last 12 months, Anixter shipped and retrieved over 1,470 reusable PARASPIN reels from customers’ job sites. 2015 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT | 17 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY: ACCOMPLISHMENTS E-TRAVEL AND EXPENSE REPORTING EBUSINESS In 2015, Anixter’s paperless travel and expense management Anixter’s eBusiness offerings allow global customers and system expanded to the EMEA region and also began suppliers the ability to seamlessly process a vast array of incorporating Anixter’s Tri-Ed and Power Solutions business units. business transactions with Anixter in a secure and paperless Based on year-to-date report submissions through October, environment. Anixter’s eBusiness highlights include the following: Anixter anticipates that the system will process more than • E lectronic data interface (EDI). By year end, Anixter will 32,380 international employee transactions, resulting in the have successfully processed more than 1.9 million global EDI estimated elimination of more than 161,900 sheets of paper transactions of which over 795,700, or roughly 42 percent, and more than 24,300 envelopes. Due to the ongoing success will result in the elimination of a paper transaction such as an of the program within the North America and EMEA regions, invoice, purchase order or forecast. the paperless travel and expense management system will be • T hird-party electronic invoicing. Anixter communicates implemented in Anixter’s CALA region in 2016. extensively with various online procurement applications and GREEN OFFICE SUPPLIES supplier networks. This year, Anixter will have successfully Anixter continues to focus on purchasing office supplies that processed more than 113,000 paperless invoice transactions contain green attributes where feasible. Green attributes can through these networks. include, but are not limited to, products that contain recycled • e -Delivery. By year end, Anixter’s email invoice and statement or plant-based materials or are remanufactured. For example, notification program will have successfully eliminated more over the last 12 months, Anixter accomplished the following: than 954,700 paper invoices from more than 58,800 • A nixter’s Canadian locations spent 51 percent and five Anixter international customer accounts. U.K. locations collectively spent 67 percent of their total office supply expenditures on products that contained green RECYCLED CONTENT PACKAGING MATERIALS Anixter’s U.S. warehouses, which collectively process the largest attributes as identified by partner suppliers. outbound line volume in its global network, shipped more •9  9 percent of Anixter Canada’s and 83 percent of Anixter U.S.’ than 2.1 million pounds of corrugated boxes, packing paper total paper expenditures were on a minimum of 30 percent and paper tape made from recycled content ranging from recycled content paper or higher. 40 to 100 percent. • A nixter’s global locations continued to use remanufactured toner cartridges instead of new OEM cartridges, where available. In addition to being a greener alternative, doing so also saves money. For example, the U.S. alone saved more than $55,000 through October. •B  y working with its primary U.S. office supply partner, Anixter changed the packaging for small to midsized office supply orders from being shipped in cardboard boxes to postconsumer recycled paper bags two years ago. This year, Anixter’s U.S. locations will have successfully received more than 1,200 bag deliveries. REDUCING MAINFRAME PRINTING VOLUMES Anixter continues to decrease the use of hard copy reports by 99 percent of Anixter Canada’s and 83 percent of Anixter U.S.’ increasing the use of electronic imaging, which reduces toner and paper consumption from mainframe printers. In the first five months of this year, Anixter generated 122,148, or 16 percent, total paper expenditures were on fewer print images than it did for the same period in 2014. In addition, Anixter successfully decreased toner usage by a minimum of 30 percent 19 percent during this same five month comparison period. recycled content paper or higher. 18 | 2015 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ACCOMPLISHMENTS CARRIER GREEN SCREENING Anixter’s international transportation team continues to screen third-party transportation carriers for green programs as an TRANSPORTATION evaluation metric for trade lane bid submissions. This year, 20 carriers’ green programs were evaluated and used to support decision-making criteria for bid submissions to manage Anixter’s U.S. export shipments into the Asia Pacific region. LONGER COMBINATION VEHICLES COMMUTER BENEFITS PROGRAM Anixter’s global transportation team successfully Since 2009 in the U.S., Anixter has offered employees a Commuter leverages third-party carriers’ longer combination Benefits Program that allows qualified public transportation and/ or parking expenses to be automatically deducted pre-tax from vehicles (LCVs) that increase the cargo capacity paychecks. The program continues to grow and encourages staff of combination trucks by using longer and/ to use public transportation, which helps protect the environment while saving users money. or multiple trailers. According to the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency’s SmartWay NO IDLING PROGRAM Anixter continues to operate a global no idling program, LCVs generally have much better program at its warehouses and headquarters. ton-mile fuel economy than other combination Truck drivers are required to turn off their engines trucks as they carry more cargo per trip, which while waiting for materials to be loaded or unloaded from their vehicles. Anixter-designed no results in lower fuel consumption and reduced idling signs are placed on driver entrance doors as well as in select greenhouse gas and air pollutant emissions. yard and loading dock locations. The no idling program seeks to improve air quality, reduce carbon emissions and increase safety. For example, Anixter Canada’s transportation The Anixter Power Solutions team will add no idling signs to an team successfully used three LCV carriers to additional 33 buildings over Q4 2015/Q1 2016. transport more than 10,300 shipments over SMARTWAY CARRIERS 2.2 million miles through September. More than 90 percent of Anixter’s preferred U.S. and international transportation spend is with the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency’s certified SmartWay carriers for products shipped into GPS NAVIGATION AND VEHICLE MONITORING SYSTEMS and out of the U.S. SmartWay carriers focus on reducing emissions Anixter continues to connect select fleet vehicles to real-time and fuel consumption. GPS navigation systems that provide real-time route planning and various vehicle performance metrics to help increase fuel economy, SHIPMENT CONSOLIDATION lower carbon emissions and improve driver productivity. Anixter Anixter successfully used third-party transportation partners to collect, consolidate and ship more than 217 million pounds of currently operates more than 70 global fleet vehicles connected to products to Anixter and customer locations around the world. vehicle monitoring systems. By leveraging multimodal transportation to consolidate supplier shipments, Anixter reduces operating expenses, increases material visibility and lowers carbon emissions. 2015 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT | 19 CHARITABLE AND SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY PROGRAMS Around the world, Anixter is powered by employees that have the talent and dedication to address the most challenging problems. But their efforts go beyond business and into the communities where they work and live. Anixter believes it’s important to support global communities so employees can support and solve the problems for the causes and charities they care about. The Anixter Cares program is powered by these people and supports various charity organizations such as the Red Cross, Red Crescent Societies, American Cancer Society, American Diabetes Association and Habitat for Humanity. Anixter also provides company-matching gifts to higher education within the U.S. and Canada and offers time off for employees to volunteer at nonprofit organizations. 20 | 2015 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ACCOMPLISHMENTS In 2015, donations generated through Anixter Cares included: MORE THAN MORE THAN MORE THAN MORE THAN $54,000 $54,000 $131,000 $239,000 ANIXTER EMPLOYEE + ANIXTER CARES EMPLOYEE MATCHING + ANIXTER CORPORATE = TOTAL ANIXTER EMPLOYEE AND CONTRIBUTIONS CONTRIBUTIONS DONATION ANIXTER CARES IMPACT Contributions were made to institutions of higher learning and charities addressing the areas of poverty, education, medical and disaster relief. BUILDING DREAMS works on solutions to reduce youth violence. As part of the In 2014, Anixter joined other leading organizations to support Challenge, Anixter also collected 140 pairs of shoes for Share Raise Your Hand Chicagoland. In 2015, Anixter continued Your Soles, which distributes them to those in need in some of its support during Habitat for Humanity’s year-long Building the world’s most impoverished areas. On! event and accepted a crystal recognition award for its • E mployees in Costa Rica recently joined other CALA teams participation. In all, more than 70 Anixter employees built homes in launching an Anixter Cares fundraising initiative to support around the Chicagoland area throughout the year. WorldVision’s efforts to end poverty in the region. With 16 “Over the last three years, Habitat for Humanity in the greater employees contributing monthly, the total money raised for Chicagoland area has increased the number of individuals served WorldVision in 2015 exceeded $2,300 to provide the care and at a faster pace than the total growth rate of all the Habitat for well-being of six children. Humanity affiliates in the U.S.,” said Ted Dosch, Anixter’s executive •M  ore than 175 Tri-Ed team members mobilized during a North vice president and chief financial officer and a board member American sales meeting to get backpacks filled with new school chair for Chicagoland Habitat. supplies for 450 needy children. Sponsored by Tri-Ed and coordinated by Mission 500, a global non-profit organization INSPIRING TOMORROW’S ENGINEERS TODAY dedicated to serving the needs of children and families, the Recognizing that tomorrow’s workforce needs scientists, backpacks were delivered to children throughout the U.S. technology experts, engineers and mathematicians, Anixter teamed up with the Kohl Children’s Museum in Glenview, IL, • A s part of the American Diabetes Association’s Tour de Cure to inspire kids via its Tinkering Tuesday program. ride, team Anixter joined more than 1,400 bike riders to raise more than $12,200, and in doing so, Anixter landed on the top Anixter engineers and technical experts designed and developed 10 list of corporate team donations over $10,000. Nineteen the interactive learning activities — with input and guidance from Anixter employees joined the ride, choosing routes ranging from Kohl museum educators — and participated in Tinkering Tuesday 10 to 100 miles. demonstrations at the museum throughout 2015. Children learned about circuits, sound waves over wire, zoom and thermal •S  ince 2011, Anixter U.S. locations have collected empty lens cameras. pens, markers and highlighters for recycling. These recycled instruments have generated funds that are donated to support A CULTURE OF GIVING BACK various clean drinking water projects ranging from digging and Employees around the globe support various charitable causes maintaining wells across sub-Saharan Africa and Southeast in countless ways — beyond their generous financial support. Asia to pollution prevention projects in the U.S. Including our Here are a few examples: 2015 shipment, Anixter’s employees have collectively recycled • In October, 87 Anixter employees crossed the finish line at the more than 6,890 writing instruments to help these causes. annual JPMorgan Chase Corporate Challenge in Chicago to For more information on Anixter Cares support the not-for-profit organization Get IN Chicago, which visit anixter.com/anixtercares. 2015 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT | 21 LEVERAGING ENVIRONMENTALLY FRIENDLY TECHNOLOGIES Anixter leverages its global leadership position to advance environmentally friendly technologies to further support our customers, strategic partners and internal operations. VIRTUAL ENGAGEMENT CENTER Anixter offers seminars using a highly interactive online tool to connect customers with manufacturer partners Through Anixter University, Anixter creates and offers across the globe. Seminars traditionally courses in a university-like setting to educate customers globally on the best practices to effectively evaluate data were held in different cities around the center energy consumption. Course examples include world, which required customers and power distribution and thermal management. Topics manufacturers to be at the same physical covered include, but are not limited to, energy-efficient location at the same time. Moving to a design, metering and monitoring of power using the PUE virtual environment saves participants metric established by The Green Grid and how best to time and expenses while eliminating separate hot exhaust air from chilled supply air. Anixter the environmental impact associated delivered more than 400 Anixter University presentations worldwide and also made some of the curriculum available with traveling. This year, more than to customers in the Virtual Engagement Center. 1,000 customers attended Anixter’s Virtual Engagement Center to keep pace INFRASTRUCTURE AS A PLATFORM, with leading edge industry trends and DATA CENTER HEALTHCHECKSM Infrastructure as a Platform (IaaP) products all from the convenience of their addresses the key building blocks homes or offices. for data center interoperability that ONGOING EMPLOYEE EDUCATION can provide agility for budgets, Anixter uses an electronic delivery model for much of its scalability for demand and flexibility for technology learning and development programs. Web-based virtual choices. The building blocks of power optimization workshops, classes and e-courses are delivered via a and thermal efficiency can identify product solutions global learning management system (LMS). The LMS helps and best practices than can enable customers to attain to reduce carbon emissions by eliminating employee energy savings by deploying state-of-the-art infrastructure. travel and also helps to preserve natural resources A subcomponent of the IaaP program is our Data Center as printed training materials are eliminated. This year, HealthCheck service. Experts from Anixter’s global Anixter successfully attained more than 46,000 course Technology Support Services and Infrastructure Solutions completions from the 748 courses offered to employees. LabSM evaluate the current data center operations of customers looking for energy savings, using industry best VIDEOCONFERENCING practices as well as documented standards of compliance Anixter has 42 videoconferencing units globally. Plus, such as AHRAE, IEEE and TIA. They then provide roughly 100 employees use desktop cameras and recommendations for improving operational efficiency, conferencing software to connect with co-workers, which oftentimes can bring a 4 to 12 percent reduction suppliers and customers around the world. Over the last in energy consumption. In 2015, Anixter completed more 12 months, Anixter staff held over 1,900 video conferences than 70 Data Center HealthChecks. averaging 45 minutes each. Videoconferencing eliminates travel and its associated carbon emissions while lowering expenses and increasing employee productivity. 22 | 2015 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT LEVERAGING ENVIRONMENTALLY FRIENDLY TECHNOLOGIES ANIXTER CANADA’S UNIQUE CUSTOMS OPERATIONS Anixter electronically clears all of its VIRTUAL LAB AND SOLUTIONS own products that ship to Canada BRIEFING CENTERS Virtual lab tours provide an alternative to live customer from anywhere around the world. This visits where cost, time and distance make it problematic gives Anixter a distinct advantage to visit demonstration facilities in Glenview, Indianapolis, in that the custom clearance Atlanta, Boston, London, Sao Paulo or Mexico City. transaction is faster. Having the “self-clearance” designation ensures Even though a live lab visit provides a better customer experience, subject matter experts who are available for that the clearance process does not live visits also host the virtual visits. Presentations detailing have to pass through the hands of industry trends may also be covered during a virtual tour an outside custom broker. of the lab facilities located in Glenview, IL. The videoIn addition to improving the speed conferencing bridge offers HD-quality video and audio of transaction, it also improves the between the lab and the customer’s site. After investing $1 million in the Infrastructure Solutions LabSM located at visibility and the accountability Anixter’s headquarters in Glenview, IL, it is now equipped of every import Anixter brings into to provide virtual tours around the globe. Canada. For example in calendar year 2014, Anixter Canada DIGITAL MARKETING imported 44,992 shipments, Anixter began its digital marketing initiatives four years valued at more than $258 million ago by focusing on the promotion of Anixter, its brand and containing 94,600 lines of entry. positioning, and products and services over various digital The single biggest highlight of the channels such as Web, mobile, social and email. Part of self-clearance process is that the the digital marketing strategy has been the migration of traditional print materials into digital formats for use by Canada Customs and Revenue internal sales representatives and external customers. Agency completed two separate The materials converted into digital formats include print Post Verification Audits of the Anixter catalogs, case studies, fact sheets, reference guides, process and rated the compliance at product specification sheets and various other documents. the top of the class. In addition to handling the importing, Anixter’s transportation Anixter has more than 134,000 team is responsible to ensure that compliance is maintained for U.S. parts with accompanying product customs. Export paperwork for specification sheets in digital format shipments moving outside Canada is centralized with the department for easy access on anixter.com. and handed 5,083 shipments and These specification sheets represent 12,838 lines of entry in 2014. 93 percent of all global downloads from anixter.com. 2015 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT | 23 ENVIRONMENTAL PRODUCT COMPLIANCE Anixter’s Environmental Product Compliance team is comprised of specialists who are committed to: •D  etermining the compliance status of products to applicable environmental regulations in the countries where Anixter conducts business • F ully complying with the Conflict Minerals Rule under the Dodd-Frank Act • Identifying, monitoring and addressing new and evolving environmental product compliance, international substance control and extended producer responsibility obligations •W  orking with the global sales teams and partner suppliers to ensure customers’ requested environmental product compliance specifications are successfully met •C  ontinuously improving processes and internal training of the environmental product compliance staff • A dvancing the use of technology to help fulfill the above. 24 | 2015 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ACCOMPLISHMENTS GLOBAL COMPLIANCE SYSTEM ONGOING CONFLICT MINERALS ACTIONS Anixter’s Environmental Product Compliance (EPC) team has Anixter used the CMRT to collect conflict minerals information successfully incorporated over 1 million active global parts and from top-tier suppliers by using a risk-based approach in 2015 attributes into its EPC database. This facilitates the management for calendar year 2014 procurement activities. The CMRT was of the associated suppliers’ part-level compliance declarations sent to the largest global suppliers and only supplier responses that have passed Anixter’s predefined screening criteria. Obtaining that successfully passed Anixter’s conflict minerals due diligence these declarations has been a primary focus for 2015 through screening process were loaded into the EPC database. various risk-based data collection initiatives. The U.S. EPC team provided content that helped create Anixter’s: The EPC database provides global users with the ability to view • Company level CMRT customer response each part’s compliance status relative to the European Union (EU) • SEC Form SD RoHS (Restriction of Hazardous Substances) directive and the EU • Conflict Minerals Report. REACH (Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction of PROJECT TRACKER ENHANCEMENTS Chemicals) regulation based upon supplier-provided Declarations Anixter’s Project Tracker, which interfaces with the EPC database of Conformity and statements of compliance. and Anixter’s mainframe system, was further enhanced to allow The system’s functionality also includes the ability to analyze global users the ability to automatically generate email requests and store supplier responses to Anixter’s annual conflict minerals to suppliers to obtain compliance documentation. In addition, the surveys by using the Conflict Minerals Reporting Template (CMRT) Project Tracker gives users the ability to automatically generate created by the Conflict-Free Sourcing Initiative (CFSI). email responses inclusive of the respective product compliance Even though the EPC database had been hosted off-site status in response to each customer-specific product inquiry. for the past three years, this year Anixter brought the software The Project Tracker was also enhanced to provide increased speed in-house to manage it locally on its servers within its corporate and efficiency to users outside the U.S. Reporting functions were data center. Advantages for doing so include, but are not limited also added to the Project Tracker to generate various performance to the following: based reports and milestone metrics. • A nixter can monitor the software on a 24x7 basis because the software is hosted in a known environment. •R  edundancy safeguards are built into the larger IT infrastructure. Safeguards include in-house battery back-up, an on-site diesel ADDRESSING GLOBAL REGULATIONS generator to provide power in the event of an outage and an • In 2015, Anixter’s Environmental off-site secondary data center for use in the event of a natural disaster or other type emergency situation. Both data centers Product Compliance team helped more are monitored real-time and are subject to regularly scheduled than 1,300 customers address various disaster recovery exercises. international product compliance obligations for products purchased from Anixter. • A nixter continued to enhance its screening tools and reporting capabilities to monitor the compliance status of in-scope products against various international regulations. 2015 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT | 25 ANTI-CORRUPTION Anixter is proud of its reputation as a fair, honest and ethical company. All Anixter directors, officers, employees, contractors and business partners are required to conduct business with the highest degree of honesty and integrity and in full compliance with applicable laws. These principles are set forth in Anixter’s Global Business Ethics and Conduct Policy (Ethics Policy), Global Anti-Bribery & Anti-Corruption Policy (Anti-Bribery Policy) and Business Partner Anti-Corruption Policy. The policies clearly communicate zero tolerance to bribery and other forms of corruption. 26 | 2015 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ANTI-CORRUPTION Anixter takes a ZERO tolerance approach to ANTI-BRIBERY AND ANTI-CORRUPTION POLICES The Anti-Bribery Policy and Business Partner Anti-Corruption Policy bribery and any other form of corruption and and related training were revised and reissued in 2015. The Antiis committed to acting professionally, fairly Bribery Policy is an internal policy that applies to Anixter’s global employees. The Business Partner Anti-Corruption Policy applies and with integrity in all business dealings to Anixter’s suppliers, contractors, integrators, resellers, channel and relationships. Anixter upholds all laws partners, consultants, professional advisers, joint venture partners, countering bribery and corruption wherever custom brokers, freight forwarders, sales agents, and any other parties with whom Anixter does business (business partners). it operates. Anixter’s ZERO tolerance on bribery For a copy of Anixter’s Business Partner Anti-Corruption Policy and corruption prohibits bribes of any kind visit anixter.com/bppolicy. to be authorized, offered, given, requested BUSINESS PARTNER COMPLIANCE or accepted in the course of doing business Anixter expects its business partners to act professionally and ethically at all times in carrying out their services and contractual for or on behalf of Anixter. obligations to Anixter or on Anixter’s behalf to an Anixter customer or any other third party. Business partners must undergo a anixter.com/anti-corruption qualification and screening process if the business partner is (1) GLOBAL ANTI-CORRUPTION PROGRAM HIGHLIGHTS located in or doing business in a “high-risk country” identified Countering bribery and corruption is one of the primary focus areas by Anixter or (2) performing services for or on behalf of Anixter of Anixter’s global compliance program. in one of the “high risk categories” identified by Anixter regardless Anixter’s anti-corruption program consists of: of country. • Policies and procedures In 2015, Anixter began offering business partners the Business Partner Anti-Corruption Policy Overview Presentation (Overview • Oversight, autonomy and resources Presentation) as a tool to help them better understand Anixter’s • Commitment from senior management Business Partner Anti-Corruption Policy. For a copy of Anixter’s • Third-party due diligence Business Partner Anti-Corruption Policy Overview visit • Incentives and discipline anixter.com/bpoverview. This Overview Presentation summarizes Anixter’s expectations of its business partners to comply with its • Training and communication zero tolerance approach to bribery and corruption. • Confidential reporting and investigations In 2015, Anixter rolled out a Supplier Code of Conduct available • M&A diligence and integration at anixter.com/suppliercode. This code incorporates the key • Risk assessment Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact and specifies • Periodic testing and review. how Anixter expects its suppliers to conduct business. Company policies, including the Ethics Policy and Anti-Bribery The Business Partner Anti-Corruption Policy, the Overview Policy, clearly state Anixter’s commitment to conducting business Presentation and Supplier Code of Conduct are available ethically and with integrity and includes Anixter’s zero tolerance in 11 languages. approach to bribery and corruption. This is endorsed by President and CEO Bob Eck and Chairman of the Board Sam Zell. The Ethics Policy and Anti-Bribery Policy are applicable to the directors, officers and employees of all of Anixter’s subsidiaries globally. These policies are available in 11 languages: Dutch, English, French, German, Italian, Japanese, Mandarin, Portuguese, Russian, Spanish and Turkish. For a copy of Anixter’s Ethics Policy and Anti-Bribery Policy visit anixter.com/ethics. 2015 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT | 27 ANTI-CORRUPTION ZERO TOLERANCE THE BLUE BOOK No bribe of any kind may be authorized, offered, given, requested All employees are familiar with the Blue Book, which drives the or accepted in the course of doing business for Anixter. Anixter’s company’s culture by outlining Anixter’s core beliefs and guiding policies also prohibit facilitation payments. principles. Created over 45 years ago as the company went Anixter’s zero tolerance approach to bribery and corruption is not public, its influence continues to shape the overall culture. limited to government officials; it also extends to bribes involving The Blue Book is frequently quoted in companywide trainings commercial parties. Anixter’s anti-corruption policies are designed and internal communications. For a copy of the Blue Book visit to comply with all anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws in anixter.com/bluebook. countries where Anixter operates or conducts business including, New employees receive a copy during their onboarding and are but not limited to, the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the assigned the online training module “Blue Book – Living the U.K. Bribery Act and Brazil Clean Company Act. Anixter Culture.” BUSINESS INTEGRITY LINE “Integrity is doing the RIGHT Anixter’s employees, business partners and other third parties can ask questions or report possible ethics or bribery and thing, even if nobody is watching. corruption violations through the Business Integrity Line. Anixter has partnered with an independent third party to host and track We would rather lose money, a such reports made via telephone or online. Where allowed by customer, a supplier or an order local laws, these reports can be made anonymously. Reports made at anixter.ethicspoint.com are managed and responded than violate our ethics policy, our to by members of the Legal, Human Resources and Internal Audit integrity, or the law.” departments, as appropriate. – The Blue Book RELEVANT POLICIES Global Business Ethics and Conduct Policy Global Anti-Bribery Policy Government Contracts Policy • Reflects current industry best practices, and Anti-Corruption Policy • Provides guidance for meeting emphasizes zero tolerance of bribery • Provides guidance on what bribery and ethical and legal obligations as a and restates commitment corruption are and how to avoid them supplier to U.S. federal, state and to anti-retaliation • Revised in 2015; first adopted local governments • Earliest version distributed in 1998; in 2012 • Adopted in 2011 last revised in 2013 • Posted on intranet sites • Posted on intranet sites • Posted on intranet sites • Available in 11 languages • Available in English • Available in 11 languages • Distributed with training to all • Distributed with training every • Distributed with training annually employees globally in 2015; two years, most recently issued in to all employees annually thereafter 2015, to employees involved with U.S. government contracting in the U.S., United Arab Emirates, Japan and Germany 28 | 2015 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ANTI-CORRUPTION OVERSIGHT & AUTONOMY Culture Survey The Executive Compliance Committee held three meetings in To further monitor the compliance program, Anixter distributes 2015. At each meeting, the committee discussed the company’s and analyzes a culture survey. This survey was conducted again overall compliance program, including the components of the in 2015. The results of this survey were reported to the Executive anti-corruption program. Compliance Committee and Audit Committee. Regional compliance committees are responsible for identifying Ethics Questionnaire risk and compliance matters within their respective regions. The Annual Ethics Questionnaire was distributed in January These committees are comprised of senior management from the 2015 to all directors, officers, senior management and members Human Resources, Credit, Finance, Operations, Purchasing and of select departments and functions and was available in Sales departments. The committees meet at least twice 11 languages. All recipients who received the questionnaire a year and are led by regional compliance officers who are completed it in a timely manner. This questionnaire will be regional attorneys. distributed again in January 2016. In 2015, Anixter’s Chief Compliance Officer presented four Anti-Retaliation quarterly updates on the company’s anti-corruption compliance Anixter promotes its anti-retaliation policy with the rollout of the program and initiatives to the Audit Committee of the Board of Safe to Speak FAQs document that is available in 11 languages Directors of Anixter International Inc. and posted on its intranet sites. MONITORING The program is monitored by a combination of audits, reviews, risk assessments and internal investigations. The Internal Audit, Countering bribery Global Shared Services, Finance and Legal departments are engaged in this process. and corruption is one In 2015, the Ethics & Compliance Office, along with the CALA regional compliance officer and the CALA Regional Compliance of the primary focus Committee conducted a bribery and corruption risk assessment focused on the CALA region. A review of business practices of the subsidiaries in this region was conducted. The results areas of Anixter’s global of the assessment will be reported to the Executive Compliance Committee. compliance program. RELEVANT POLICIES (CONT.) Global Travel and Entertainment Global Fraud Policy Global Conflict of Interest Policy • Emphasizes prohibition of • Provides guidance on preventing, • Identifies the most common types entertainment and gifts identifying and detecting fraud and of activities that may result in a to government personnel instructions regarding appropriate conflict of interest and the disclosure • Adopted in 1999; action in cases of suspected violations and approval process for each type last revised in 2014 • A dopted in 2014 of activity • Posted on intranet sites • P osted on intranet sites • Adopted in 2014 • Available in three languages • A vailable in English • Posted on intranet sites • Distributed with training to •D  istributed with targeted live • Available in 11 languages all employees who travel and training to members of the • Distributed to all employees globally entertain on behalf of Anixter Finance organization with targeted live training 2015 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT | 29 About Anixter: anixter.com/aboutus Anixter International Inc. Legal Statement: anixter.com/legalstatement 2301 Patriot Boulevard Glenview, Illinois 60026 15G5463GL © 2015 Anixter Inc. • 12/15 224.521.8000 1.800.ANIXTER | anixter.com Get More with Anixter.
