2014 MANPOWERGROUP CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT SUSTAINABILITY IN THE HUMAN AGE WE POWER THE WORLD OF WORK When our deep understanding of human potential is connected to the ambition of business, a dynamic power is created. Power that drives organizations forward. Power that accelerates personal success. Power that builds more sustainable communities. We generate this kind of power by connecting the visions of clients, the motivations of people, and what’s now and what’s next in the world of work. We combine local expertise with a global reach to give organizations around the world access to and the ability to capitalize on unseen opportunities. As trusted advisors we nurture partnerships with everyone we work with, because their success leads to our success. Because of this, we create high-impact solutions to enhance the competitiveness of the organizations and the individuals we serve, so that they achieve more than they imagined. By creating these powerful connections, we help power the world of work. 2014 ManpowerGroup Corporate Sustainability Report 2 OUR IMPACT Over 100,000 employees, 400,000 clients associates & contractors upskilled $1.9 billion paid in salaries & benefits 30% of people placed are youth ic S m $9 million in money, ial 600,000 associates Econ goods & time donated on assignment each day oc to community organizations o Our Purpose We help companies win in the changing world of 54% of managers and 3.4 million people placed in permanent, work and connect millions 33% of the Board of contract or temporary jobs Directors are women every year of people to meaningful employment. En t viro n m e n $21 billion 100% of operations have in revenue standard practices protecting human rights 12% reduction 56% of markets in electricity use have environmental certification 27% reduction in office waste 2014 ManpowerGroup Corporate Sustainability Report 3 MANPOWERGROUP SUPPORTS THE UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT, AND CONTINUES TO BE COMMITTED TO MAKING THE GLOBAL COMPACT AND ITS PRINCIPLES PART OF OUR STRATEGY, CULTURE AND DAY-TO-DAY OPERATIONS. or pace, whatever their stage of working life, offer online learning opportunities to all employees supports employment security and improves talent and associates, as well as tailored global and local sustainability in the communities in which we operate. programs around sales, recruiting and leadership development. We also created our Emerging Leaders EXECUTIVE Our global reach together with our local presence Experience to ensure our own leadership pipeline is MESSAGE enables us to give candidates and clients a rare balanced with 50% women and robust enough to perspective on labor markets and future employment support the continued growth of our business. By trends around the world. In 2014, we placed 3.4 investing in our people, we hope to achieve our goal million candidates with thousands of employers in all for 70% of our key leadership team roles to be filled At ManpowerGroup we are driven by a dual purpose: industry sectors across 80 countries and territories. with internal successors by 2020. helping companies succeed in a fast-changing, This breadth of expertise also helps us gather insight uncertain economy and connecting millions of people on where talent shortages exist, which skills are in We apply this mindset to our business too. Our to meaningful employment opportunities every year. demand, the best strategies to attract, motivate and diverse recruitment practices are fair and transparent, retain talent and what the workforce of the future will protecting human rights and ensuring our values For us, finding great jobs for the best talent develops look like. This model works: client satisfaction globally are reflected in our supply chains, so we set a high win-win sustainable relationships. That’s why our in 2014 was up year-on-year while revenues reached standard for work around the world. 26,000 employees are proud to find solutions for their highest levels since the recession. 400,000 clients and inspired to support 12 million At ManpowerGroup, we are passionate about people with employment advice every year. It’s Like us, our stakeholders want to do business with employment and careers, and committed to the also why so many of our people go the extra mile, responsible, reliable and ethical organizations. That’s promise that great jobs build strong communities and volunteering nearly 60,000 hours globally as why I’m proud, and all of our people are proud, to change individuals’ lives and those of their families. coaches and mentors. Every day, we see the work for an organization that has again been named It is an honor to lead a company of over 26,000 difference the dignity of work makes to people, one of the World’s Most Admired Companies by colleagues dedicated to this shared enterprise, and families and whole communities. Fortune Magazine this year. We were also delighted humbling to look at what has been accomplished when Ethisphere ranked us among the World’s Most over our 67 year history. Together we will continue As the job for life becomes a thing of the past, and Ethical Companies in 2014 for the fourth year running. to help our clients and our people succeed in this we see new ways of working emerge, employment changing world, and to do well by doing good. security for individuals is more critical than ever. With talent shortages on the rise, sustainable This security depends on having the right mix of businesses need diverse talent pipelines that attract in-demand skills and the ability to stay relevant. and retain the best people. At ManpowerGroup, At ManpowerGroup we engage with individuals to that starts with a culture that embraces flexibility develop their skills at every stage of their careers. and promotes learning and development. Today Equipping people to move into and around women make up 66% of all our employees and 54% Jonas Prising, Chief Executive Officer the labor market, re-enter or change direction of managers. Development is a top priority, so we 2014 ManpowerGroup Corporate Sustainability Report 4 WORLD OF WORK TRENDS AND INSIGHTS UNEMPLOYMENT CONTINUES TO BE A GLOBAL CHALLENGE... YOUTH ARE HIT ESPECIALLY HARD 201.3 million in 2014, projected to reach 74.5 million 295 million young people 215 million in 20181 young people not in employment, 280 million new unemployed education or training4 globally3 jobs needed by 2019 to close the gap2 3X MORE LIKELY TO BE UNEMPLOYED THAN ADULTS 1. & 2. ILO World Employment and Social Outlook Trends 2015 3. OECD, Youth Not In Education or Employment 4. ILO, World Employment and Social Outlook Trends 2015 ...WHILE EMPLOYERS ARE STRUGGLING TO FIND THE RIGHT TALENT WOMEN ARE AN UNTAPPED TALENT POOL Workforce Participation 36% of 73% of CEOs employers rated availability of cited difficulty key skills as top 3 47.1% women8 filling jobs in 20145 threat to business growth prospects6 72.2% men8 By 2020, surplus of low-skilled workers = 95 million Shortage of skilled workers = 85 million in 20147 $17 trillion — estimated value of closing 5. ManpowerGroup, 2014 Talent Shortage Survey participation and wage gaps for women9 6. PwC, 18th Annual Global CEO Survey 7. McKinsey Global Institute, The world at work: Jobs, pay and skills for 3.5 billion people 8. & 9. UN Women, Facts and Figures: Economic Empowerment See more research and insights on our Thought Leadership page at http://www.manpowergroup.com. 2014 ManpowerGroup Corporate Sustainability Report 5 ABOUT THIS REPORT This report serves as our Communication on Progress for the United Nations Global Compact, of which we have been an active member since 2006. Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4 guidelines were used as a framework in developing this report. Our intention is to evolve to reporting in accordance with Core criteria. An Index of reporting to Global Compact Principles and GRI general and specific disclosures is available on page 37. All data is for the 2014 fiscal year (January December), and all monetary amounts are in US dollars unless otherwise specified. STAKEHOLDERS AND REPORTING TOPICS We engage with stakeholders and seek feedback through individual conversations, interviews, meetings, surveys, involvement in industry associations, joint programs and volunteer activities within our communities. 2014 ManpowerGroup Corporate Sustainability Report 6 Building on the value proposition framework that we presented in our 2013 Corporate Sustainability Report, this table presents our 2014 reporting topics and their relative importance to/impact on our business and stakeholders. IMPORTANCE TO / IMPACT ON OUR STAKEHOLDERS OUR REPORTING TOPIC PAGE # BUSINESS Clients Candidates Colleagues Shareholders Communities Business Performance 9-10 ECONOMIC Investing in Emerging Markets 10-11 Ethical & Principles-Based Culture 11-12 Client & Candidate Success 12-14 Supply Chain Integrity 14-15 People & Culture Strategy 17-20 Learning & Development 18 Talent & Succession Planning 19 Engagement 19 SOCIAL Diversity 20 Community Investment & Engagement 21 Health, Safety & Wellness 22 Human Rights 22-23 Investing in Employability 23-28 ENVIRONMENT Environmental Management 30-31 Energy & Emissions 30-31 Water 31 Waste Management & Recycling 31 Primary Impact Secondary Impact KEY 2014 ManpowerGroup Corporate Sustainability Report 7 EC NOMIC SOC SUSTAINABILITY ACTIVITIES EC ONOMIC pages 8-15 STRATEGY GOALS PERFORMANCE 8 SOC IA Business Performance WHY IT MATTERS / In our rapidly currency over 2013. Gross profit margin We achieved a significant improvement in operating improved during the year, and we’ve seen an profit reaching $720 million. Earnings per share changing global environment, sustainable reached $5.30 per share for the year, up by 22% in business practices provide a competitive expansion of our staffing/interim margins and constant currency. advantage to accelerate performance, strong permanent recruitment growth. With drive growth and better serve the needs of improved operating leverage and continued candidates and clients. cost control, we achieved a significant Net Earnings* improvement in operating profit reaching $720 In Millions ($) The pace of change is increasing in the million. Earnings reached $5.30 per share 2014 427.6 Human Age. Business cycles continue to for the year, up by 22% in constant currency, 2013 353.3 compress, driven by fast-paced, technologyexcluding the restructuring charges in 2013. enabled change. Domestic markets are 2012 236.2 (figures 1 & 2, right) subject to geopolitical risks from places far 2011 270.0 afield. Unstable GDP makes planning difficult, We accelerated the deployment of our 2010 141.3 while soft demand hampers business growth. multi-channel sales and delivery model that *Excludes non-recurring items as discussed in the 2014 Annual Report Companies need agility to navigate these leverages our branches as well as our on-site figure 1 evolving economic challenges, demographic and digital presence to enhance client and shifts and technological advances. candidate experience. We also expanded our Centers of Recruiting Excellence to Operating Profit Margin* Guided by our unmatched global perspective In Percent on world of work trends and their impact, increase productivity and business mix, driving 2014 3.5 ManpowerGroup successfully navigated this profitability in our Manpower and Experis 3.0 2013 complex environment. Our discipline and focus brands. Our Recruitment Process Outsourcing 2012 2.3 paid off, accelerating performance both for our and Managed Service Provider business lines 2011 2.5 clients and across our strong and connected maintained their market leadership positions for 1.8 brands. Revenues increased 4% in constant the fourth and third years in a row, respectively. 2010 *Excludes non-recurring items as discussed in the 2014 Annual Report figure 2 ONOMIC EC 2014 ManpowerGroup Corporate Sustainability Report | Economic Sustainability Activities 9 STRATEGY GOALS Emerging Market Revenues* Efforts to simplify our operations, begun in 2013, have continued to improve business In Millions ($) efficiency. The deployment of cloud-based tools to our 26,000 employees worldwide has 2,623.70 2014 vastly improved internal communication, enabling greater productivity and collaboration. 2013 2,676.80 We initiated numerous efforts to enhance our offerings, including projects to improve 2012 2,637.90 search engine optimization and search and match capabilities, as well as developing 2011 2,475.90 mobile apps for candidates. We expect this increasing use of technology will enhance 2010 1,919.60 our ability to leverage our global footprint, connect our brands and provide higher quality *Excludes non-recurring items as discussed in the 2014 Annual Report service to our candidates and clients. For a complete discussion of our 2014 financial performance, view our 2014 Annual Report on the figure 3 Investor Relations tab of our global website at http://www.manpowergroup.com/ Investing in Emerging Markets WHY IT MATTERS / Developing skilled local workforces in emerging markets can lead to job opportunities, sustainable employment and broader economic growth. (figure 3, left) We continue to make significant investments in a number of emerging markets in programs that help create opportunities for individuals from all parts of society to participate in the workforce. Below are examples from Colombia and India, two of our fastest growing markets in 2014. Since 2008, ManpowerGroup Colombia has partnered with the International Labor Organization, the International Organization for Migration, NGOs and the private sector to provide training and resources to vulnerable youth who are aging out of the social welfare system. Participants in the Jovenes Visionarios (Visionary Youth) program gain access to training facilities, equipment, instructors, courses, vocational assessments and career guidance, with the goal of developing skills that will enhance their employability and develop their appetite for learning over the long term. This program, which assists nearly 100 young people each year, has been featured in the United Nations Global Initiative to Fight Human Trafficking publication “Human Trafficking and Business: Good Practices to Prevent and Combat Human Trafficking.” Jovenes Visionarios program participant, Colombia ONOMIC EC ManpowerGroup Corporate Sustainability Report | Economic Sustainability Activities 10 STRATEGY GOALS The Manpower Vocational Training Centers develop skills, opportunities and choices to ensure a positive future for Indian women. Ten years ago, following the devastation wreaked by the Indian Ocean tsunami, ManpowerGroup partnered with HOPE Foundation to build the Manpower Vocational Technical Centers (MVTCs) in India’s Tamil Nadu State, one of the hardest hit areas. This investment continues to deliver results, helping thousands of area residents, especially women, find new sustainable sources of income. The centers have transformed the lives of women by training them for roles in traditionally male-dominated industries and providing micro-financing to start their own small businesses. MVTCs programs have also benefited people with disabilities, helping them develop skills that enable them to support themselves and their families. Local men are also taking advantage of opportunities to develop marketable skills in areas such as computers, welding, electrical maintenance and cell phone repair. Over the past 10 years, more than 10,000 people have completed training programs, with the majority going on to find jobs, start businesses or further academic studies. Ethical & Principles-Based Culture WHY IT MATTERS / Clients and candidates expect us to act ethically and responsibly to protect them from risk. Our colleagues expect us to live up to our values. For more than 65 years ManpowerGroup colleagues for feedback on our ethical has built a corporate culture of trust, integrity standards. The response has been Ethical Awareness Average scores 2012-2014 and accountability. Conducting business in consistently positive (figure 4, right). an ethical and responsible manner is part In 2014, for the fourth consecutive of our company’s DNA. A commitment year, ManpowerGroup was named to to human rights, fair labor practices and Ethisphere’s list of the World’s Most 90% 84% ethical business dealings is essential to our Ethical Companies. We continue to principles-based culture and is recognized be the only company in our industry both inside and outside our company. ...agree that our ethical practice ...agree that we conduct our to achieve consistent recognition guidelines were made clear to them work with high ethical standards Every year, as part of our ManpowerGroup for our ethical and principlesfigure 4 Annual People Survey, we ask our based culture. ONOMIC EC 2014 ManpowerGroup Corporate Sustainability Report | Economic Sustainability Activities 11 STRATEGY GOALS CODE OF BUSINESS CONDUCT AND MAKING IT EASIER TO DO THE RIGHT THING ETHICS TRAINING In 2014, we enhanced communications to employees around our annual compliance training. We Our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics simplified the messages to improve their effectiveness and included a link to our Business Ethics provides guidance to all of our colleagues Hotline in all communications to encourage our people to report their concerns. We also included a and partners on the conduct of our business message from our new CEO that stressed the importance of completing the trainings and working according to the highest ethical standards. We ethically. This message reinforced our continued and consistent values and the pride we have in have grown and prospered with a culture of being one of the World’s Most Ethical Companies. honesty, integrity and accountability. The Code We also began to update our global anti-corruption policy to reflect current best practices, and to contributes to our future success by helping to develop a new policy on gifts, entertainment and sponsorships. This new policy provides expanded maintain this culture. The Code and our other guidance on what is considered appropriate for gifts, meals and entertainment and event and travel ethics policies help to focus everyone on areas sponsorships. Both of these policies are being rolled out in 2015. of ethical risk, offer guidance in recognizing For more information on our ethics policies, visit the Corporate Governance page on our global website at and dealing with ethical issues and provide www.manpowergroup.com/about/. mechanisms to report unethical conduct without fear of retaliation. Client and Candidate Success All colleagues are required to complete training WHY IT MATTERS / We help find and develop the talent our clients need to win. When and certification annually. Given normal employee businesses and their people perform well, the communities where they operate enjoy a turnover, we have consistently achieved a sustainable economic impact. completion rate of at least 96%. (figure 5, below) Having the best talent is a competitive advantage in today’s demanding and complex world. Since our founding, ManpowerGroup has connected employers with the talent they need to Ethics Training Completion Rates accelerate results and individuals with the opportunities they need to gain experience, refresh skills, Percent of required employees 2014 2013 100% develop new capabilities, and further their careers. Every year, we serve 400,000 clients and 12 80% million candidates across 80 countries and territories around the world. Our client base includes 60% public and private organizations across every industry, from small, local businesses to global 40% enterprises. Our candidates range from students looking for summer work and recent graduates 20% seeking their first job, to seasoned professionals making career changes. 0% Code of Anti-Corruption/ Data Privacy Anti-Trust Insider Conduct FCPA & Information & Global Trading Security Competition figure 5 ONOMIC EC 2014 ManpowerGroup Corporate Sustainability Report | Economic Sustainability Activities 12 STRATEGY GOALS Every year, we serve 400,000 clients and 12 million candidates across 80 countries and territories around the world. Client Net Promoter Score 2012-2014 Global average, promoters minus detractors 30 25 20 Some clients partner with us in a single country; others leverage our global footprint. Many 15 of our clients engage our services and solutions across multiple brands. Similarly, candidates 10 5 may want to work locally in a familiar role or may be looking for opportunities to gain 0 experience in another industry or country. 2012 2013 2014 We take a holistic approach to meeting clients’ and candidates’ needs. With clients, we figure 6 start by understanding how their workforce strategy supports their business strategy, and then apply our expertise to provide practical solutions to the operational issues they face around the world. For candidates, we start by understanding their needs and expectations. Client Satisfaction Score 2012-2014 Next we assess their skills, capabilities and experience, and provide them with advice and Global average, 10-point scale 10 guidance on career opportunities. When we have a good fit, we connect them with the 8 right job. 6 We use a variety of approaches to measure client and candidate satisfaction, locally and 4 globally. (figures 6 & 7, left) A number of our markets have been using Net Promoter Score 2 (NPS) to measure customer loyalty among clients and candidates. By 2016, NPS will 0 2012 2013 2014 be our standard measure to track client and candidate satisfaction globally and quickly respond to any service concerns locally. figure 7 ONOMIC EC ManpowerGroup Corporate Sustainability Report | Economic Sustainability Activities 13 STRATEGY GOALS Supply Chain Integrity FEATURE STORY WHY IT MATTERS / We need to ensure that we do Client and Candidate Success not expose ourselves or our clients to operational or reputation risk from the actions of our suppliers. PARTNERING WITH AUTOMOTIVE MANUFACTURER We engage a wide variety of suppliers around the JAGUAR LAND ROVER TO DEVELOP LOCAL TALENT world — from large, global technology providers WHILE ACHIEVING BUSINESS RESULTS to small, local diversity suppliers and recruiters of specialized talent. We take a risk-based approach Since 1998, Jaguar Land Rover has relied on ManpowerGroup for temporary, contract to addressing concerns that may arise from our and permanent workforce solutions, enabling them to achieve their challenging production supply chain. demands. All Production Operatives in the Jaguar Land Rover assembly plants start working as Manpower associates – gaining the skills and experience they need We expect all suppliers to operate in accordance with while also completing a National Vocational Qualification in Business our Supply Chain Business Partner Policy. Higher Improvement Techniques. We use our Talent Match platform to ensure the best fit, risk suppliers in each of our markets are asked to monitoring candidate progress, managing communications and expectations and offering provide positive assurance that they adhere to our advice to candidates as they proceed through the application process. In 2014 alone, we policy. Many of our largest global suppliers have key managed 37,000 applications for 1,500 positions. Our recruitment program also delivers ongoing savings of over $780,000 each year. social responsibility principles embedded into their contracts. In total, 88% of procurement spend in our For the Powertrain Manufacturing Engineering Department, Experis sourced highly skilled key markets is covered by our proactive assurance specialist manufacturing engineers for the flagship Engine Manufacturing Center, enabling approach. (figure 8, below) Jaguar Land Rover to develop and manufacture their first engine in over 14 years and achieve their goal of being recognized as the new global benchmark for engineering excellence. 2014 SUPPLIER OVERSIGHT IN KEY MARKETS Our recruitment activities also help reinforce Jaguar Land Rover’s commitment to the local Percent of community: engaging with Business in the Community, the Department for Work and Pensions Number of Action Procurement Suppliers and Jobcentre Plus under the initiative “Generation Talent” to drive employer awareness for Spend apprenticeships and work training for 18-24 year olds. Over the years, we have worked with Requested to provide assurance of 1825 62% Jaguar Land Rover and their community partners to host a series of events for youth, including responsible practices dedicated job fairs at local colleges, presentations to young people not in education or CSR provisions 917 26% employment, and Sector Based Work Academies, resulting in jobs for 500 unemployed youth. embedded in contract figure 8 ONOMIC EC 2014 ManpowerGroup Corporate Sustainability Report | Economic Sustainability Activities 14 STRATEGY GOALS Our Annual Supplier Diversity Roundtable provides an opportunity for attendees to share and discuss successes and challenges with their peers. SUPPLIER DIVERSITY ManpowerGroup’s Supplier Diversity Initiative delivers innovative approaches to recruiting, developing and increasing our diverse supplier base. Our program includes women, minorities, veterans, small business owners and members of other disadvantaged groups who share a mission of providing quality services to customers, higher value staffing services and quality employment opportunities. Together we help strengthen the economic wealth of our diverse business communities and contribute to the overall growth and expansion of our markets. Among the highlights of the Initiative is an annual Supplier Diversity Roundtable. For 13 years, this event has provided a forum for attendees to share and discuss successes and challenges with their peers, and opportunities to strengthen partnerships between ManpowerGroup and its suppliers. Our Supplier Diversity Initiative has contributed to our recognition by the Women’s Business Enterprise National Council as one of America’s Top Corporations for Women’s Business Enterprises for seven consecutive years. ONOMIC EC 2014 ManpowerGroup Corporate Sustainability Report | Economic Sustainability Activities 15 STRATEGY GOALS S CIAL SUSTAINABILITY ACTIVITIES pages 16-28 16 People and Culture WHY IT MATTERS / One of the key drivers of our performance is our people. We win when we have the most capable, most engaged and passionate individuals interacting with our clients and candidates. People and Culture is a critical enabler of our business success. We are committed to creating and maintaining a high performance and collaborative culture in which our people can strengthen their capabilities and realize their full potential. Our People and Culture Strategy is ManpowerGroup’s promise to our people to create the kind of culture we want—reflective of our values, brand attributes, the ManpowerGroup experience and our people. (figure 9, below) MANPOWERGROUP PEOPLE AND CULTURE STRATEGY #1 Global Workforce Solutions Company People & Culture High performance and collaborative culture with the capabilities that enable us to win Great People Great Place I am We are Attract Connect Develop Reward Lead Live Execute Attracted and engaged Connected to working Challenged and Accountable for my Trusted Workforce Living our values, Executing against our by challenging work and collaboratively with motivated to reach my results, excited by Experts, leveraging our strengthening our vision and strategies with by making a difference my colleagues to fullest potential through differentiated rewards deep knowledge of human winning culture and focus, discipline and in a global collaborative provide value to the the assignments, training and inspired by a high potential to provide our proudly creating the speed organization clients, candidates and and coaching I seek and performance culture clients with innovative ManpowerGroup communities that I support receive workforce solutions Experience everyday Great People Processes Great Leadership Great Results figure 9 Our People and Culture Strategy is our map to continually strive to uphold our promise to our people, our organization and our candidates and clients to create the ManpowerGroup experience. Our strategy is supported through our focus on learning and development and our talent and succession planning process. ONOMIC EC 2014 ManpowerGroup Corporate Sustainability Report | Social Sustainability Activities 17 STRATEGY GOALS LEARNING AND DEVELOPMENT Continuous learning and development is critical to the growth and success of our employees and our associates, and we ensure that everyone in our organization has access to development opportunities. We have identified key focus areas to ensure that we are equipping our people with the capabilities they need to achieve their career aspirations and help us meet our goals. 1 ManpowerGroup Leaders 2 3 Emerging Leaders Sales and Delivery Capabilities Enhanced Learning Platform for all of our People Developing Current and Developing Capabilities in Roles Critical Enhancing our Learning Platform Emerging Leaders to our Business We offer online learning opportunities to all of our Investing in the development To achieve our strategic business goals, we must ensure that employees and associates. In an era of “information of our current and emerging our people have the right capabilities to sell our solutions overload,” it is vital that we help our people easily leaders is one way to ensure we and recruit the best talent for our clients. In addition to local access the most relevant, targeted content and courses programs in individual markets we run a number of global that will enable them to develop the capabilities they have the talent we need for the programs targeted to sales and recruitment each year. need to succeed. continued growth and success of our business. In 2014, we finalized our plan to move our learning management Sales Leadership: In 2014, we undertook a major investment in system (LMS) to a single platform that will enhance individual In 2014, we developed the Global developing our global sales force, aligning them around our business experience while allowing us to better measure learning strategy and expectations; developing their capabilities Emerging Leader Experience, outcomes. Our new global LMS—powerYOU—will be to make better business decisions, influence executives, and implemented across our entire organization in 2015. It will allow a three-year program that builds create results-focused global strategies and plans; and fostering us to develop capabilities on a global scale in a more integrated foundational capabilities and provides a collaborative community that can more effectively leverage expertise fashion, share training content more easily, design curriculum on-the-job experience through and best practices across the organization. that incorporates multiple modes of learning and provide a more stretch assignments, development customized experience for individual learners. tools and coaching and mentoring. Advanced Sourcing Training For Recruiters: In 2014, we The first cohort of participants, launched a new advanced internet sourcing training program for Overall, the course catalog will be targeted toward the most representing all regions and brands, our recruiters worldwide. 1,000 recruiters in 45 countries received current, relevant and in-demand skills and content. For our has been selected, with the formal associates, the learning experience will be a much more training that enables them to develop creative sourcing strategies personal one. Each associate will be presented with the most program beginning in 2015. We will and increases their skillset, while providing better resources and relevant course content, based on brand, geography and career measure success using a number candidates for our clients at reduced speed and cost. Training stage. Learners will be able to rate course content, so that of metrics including engagement, continues throughout 2015, with 100 sourcing experts training peers can easily see which courses were the most useful. retention and career progression. another 4,000 recruiters throughout our global organization. ONOMIC EC 2014 ManpowerGroup Corporate Sustainability Report | Social Sustainability Activities 18 STRATEGY GOALS MEASURING THE EFFECTIVENESS OF OUR STRATEGY TALENT AND SUCCESSION PLANNING Engagement Every year we complete our Three Year Strategic Plan (TYSP) and Strategic Execution Framework planning processes, articulating our business strategies and goals to win. This is complemented by our Talent Planning process, which includes actions to ensure we have the capabilities, culture, Fully Engaged Partially Engaged succession plans and engagement to meet our business goals and future talent needs. Not Engaged Engaged In 2014, we developed a more rigorous talent planning process. We set specific goals around our talent and succession planning to ensure a healthy and gender-balanced pipeline of successors for key leadership roles and established Executive Operating Committee oversight on all key leadership role nominations. figure 10 2014 People Survey results indicated that 93% of employees are partially or fully engaged. As part of our People and Culture Governance, information about leadership talent in our key markets is centrally collected for Global Talent Planning. Local/regional leadership teams are responsible for Engagement by Gender defining talent planning requirements for other markets and at deeper levels in key markets. Fully Engaged Partially Engaged Not Engaged MEASURING THE EFFECTIVENESS OF OUR PEOPLE AND CULTURE STRATEGY The ManpowerGroup Annual People Survey is an investment that we make every year, so we can measure our progress and continually learn from our people around the four key areas important to our success: »» Career and Development: meeting our people’s development and career needs and expectations figure 11 Engagement scores varied only slightly between men and women. »» Culture: creating the culture that will help our people do their best while enabling us achieve our goals Intent to Stay »» Engagement: motivating our people to achieve success for us and our clients and to act as ambassadors for our brand (figures 10 & 11, left) »» Intent To Stay: understanding the drivers of retention, so we can act on risk before At least 3 more years it becomes turnover (figure 12, left) 6 months to 3 years 6+ months Less than 6 months For 10 years, the People Survey has been available to 100% of our employee population, and more than 80% participate every year. In 2014, we expanded our measurement to include gender, so we can understand and respond to gender-specific trends. ONOMIC EC figure 12 On our 2014 People Survey, 93% of employees indicated they intend to stay with the company for at least 6 more months. More than 50% intend to stay 3 years or more. 2014 ManpowerGroup Corporate Sustainability Report | Social Sustainability Activities 19 STRATEGY GOALS How We Use the Results of the ManpowerGroup Annual People Survey We want managers to better understand their people and our culture. Through those insights, they can identify what actions to take to enable their people to do their best work and the company to achieve its goals. Each leader reviews their People Survey results with their teams and creates local action plans focused on changing the way they work to improve performance. We also look across our results globally to identify insights and opportunities to improve. One such example was our global implementation of Google collaboration tools in 2014. These tools allow us to more efficiently share ideas and collaborate around opportunities and solutions across our strong and connected brands around the world. In addition to the results of the Annual People Survey, we use a number of other measurements to understand the effectiveness of our People and Culture strategy: METRIC INTERNAL PROMOTIONS AT DIVERSITY ACROSS ALL RETENTION SENIOR LEADERSHIP LEVEL LEVELS OF THE ORGANIZATION GOAL By 2020, 70% of Key Leadership Team By 2020, women make up Maintain above industry retention rates roles filled with internal successors 33% of Key Leadership Team Senior Leadership Roles Employee Retention Women at ManpowerGroup Percent of employees Filled Internally Hired Externally ManpowerGroup Industry Average All Employees 66% First-Level Managers 58% PERFORMANCE 100% 100% 80% 90% All Managers 54% Global Leadership Team 31% 60% 80% 40% 70% Executive & 20% Key Leadership 24% Board of Directors 33% 0% 60% 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 ONOMIC EC 2014 ManpowerGroup Corporate Sustainability Report | Social Sustainability Activities 20 STRATEGY GOALS Community Investment and FEATURE STORY Community Investment Engagement and Engagement WHY IT MATTERS / Sustainable communities attract the talent and businesses that fuel growth and MANPOWERGROUP VOLUNTEERS HELP PREPARE profitability. Community investment also provides more opportunities for our colleagues to make a STUDENTS FOR THE WORLD OF WORK THROUGH difference, increasing their engagement and our JUNIOR ACHIEVEMENT PROGRAMS organizational performance. ManpowerGroup volunteers around the world Our CEO, Jonas Prising, demonstrates his Our global footprint is built on the strength of thriving provide students with real-world experience to commitment to these programs by volunteering local communities. To ensure we make a sustainable ready them for the world of work. Through Junior in the classroom and serving on the national impact everywhere we operate, we provide funding, Achievement (JA) Capstone Programs in the US, JA Board of Directors. students learn about entrepreneurship, financial career expertise, educational services and volunteer literacy and work readiness in the classroom, Jack E. Kosakowski, president and opportunities that make a lasting impact. (figure 13, below) CEO of Junior Achievement USA, said, and go on to apply the skills at simulated communities and real workplace settings known “ManpowerGroup’s support of Junior as JA BizTown and JA Finance Park facilities. ® ® Achievement benefits all facets of our organization—from forging JA’s strategic Through this national partnership, direction to grassroots volunteer efforts that COMMUNITY INVESTMENT IN OUR KEY MARKETS colleagues assist at sites in 11 make JA programs come alive for students. Year Charitable Donations Volunteer Hours cities across the country, volunteer Jonas Prising’s board leadership, along with in classrooms and serve on local JA ManpowerGroup’s volunteer support of JA 2014 $9 million 59,000 boards. During the 2014-2015 school Finance Park® and JA BizTown®, provide Junior 2013 $7.3 million 35,000 year, more than 2,200 students Achievement with resources and expertise participated in ManpowerGroupwhich are critical to fulfilling our mission of 2012 $3.7 million 60,000 supported JA activities. inspiring and preparing young people to succeed in a global economy.” figure 13 “Many kids don’t get enough life skills in the traditional school curriculum,” said one Our partnership with JA doesn’t stop with ManpowerGroup volunteer. “JA Finance Park® the US – our operations in Argentina, China, provides an opportunity to experience ‘real life’ in Italy, Norway and Spain also support local a very meaningful way.” JA initiatives. ONOMIC EC 2014 ManpowerGroup Corporate Sustainability Report | Social Sustainability Activities 21 STRATEGY GOALS Managing Health, Safety & Wellness in our Key Markets Health, Safety and Wellness of operations have standard practices to assess WHY IT MATTERS / We are committed to the health and safety of our people as an integral the health and safety risk of clients’ worksites and 100% roles prior to placing associates and contractors part of our culture. on assignment. We take appropriate measures to provide a safe working environment for all of our of operations provide health & safety training to employees, associates, contractors and consultants. We focus on compliance with health employees, associates/contractors or both. and safety legislation within our own business operations and also apply this same standard 85% Training is provided to associates and contractors specific to the requirements of their roles and clients’ work environments. as a matter of priority when reviewing whether to place associates and consultants in a client’s work environment. of operations have formal employee wellness programs. Examples include: We recognize the importance of work-life balance, and appreciate the value that out-of-work Employee Assistance Programs Free health screenings and annual checkups activities bring back into the workplace. We also aim to foster a culture of well-being by 81% Discounted fitness memberships On-site fitness classes and weight-loss support groups providing a variety of tools, education and resources that reinforce healthy lifestyle choices. Healthy choice menus in cafeterias and corporate catering Weight-loss and/or fitness challenges Our colleagues around the world have access to a variety of local wellness resources, ranging Monetary incentives for preventive health screenings from formal Employee Assistance Programs to free or discounted fitness classes and club of operations have health and safety certification, memberships, sporting clubs/events, support groups, flu shots, annual check-ups and more especially in countries where a large volume of 40% our clients are in industries that have more rigorous (varies by country). (figure 14, right) health and safety needs, like mining, logistics and construction. Human Rights figure 14 WHY IT MATTERS / As workforce solutions experts, we are committed to respecting internationally proclaimed human rights and fair labor practices and to embedding these Protecting and Promoting Fundamental practices into our operations. Rights at Work We understand the importance of protecting and promoting fundamental principles and rights at work. Our standard practices are designed to protect these rights throughout the 100% 81% 75% 55% recruitment, selection and employment of our employees and the individuals that we place on assignment with our clients. We also participate in a number of local, national and international Markets with Markets actively Markets fighting Employees and standard practices working against child labor and associates activities that work to eradicate human trafficking and child labor and promote diversity in the to protect discrimination forced labor represented by trade fundamental human unions and/or workforce. (figure 15, right & figure 16, next page) rights at work collective bargaining agreements figure 15 ONOMIC EC 2014 ManpowerGroup Corporate Sustainability Report | Social Sustainability Activities 22 STRATEGY GOALS In all of our markets, our standard practices are designed to protect fundamental rights at work. Additional activities promote these rights and principles within our sphere of influence. STANDARD PRACTICES TO PROTECT ACTIONS TO PROMOTE • Ensure no discrimination in the recruitment process, including language and • Educating employers on benefits of employing people from disadvantaged RECRUITMENT platforms used for job postings populations • Verification of eligibility to work • Helping clients achieve their diversity goals through targeted recruitment and • Assessment and selection focused on skills and experience selection & SELECTION • Clearly defined position descriptions • Partnering with organizations that focus on the recruitment of people with • Tools and training for hiring managers disabilities and individuals from other disadvantaged populations • Clear and transparent terms of employment • Programs that help individuals from discriminated populations develop skills • Fair and timely compensation and experience to expand their employment opportunities EMPLOYMENT • Cooperation with labor organizations • Educating employers about accommodating people with disabilities and religious/cultural minorities • Safe and respectful working environment • Research, advocacy and action on gender gap • Accommodation for disabilities • Participating in national and international associations to promote diversity • Support and accommodations for working parents and fight discrimination, like Diversity Charter, Female Future and Global • Anti-harassment training for employees and managers Future, etc. • Clear reporting tools and procedures Investing in Employability WHY IT MATTERS / We believe the changing world of work will provide great opportunities for Investing In Employability many, but effort must be made to develop in-demand, relevant skills so that everyone can benefit. We are committed to preparing individuals for the workforce through partnerships with Thought Leadership and Industry Association Membership government, educational institutions and companies. Together we provide expertise, access Donations and Sponsorships to meaningful employment opportunities and a shared passion for helping individuals succeed. Investments in $70.4 Million Employability Programs We leverage our thought leadership and participation in industry associations to generate awareness and dialogue around core issues that impact the world of work, and advocate for collaboration between public and private sectors to solve employability challenges. We also invest considerable time and resources in partnerships and programs that enhance the employability of figure 16 individuals. (figure 16, left) ONOMIC EC 2014 ManpowerGroup Corporate Sustainability Report | Social Sustainability Activities 23 STRATEGY GOALS OUR EMPLOYABILITY PROGRAMS In our core business we find work for Staying Relevant 3.4 million people every year and help 20 • Upskilling 40,000+ partners them develop the skills and experience people • Reskilling to progress to the next job, and our • Coaching Employability Programs complement this. 13 programs Starting & ManpowerGroup provides opportunities at Restarting a Career all stages of the work lifecycle. We support • Assessments 37,000+ young people with work skills, careers people Upskilling and reskilling to enable people • Training advice and training while they are still in to take advantage of more opportunities • Coaching and remain relevant in their jobs education to better equip them for the • Apprenticeships 50 partners transition to work. 15 programs We support people starting their careers, Getting for the first time or the next time, to assess, Ready to Work Giving people the tools, train and coach them to step into the first resources and connections • Education they need to start their careers job or return for the next opportunity. • Internships • Coaching When people are in work, we help them stay • Training relevant, to develop their employment • Work Experience security so that they can choose the next job, secure a promotion, or change direction 60 to suit their circumstances. partners 27,000+ Providing our expertise to help prepare the next And when people want to work differently people generation to enter the workforce successfully – part-time, part of the year – or just want 25 to wind down their career, we can provide programs them opportunities too. ONOMIC EC 2014 ManpowerGroup Corporate Sustainability Report | Social Sustainability Activities 24 STRATEGY GOALS LOCAL EMPLOYABILITY PROGRAM EXAMPLES AUSTRALIA’S GREEN ARMY INDIA’S UDAAN INITIATIVE AIMS TO BATTLES YOUTHStaying UNEMPLOYMENT PROVIDE WORKFORCE SKILLS TO Relevant WHILE MAKING A DIFFERENCE 40,000 YOUTH OVER FIVE YEARS 20 • Upskilling 40,000+ ENVIRONMENTALLY partners Thousands of unemployed youth in the cities people • Reskilling Youth unemployment is at• a 17-year Coaching of Jammu and Kashmir in India have limited high in Australia nearly 14% more access to education, making it difficult for them 13 than twice the rate for adults. The to gain the skills needed programs Starting & to obtain employment. Australian government and partners like In Restarting response, India’s a National CareerSkill Development ManpowerGroup are working to change Corporation 37,000+ (NSDC) and partner companies, • Assessments people that with the Green Army, a team of including• Training ManpowerGroup, are collaborating • Coaching 15,000 young Australians who receive on the “Udaan” initiative, which aims to provide • Apprenticeships 50 training and hands-on experience in skills to 40,000 area youth over five years 15 in partners projects that benefit the environment. high-growth industries. programs Green Army Program, Australia “This is an excellent initiative that achieves positive results across the board, combining a Getting Together with the Chitkara College of Sales strong partnership between governments, private, and not-for-profit organizations,” said Paul Ready to Work and Retail Marketing, ManpowerGroup Bridgewater, General Manager, Manpower Australia. “The Green Army program is creating • Education a lasting India has been working to train and provide • Internships impact demonstrating the importance of the role of work in young people’s lives and helps each of • Coaching employment to 5,000 graduates as sales and them develop valuable careers through coaching and training.” • Training customer relationship executives and store • Work Experience managers in the telecom, consumer goods and Manpower works with the Department of Environment and Landcare Australia to staff and pharmaceutical industries over four years. supervise teams that work 20-26 weeks on projects across the country. 60 Participants receive partners nationally accredited training in areas including first aid, chemical handling, safe use of power tools, “We are pleased to partner with 27,000+ conservation and land management. people ManpowerGroup to bring about a positive change,” said Dilip Chenoy, CEO and “As a participant in the Green Army Program I’ve gained many practical 25and theoretical skills in programs Managing Director of NSDC. “We are land management and conservation,” said Luke Nutall. “I am now employed as a Green Army absolutely confident in the capability to skill the Supervisor and continue to develop my knowledge, skills and experience.” youth of Jammu and Kashmir to change lives.” ONOMIC EC 2014 ManpowerGroup Corporate Sustainability Report | Social Sustainability Activities 25 STRATEGY GOALS YOUTH GUARANTEE AND OTHER PROGRAMS ADDRESS ITALY’S EMPLOYABILITY CHALLENGES With unemployment nearing 40% for young people in Italy, there is an urgent need to prepare youth for work. Launched in Italy in 2014, the EU-wide Youth Guarantee program aims to ensure that all young people under the age of 25 obtain a job, apprenticeship or traineeship within four months of completing school or becoming Stayingunemployed. Relevant ManpowerGroup Italy is lending its expertise, by providing orientation sessions, competencies analysis, 20 and training courses for program participants. When a participant’s skills match a • Upskilling 40,000+ partners client’s needs, we promote them for the position. To date, we have trained and •coached more than 600 youth and placed 190 in jobs. people Reskilling • Coaching “Youth Guarantee presents a valuable opportunity for young people to find a job,” said Alessandro Voutcinitch, who manages the program at ManpowerGroup. “We are pleased with recent13efforts of the Italian Government to extend the program up to age 29. ManpowerGroup will have an even more important role to play.” programs Starting & Restarting a Career Youth Guarantee is only one of many employability programs we deliver across Italy. Programs are deployed at the regional level and designed • Assessments 37,000+ people • to address the need of specific groups experiencing employment challenges, including youth, older workers, long-term unemployed and those Training facing imminent job loss. Ranging from four to 20 hours, each program includes individual needs analysis, goal setting,•skills Coaching assessment and • Apprenticeships 50 creation of a training and professional development plan, and may also provide training and brief work experience placements or internships. In partners 15 2014, more than 2,800 individuals participated in our programs; we placed 1,400 of them in jobs. programs PUBLIC-PRIVATE PARTNERSHIP PROMOTES GROWTH OF NEW INDUSTRIESGetting IN JAPAN WHILE HELPING RECENT GRADS FIND JOBS Ready to Work For more than five years, ManpowerGroup Japan has managed government-sponsored • Education programs helping to • Internships connect local businesses that need employees with individuals having difficulty finding work. The programs are • Coaching free to participants, who are typically recent graduates and those on childcare leave. • Training • Work Experience Job seekers spend a month learning about local industries and how to apply for jobs, while improving their communication skills and business etiquette. Local companies in growing industries provide on-the-job training 60 during a three-month temporary assignment. If the assignment proves apartners good fit, the individual is then offered a permanent position. 27,000+ people In 2014 alone, more than 1,500 people were trained with around 1,300 securing full-time employment. 25 “The temporary to permanent method allows candidates to gain needed programs skills and know-how in the workplace,” said Makoto Yoshida, Assistant Manager of Strategic Account Sales. “It’s an efficient way for companies to Program enrollment ceremony at ManpowerGroup Japan evaluate the applicant’s skills and motivation before committing to hire.” ONOMIC EC 2014 ManpowerGroup Corporate Sustainability Report | Social Sustainability Activities 26 STRATEGY GOALS TAILORED TRAINING PROGRAMS IN FRANCE PREPARE 26,000 PEOPLE FOR IN-DEMAND ROLES WITH CLIENTS Faced with high unemployment and a shortage of skilled workers, Manpower Staying Relevant France offers a robust series of training programs that in 2014 trained 26,00020 people for in-demand roles with • Upskilling 40,000+ partners local businesses. people • Reskilling • Coaching The training boosts candidates’ experience and employability by teaching professionalism, skills development and how to maintain a long-term career. 13 Tailored to align with local client and industry CTP website: www.ctp.org.uk programs Starting & needs, people develop relevant, in-demand skills. Restarting a Career CAREER TRANSITION PARTNERSHIP 37,000+ When employers in the Champagne region were unable to find skilled cellar masters, Manpower • Assessments people HELPS THOUSANDS • Training OF EX-MILITARY recruited and provided 373 hours of training to unemployed residents, and then placed them in good PERSONNEL • Coaching ADJUST TO CIVILIAN jobs with local businesses. LIFE AND FIND JOBS IN THE UK • Apprenticeships 50 partners Every year, thousands of people leave 15 Patrick, one of the cellar master trainees, said, “I was working in a foundry but this training was a programs military service, and the adjustment great opportunity for me to discover a new profession. It was not easy to go back to school, but I had Getting to civilian life can be difficult. Although everything to gain.” Ready to Work military personnel typically have skills and The Cellar Master School will be expanded next year and is just one of many similar training • Education programs experience that are in demand, many have • Internships never had to look for a job ManpowerGroup offers across France. Clients from all industry sectors are using tailored training • Coaching programs to find and recruit employees for hard-to-fill roles, including electricians and •forklift operators. Training and are unsure how to promote • Work Experience themselves to a potential employer. The Career Transition Partnership (CTP), 60 partners an agreement between the UK’s Ministry 27,000+ of Defence and Right Management, people Cellar Master provides resettlement services for School graduates 25 with clients individuals leaving the Royal Navy, Army, programs and Manpower Air Force and Marines. colleagues ONOMIC EC 2014 ManpowerGroup Corporate Sustainability Report | Social Sustainability Activities 27 STRATEGY GOALS Flexible support offered before and after discharge gives military personnel the tools THE CAREER needed to confidently market their skills and experience to employers. Likewise, employers TRANSITION WORKSHOP gain a better understanding of how military training and qualifications align with their own Staying Relevant LH Gillian Dowds joined talent needs. 20 • Upskilling the Royal Navy straight out 40,000+ partners • Reskilling of school at age 17, and CTP has helped over 180,000 individuals peoplemake the transition for in-demand skills to civilian • Coaching after 10 years of service is life and supported thousands of organizations looking for in-demand skills to employ preparing for civilian life and ex-military personnel. 13 programs the civilian job Starting market. & LH Gillian Dowds For CTP success stories and more, visit the CTP website (www.ctp.org.uk) or YouTube Restarting a Career CTP participant, UK “The level of support 37,000+ (https://www.youtube.com/user/CTPorg). • Assessments people provided to•service leavers Training is second to• none. Coaching The Career Transition Workshop facilitators gave me so•muchApprenticeships useful information, including a run-through 50 partners of the CTP website, interview techniques, CVs and 15 application programs forms, along with helping me identify my transferrable skills. Getting My Career Consultant advised me on routes into employment Ready to Work that I has not thought about, and on different courses that she • Education thought would be applicable to the route I wanted to take. That • Internships information is priceless.” • Coaching • Training • Work Experience 60 partners 27,000+ people 25 programs ONOMIC EC 2014 ManpowerGroup Corporate Sustainability Report | Social Sustainability Activities 28 STRATEGY GOALS ENVIR NMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY SOC IA L ACTIVITIES pages 29-31 EC ONOMIC STRATEGY GOALS CE PER FORMAN 29 S Environmental Management WHY IT MATTERS / Even office-based businesses have an opportunity and responsibility to reduce their environmental impact – especially a business with offices in 80 countries and territories. As a professional service organization, ManpowerGroup’s operations are entirely office-based with an environmental impact that is relatively small compared to companies in sectors such as manufacturing Environmental Management in our Key Markets or transportation. Our greatest areas of impact are from the energy we use in our offices and our travel Percent of total revenue represented to sell and deliver our solutions. of markets covered by environmental certification 11% have ISO 14001 or other certification for their 56% environmental management systems. TRACKING AND MEASURING OUR PERFORMANCE 53% have headquarters in LEED or equivalent In 2014, we began implementing a global framework to consistently track and measure our certified buildings environmental performance across key markets and more accurately estimate our global impact. As part of the framework, we have defined a number of standard performance indicators and of markets have energy/emissions set expectations for the kinds of information we need to track and report for environmental initiatives. 60% reduction initiatives Improving our Ability to Report Scope of raw data used for reporting (% employees represented) Fleet Fuel Electricity Natural Gas Heating Oil 100% of markets have recycling programs in 71% branch offices 80% 60% 40% figure 18 20% 0% 2012 2013 2014 figure 17 The next step is to revise and update our global environmental management guidelines, incorporating Estimated Global Greenhouse Gas Emissions Metric Tons CO2e Scope 1 good practices and recommendations for operations of various sizes and stages of maturity. We will also Scope 2 communicate global goals and priorities, and request that our key market operations identify local targets 50,000 and objectives and manage initiatives that contribute to the achievement of our global goals. 40,000 30,000 We will continue to report on greenhouse gas emissions, energy consumed in our offices and by our 20,000 fleets and other environmental impact data of interest to stakeholders. Starting in 2015, we expect 10,000 to begin reporting on our global goals and progress. Detailed information on select key market performance and goals is currently available in our CDP response. 0 2012 2013 2014 ONOMIC EC figure 19 2014 ManpowerGroup Corporate Sustainability Report | Environmental Sustainability Activities 30 STRATEGY GOALS RESOURCE EFFICIENCY IN OUR OFFICES GREENING OUR FLEETS Estimated Global Energy Consumption MWh Our local operations continue to look for ways to use Fleet fuel accounts for almost half of our energy Fleet Fuel Electricity Natural Gas Heating Oil resources more efficiently in our offices. For example, consumption. As we grow and increase sales and 160,000 in the Netherlands we reduced energy consumption delivery of our services, we continue to look for ways 120,000 and emissions from office activities by implementing to increase the efficiency and reduce emissions levels of 80,000 thin clients, replacing copy/print appliances and our fleet cars. Many of these initiatives have required installing motion sensors on lights. In Sweden, we no additional investment; by promoting the choice 40,000 replaced coffee machines, toners and printers with of lower-emission models for our fleets, we have 0 more efficient models. In the UK, we have reduced succeeded in reducing emissions in several countries. 2012 2013 2014 energy and emissions by more than 25% at our figure 20 country headquarters over the past four years simply Our Netherlands operation manages one of the by making seasonal adjustments to thermostats and largest fleets in our organization. They have reduced turning off lights when not in use. We estimate that fleet emissions by nearly 5% over 2013 levels by Estimated Global Water Consumption we have reduced overall energy consumption in our limiting car choices to lower-emissions models and Cubic Meters offices by nearly 12% since 2012. promoting car sharing at branch offices. 300,000 250,000 We consume water primarily for drinking and By replacing fleet vehicles with lower-emission 200,000 hygiene, as well as a limited amount of landscaping models, the average CO2 emissions from our fleet 150,000 at a few of our headquarters locations. We strive in Sweden has reduced from 141 grams CO2/km to 100,000 to use this resource responsibly, and reduce 118 grams CO2/km. Our Swedish operations have 50,000 0 consumption through the use of water conservation set a goal for 2015 that at least 50% of their fleet 2012 2013 2014 technologies wherever possible. Using data from cars will be under 120 grams CO2/km. figure 21 our key markets, we estimate a reduction in water consumption by 50% since 2012. By limiting car choices to more energy-efficient and lower-emission models, we have reduced our UK fleet A number of initiatives to reduce paper use, such as emissions by more than 7% over the past 3 years. Estimated Global Recycling and Not Recycled Waste Management Recycled programming printers to automatically print doubleMetric Tons sided and moving to paperless transaction systems, In some cases, reducing emissions in our fleets has 15,000 have enabled us to substantially reduce the amount also had a positive impact on our bottom line. Over 12,000 of office waste we produce. The majority of our office the past 3 years, Italy has replaced nearly 80% of its 9,000 waste is recycled and does not end up in landfills. fleet with cars that run on liquid natural gas, reducing 6,000 Using data from key markets, we estimate that we emissions by 10-15% while saving 1 euro for every 3,000 have reduced total waste by nearly 60% since 2012. liter of fuel used. 0 2012 2013 2014 ONOMIC EC figure 22 2014 ManpowerGroup Corporate Sustainability Report | Environmental Sustainability Activities 31 STRATEGY GOALS PERFORMANCE DATA & GRI INDEX pages 32-41 32 Performance Data Current Year Global Compact 2013 2012 GRI Code 2014 Principle ECONOMIC Financial Performance Revenues from services ($ million) 20,762.8 20,250.5 20,678.0 G4-EC1 Gross profit ($ million) 3,488.2 3,366.7 3,442.0 Operating profit ($ million) 719.9 511.9 411.7 Net earnings ($ million) 427.6 288 197.6 Revenues in emerging markets ($ million) 2,623.7 2,676.8 2,637.9 G4-EC1 Ethical Culture G4-HR2, Code of Business Conduct & Ethics training completion rate 98% 98% 99% 1-6, 10 G4-SO3, G4-SO4 G4-HR2, Anti-Bribery & Corruption Policy training completion rate 100% 100% 100% 10 G4-SO3, G4-SO4 Percentage of employees with high awareness of ethical practice guidelines 91% 89% 90% 10 Percentage of operations assessed for risks related to corruption 100% 100% 100% G4-SO3 10 Client & Candidate Success Client Net Promoter Score (global average) 28 21 23 G4-PR5 Client satisfaction score (global average, 10-point scale) 8.1 7.7 8.7 Candidate Experience score **** 70 ***** G4-PR5 People placed in permanent, temporary and contract positions 3.4 million 3.4 million 3.4 million G4-EC1, G4-EC8 Supply Chain Integrity (in key markets) G4-LA14, Number of suppliers with CSR principles in contract (% of total spend) 917 (26%) 550 (22%) ***** 1-10 G4-HR10, G4-SO9 Number of suppliers requested to provide positive assurance on CSR G4-LA14, 1825 (62%) 1660 (66%) ***** 1-10 principles (% of total spend) G4-HR10, G4-SO9 G4-LA14, Number of suppliers audited (% of total spend) 286 (13%) ***** ***** 1-10 G4-HR10, G4-SO9 G4-LA14, Percentage of high risk suppliers audited 100% 100% 100% 1-10 G4-HR10, G4-SO9 Percentage of procurement spend on local suppliers >60% ***** ***** G4-EC9 ***** Data unavailable / not previously tracked 2014 ManpowerGroup Corporate Sustainability Report | Performance Data & GRI Index 33 Performance Data Current Year Global Compact 2013 2012 GRI Code 2014 Principle SOCIAL Community & Employability Investment Donations & sponsorships ($ million) 9 7.3 3.7 G4-EC8 Volunteer hours 59,000 35,000 60,000 G4-EC8 Investments in employability programs ($ million) 58.3 63.6 ***** G4-EC8 6 Key operations with employability programs 100% 100% ***** G4-SO1 6 G4-EC1, G4-EC7, Number of associates and contractors participating in formal 86,833 72,732 ***** G4-EC8, G4-LA9, 6 training programs G4-LA10 G4-EC1, G4-EC7, Number of participants in all employability programs 114,000+ ***** ***** G4-EC8, G4-LA9, 6 G4-LA10 Diversity & Inclusion Total number of employees 26,000 26,000 25,544 G4-9 Women employees 60% 65% 67% G4-LA12 6 Women in all management positions 55% 57% 55% G4-LA12 6 Women on the Global Leadership Team 31% 30% 34% G4-LA12 6 Women on the Board of Directors 33% 31% 31% G4-LA12 6 Executive leaders not of US origin 77% 69% 70% G4-LA12 6 Employees represented by trade unions / collective bargaining agreements 55% 51% 40% G4-11 3 Employee Development & Engagement Percent of employees fully or partially engaged 93% 92% 92% Employees receiving regular performance reviews 100% 100% 100% G4-LA11 Percentage of senior-level positions filled internally 62% 64% ***** G4-LA1 Employee turnover (voluntary) 15% 13% 15% G4-LA1 Key market operations offering formal development for business-critical roles 100% 85% ***** G4-LA10 Number of participants in development programs for business-critical roles 8,950 6,000 ***** G4-LA9 ***** Data unavailable / not previously tracked 2014 ManpowerGroup Corporate Sustainability Report | Performance Data & GRI Index 34 Performance Data Current Year Global Compact 2013 2012 GRI Code 2014 Principle SOCIAL Health, Safety & Wellness Key market operations with wellness programs 81% 69% ***** DMA 1, 2 Key market operations with health & safety certifications 40% 38% ***** DMA 1, 2 Reportable injury frequency rate among employees (number of incidents 3.81 2.97 16.38 G4-LA6 1, 2 per million hours worked) Scope of data (% employees) 83% 74% 40% 1, 2 Reportable injury frequency rate among associates (number of incidents 29.27 23.36 83.19 G4-LA6 1, 2 per million hours worked) Scope of data (% revenues) 80% 83% 55% 1, 2 ENVIRONMENTAL Environmental Management (% of markets by revenue)* Environmental certifications 11% 11% 9% G4-DMA 7 HQs in certified buildings 53% 48% 45% G4-DMA 8,9 Energy/emissions reduction initiatives 60% 55% 65% G4-DMA 8,9 Recycling programs in branch offices 71% 70% ***** G4-DMA 8 * Reporting markets represent 85.6% of total global revenues Scope of Raw Data Used for Reporting (% of employees represented) Heating oil consumption 46% 44% 25% G4-DMA 8 Natural gas consumption 42% 34% 25% G4-DMA 8 Electricity consumption 52% 36% 25% G4-DMA 8 Fleet fuel consumption 78% 69% 25% G4-DMA 8 Water consumption 19% 9% 6% G4-DMA 8 Waste not recycled 13% 8% 4% G4-DMA 8 Waste recycled 20% 13% 7% G4-DMA 8 ***** Data unavailable / not previously tracked 2014 ManpowerGroup Corporate Sustainability Report | Performance Data & GRI Index 35 Performance Data Current Year Global Compact 2013 2012 GRI Code 2014 Principle ENVIRONMENTAL Energy Consumption (MWh) Total energy consumption 156,509 139,617 137,777 G4-EN3 8 Fuel consumption in offices 73,884 83,015 83,715 G4-EN3 8 Heating oil 931 912 407 G4-EN3 8 Natural gas 9,435 10,477 10,775 G4-EN3 8 Electricity consumption in offices 63,518 71,626 72,533 G4-EN3 8 Fuel consumption by fleets 82,625 56,602 54,062 G4-EN3 8, 9 Energy intensity per employee 6.02 5.58 5.30 G4-EN5 8 Greenhouse Gas Emissions (metric tons CO2e) Scope 1 (direct) emissions 30,082 16,072 27,806 G4-EN15 8 Stationary combustion 1,951 1,934 2,181 G4-EN15 8 Mobile combustion 28,131 14,138 25,625 G4-EN15 8 Scope 2 (indirect) emissions 15,579 16,869 20,014 G4-EN16 8 Scope 1 + Scope 2 emissions 45,661 32,941 47,820 G4-EN18 8 Scope 1 + Scope 2 emissions per employee 1.76 1.29 1.77 G4-EN18 8 Scope 3 emissions from air travel** 7,543 7,124 ***** G4-EN17 8 **in markets where reported by travel provider Emissions Intensity (metric tons CO2e per $ million revenue) Scope 1 1.45 0.79 1.34 G4-EN18 8 Scope 2 0.75 0.83 0.97 G4-EN18 8 Scope 1 + Scope 2 2.20 1.63 2.31 G4-EN18 8 Water, Waste & Recycling Water consumption (cubic meters) 140,828 264,570 299,639 G4-EN8 8 Total waste (metric tons) 5,413 7,410 13,355 G4-EN23 8 Waste not recycled (metric tons) 2,452 2,235 5,070 G4-EN23 8 Waste recycled (metric tons) 2,960 5,175 8,286 G4-EN23 8 Percentage of total waste recycled 55% 70% 62% G4-EN23 8 ***** Data unavailable / not previously tracked 2014 ManpowerGroup Corporate Sustainability Report | Performance Data & GRI Index 36 GRI Index GRI Code Description Reference or Short Answer Global Compact Principle STRATEGY & ANALYSIS G4-1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization Executive Message 1-10 ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE G4-3 Name of the organization ManpowerGroup Inc. G4-4 Primary brands and services 2014 Annual Report G4-5 Location of organization's headquarters Milwaukee, Wisconsin, USA Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries G4-6 with either significant operations or operations that are specifically relevant to the 2014 Annual Report sustainability issues covered in the report G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form 2014 Annual Report Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of G4-8 2014 Annual Report customers/beneficiaries) G4-9 Scale of the reporting organization 2014 Annual Report G4-10 Workforce demographics Performance Data 6 G4-11 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements Performance Data 1, 3 G4-12 Description of organization’s supply chain Supply Chain Integrity 2, 4-6, 10 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure, ownership G4-13 2014 Annual Report or supply chain Each year, as part of our strategic three-year planning process, we undertake an enterprise risk analysis and Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is G4-14 outline global and regional mitigation strategies to 7 addressed by the organization address significant risks. This process demonstrates our commitment to a precautionary approach. Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, principles, or Human Rights, Industry Engagement (2013 Corporate G4-15 1-10 other initiatives to which the organization subscribes or endorses Sustainability Report, page 45) Industry Engagement (2013 Corporate Sustainability Report, G4-16 Memberships in associations and/or national/international advocacy organizations 1-6, 10 page 45) 2014 ManpowerGroup Corporate Sustainability Report | Performance Data & GRI Index 37 GRI Index GRI Code Description Reference or Short Answer Global Compact Principle IDENTIFIED MATERIAL ASPECTS AND BOUNDRIES G4-17 Entities included in organization’s financial statements 2014 Annual Report G4-18 Process for defining report content and Aspect Boundaries About this Report G4-19 Material Aspects identified in the process for defining report content About this Report G4-20 Aspect Boundary within the organization for material Aspects About this Report G4-21 Aspect Boundary outside the organization for material Aspects About this Report Increased availability of environmental data allowed us G4-22 Effect of, and reasons for, restatements of information provided in previous reports to calculate a more accurate estimate of global resource consumption and emissions for 2012 and 2013. Scope of data used for non-financial reporting increased G4-23 Significant changes from previous reporting period in Scope and Aspect Boundaries from 82% to 86% of markets (based on total revenues). STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT G4-24 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization About this Report G4-25 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage About this Report Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by G4-26 About this Report type and by stakeholder group Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, About this Report, Our Stakeholders (2013 Corporate G4-27 and how the organization has responded to those key topics and concerns, Sustainability Report, page 7) including through its reporting REPORT PROFILE G4-28 Reporting period (e.g., fiscal/calendar year) for information provided 2014 calendar year G4-29 Date of most recent previous report 2013 G4-30 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.) Annual G4-31 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents joann.strickon@manpowergroup.com G4-32 In accordance option Core Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the Revenue data has been assured by external auditors. Some G4-33 report local environmental data has been assured. GOVERNANCE Governance structure of the organization, including committees under the highest G4-34 governance body responsible for specific tasks, such as setting strategy or Corporate Governance (www.manpowergroup.com) organizational oversight 2014 ManpowerGroup Corporate Sustainability Report | Performance Data & GRI Index 38 GRI Index GRI Code Description Reference or Short Answer Global Compact Principle ECONOMIC Aspect: Economic Performance DMA Disclosure on Management Approach 2014 Annual Report Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, operating 2014 Annual Report, Our Impact, Improving Business G4-EC1 costs, employee compensation, community investments, retained earnings, and Performance, Investing in Emerging Markets, Community payments to capital providers and governments Investment and Engagement, Investing in Employability Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization’s G4-EC2 CDP Response 7 activities due to climate change G4-EC3 Coverage of the organization's defined benefit plan obligations 2014 Annual Report G4-EC4 Financial assistance received from government Not tracked at the global level Aspect: Indirect Economic Impacts Investing in Emerging Markets, Community Investment and DMA Disclosure on Management Approach Engagement, Investing in Employability Investing in Emerging Markets, Community Investment and G4-EC8 Significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of impacts Engagement, Investing in Employability ENIVIRONMENTAL Aspect: Energy DMA Disclosure on Management Approach Environmental Management 7 G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organization Environmental Management, Performance Data 8 G4-EN5 Energy intensity Performance Data 8 G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption Environmental Management 8, 9 Aspect: Emissions DMA Disclosure on Management Approach Environmental Management 7 G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 1) Environmental Management, Performance Data 8 G4-EN16 Energy indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 2) Environmental Management, Performance Data 8 G4-EN18 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity Performance Data 8 G4-EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions Environmental Management 8-9 2014 ManpowerGroup Corporate Sustainability Report | Performance Data & GRI Index 39 GRI Index GRI Code Description Reference or Short Answer Global Compact Principle SOCIAL—LABOR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK Aspect: Employment DMA Disclosure on Management Approach People and Culture Total number and rates of new employee hires and employee turnover by age Measuring the Effectiveness of our People and G4-LA1 6 group, gender and region Culture Strategy Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or partG4-LA2 Not yet reported time employees, by significant locations of operation G4-LA3 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender Not tracked Aspect: Occupational Health & Safety DMA Disclosure on Management Approach Health, Safety & Wellness 6 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of G4-LA6 Peformance Data 6 work-related fatalities by region and by gender Aspect: Training & Education DMA Disclosure on Management Approach Learning and Development, Investing in Employability We report on participation in global and local training programs, which we consider to be a more relevant metric for Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, and by employee G4-LA9 our business. category Learning and Development, Investing in Employability, Performance Data Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued G4-LA10 Learning and Development, Investing in Employability employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development 100% of employees participate in performance and career G4-LA11 6 reviews, by gender development reviews at least annually. Aspect: Diversity and Equal Opportunity Human Rights, Diversity and Inclusion (2013 Corporate DMA Disclosure on Management Approach 1, 6 Sustainability Report, page 7) Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee G4-LA12 category according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other People and Culture, Performance Data 1, 6 indicators of diversity Aspect: Supplier Assessment for Labor Practices DMA Disclosure on Management Approach Supply Chain Integrity 1-6 G4-LA14 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using labor practices criteria Supply Chain Integrity 1-6 2014 ManpowerGroup Corporate Sustainability Report | Performance Data & GRI Index 40 GRI Index GRI Code Description Reference or Short Answer Global Compact Principle SOCIAL­—HUMAN RIGHTS Aspect: Assessment DMA Disclosure on Management Approach Human Rights Total number and percentage of operations that have been subject to human rights G4-HR9 Human Rights 1-6 reviews or impact assessments Aspect: Supplier Human Rights Assessment DMA Disclosure on Management Approach Supply Chain Integrity 1-6 G4-HR10 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using human rights criteria Supply Chain Integrity 1-6 SOCIAL­—SOCIETY Aspect: Local Communities Investing in Employability, Community Investment and DMA Disclosure on Management Approach 1, 6 Engagement, Supplier Diversity Human Rights, Local Employability Program Examples, Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, impact G4-SO1 Programs and Partnerships (2013 Corporate Sustainability 1, 6 assessments, and development programs. Report, page 24) Aspect: Anti-Corruption Ethical & Principles-Based Culture, Code of Business DMA Disclosure on Management Approach 10 Conduct and Ethics Training As part of our annual enterprise risk assessment, we analyze G4-SO3 Total number and percentage of operations assessed for risks related to corruption. all business units for potential risks related to corruption, and 10 develop mitigation plans for significant risks. G4-SO4 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and procedures Code of Business Conduct and Ethics Training 10 Aspect: Public Policy Code of Business Conduct and Ethics DMA Disclosure on Management Approach 10 (www.manpowergroup.com) Our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics prohibits G4-SO6 Total value of political contributions by country and recipient/beneficiary contributions to political parties, politicians and related 10 institutions. Aspect: Supplier Assessment for Impacts on Society DMA Disclosure on Management Approach Supply Chain Integrity 10 G4-SO9 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using criteria for impacts on society Supply Chain Integrity 10 2014 ManpowerGroup Corporate Sustainability Report | Performance Data & GRI Index 41
