Communication on progress 20 14 I The year in brief Net sales increased by 3% to SEK 6.2 billion • Operating proﬁt from continuing operations increased by 28% to SEK 1.2 billion • Dividend SEK 800 million (proposed to the 2015 Annual General Meeting) • Improved customer conﬁdence • Three new ecoparks – goal of 36 ecoparks reached • Major ﬁre in Västmanland – decision on new ecopark • Focus on innovation, value-driven leadership and employeeship Content The year in brief above Stakeholder scenario and materiality assessment 25 CEO’s comments 2 Principlies and control mechanisms 27 Comments from the Chairman 3 Business ethics, contractors and skills supply 28 Vision, strategy and organisation 4 Biodiversity 29 Targets and performance 2014 6 Climate effects 31 Financial performance 8 Corporate governance report 33 Forest assets 10 Board of Directors 37 Sawlogs 12 Group management 39 Pulpwood and chips 14 Auditor’s limited assurance report 41 Biofuel 16 About the sustainability report 42 Research and development 18 Sveaskog’s Employees 43 Risk and sensitivity analysis 19 Environmental data 44 Sveaskog’s key sustainability issues 23 GRI index 45 1 CEO’s comments Stronger customer relationships and improved earnings A company like Sveaskog is in centre of society. We influence and are influenced. We have forests in 200 of Sweden’s 290 municipalities. We contribute to the development of society by managing our forests sustainably. ••• Sveaskog has almost 700 employees and relationship with Sveaskog has strengthened. through our contractors we employ more The improvement is due to focused efforts by than 1,500 people throughout the country. In Sveaskog’s employees to develop products the past ﬁve years we have delivered and solutions which strengthen the competdividends totalling SEK 7.6 billion to our itiveness of our customers. We can do this by owner the Swedish state. We have been able improving everything from preparation of the to do this due to good earnings and a strong timber in the forest to transport planning. balance sheet. The Board proposes that we The forest is important for the climate. In pay a dividend of a further SEK 800 million Sweden annual carbon dioxide emissions this year. total approximately 60 million tonnes. We who work at Sveaskog have a major Sveaskog’s forests bind approximately two and important assignment, to manage our million tonnes of carbon dioxide or more than forests so that both present and future 3% of Sweden’s total emissions. We at generations can use and beneﬁt from them. Sveaskog emit 153,000 tonnes of carbon We put a lot of effort into developing dioxide every year. Our goal is to reduce effective and gentle forestry methods. At the these emissions by at least 30% by 2020. same time, we have set aside 20% of our The most important measures to achieve this productive forest land for nature conservagoal are fuel-efﬁcient driving, reduced tion and to help strengthen biodiversity. In transports and use of renewable fuels. We 2014 we achieved our goal of having 36 focus our climate work around these areas. ecoparks throughout Sweden. Our ecoparks today comprise 145,000 hectares. This Cooperation for climate beneﬁt corresponds to an area almost eight times Renewable fuel is not just a concern for us. It the size of Stockholm. is a concern for the whole of Sweden. So far If Sveaskog is to continue to contribute to biofuels cannot compete in price terms with Sweden’s development and prosperity, we fossil fuels. We are therefore involved in must conduct a proﬁtable business. This can projects to develop technology and proconly be achieved if our customers have esses centred on forest-based fuels. We conﬁdence in us. And obviously our emcooperate with the mining and steel industry ployees and contractors need to be highly about how it can use biomass instead of motivated if we are to be able to meet our fossil fuels in its processes. The chemical customers’ expectations. industry is another sector that would like to use more wood raw material in its processes Increased conﬁdence and here too Sveaskog takes part in I would like to express a big thank-you to all development projects for new products such our employees for the strong improvement in as locally produced plastic. our customer relationships in 2014. Almost We are convinced that the forest can be ” half of our customers consider that their used more than it is today, particularly in Renewable fuel is not just a concern for us. It is a concern for the whole of Sweden” 2 construction. Wood is nature’s own brilliant material. It is renewable Comments from and compared with construction using steel and concrete the carbon dioxide emissions are signiﬁcantly lower. We at Sveaskog try to the Chairman persuade builders and architects to dare to use more wood. Not just as a visible material but also for the frames. The Stockholm suburb of The major challenge today and in the future is Sundbyberg has attracted worldwide attention with its wooden the climate issue. We need to switch from a high-rise buildings. Two eight-storey buildings have been completed fossil to a renewable society. Our forests are and a 65 metre high 22-storey building entirely of wood will also be crucial for this work. Biofuel is already constructed. We obviously hope that more municipalities and construcSweden’s biggest energy source. Even so we tion companies will have the courage to emulate Sundbyberg’s have only seen the start of development for initiative. bio-based products. Fuel, chemicals, plastics and textiles are some of the many products Our work gets smarter that will be made from renewable wood raw In terms of earnings Sveaskog had a good year in 2014. Our operating material in a few years. proﬁt from continuing operations increased by 28% to SEK 1,254 Sweden has all the keys to a bio-based society. We have an industrial structure and million. The improvement is mainly due to higher deliveries from our capacity, expertise, capital and, above all, own forests and higher timber prices. Improved efﬁciency also forest, our green oil reserve. The only thing we contributed. lack now is a long-term energy agreement and I am particularly pleased that our efﬁciency improvement efforts a stable political framework. These are needed continue to be successful. This is a fantastic performance to which all to give market players the courage to invest in our employees have made contribution. The main reason for the new technologies, facilities and products. improvement is that we are working smarter. Everyone, from machine The fact that Sweden is a rich country with operators to silvicultural specialists and salespersons, works every day a developed industrial base is largely thanks to improve efﬁciency and proﬁtability. to our forest assets. The forest has given us The basis for a proﬁtable business over time is that we conduct prosperity for over 100 years. It has done this sustainable operations. Sveaskog is a signatory to the UN Global because we have managed it. So our success Compact which means that we want to show our support for interstory is not the forest per se – but that it has nationally recognised business ethics and our long-term involvement been planted, cleaned, thinned and harvested in sustainability issues. We report our work according to the Global to be transformed into houses, bookcases, Reporting Initiative (GRI) and the auditors’ review helps us to develop. milk cartons and newspapers. That it has been A company like Sveaskog is totally dependent on its employees. used. They must feel commitment and job satisfaction. Our motivation index It is in itself lucky that just the forest is the is on a par with other companies in Sweden but our ambitions are foundation of Sweden’s success story. The higher than that. When I talk to employees they say that they appreforest exists throughout the country and links ciate being able to be responsible for their own work. Many also see urban and rural areas. It is a renewable extra value in working with nature as a resource. We will continue to resource – after felling, new trees grow. nurture these values and create a company characterised by customer Let us take advantage of the opportunities provided by the forest. Invest in industrial focus, innovation, simplicity and transparency. innovations based on renewable wood raw material. Use the forest more – at the same More women in forestry time as we protect biodiversity and other I and my colleagues in group management have undergone a gender values for the future. training course and all our managers will complete this course in 2015. We want to see more women in the forest and in forest-related Göran Persson occupations. So we must start by creating conditions and environChairman of the Board ments which women can also enjoy. We also want more employees with a non-Swedish background. Greater awareness of what we can do in our everyday work will create greater diversity and thus ensure a sustainable business. We have entered 2015 with clear targets. We will continue to contribute to the development of society by creating values for our customers and our owners. We will create climate beneﬁts with the forest and forest products. We will take care of the forests so that many businesses and people can enjoy them today and tomorrow. Stockholm, 10 March 2015 Per-Olof Wedin President and CEO 3 Vision, strategy, organisation To be the leading forest company We are Sveaskog and just today you have certainly come into contact with many of our products. When we say “our” we mean everything that is produced because we supply our customers with renewable wood raw material. This means that we help to create jobs at the same time as contributing to a living countryside, prosperity and a better climate. Our vision is to be the leading forest company. ••• Sveaskog is owned by the Swedish state. According to forest land. Efﬁciency is also affected by Sveaskog the articles of association the object of the company’s having close and stimulating cooperation with suppliers activity is to administer forest land as well as conduct and partners. forest management and forest industrial operations as well as operations compatible therewith. The company Develop proﬁtable business for timber and biofuel shall be an independent player, which means not have Both in day-to-day work and more long-term developmajor interests as an end user of wood raw material. The ment projects the focus is on broadening applications for company can also conduct closely related operations the forest. In this work proﬁtability goes before volume. It provided this contributes to increasing the company’s is through cooperation with among others customers, return. Sales of land on market terms shall enable partners and research institutes that Sveaskog develops reallocation of land holdings and add-on purchases for its offering. private forestry, particularly in rural areas. Sales of land shall be carried out until 10% of the land area owned by Increase proﬁtability from forest land the company at its formation in 2002 has been divested. Proﬁtable development and sustainable management Operations shall be conducted on a commercial basis of the forest creates values for many people in society. and generate a market return. When forest is felled this is based on plans that take into account a long-term sustainable management of the Vision forest. Sveaskog’s vision is to be the leading forest company Biodiversity is an important goal for Sveaskog. 20% of which means: the company’s productive forest land has been set aside • Being the most proﬁtable forest company over the as nature conservation land in ecoparks and nature short and long term conservation forests or for special consideration when • Being customers’ preferred and most knowledgeable felling. partner Sveaskog leases land to hunting teams and develops • Being the preferred choice for employees and land leases for wind power and ecosystem services. contractors • Leading in innovation and efﬁciency Values • Leader within sustainable forest management Sveaskog works to strengthen the company’s internal culture based on the values customer focus, innovation, Strategy simplicity and transparency. Ensuring a long-term skill Sveaskog has three overall strategies in order to achieve supply is important to Sveaskog. This is why the company its vision: works to be an attractive employer which includes increasing diversity in the company. Increase efﬁciency in the value chain from forest to customer Organisation By delivering the right quantity and quality at the right Sveaskog conducts its operations in three geographical time Sveaskog keeps costs down and creates customer market areas, North, Central and South. The market value. Efﬁcient logistics are of major importance for areas also offer land concessions and leases. Svenska reducing Sveaskog’s carbon dioxide emissions. InnovaSkogsplantor sells seedlings and silvicultural services. tion is important for the development of more efﬁcient Support for operations is provided by corporate staffs. processes and new applications for the raw material and 4 Sveaskog’s strategy Increase efﬁciency in the value Develop proﬁtable business Increase proﬁtability of Targets for suschain from forest to customer for timber and biofuel forest land tainable business • The most proﬁtable forest company in the Improve logistics from forest to customer short and long term • Customers’ preferred and most knowledgeable partner Strengthen leading position within sustainable forest management • Preferred choice for employees and contractors • Leading within innovation Develop employees and culture to be the leading forest company and efﬁciency • Leader within sustainable forest manageCustomer focus Innovation Simplicity Transparency ment Our forest will share its wealth with many future generations. 55 Targets and performance 2014 Greater conﬁdence in Sveaskog The forest is a fantastic engine for sustainable growth. It creates jobs and important exports. We have every reason to manage the forest well. It will share its wealth with many future generations. This long-term perspective permeates everything we do. It helps to improve competitiveness, strengthen the brand and makes us an attractive business partner and employer. ••• Sustainability is a business strategy which generates on a level with other companies in Sweden. Sveaskog’s long-term value by the company taking advantage of ambitions are higher than that. Employee motivation will opportunities and managing risks with a focus on be increased by a continued focus on good development economic, social and environmental responsibility. opportunities and clear accountability. Sveaskog has integrated sustainability throughout its One prerequisite for motivated employees is good operations. All targets are linked to sustainability. leadership. In 2013 and 2014 the company has carried The targets are included in the business plan for out an extensive training programme for all managers with 2014–2018. They are reviewed each year when the a focus on individual development and personal leaderbusiness plan is revised. ship. At the same time as evaluations of the programme are very positive, the 2014 employee survey shows that The most proﬁtable forest company in the short and the leadership index has fallen from 70 to 65. The long term average for Swedish companies is a leadership index of To achieve the goal of being the most proﬁtable forest 55. company, Sveaskog works within three main areas. In 2015 the company will work with continued developThe ﬁrst is to develop Sveaskog’s core business and ment of a culture with value-driven leadership and prioritise proﬁtability over volume. employeeship. This will be achieved among other things The second is to reduce costs through more efﬁcient through dialogue with all employees as well as seminars working practices and methods. The third area is to and management meetings and in ordinary business increase revenues and proﬁtability from land concession. monitoring. Managers will continue to build a culture with An administrative review of the Group was performed more coaching and feedback. during the year to improve working efﬁciency and make responsibilities and processes clearer. Contractors and suppliers Good ethics are essential for building conﬁdence and Motivated and skilled contractors are a factor for success a strong brand. Sveaskog therefore measures conﬁdence when it comes to felling and managing the forest among various stakeholders. Conﬁdence in Sveaskog responsibly. Sveaskog has good experience of cooperhas increased during the year. This is the result of ation with selected contractors. In 2014 the company improved relationships with customers, suppliers and started work on development of a long-term concept for contractors. Starting in 2014 the survey also includes cooperation with suppliers. This includes contractors silvicultural contractors. within both forestry and logistics. In 2014, Sveaskog extended its Contractor Satisfaction Index to include Customers’ preferred and most knowledgeable partner contractors within silviculture. The company has received Sveaskog’s efforts to strengthen customer relationships good grades from contractors within both felling and yielded results in 2014. Almost half of customers feel silviculture. that their relationship with Sveaskog has strengthened during the year and their attitude to Sveaskog as a Proportion of women partner is more positive than before. Substantial The proportion of women is unchanged compared with improvements have occurred within all the areas that 2013. Sveaskog works in various ways to increase the were examined: delivery quality, skills, customer relationproportion of women and employees with a non-Swedish ships, professionalism, contacts, information and background. The company looks among other things at availability. The biggest improvement was among pulp various forums where contact can be made with the and biofuel customers where the potential was greatest. younger generation and at how recruitment is conducted. The index which measures satisfaction among timber In job advertisements at least one woman must be suppliers has also risen after determined efforts to included as a contact and in interviews one man and one improve relations with this group. woman must take part. Sveaskog offers young people summer jobs where it Preferred choice for employees and contractors ensures an even gender distribution. Group management Having previously measured satisfaction, in 2014 has attended gender training. The company also offers Sveaskog measured employee motivation. The average is unaccompanied young refugees summer jobs. 6 Leading within innovation and efﬁciency Leader within sustainable forest management Efﬁciency continues to improve through increased cost As part of Sveaskog’s commitment to nature conservaeffectiveness but also through greater value creation. tion, key habitats for plants and animals are left unOne signiﬁcant cost item is felling costs. There too there touched at felling. The target is to maintain 99% of felling is an underlying improvement. The costs per felled unit, without major negative impact on sensitive biotopes, edge on the other hand, have not decreased during the year. zones, natural value trees, cultural environments and This is mainly due to increased processing volumes of other environmental values. Follow-up of consideration for storm-damaged forest, more expensive fuel due to a nature in 2014 shows a less favourable result than in the switch to more eco-friendly fuel and reduced tax previous year. The reasons for this and Sveaskog’s efforts subsidies. to improve this result, are reported on page 30. The company is developing targets to measure innoSveaskog’s operations provide climate beneﬁts through vation. One is revenues from new areas. The target is carbon dioxide retention in growing forests and wood under development. products, which can then replace fossil inputs. At the same time, the company’s target is to reduce its carbon dioxide emissions by 30% in 2010–2020. The result for 2014 shows a 5% reduction since 2013. The most proﬁtable forest company in the short and long term Target Metric Value 2013 Value 2014 Target 2018 Average yield 4.5% per year Yield 3,9 5,0 At least 4.5 Conﬁdence in Sveaskog Conﬁdence Index 71 78 80 Customers’ preferred and most knowledgeable partner Target Metric Value 2013 Value 2014 Target 2018 Satisﬁed customers Customer Satisfaction Index, 74 75 80 sawmill customers Customer Satisfaction Index, 45 66 55 pulpwood customers Customer Satisfaction Index, 61 68 67 biofuel customers Satisﬁed suppliers Supplier Satisfaction Index 67 (2012) 73 70 Preferred choice for employees and contractors Target Metric Value 2013 Value 2014 Target 2018 Good leadership and employeeship Employee Motivation Index – 64 75 Leadership Index 70 65 72 Contractor Satisfaction Index, 70 (2012) 70 72 felling Contractor Satisfaction Index, – 73 72 silviculture At least 30% women by 2020 and more Gender balance 20 20 26 employees with non-Swedish backgrounds Leading in innovation and efﬁciency Target Metric Value 2013 Value 2014 Target 2018 Increased efﬁciency Average cost of felling, –5.8% 0.8% 2% annual change compared with productivity previous year improvement Leader within sustainable forest management Target Metric Value 2013 Value 2014 Target 2018 99% of environmental values maintained in Consideration Index 95 87* 99 forest management without signiﬁcant impact Carbon dioxide emissions reduced CO2 emissions tonnes per 14.8 14.1 12 by at least 30% 2010–2020 delivered thousand m3sub * See page 30 for report of outcome and Sveaskog’s work to achieve this target. 7 Financial results Strong performance 2014 Sveaskog manages and develops a valuable national resource. With our presence in the forest communities we contribute to enterprise, employment and economic development. Sveaskog is involved and provides opportunities to live and work across Sweden. And in the past five years we have distributed SEK 7.6 billion to our owner, the people of Sweden. ••• Sveaskog is Sweden’s largest forest owner and conducts Net ﬁnancial items were SEK –261 million (–273). The trade in wood raw material. Over half of this raw material improvement was mainly due to lower interest. Proﬁt is taken from the company’s own forests. The rest is before tax increased by 11% to SEK 2,157 million (1,941). purchases from other Swedish forest owners, exchanges Tax amounted to SEK –466 million (–466). Proﬁt for the or imports, primarily from the Baltic countries. Sveaskog year increased by 15% to SEK 1,691 million (1,475). also leases land and water for wind power, hunting and ﬁshing. Improved cash ﬂow Net sales increased by 3% in 2014 to SEK 6,232 Cash ﬂow from operating activities amounted to SEK 769 million (6,056). Prices rose by an average of 3% while million (636). The increase was mainly due to a higher delivery volumes were largely unchanged. Demand operating proﬁt from continuing operations. particularly for sawlogs was high during the year and Investments in property, plant and equipment amounted deliveries of pulpwood and chips also increased slightly. to SEK 132 million (212). This mainly comprised forest Demand for biofuel, on the other hand, fell sharply. land and machines. The lower level is explained by a major land acquisition in 2013. Sales of property, plant and Increased deliveries from own forests equipment, mainly forest properties, amounted to SEK Operating proﬁt from continuing operations increased by 194 million (370). No sales of shareholdings took place in 28% to SEK 1,254 million (978). The improvement is 2013 or 2014. mainly due to a 5% increase in delivery volumes from Sveaskog’s own forests with an average increase in Strong ﬁnancial position prices of 4%. More efﬁcient working methods and an Interest-bearing net debt decreased by SEK 326 million increased focus on proﬁtability in each transaction also during the year and amounted to SEK 8,207 million contributed to the improvement in earnings. (8,533). The loan portfolio manly consists of loans issued Capital gains from property sales amounted to SEK under Sveaskog’s MTN programme and a Swedish 68 million (163). commercial paper programme. Approximately 4% of the Sveaskog’s operating proﬁt before change in value of loan portfolio is bank loans. The loan volume under the forest assets improved by 18% and amounted to SEK commercial paper programme was SEK 2,110 million 1,386 million (1,168). Change in value of forest assets (2,520) which was regularly reﬁnanced. The outstanding amounted to SEK 1,032 million (1,046). After change in volume under the MTN programme was SEK 5,190 value of forest assets, operating proﬁt rose 9% and million (4,850) at year-end. amounted to SEK 2,418 million (2,214). The lowest average ﬁxed interest period during the Total delivery volume, thousand m3sub Net sales, SEKm Operating proﬁt from continuing operations, SEKm 000s m3sub +/– % SEKm +/– % SEKm +/– % 12,000 12 8,000 20 1,500 50 10,838 1,254 10,000 8 6,232 1,200 30 6,000 10 +28% 8,000 4 +3.0% 900 10 6,000 0 4,000 0 +0% 600 –10 4,000 –4 2,000 –10 300 –30 2,000 –8 0 –12 0 0 –50 –20 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Sveaskog’s deliveries solid under bark (sub) Net sales increased by 3% in 2014 mainly Operating profit from continuing operations were largely unchanged in 2014. due to higher prices. increased by 28% in 2014. The increase was mainly due to higher deliveries from own forests and higher timber prices. 8 year was 29 months and 31 at the end of the year. Parent Company Interest cover amounted to 4.8 (3.5) and the gross loan Sveaskog AB (publ.), 100% owned by the Swedish state, cost was 2.55% (2.65). owns and manages forest properties and shares in subsidiaries and is responsible for Group-wide ﬁnancing. SEK 7.6 billion dividend over ﬁve years Sveaskog AB’s operating income for the year amounted A dividend of SEK 800 million (450) is proposed to the to SEK 16 million (46). Loss after net ﬁnancial items Annual General Meeting. During the years 2009–2013 amounted to SEK 3 million (0). The Parent Company’s Sveaskog has distributed a total of SEK 7.6 billion to its costs mainly comprise interest expenses. The company owner the Swedish state in the form of cash and forest has no employees. land. Svenska Skogsplantor Financial targets Svenska Skogsplantor is a wholly owned subsidiary which Sveaskog’s owner, the Swedish state, has set ﬁnancial produces and sells seedlings. The company also performs targets for the company. The following targets apply to silvicultural services. The company’s sales totalled SEK the Group: 295 million (316) and operating proﬁt was SEK 12 million (24). On 1 April 2015, Svenska Skogsplantor will become • Yield over a business cycle to amount to an average of a business area and will no longer be a limited company. at least 4.5% per year. In 2014, yield amounted to 5.0% Operations will continue to be conducted under the (3.9). Svenska Skogsplantor brand. • Net debt/equity ratio 0.3–0.6. The net debt/equity ratio Sveaskog’s leases for 2014 was 0.44. The company had a total of approximately 7,800 (8,200) leases and other concessions at the end of 2014. • Payout ratio to amount to 65–90%. Over time the Approximately 1,500 (1,600) of these were ﬁshing rights dividend to correspond to 65–90% of proﬁt after tax and 3,100 (3,100) hunting rights. Other concessions excluding non-cash adjustments in value of standing totalled 3,200 (3,500). forest after tax. A dividend is paid provided the capital structure target after the dividend falls within the target Number of employees interval and taking into account the Group’s strategic The number of employees at year-end amounted to 678 and investment requirements. (693). Sveaskog’s yield target will be achieved through proﬁtShare of proﬁts of associates able business activities with good ethics. The company Setra Group AB’s net sales increased by 3% to SEK also has an objective to improve efﬁciency which will 4,194 million (4,068). Total operating proﬁt increased by contribute towards achieving the yield target. Efﬁciency 88% to SEK 201 million (107). Sveaskog’s share of gains will be taken from within planning, felling, logistics proﬁts of associates adjusted for intra-group proﬁts and reduced administrative expenses. amounted to SEK 64 million (27). Net debt/equity ratio, multiple Yield, % Equity ratio, % times % % 0.6 6 60 5.0 50 0.5 5 50 0.44 Target Target 0.3–0.6 4.5 0.4 4 40 0.3 3 30 0.2 2 20 0.1 1 10 0.0 0 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 The target was decided by the 2014 Annual The target was decided by the 2014 Annual The equity ratio shows how large a volume General Meeting. The target is a net debt/equity General Meeting. Yield is to be at least 4.5% of assets is financed with equity. ratio of 0.3–0.6. This metric specifies net over a business cycle. The previous target was interest-bearing liabilities in the company in 5%. Yield is also called return on operating relation to equity. capital. This metric shows how well the company is using its owner’s and lenders’ capital. 9 Forest assets The forest creates value Sveaskog is Sweden’s largest forest owner. We manage four million hectares of forest. Mainly pine and spruce, but also beech, oak, birch, willow and aspen. The best way we can contribute to social development is to continue to use the forest. This creates jobs and prosperity throughout the country – a strong Sweden. ••• Sveaskog’s forest assets account for 14% of all producJobs for many contractors tive forest land in Sweden. The company has set aside Sveaskog fells both on its own land and on assignment 20% of productive forest land for nature conservation. from other forest owners. Felling is carried out by the Sveaskog cleans, thins, fells and plants 80% of its company’s own staff or by contractors. Sveaskog’s own productive forest in order to generate returns and felling organisation consists of some 40 machine teams increase the value of its forest assets. Cleaning is a with a total of about 150 operators. Cooperation with prioritised activity for Sveaskog and in general the contractors is signiﬁcant. Across the country, just over company tries to carry out cleaning early in newly planted 150 machine groups with about 600 employees are and young forests. Cleaning is still mainly manual work engaged. and can only be done in the summer half of the year. Sveaskog uses GPS to plan all felling. A digital map for Sveaskog therefore engages many people for cleaning in a shift is prepared from the plan with critical production the season. and environmental details. The map is transferred to the Every year Sveaskog carries out felling activities on-board computers of the harvesters. This allows the (thinning and regeneration felling) on just over 40,000 operators to optimise production and take into account hectares of its land. All felling is planned based on the the nature and cultural values of the speciﬁc conditions requirements of the Swedish FSC® standard which applicable to each individual forest shift. takes into account economic, environmental and social Sveaskog is at the forefront in the use of multi-tree factors. handling technology. This means adding equipment to the harvester head which allows it to bundle and work with Three new trees for each one felled several trunks at the same time. Multi-tree handling For each tree which is regeneration felled, Sveaskog increases efﬁciency and reduces fuel consumption. plants on average three new ones. At the same time, the proportion of sowing as a regeneration method continues Hunting, ﬁshing and outdoor activities to rise. Sveaskog encourages both recreation and business in its In 2014 the company scariﬁed, sowed, planted, cleaned forests. The company has granted concessions to 30,000 and fertilised 65,276 hectares (66,300) of its own land. hunters in 3,300 hunting teams. Sveaskog is Sweden’s Through Svenska Skogsplantor, Sveaskog is Sweden’s biggest owner of private roads and provides access to the biggest seedling supplier. In 2014 Svenska Skogsplantor forest counties and the forests for hunting, ﬁshing, sold 107 million seedlings of which 30% were delivered tourism and forest activities. The company is also within the Group. The total number of customers is about Sweden’s biggest owner of water and makes lakes 4,000. Svenska Skogsplantor operates eight nurseries, a accessible for ﬁshing. seed processing unit and about 110 seed plantations. Sveaskog’s forest capital Forest age classiﬁcation for the whole of Sweden, Sveaskog and all owners, % 2014 2013 Total land area, million ha 4.04 4.04 25 of which productive forest land, million ha 3.12 3.12 23 22 22 22 of which managed, million ha 2.65 2.65 20 20 of which nature conservation and nature consideration including montane region 0.7 0.7 17 Sveaskog Book value, SEKm 32,518 31,531 Allaowners All ägare 15 Taxable value, SEKm 64,196 55,135 Standing volume*, million m3fo 245 247 10 10 10 9 9 Standing volume*, m3fo/ha 92.3 93.0 7 7 7 Net growth*, million m3fo 11.3 11.3 6 5 Timber extraction from own land, million m3sub 6.56 6.02 5 4 Timber extraction as proportion of net growth on managed land*, % 72 66 0 0-19 20-39 40-59 60-79 80-99 100120140+ * Managed land 119 139 1 m3fo (forest cubic meter) corresponds to approximately 0.82 m3sub (cubic meters solid under bark). Sub relates to the real volume of wood without bark. 10 Land sale programme In addition to the value of the standing forest, the forest In accordance with a parliamentary decision, Sveaskog lands have their own value for concessions such as must divest 10% of the land area the company had when hunting, tourism, wind power and ecosystem services it was created in 2002. During 2014 a total of 5,629 which are not included in the valuation. hectares (8,853) was sold. A total of 330,149 hectares or 7.57% has been sold in 2,055 deals since the ﬁrst parliamentary decision was taken in 2002. Sveaskog is also actively engaged in the purchase, exchange and sale of forest land with the aim of improving land consolidation based on customer structure. Nature conservation forests Sveaskog uses 600,000 hectares of productive forest land for nature conservation. Of this area, half is set aside as nature conservation forests. The remaining 300,000 hectares are landscape set-asides in the form of ecoparks or nature consideration when felling. Sveaskog wants to set aside those forests that have the highest natural values as nature conservation forests. When the company discovers new forest worthy of protection, for example with key biotopes, it exchanges this for land with lower natural values. In this way the quality and nature conservation utilisation of the set-aside forests is increased. Since 2014 changes in the nature conservation forests from the previous year are reported on Sveaskog’s website. How the value of the forest is calculated At 31 December 2014 Sveaskog’s forest assets had a book value of SEK 32,518 million (31,531), of which SEK 30,344 million (29,375) represents the calculated fair value according to IAS 41. The remaining SEK 2,174 million (2,156) is the acquisition value of the land. Sveaskog’s calculations of the value of the forest are updated every quarter and reported in the ﬁnancial statements. The calculation is made on those volumes which are expected to be available for felling in the next one hundred years. Annual growth on productive forest land is about 11.3 million m3fo (11.3) or 4.3 m3fo per hectare (4.3). Overall, the standing volume in the productive forest land amounts to 245 million m3fo (247) or 92.3 m3fo per hectare (93.0). This means that there is an underlying increase in standing volume each year even if the ﬁgures are affected by variations in the combined area of nature conservation and productive forest. This means that the standing volume increases each year, resulting in an increase in the forest capital. Both growth and felled volumes are expected to increase. The calculated fair value of Sveaskog’s forest assets has a signiﬁcant effect on the reported operating proﬁt but does not affect cash ﬂow. Changes during the year in the value of the standing forest as well as a sensitivity analysis will be found on page 62 in Sveaskog’s Annual Sveaskog has its largest forest assets Report with Sustainability Report 2014 (in Swedish). in northern and central Sweden. 11 Sawlogs Wood marching ahead The forest we harvest today was planted over one hundred years ago. In order to do good business we must have successful customers. Customers who make demands, with whom we develop. So we listen to the master planers, take advice from purchasing managers, get inspired by architects. Our Swedish forest is an attractive building material. Both in Sweden and abroad. And more and more people are discovering the advantages of wood. ••• Demand for sawlogs was good in 2014 with rising prices. Uncertain development in the short term Sveaskog increased its deliveries by 7% to 4,620 In the short term it is uncertain how the business climate thousand m3sub (4,322). The company complements will affect demand for Swedish wood. In much of Europe timber from its own forests with bought-in volumes. growth is still slow and national economies weak. Many Purchasing timber allows Sveaskog to satisfy its growth forecasts for Europe have therefore been lowered customers’ requirements for volumes, species, qualities while Asia and Africa have more rapid growth. and dimensions in a regular ﬂow throughout the year. Sveaskog is convinced that demand for sawlogs will Sveaskog delivers sawlogs to some 70 customers in increase in the longer term since wood is a sustainable Sweden. Customers are privately owned family comand recyclable material which can be used in many panies or global groups based in Sweden. applications. Sveaskog’s customers in their turn supply primarily Today about 90% of Swedish single-family dwellings the construction and furniture industries. are built of wood. There are also several examples in Sweden of the use of wood for multi-storey buildings. 70% of sawn timber is exported Wood is also used for load-bearing structures in sports The market for sawlogs is dependent on the state of the halls and other large buildings. Wooden bridges are built construction market. In Sweden, building starts increased today for pedestrian walkways and cycle paths as well as in 2014 which fuelled demand for sawlogs. Since 70% of for roads. Swedish sawn timber is exported, Sveaskog’s customers are to a great extent dependent on the international Wooden buildings net sequesterer of carbon dioxide construction market and the exchange rate for the A signiﬁcant competitive advantage of wood is that it is a Swedish krona. fully renewable raw material as opposed to concrete and The largest export markets for Swedish sawn timber aluminium. A four-storey building with a concrete frame are Europe, the Middle East, North Africa, China and generates a net emission of 96 tonnes of carbon dioxide Japan. In Europe construction increased in 2014 from while a wooden-framed building sequesters 150 tonnes low levels. Demand rose primarily in the UK and net. The wooden building’s net uptake is thanks to the Germany. The Middle East and Japan were under binding of carbon dioxide in the forest, which continues to pressure from poorer economic development which had grow after the building is ﬁnished. a negative effect on demand. On the other hand, North To maintain its competitive edge, Sveaskog must be a Africa and China developed more strongly. Swedish reliable supplier, listen to customers and continually timber exports also beneﬁted from a slight recovery in improve. It is therefore vital for Sveaskog to understand 2014 in the construction industry in the US which meant the entire value chain – from seedling to the architect’s that competitors in North America focused more on the drawing and conditions on building sites. domestic market and less on exports. Delivery volumes sawlogs, 000s m3sub Share of delivery volumes Share of sales 3 000s m sub +/– % 5,000 15 4,620 4,000 10 +6.9% 3,000 5 43% 48% 2,000 0 1,000 –5 0 –10 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 In 2014, Sveaskog increased its deliveries of sawlogs by 6.9%. 12 Photo: Martinsons/Jonas Kullman. Our Swedish forests are an attractive building material. 13 13 Pulpwood and chips Raw materials with unique qualities Every day, everywhere, we use the forest. It is with us all the time. The forest is in the baby’s nappies, the kitchen paper you mopped up the coffee with, the carton you poured milk from. When we say everywhere, we mean everywhere. Our customers’ products are found everywhere and our customers’ customers too. Our customers’ customers are the entire population of Sweden. ••• Sveaskog increased its deliveries of pulpwood in 2014 by takes out the largest volume of pulpwood. Pulpwood also 2% to 5,219 thousand m3sub (5,126). Sveaskog delivers comes from ﬁnal felling since not all parts of the trunks a wide range of pulpwood to some 30 customers in can be used for sawlogs. Sweden and northern Europe. The company supplies pulpwood both from its own forests and from purchases. Increased demand for packaging Sveaskog also buys cellulose chips from sawmill The demand for graphic papers and newsprint has fallen customers and delivers these to the pulp and paper for several years and will continue to fall. On the other industry. hand demand for different types of packaging papers is Pulpwood customers manufacture pulp and paper for increasing due to global population growth and increased packaging, graphic papers and newsprint. The pulp is trade. Pulpwood from Swedish forests has qualities that used in hygiene products such as nappies, kitchen paper, make it especially good for packaging with high demands toilet paper and feminine care products. 80% of Swedish such as liquid cartons for milk and juices. pulp is exported, mainly to Europe. Many mills that produced newsprint have been forced to close or switch production to packaging or hygiene Pulpwood prices unchanged paper. The Swedish forest industry was negatively Capacity utilisation was high in the pulp and paper mills affected by the strong Swedish krona at the start of the during 2014, but there was some surplus of pulpwood on year. However, the krona weakened signiﬁcantly during the market. This meant that prices were unchanged in the second half of the year. 2014. The price of pulpwood from pine and spruce is lower than the price from birch. There is a shortage of Long experience domestic birch for the Swedish pulp and paper industry It is a competitive advantage for Sveaskog to have a and birch is imported from the Baltic countries and wide range of fresh pulpwood and cellulose chips. The elsewhere. company’s strength also lies in its long experience of The price of pulpwood is lower than for sawlogs. So it working with the pulp and paper industry. It is important is tree trunks or parts of trunks that are not suitable for for Sveaskog to have an in-depth understanding of that sawlogs which become pulpwood. They are usually trunks industry’s processes and the international end market that are too thin or have quality defects. However, for its products. For Sveaskog to remain competitive, pulpwood must not be damaged by rot since this affects advanced logistics are needed to ensure that customers the quality of the paper pulp. get deliveries on time and of the right quality. It is mainly when thinning the forest that Sveaskog Delivery volumes pulpwood and chips, 000s m3sub Share of delivery volumes Share of sales 000s m3sub +/– % 6,000 9 5,219 5,000 6 4,000 3 +1.8% 3,000 0 48% 40% 2,000 –3 1,000 –6 0 –9 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 In 2014, Sveaskog increased its deliveries of pulpwood and chips by 1.8%. 14 Every day, everywhere, we use the forest. 15 15 Biofuel Biofuel heats Sweden The forest allows us to create a society that is no longer dependent on fossil products. When we replace fossil resources with renewable wood raw material, emissions of carbon dioxide are reduced. Sveaskog is one of Sweden’s biggest producers of vehicle biofuels. And with biofuel from our forests we supply almost one percent of the energy used in Sweden. ••• Demand for forest biofuel was weak in 2014. Sveaskog’s range. Through training and improvement initiatives deliveries of biofuel decreased by 26% to 999 thousand throughout the chain from forest to customer, Sveaskog m3sub (1,359). has improved the moisture content and quality of biofuel The biofuel that Sveaskog delivers is mainly branches at the same time as streamlining operations. and tops (felling residue), thin trees and energy wood. The fuel comes from cleaning, thinning and regeneration Renewable energy felling. Sveaskog delivers to some 70 customers, primarily Another example of how Sveaskog is developing its heating plants, CHP plants and pulp and paper mills. The biofuel offering is SunPine in Piteå. market is local due to transport costs and Sveaskog Sveaskog owns 25.1% and the other owners are supplies mainly customers in Sweden. Södra skogsägarna, Preem, Kiram and Lawter. SunPine extracts raw tall diesel and bio oil from tall oil which is a Tough competition from other fuels residual product from pulp mills. Preem reﬁnes the raw There are several reasons for the reduced demand for tall diesel to top quality diesel fuel. When this fuel product biofuel. One is that the climate was warmer during the was launched in 2011 it was a world ﬁrst for second year, another that industry is making its processes more generation forest biofuel on an industrial scale. efﬁcient and thereby reducing its energy requirements. A Based on the tall diesel that SunPine produces, carbon third reason is considerable competition from other fuels. dioxide emissions are reduced by approximately 376,800 Today power stations and heating plants can be fuelled tonnes per year. This is equivalent to the emissions from with in principle anything that will burn. As well as forest over 174,000 cars. biofuel and chips from the sawmills, they can use oil, coal, peat, garbage and waste wood from, for example, Prioritised area demolished buildings and discarded furniture. Low oil and Sveaskog believes that the forest is a vital raw material to energy prices increase the competitiveness of fossil fuels provide Sweden with energy and biofuel. Work on and electricity. During the year Sveaskog has noted developing new techologies and products is therefore increased competition from above all imported wasteprioritised and takes place in close cooperation with based fuels. various stakeholders such as forest industry customers, To be competitive in the biofuel market, Sveaskog is universities and other research institutes. focusing on developing production methods and product Delivery volumes biofuel, 000s m3sub Share of delivery volumes Share of sales 000s m3sub +/– % 1,600 10 1,200 0 999 800 –10 9% 8% 400 –20 –26.5% 0 –30 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 In 2014, Sveaskog reduced its deliveries of biofuel by 26.5%. 16 Biofuel is Sweden’s largest source of energy. 17 17 Research and development Climate-smart innovations Working the forest has built our country from the dawn of time. When we must create a sustainable society, the forest is the key. In the future we will build more in wood and, using the forest, develop green fuels, chemicals, plastics and clothing. By using the forest we can slow climate change. ••• Sveaskog’s initiatives in business development and mining and steel industry will contribute to the goal of a innovation are intended to increase both the return from carbon-neutral Sweden by 2050. the forest and its value. Development work must also contribute to strengthening competitiveness and value 4. Chemicals added in the forest industry and create value for society. The chemical industry is interested in replacing fossil raw Climate beneﬁt is a major driver. materials with bio-based raw materials in its processes. In In 2014 Sveaskog brought together responsibility for the short term there is little incentive to change raw all development projects in a development committee. materials due to the tax situation. Fossil raw materials are Projects are run in or close to the market organisation to not subject to such high tax when they are used in the guarantee that the results are put into practice. In 2015 production of chemicals compared with vehicle fuel. the focus will be on strengthening the internal innovation process so that the company can better stimulate new 5. Forest land and ecosystem services ideas and push through innovations. There is an international market for ecosystem services in Business development work takes place in the market the areas climate, biodiversity and water. These services areas and in close cooperation with customers. Sveaskog include managing forests and land to bind more carbon cooperates in innovation projects with other companies, dioxide or restore natural values to compensate for universities and research institutes. emissions and exploitation following large scale land Sveaskog’s involvement in business development development such as new mines and infrastructure. This covers a wide spectrum. It might be being a business market is currently undeveloped in Sweden, but interest partner and ensuring the requirement for timber, is growing. participating with skills or getting involved in the setting Sveaskog has land and experience that enable it to up of new operations or facilities. offer compensation measures in both climate and Top priority within Sveaskog is given to projects biodiversity. The company is now commercialising a intended to develop new applications for wood raw business model and products in these areas. materials and forest land. Sveaskog runs projects in the following areas: 6. Pulp and paper Within the pulp and paper sector Sveaskog is focusing 1. Wood on developing the efﬁciency and quality of products and The aim is to increase the use of timber at sawmills and deliveries to existing customers. The company is working, to contribute to developing the market for the sawmills’ among other things, with logistics to improve the pulp and residual products, for example through production of paper industry’s competitiveness. biofuel. Sveaskog also participates in activities to increase awareness of constructing buildings and bridges Sveaskog refrains from involvement in areas which are in wood. assessed to have limited signiﬁcance for achieving the company’s goals or signiﬁcance and relevance for its 2. Vehicle fuel owner. Examples are areas that are expected to create Biofuel for vehicles still cannot compete on price with little value, in which other players operate irrespective of fossil fuels. Sveaskog is therefore involved in projects to Sveaskog’s involvement or which are a long way down develop technologies and processes related to forestthe value chain or far from commercialisation. based vehicle fuel. Innovation projects often take time. Usually at least ﬁve years from idea to commercial product. It is therefore 3. Mining and steel important for Sveaskog to assess the risks before Sveaskog participates in several projects in the mining deciding on involvement. At the same time it is important and steel industry aimed at using biomass in its procto remember that not all efforts will achieve the desired esses. The mining and steel industry in Sweden is a large result in the time available, something which is unavoidconsumer of fossil fuels. Replacing fossil fuels in the able in innovation projects. 18 Risk and sensitivity analysis Major spread of risks We have been taking care of the Swedish forests for more than 160 years. Back then, when Sveaskog started its operations, Sweden was a poor country. Now we are a rich country. Sveaskog has contributed to this wealth. Over the years we have learned a lot about the forests and business life. One important aspect for success in business is to understand and be able to manage the risks that exist in operations. ••• Since the forest is always growing and is regularly felled, WEATH E R, CLI MATE Sveaskog has stable cash ﬂows. This means that H IG H PROBAB I LITY MAR KET AN D E NVI RONR I S KS Sveaskog’s economic risks are limited. There are, M E NTAL R I S KS however, other risks that are systematically inventoried by Sveaskog. OPERATIONAL RISKS Sveaskog is exposed to ﬁnancial, legal, market-related, B IOLOG ICAL R I S KS operational, public opinion and social risks. The forests FI NANCIAL R I S KS are also exposed to biological risks as well as weather PU B LIC OPI N ION R I S KS and climate risks. The extensive storm fellings in recent years have SOCIAL R I S KS LOW PROBAB I LITY highlighted the weather and climate risks. At the same time, Sveaskog’s forests are large and widespread which evens out weather and biological risks. The forests are also insured against major extra costs via direct insurance and in the reinsurance markets. Sveaskog works to develop new markets and businesses such as biofuel and ecosystem services. The LOW I M PACT H IG H I M PACT company also increases revenues from the forest by granting leases for hunting, ﬁshing, eco-tourism and wind power. These activities provide a broader income base but can also involve risks. Consequences are linked to each risk and these are described and evaluated. Responsibility The identiﬁed risks are reviewed on the basis of the Sveaskog’s Board is responsible for the company controls in place. These controls are evaluated on the managing risks in the right way and ensuring compliance basis of quality and risk coverage, level of formality, with adopted principles for ﬁnancial reporting and division of responsibility and general formulation. internal control. The CEO has overall responsibility. Risk Subsequently, remedial actions are identiﬁed for assessments are made on the basis of process descripassessed risks. tions. The Accounts and Treasury staffs are assigned by Each remedial action is evaluated on the basis of its the CEO to be responsible for an inventory of risks and effect and how timeand cost-demanding the action is. for conducting the risk management process. Operational Remedial actions are prioritised on the basis of what responsibility rests with each market area, but is followed generates the greatest beneﬁt per activity. These are up centrally. carried out according to priority and available resources. Once an action has been taken, the result is measured in Risk management process at Sveaskog order to assess whether the action was sufﬁcient to Risk management is an integrated part of the annual manage the risk concerned and the beneﬁts of the operational plan. All signiﬁcant risks are identiﬁed, remedial action. reported and compiled in environmental and quality How Sveaskog manages its key risks is shown on the management systems. next two pages. Prioritise Implement, Identify, Evaluate control Identify remedial follow-up remedial evaluate risks of risks actions actions action 19 Biological risks Spruce bark beetle Risk Management Insect pest that has grown in number in the north Fast processing of storm-felled timber and recently of Sweden and the control area has been extended. attacked standing trees. In the south, attacks have subsided leading to a reduced control area. Pine weevil Risk Management Insect pest which gnaws the bark off conifer Use of mechanical seedling protection, Conniﬂex seedlings which leads to deteriorated regeneration. and development of Multipro. Root rot Risk Management Value of standing forests decreases, trees die. Preventing attacks by treating stumps during felling with spores. Fungus attacks Risk Management Fungus on young pine stands causes trees to die. Inventory of extent of damage. Felling damaged trees. Trees with resin top disease not left as seed or nature conservation trees. New pests Risk Management established If, for example, the nun moth, the mountain pine Monitoring. beetle or other pests become established in Sweden, large-scale destruction could result. Game grazing Risk Management damage Game which graze on trees and seedlings reduce Hunting, measures to increase access to feed, forest growth. increased knowledge of game populations. Weather, climate and environmental risks Climate change Risk Management Changed climate can increase the risk of storms, Tract adaptation, adapted thinning and clearing, cause changes in precipitation, worsen forcing developed forcing in poor conditions and work with conditions and change vegetation boundaries. processed seed and seedling material. Insurance. Storm felling Risk Management Direct economic loss through lower operating Silvicultural measures that reduce risks: thinning, proﬁt, reduced value of forest assets, cleaning planting, increased proportion of deciduous trees, up puts a strain on the organisation, damage from ﬁnal felling at economic maturity. Good crisis organibark beetle. sation and logistics. Ability to move felling resources to storm-felled areas. Insurance against damage. Contaminated soil Risk Management on Sveaskog’s land Responsibility for contaminated soil and need Inventory, strategy for prioritising areas, liability of decontamination with potentially major costs. investigations, working with surveys and decontamination. Social risks Timber imports from Risk Management undesirable origins Purchases from, for example, Russia and the Baltic Sveaskog’s code of conduct as well as certiﬁcation countries can present risks linked to illegal felling, and clear guidelines for tracing and documentation corruption and labour law. of purchased raw material, which govern the company’s actions and follow-up. Contractors Risk Management Contractors which fail to meet commitments can Code of conduct, guidelines for procurement of constitute a risk linked to working environment, contractors as well as follow-up and control of health, safety and labour law. compliance reduce risks. Corruption Risk Management Unclear guidelines and routines lead to a risk of Code of conduct, clear guidelines, internal control, bribes, bribery and corruption. possibility to report violations anonymously. 20 Market risks Sawmill industry Risk Management At times poor proﬁtability leads to closure of Active choice of customers and credit insurance. sawmills and credit losses for Sveaskog. Priority given to cooperation with customers with Restructuring may lead to fewer customers in long-term survival and proﬁtability potential. local areas for Sveaskog’s forest holdings. Prioritise product development and innovation. Pulp and paper Risk Management industry A few, dominant companies means a lack of Expand market and customer capital. More efﬁcient competition and few alternative business and logistics and increased exports. New product range marketing opportunities. such as biofuel increases market potential. Prioritise product development and innovation. Energy sector Risk Management Increased competition from substitutes and low Be an efﬁcient supplier of advanced, customerenergy prices lead to limited market potential. oriented business concepts that provide added Elimination of companies and customers within value and increased proﬁtability for all parties. Sveaskog’s traditional markets. Prioritise product development and innovation. Operational and legal risks Legal risks Risk Management Activities that contravene law and good practice. Clear rules, controls, follow-up and audits. Inadequate routines Risk Management and structure Inadequate systems support, routines and Documented routines and work processes in all organisation lead to ﬁnancial loss, loss of proﬁt, parts of the business. Ensure high quality of systems loss of market conﬁdence and difﬁculties in support since information systems comprise a key skills supply. part of operations. Training courses which increase knowledge of Sveaskog’s working methods. Loss of FSC® Risk Management certiﬁcation Lack of quality in silvicultural activities and considerDocumented routines and work processes in all ation for nature as well as deﬁciencies in work and parts of the business. Internal and external audits follow-up of social responsibility can result in as well as training for continual improvements. Sveaskog losing its FSC® certiﬁcate, which would have a signiﬁcant impact on the timber business. Financial risks Financing risk Risk Management Assets are partly ﬁnanced with external loans. This A well-diversiﬁed loan portfolio of lenders and constitutes a risk if a large borrowing requirement investors with good ﬂexibility and competitive arises in a tight credit market. pricing. Interest rate risk Risk Management The risk that Sveaskog is exposed to a disadvantaSveaskog’s policy is an average ﬁxed interest term geous interest rate situation with a large loan portfolio. on the loan portfolio of 12–48 months. Credit risk Risk Management The risk that a counterparty is unable to fulﬁl The ﬁnance policy regulates maximum credit obligations. exposure in the investment portfolio. For commercial credit exposure some major customers are exempted, otherwise credit insurance is taken out for other customers. Public opinion risks Opinions about the Risk Management forest Opinions about the use of the forest which restrict Active in the forest debate. forestry can affect proﬁtability and the value of forest land. Reduced conﬁdence Risk Management The brand and conﬁdence in the company can be afCode of conduct, internal routines, active information fected and thus customer relations and cooperation. work and ongoing dialogue with stakeholders. 21 22 22 Sveaskog’s key sustainability issues Sveaskog analyses the entire value chain in order to identify and work with the most relevant environmental, social and economic issues. This provides us with an understanding of how we affect others. In dialogue with other stakeholders we can minimise our environmental impact and work in a sustainable manner. Here we describe the key areas within sustainability where we consider that we have the greatest impact in the value chain. Sveaskog reports on sustainability according to the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) guidelines. Our entire GRI index with explanations of indicators is available at www.sveaskog.se. Business ethics The code of conduct provides the basis for how employees and companies should behave in relation to each other, to customers, contractors and other stakeholders. The code is based on Sveaskog’s values: Customer focus, Innovation, Simplicity and Transparency. Sveaskog is an important player in the local community and cooperation with local contractors and suppliers is essential for the development of our operations. Sveaskog regularly monitors how contractors and suppliers are complying with the code of conduct through self-assessments and internal audits. Read more on page 28. Identiﬁed GRI aspects: Supplier Environmental Assessments, Supplier Assessments for Labour Practices, Supplier Human Rights Assessments, Supplier Assessments for Impacts on Society. Impact mainly occurs outside Sveaskog. GRI indicators: EN32, LA14, HR10, SO9. Satisﬁed customers Satisﬁed customers are the basis for value-creating sustainable business. During 2014, Sveaskog focused on developing its customer relationships. Sveaskog works both with sawmills and pulp and paper mills in order to develop products together and optimise deliveries. These efforts resulted in a strong improvement in customer relationships. Read more on pages 6–7. Identiﬁed GRI aspect: Labelling of products and services. Impact mainly occurs within Sveaskog. GRI indicator: PR5. 23 Biodiversity All activities within forestry and transports can affect biodiversity. Sveaskog therefore works with nature conservation activities from landscapes to individual forests as well as trees and tree groups which are to be felled. Habitat management is a collective term for a large number of different management methods used by Sveaskog. All methods are intended to maintain or develop biodiversity in the forest. Sveaskog also works to rectify historical contamination. Read more on pages 29–30. Identiﬁed GRI aspect: Biodiversity. Impact occurs both within and outside Sveaskog. GRI indicators: EN12–13. Economic performance Sveaskog delivers signiﬁcant values to society. Sveaskog has approximately 700 employees and about 600 contractors. Most of these work in rural areas or small communities. The company is Sweden’s biggest owner of forest roads. Over the last ﬁve years Sveaskog has paid a dividend of SEK 7.6 billion to its owner, the Swedish state. Read more on page 42. Identiﬁed GRI aspect: Economic performance. Impact mainly occurs outside Sveaskog. GRI indicator: EC1. Equal opportunity, diversity and skills supply Mixed groups perform better and Sveaskog therefore wants to increase the number of women in the company. Greater diversity is also important for Sveaskog to be able to ensure its skills requirement is met and continue to develop its operations in the longer term. Sveaskog operates in places where depopulation is a problem and wants to help keep rural areas alive by offering employment opportunities. Read more on page 28. Identiﬁed GRI aspects: Employment, Occupational health and safety, Training and education, Diversity and equal opportunity. Impact primarily occurs within Sveaskog. GRI indicators: LA1, LA6, LA9, LA11–13, HR3. Climate effects The forest and how we use wood play a key role in climate work. Through photosynthesis the growing forest binds carbon dioxide. When the forest binds carbon dioxide it acts as a carbon sink. Wood is a renewable raw material unlike ﬁnite fossil resources. Due to the way Sveaskog manages the forest it binds carbon dioxide at the same time as more renewable wood raw material is produced. Sveaskog also tries to adapt forest management to unwelcome future climate effects such as storms and a warmer climate. Read more on page 31. Identiﬁed GRI aspects: Energy, Emissions, Economic performance. Impact mainly occurs outside Sveaskog. GRI indicators: EN3–4, EN15–17, EC2. 24 Stakeholder scenario and materiality assessment Many people are affected by what we do Sveaskog is present throughout Sweden. We create jobs. We make rural areas come alive. We give many people powerful nature-based experiences. And the wood raw material is found in many things around us. This means that many people are affected by what we do and how we do it. ••• Sveaskog’s operations concern and affect many different In surveys conducted among customers, contractors, stakeholders. The numerous applications for forest, land suppliers and employees the company regularly asks and water lead to a considerable need for dialogue with which issues they feel are most important for Sveaskog many people and organisations. Dialogues are needed to to work with. understand what different stakeholders expect from When Sveaskog identiﬁes the most important sustainSveaskog and so that the company can set priorities in ability issues, the company looks at stakeholder dialogues its operations. Sveaskog has identiﬁed ten stakeholder and the directive from its owner as well as making its own groups which either affect or are affected by the assessment of the company’s impact on the economy, company’s operations. environment and society. This materiality assessment, By listening to these stakeholders, Sveaskog can which is presented below, also provides a basis for areas identify challenges and opportunities linked to its that are included in the sustainability report. The matoperations. Stakeholder dialogues are ongoing in both eriality assessment is reviewed every year on the basis of daily operations and at a company-wide level. The what is happening in the business environment, dialogues dialogues provide valuable information and a basis for during the year and an assessment of the company’s decision. development. Materiality assessment The materiality assessment is an aggregate of the issues that Sveaskog regards as strategically important and the issues that stakeholders regard as most important. Hunting, fishing and outdoor activities Business ethics Local work and assignment providers Biodiversity Coexistence Economic performance High Equal opportunity and diversity Climate effects Training and education Customer satisfaction Significance for stakeholders Occupational health and safety Discrimination Research and development Low Use of land and water Low High Significance for Sveaskog and opportunities to influence The order of the aspects within each of the four ﬁelds has no signiﬁcance. In conjunction with objectives for sustainable business the materiality assessment is reviewed. Customer satisfaction was highlighted as a strategic issue in 2014. 25 Stakeholder scenario Sveaskog has structured and documented stakeholder dialogues. This overview shows the key issues for the ten principal stakeholders. Customers Owner Lending institutions Employees Contractors and credit providers Issues 2014 Product quality, efﬁcient Market return, proﬁtFinancial targets, Skills development and Developed and longlogistics, renewable ability and sustainable stable ﬁnancial ﬂows, supply, equal opportuterm cooperation, vehicle fuels, technical business sustainable business, nity, occupational health renewable energy, development, FSC® and new business opportuand safety, organisation sustainable forest traceability, Sveaskog’s nities management, contract/ role in the market, remuneration issues, reliability, long-term training and working relationships environment, attractiveness of forest industry What is FSC® certiﬁcation, Financial targets and Reports ﬁnancial Internal training Long-term cooperation, Sveaskog measures delivery targets for sustainable targets, ﬁnancial policy, programmes, supports partner contractors, doing? precision, develops new business, corporate prioritises long-term job rotation, active cooperation projects, fuels, timber traceabiligovernance report, business relationships recruitment, work information and ty, market prices, code sustainability report and customers with environment efforts and evaluations of conduct proﬁtability potential develops the organisation Dialogue Survey Customer General meetings, Board Company presentaPerformance reviews and Contractor Satisfaction opportunities Satisfaction Index, meetings, dialogue with the tions, business employee days, employee Index, business develbusiness development Chairman of the Board discussions survey, leader days, leader opment discussions discussions programme, trade union cooperation, valuation dialogue with “the growth game”, workplace meetings Timber Tourism companies, Reindeer Authorities Nature conservation suppliers hunters, anglers, etc. herders organisations Issues 2014 Ability to pay, market Grants land for leases, Considerate silvicultural Swedish Forestry Act, Biodiversity, national prices, renewable leas prices, forest and measures and concesnational environmental conservation energy, quality of felling land for outdoor sions that do not affect objectives assignments, skills activities as well as reindeers’ winter supply, working environgrazing damage grazing – coexistence ment, information about services, technical development What is Leases, investments in Formalised consultaAnnual audits, business Targets for sustainable Sveaskog Good liquidity, market recreation areas and tions, better maps, management system, business, environmental doing? prices, FSC® planning ecoparks, roads and projects to develop follow-up of goals and objectives and targets, for felling assignments, signs, information on land usage key indicators FSC® membership, develops new fuels, the website nature conservation information activities strategy Dialogue Ecopark inaugurations, Consultations about Consultations regarding Excursions, cooperopportunities Supplier Satisfaction hunt leader meetings, silvicultural measures, ecoparks and inauguation, SVP Forestry Index, FSC® cooperconsultations, business cooperation within rations, annual general Herman Sundqvist’s ation, forest days discussions, SVP Swedish FSC® meetings, SVP Forestry blog* Forestry Herman Herman Sundqvist’s Sundqvist’s blog* blog* * Sveaskog’s SVP Forestry Herman Sundqvist’s blog started in spring 2012. It is a discussion forum and provides a natural contact between employees, industry professionals and the forest-interested public. 26 Principles and control mechanisms Sustainability Sveaskog’s objective Sveaskog’s objective is to conduct sustainable business. Sustainability is therefore an integrated part of control and monitoring of operations. Sveaskog has an integrated sustainability perspective The external review consists of auditors reviewing the throughout its operations. All operational targets are Sustainability Report. There is also an external audit linked to sustainability and are reported on pages 6–7 according to ISO 14001 of the integrated business and 30. management system. There is an external audit of the This work is supported by a number of policies and FSC® certiﬁcate and annual surveys for customers, guidelines all of which are available to all employees on employees, contractors, suppliers and the brand. the company’s intranet and to other stakeholders on the website www.sveaskog.se. In group management the Sveaskog’s certiﬁcates: Deputy CEO has overall responsibility for sustainability • ISO 14001, FSC® forestry certiﬁcate own forest and issues and direct responsibility rests with managers in group, FSC® traceability certiﬁcate, PEFC traceability the line organisation. Coordination and follow-up of work certiﬁcate, PEFC forestry certiﬁcate group, AEOF with the sustainability objectives and targets adopted by customs simpliﬁcation/security and protection. the Board and CEO take place in a sustainability council chaired by the Deputy CEO. Sveaskog’s Board submits All Sveaskog’s forests are FSC®-certiﬁed, which provides the sustainability report and the audit committee a guarantee that the forest is managed responsibly. The prepares work with the report. FSC® standard is also applied when felling is commisSveaskog follows up its sustainability initiatives sioned by a third party. For imports the requirement is regularly both internally and externally. Internal quarterly that the timber must be certiﬁed. Traceability certiﬁcation business follow-ups take place in the three market areas allows the origins of the products to be traced. This as well as the subsidiary Svenska Skogsplantor. There helps consumers and companies to make responsible are regular internal audits and self-assessments in the purchases. ﬁeld. There is also an annual follow-up of framework agreements with external suppliers. Cooperation with local contractors and suppliers is important for Sveaskog’s development. The code of FSC® is an independent international organisation conduct, general sustainability requirements linked to the for certiﬁcation of responsible forestry. The aim is Global Compact and detailed requirements for consocially beneﬁcial, environmentally appropriate and tractors control assessments of contractors. Follow-up economically viable responsible forest management. FSC®’s logotype on products represents takes the form of self-assessments and internal audits. independent certiﬁcation of forestry and product Non-conformances are reported in the business manufacturing according to FSC®’s rules. management system. 27 Business ethics, contractors and skills supply High ethical values build conﬁdence We are dependent on our business environment having conﬁdence in us. It is only with their continued conﬁdence that we can continue to be a successful company. Our code of conduct clariﬁes how we should act. It is of major importance for Sveaskog to work with conducting long-term sustainable business and applies dedicated and skilled contractors, among other things to both employees and contractors. A good working when it comes to managing and felling the forest. In environment is also an important competitive tool. The recent years Sveaskog has systematically developed its working environment must be safe and characterised by cooperation with selected contractors among other things respect and conﬁdence. with the partner-contractor concept. In its procurement processes, Sveaskog always requires contractors and Skills supply important suppliers to comply with the code of conduct, general Access to skills within prioritised areas is a prerequisite sustainability requirements and other requirements. for achieving objectives. Skills development through daily Follow-up takes place regularly and if non-conformance exchanges of knowledge and experience as well as a is detected, a dialogue is initiated. If these inadequacies high degree of internal job rotation are key tools. are not rectiﬁed, the cooperation may be discontinued. A leadership programme was completed during the The majority of Sveaskog’s contractors are Swedish year. In the evaluation, leaders say that they believe they companies with local operations. Most of them work have become clearer in their communication and better at within silviculture, felling and transport. Sveaskog delegating. The decline in the Leadership Index will be cooperates with approximately 600 contractors. followed up to ﬁnd the explanation. Sveaskog procures services within these areas for In 2014, Sveaskog started its second talent programme approximately SEK 2 billion per year. Cooperation with aimed at possible new leaders. seven new contractors started in 2014. It is important for Sveaskog’s long-term development to ﬁnd new ways of doing business, to continuously improve Spreads Global Compact itself and its customer relationships. Throughout the To make purchasing more efﬁcient and reduce costs, country employee days have therefore been held where Sveaskog procures framework agreement suppliers. all employees worked with the values and how these can These include travel, hotel and electricity suppliers. In the be put to use in their daily work. procurement process or renegotiation Sveaskog’s aim is Well conducted performance reviews provide a good to get framework suppliers to become signatories to the foundation for participation and are often essential for a sustainability requirements. This means that the Global manager to be able to identify an employee’s training Compact’s principles also include these suppliers. In requirements. 96% of all employees had a performance 2014, ﬁve out of six new framework agreement suppliers review. As regards internal job rotation, 61% of vacant signed the requirements. This means that 50 out of 56 or positons were ﬁlled by internal applicants during the year. 89% have signed the requirements. A follow-up with site Employee turnover was just over 4%. The number of visits took place during the year. Sveaskog measures how training days per employee amounted to 4.5 for both both contractors and suppliers experience the cooperasalaried employees and wage earners. tion. Read more on pages 6–7. Sveaskog offers summer jobs to students studying In order to identify where risks of corruption exist, a forestry programmes, participates in labour market days risk analysis is performed every year. Sveaskog works and offers students opportunities to do their thesis work. with internal control, the code of conduct, guidelines and During the year 50 students from various upper requirements for business partners and a whistleblower secondary school Nature Resource Use programmes did function. The manager responsible goes through the practical work at Sveaskog. Every summer Sveaskog code of conduct with all new employees. offers schoolchildren summer jobs within planting, among Eight notiﬁcations of violations of the code of conduct other things. The youth teams are 50% girls and 50% were received in 2014. All except one were external boys. Young unaccompanied refugees were also offered notiﬁcations. These related to sale of forest land, summer jobs in 2014. inadequate road maintenance and a contractor failing to pay wages in accordance with agreements. All notiﬁcaMore women in forestry professions tions were examined, remedied and feedback provided to The aim is to increase the proportion of female managers the notiﬁers. The internal notiﬁcation related to opinions and women in forestry professions. Group management about the employment process in a recruitment. Meetings and some staff functions attended a gender training have been held to go through the routines in the programme and all managers and employees will receive employment process. training in 2015. During the year various working groups within Sveaskog worked with equal opportunity issues, A good working environment obvious including ﬁnding methods to increase the number of A good working environment is an obvious part of women in forestry jobs. . 28 Biodiversity Nature conservation always in focus We want our grandchildren to also be able to walk on moss under huge spruce and feel the silence. We want to hand over well-run forests rich in wildlife and vegetation. This requires us to nurture the forest, to take good care of it. ••• Nature protection and habitat management are decisive These species thrive best in darkness and so there is little parts of sustainable forest management. or no need for habitat management in spruce and beech Nature protection can be formally protected areas or forests. Over time, several light-demanding species such voluntary set-asides. Sveaskog has chosen to manage as willow, aspen, oak, birch and pine are losers in pristine 20% of its productive forest land as nature conservation forests. When the spruce and beech grow the forests areas. Sveaskog does this is three ways: ecoparks, nature become dark and cold and the light-demanding tree conservation forests and so-called consideration for species disappear over time due to the lack of light. This nature which is left untouched in production forests. is why it is very important to conduct habitat management in forests with light-demanding trees. 36 ecoparks and many nature conservation forests Sveaskog inaugurated ecopark number 36 in 2014. This Activities and controls means that Sveaskog has reached its target for the All activities in the forest affect the landscape and number of ecoparks. biodiversity. The biggest direct effect takes place at Most of Sveaskog’s nature conservation forests in felling. It is therefore important for Sveaskog to leave key the north of Sweden are left to develop freely. Further habitats for ﬂora and fauna untouched. The areas left can south habitat management is conducted to restore or be edge zones, sensitive biotopes and nature conservastrengthen natural values. tion trees. Sveaskog also works to avoid hauling damage. Consideration for nature in production forests consists Guidelines and instructions are developed continuously of trees or tree groups, edge zones and sensitive to ensure that Sveaskog meets its commitments and biotopes that are left in the forest after felling, cleaning certiﬁcations. Conformance is checked through audits or thinning. and random checks. All reports of deﬁciencies are All Sveaskog’s forest holdings including nature registered in the environmental and quality management conservation forests can be seen on a map at system and result in immediate corrective action. www.sveaskog.se. Deﬁciencies reported can relate to hauling damage, damage to sensitive biotopes, damage to ancient Ecopark after major ﬁre monuments and cultural environments, inadequate Preservation of biodiversity requires natural disturbances planning compensated by a machine team, the quality of such as forest ﬁres, forest grazing, ﬂooding, dammed thinning, felled natural value trees, stump height which is wetlands and storm felling. It is therefore important to too high, and thinned areas. allow and emulate natural disturbances in nature A common type of “positive non-conformance report” is conservation forests so as to preserve biodiversity. that a machine team has departed from the plan to avoid On 31 July a catastrophic major ﬁre broke out in causing hauling damage. Västmanland. Sveaskog’s land was also ravaged by ﬁre. The company has decided to make an ecopark from the Remediation of contaminated soil approximately 1,500 hectares of land affected. The Sveaskog owns areas which are contaminated after ecopark will involve a conservation effort that ensures the earlier forest industry operations, mining operations and survival of ﬁre favoured and ﬁre-dependent species other leases. Sveaskog has environmental responsibility throughout Central Sweden. for these areas. Svenska Skogsplantor has a number of nurseries with serious contamination due to previous use Different management needs of pesticides. Some of these nurseries are in need of For species that are dependent on spruce and beech, environmental measures. long undisturbed periods are often the key to success. 29 Sveaskog’s initiatives to protect and develop natural values 20% nature conservation land below the montane forest region Deﬁnition Status 31 Dec 2014 Size Third party measurement Cooperation 36 ecoparks All 36 planned ecoparks have 80,000 ha Swedish Forest Agency, 50-year agreement with the been inaugurated. Ecopark of 145,000* County Administrative Swedish Forest Agency, agreements with the Swedish Board WWF (Effect 20) Forest Agency are in place for 34 of these ecoparks Nature conservation Reported at www.sveaskog.se 300,000 ha Swedish Forest Agency, WWF (Effect 20), Swedish forests County Administrative Forest Agency, County AdminisBoard trative Board and Swedish Society for Nature Conservation (deciduous forest restoration) Nature consideration Control self-assessments 220,000 ha Swedish Forest Agency Method development with when felling follow-up, FSC® audit Swedish Forest Agency Nature conservation in montane forest region Deﬁnition Status 31 Dec 2014 Size Third party measurement Cooperation Sveaskog’s montane forest Nature reserves and ecoparks c. 100,000 ha Swedish Forest Agency, Dialogue with Swedish Forest region boundary is based formed and quality assurance County Administrative Agency on the Swedish Forestry of nature conservation forests Board, FSC® audit Act and FSC® is underway Restoration Deﬁnition Status 31 Dec 2014 Size Third party measurement Cooperation Restoration of wetlands and The objective of 100 restored – – Swedish Wetlands Foundation aquatic landscapes wetlands has been achieved. Swedish Ornithological Society Five aquatic landscapes identiﬁed. * Additional 30,000 ha ecoparks located in montane forest region. Results for targets for consideration for nature when felling Sveaskog has and will continue to have a high quality of values without major negative impact decreased from consideration for nature when felling. Every year the 98% to 96%. This mainly applies to hauling damage company therefore follows up hauling damage and close to waterways and lakes as well as transport across impact on sensitive biotopes, edge zones, natural value water. trees and cultural environments with several environSveaskog carries out several initiatives to achieve the mental values. The target is a challenge, to maintain 99% target of maintaining 99% of environmental values of environmental values in forest management without a without major negative impact. The company analyses major negative impact. felling carried out in areas with assessed high natural The follow-up of nature consideration in 2014 shows values and develops the dialogue with the Swedish Forest that the company achieved 87% of environmental values Agency about the boundaries between production and without a major negative environmental impact. This is nature conservation forests. Sveaskog will also conduct a less than the previous year and a level with which course in 2015 with employees in the ﬁeld about general Sveaskog is not pleased. consideration and improvements in relation to various The difference is largely explained by the natural value environmental values. trees factor, which decreased from 99% to 76% without a major negative impact. Among the felled areas followed Target up in 2014 there are some ten which are assessed as 99% of environmental values to be maintained in forest having high natural values with a large number of natural management without major impact Value 2013 Value 2014 value trees. These individual areas had a major impact on Consideration areas 89 88 Sveaskog’s total result. The company is analysing the Natural value trees 99 76 areas concerned in order to learn for the future. Hauling damage 98 96 For hauling damage the proportion of environmental Mean value 95 87 30 Climate effects The forest counteracts climate change The forest binds carbon dioxide and is good for the climate. The forest and use of wood are therefore important to counteract climate change. We have a clear strategy to contribute to climate initiatives. ••• The forest and its long-lived products are a fantastic leases land for wind power plants. During the year carbon sink. Managed forests in Sweden, including more than 30 wind power plants went into operation. products made from wood raw material, make a net So far about 230 wind turbines have been put up with contribution to reducing carbon dioxide of 60 million an annual production of 1.3 TWh. tonnes per year. This corresponds to Sweden’s total • Contribute to the development of more products carbon dioxide emissions from fossil sources. based on wood raw material For forest owners climate change over time represents Sveaskog is involved in cooperations designed to both risks and business opportunities. The opportunities develop more products where wood raw material is consist of renewable fuels from the forest becoming a used in some way. Areas might include – in addition to key part of the changeover to a renewable society and biofuels – replacing fossil fuels in the mining and steel that demand for wood – which is a sustainable material industry and in chemical industry processes as well as – is increasing. The risks consist of changed weather and developing ecosystem services. temperature conditions. • Reducing Sveaskog’s own emissions of carbon Sveaskog works actively in several ways to counteract dioxide climate change: The target is to reduce own emissions by at least 30% by 2020 compared with 2010. Measures are mainly • Increase growth by managing the forest using focused on transports and felling where the biggest sustainable methods emissions take place. Efﬁcient logistics to reduce This means the forest binds more carbon dioxide and transport and the use of renewable fuels are key areas Sveaskog produces more renewable wood raw for reducing emissions and costs. material. • Adapting forest management to climate change • Contribute to the changeover to renewable energy Sveaskog is also preparing forest management for systems unwelcome future climate effects such as storms and This mainly involves Sveaskog helping to develop a warmer climate. forest-based biofuels and vehicle fuels. Sveaskog also Sveaskog’s carbon footprint (tonnes carbon dioxide/year) 2 million tonnes* The carbon footprint is a measure of operations’ emissions of carbon dioxide. The carbon footprint The estimated net includes emissions from both direct and indirect applications. ability of Sveaskog’s Direct emissions (according to GRI) come from machines and vehicles that are owned or rented by forests to take up Sveaskog as well as from heating of nurseries. Indirect emissions come from operations carried out by contractors within transport, forcing plants, silviculture and road building. This also includes business travel and sequester by bus, air, rail, rental and private cars as well as emissions from energy production of the electricity we carbon. buy. Indirect carbon dioxide emissions comprised 90% of total carbon dioxide emissions in 2014. Starting in 2014, all reported emission figures also include production and distribution of fuels used. * The calculation of how much carbon dioxide Sveaskog’s forests can bind is based on a study of the role of the forest in climate work (2008) by the Swedish University of Agricultural Sciences (SLU) and GEOpartner AG. Forestry and felling (soil scariﬁcation, planting, fertilising, Transports cleaning, (timber transthinning, ports, other Road Electricity felling) logistics) building and heating Travel Taken overall, Sveaskog’s 5,000 1,000 tonnes operations have a positive 13,000 tonnes climate effect tonnes 50,000 tonnes 84,000 tonnes 31 The forest creates jobs and prosperity throughout Sweden. 32 Corporate Governance Report Sveaskog is a limited company owned by the Swedish state. Governance of Sveaskog is based on the Swedish Companies Act, the State ownership policy, the Swedish Code of Corporate Governance (the Code) as well as applicable Swedish and foreign legislation and regulations. Sveaskog makes every effort to apply strict norms and efﬁcient processes in order to create value for the owner and other stakeholders. One clear basis for this is a clear delegation of responsibility. This corporate governance report has been prepared as Nomination of members of the Board is presented in part of Sveaskog’s application of the Code. The report the notice of the meeting and on Sveaskog’s website. has been reviewed by the company’s auditors. The Government Ofﬁces of Sweden is responsible for In accordance with the State ownership policy and election of auditors and a decision on this is made at guidelines for companies with state ownership, Sveaskog the Annual General Meeting. A proposal for election of has made deviations from the Code in two cases: auditors is presented in the notice of the meeting and preparation of decision on nomination of the Board and on Sveaskog’s website. Auditors are appointed with a auditors, which means that Sveaskog has not appointed a mandate period of one year. The practical work of nomination committee, and with regard to reporting of procurement of auditors is handled by the Board’s audit Board members’ independence in relation to the state as committee together with the company and owner. a major owner, which is not reported since the Code in this respect focuses on companies with a diverse BOARD OF DIRECTORS ownership base. The Board is responsible for the company’s organisation and management of the company’s affairs. According to If you wish to read more: the articles of association, the Board shall consist of a Swedish Companies Act minimum of ﬁve and a maximum of nine members. In www.regeringen.se addition, there are two employees representatives with two deputies. The articles of association do not contain Swedish Code of Corporate Governance any regulations on the appointment or dismissal of Board www.bolagsstyrning.se members. The company’s legal counsel is the secretary to State ownership policy the Board. www.regeringen.se/sb/d/2819 Composition of the Board Sveaskog’s articles of association Sveaskog’s Board has eight members elected by the www.sveaskog.se/Om-Sveaskog/bolagsstyrning/ Annual General Meeting of whom four men and four Sveaskog’s code of conduct women. The Board also has two employee representawww.sveaskog.se/Om-Sveaskog/uppforandekod/ tives and two deputies for them. Deputy Board members take part in all meetings. ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING The Annual General Meeting is Sveaskog’s highest The work of the Board decision-making body. The Annual General Meeting of The work of the Board is governed by the Board’s formal the Parent Company Sveaskog AB (publ) was held on work plan. The Chairman of the Board shall ensure that 24 April 2014 in Stockholm. The 2015 Annual General the work of the Board is conducted efﬁciently and that Meeting will be held on Thursday, 23 April 2015. More the Board meets its commitments. According to the information about the 2015 Annual General Meeting is formal work plan the Board shall normally hold eight provided on page 77 in Sveaskog’s Annual Report with meetings per year, in addition to its statutory meeting in Sustainability Report 2014 (in Swedish). conjunction with the Annual General Meeting. The formal According to the State ownership policy, guidelines work plan stipulates which issues should be examined for companies with state ownership and the articles of at each meeting and which speciﬁc issues should be association, members of parliament are entitled to attend submitted to the Board. The work plan also states that and ask questions at Sveaskog’s general meetings. The the Chairman, on behalf of the Board, shall consult with meetings are also open to the public. representatives of the owner on matters of decisive signiﬁcance to Sveaskog. The work plan also contains Nomination process details of the Chairman’s role in the Board and on The State ownership policy and guidelines for stateassignment of responsibilities and tasks between the owned companies specify a different nomination process Board and the CEO. Every year the Board evaluates the than that prescribed by Code with regard to the Board work of the Board and monitors the work of the CEO on and auditors. an ongoing basis. At least once a year the work of the Nomination of the Board is coordinated by the CEO is evaluated without any member of group manageGovernment Ofﬁces of Sweden. The Government Ofﬁces ment being present. of Sweden also submit a proposal for the Chairman of The Board held ten meetings in 2014, including two the Board and chairman at the Annual General Meeting. strategy meetings. In addition to processing standing 33 items on the agenda, the Board made the following Property Committee decisions: (i) that operations conducted by Svenska Prepares issues relating to property acquisition, manageSkogsplantor AB should from 1 April 2015 cease to ment and divestment. be conducted in a separate legal entity and become a business areas, (ii) to perform an administrative review, Audit Committee (iii) to propose that the Annual General Meeting adopts Tasks include preparing the Board’s work on quality new ﬁnancial targets, (iv) to adopt a new property assurance of the company’s ﬁnancial reporting, regular strategy and (v) to carry out a major land deal with the meetings with the company’s auditors in order to be Swedish Fortiﬁcations Agency. At the strategy meeting informed of the focus, scope and result of audits as well in June, the Board discussed the company’s future as to discuss coordination between external auditors and challenges, efforts to reduce carbon dioxide emissions internal control activities and approach to the company’s and alternative applications for wood raw material. risks. The Properties business area ceased to be a separate At the end of the year the committee especially unit during the year. Responsibility for leases and minor prepared the work of procurement of auditors. property transactions has been moved out to the market areas. Responsibility for strategic property transactions Principles for remuneration to the Board remains at staff level. Fees to the Board are decided by the Annual General Meeting. Fees to Board members on committees are Board committees also decided at the Annual General Meeting. In 2014, The Board’s three committees prepare issues ahead of remuneration to the Board totalled SEK 1.39 million. The a decision by the Board. Guidelines for the work of the Board does not have a bonus or incentive programme. committees are found in the Board’s formal work plan. In Employee representatives on the Board and the member addition, there are special instructions for the property employed by the Swedish Government Ofﬁces do not committee and the audit committee. Issues examined by receive a fee. the committees are minuted and reported at the next Eva Färnstrand, Anna-Stina Nordmark Nilsson and Board meeting. Göran Persson invoiced fees through their own companies. An additional charge has been made for social Remuneration Committee security contributions. This arrangement is cost neutral Prepares issues related to remuneration and terms of for Sveaskog. employment for senior executives. Board meetings 2014 10 December 28 January • Reports from committees • Reports from committees • Financial report • Special review function • Budget • Year-end report 2013 • Insurance policy • Auditors’ review • Finance policy • Financial targets • Forest policy • Evaluation of Board work • Evaluation of Board work BER JA N U 4 March CEM ARY Reports from committees 22 October DE • Financial report • Reports from committees FE R • Annual accounts including • Financial report • Property issues M BE BR review of auditors’ opinion on the company’s risks • Audit plan VE RY • Auditors’ review NO UA • Auditors’ information to Board without presence of group • Interim report management • Strategic personnel issues • Ahead of Annual General ER Meeting MAR O CTO B • Property investment • Business plan process CH 24 April 3 September • Reports from committees 2014 • Reports from committees S E PTE M • Financial report • Financial report • Interim report • Interim report IL • Strategy • Business plan including AP R Statutory Board meeting 24 April review of signiﬁcant risks BE and their impact R AU G U AY 9 August ST M • Information on ﬁre in Sala 17–18 June • Reports from committees JUL E • Financial report 16 July Y JUN • Managing challenges • Reports from committees • Forest policy • Financial report • Strategy 34 CORPORATE STRUCTURE regarding how internal control, the part that relates to Sveaskog’s forestry operations with forestry and sales are ﬁnancial reporting, is organised. Internal control relating to organised in three geographical market areas: North, ﬁnancial reporting is intended to provide reasonable Central and South. Svenska Skogsplantor is a business assurance regarding the reliability of external ﬁnancial unit which produces and sells tree seedlings and carries reporting in the form of year-end reports, interim reports out silvicultural services. The company’s operations are and annual reports and that external ﬁnancial reporting is currently conducted in the company Svenska Skogsprepared in accordance with legislation, applicable plantor AB but from 1 April 2015 will be converted into a accounting standards and other requirements on a limited business area. The operating activities are supported by company. group wide staffs. Sveaskog also owns shares in companies where there Framework for internal control is not a Group relationship, where the holding in the wood Sveaskog applies COSO’s framework for documentation products company Setra Group is the largest. and analysis of internal control. The following description of how internal control is organised in relation to ﬁnancial CEO and management reporting, follows this structure. Sveaskog’s CEO is responsible for ongoing management of the company in accordance with the Board’s instrucControl environment tions. The CEO gives presentations at meetings of the The Board has overall responsibility for maintaining an Board. The CEO is responsible for ongoing business effective system for internal control and risk management. activities and contacts with the Chairman and external The Board has appointed an audit committee which stakeholders. The CEO also leads the work of group prepares matters related to risk assessment, internal management. Group management consists of six men control, ﬁnancial reporting and audit. The Board’s risk and ﬁve women. During the year the head of the Central management has been given greater scope in recent market areas left his employment at his own request. years. A new market area manager has been recruited and will Responsibility for maintaining an effective control take up her position in March 2015. environment and day-to-day work with risk management and internal control relating to ﬁnancial reporting is SYSTEM FOR INTERNAL CONTROL AND RISK delegated to the CEO. Managers at different levels in the MANAGEMENT IN CONJUNCTION WITH FINANCIAL company have corresponding responsibility within their REPORTING FOR 2014 respective areas. The most signiﬁcant parts of the control The Board’s responsibility for internal control is regulated environment relating to ﬁnancial reporting are handled in in the Swedish Companies Act and in the Swedish Code the governing documents relating to accounting and of Corporate Governance which also contains a requireﬁnancial reporting and in the accounting handbook which ment for annual external provision of information is published on the intranet. Organisation and governance • Owner guidelines • Owner policy OWNER • General meetings • Articles of association BOARD • Policies • Property Committee • Remuneration • Group organisation Committee • Audit Committee • Governance of operations (Targets and governance CEO GROUP MANAGEMENT principles) • Risk management • Internal control COMMUNICATIONS FOREST MANAGEMENT External • Reporting audit ACCOUNTING, IT, LEGAL AFFIARS HR AND PROPERTIES BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT • Roles, responsibilities and control systems AND INNOVATION MARKET AREA MARKET AREA MARKET AREA BUSINESS AREA NORTH CENTRAL SOUTH SVENSKA SKOGSPLANTOR* * From 1 April 2015 35 Risk assessment and control structures annual report are examined. At least once a year the The Board is responsible for ensuring that the company auditors meet the Board without the CEO or another manages its risks in the right way and that adopted person in group management being present. The auditors principles for ﬁnancial reporting and internal control are participated in ﬁve of the audit committee’s seven complied with. Risks in connection with the ﬁnancial meetings. reporting are loss or misappropriation of assets, unlawful Remuneration to auditors is speciﬁed in Note 6 of the beneﬁt of another party at the company’s expense and Annual Report (in Swedish). other risks relating to material misstatement in the ﬁnancial statements, for example relating to recognition GOVERNING VALUES AND CODE OF CONDUCT and measurement of assets, liabilities, revenues and Sveaskog’s values must permeate the corporate culture expenses or discrepancies in disclosure requirements. and help all employees adopt a common approach to These issues are prepared by the audit committee their day-to-day activities. before consideration by the Board. A number of items in Sveaskog’s values: the income statement and balance sheet have been • Customer focus identiﬁed where the risk of material misstatement is • Innovation signiﬁcant. These risks can mainly be attributed to • Simplicity measurement of standing forest, accruals and the IT • Transparency systems which support operations. Governing values include: Information and communication Sveaskog has information and communication channels • How Sveaskog conducts business designed to promote the completeness and accuracy in Employees must be professional and understand ﬁnancial reporting. For external communication there are customer needs, take initiatives and be innovative. guidelines designed to ensure that the company meets • How employees should act as employees and the owner’s requirement that reporting is carried out in colleagues accordance with Nasdaq Stockholm’s listing agreement. Employees must be led by the vision, goals and strategies and show respect for the integrity and Monitoring activities knowledge of their colleagues Monitoring is performed in accordance with the Board’s formal work plan and the instructions to the CEO. • How managers and leaders take special responsibility Special review function Managers and leaders must create an innovative The Board considers that Sveaskog’s signiﬁcant risks and climate and create an open culture with feedback. risk areas are covered by the risk management process applied by the company. The CFO unit is assigned by Sveaskog has a code of conduct that applies to all the CEO to be responsible for risk inventories and employees. Anyone concluding an agreement with conducting the risk management processes. The CFO customers, suppliers, contractors and consultants must unit is also responsible for a number of central controls ensure and monitor that these comply with the code of combined with local follow-up. Operational responsibility conduct. Sveaskog’s managers shall ensure that the code rests, however, with the market areas and other operating of conduct is complied with in daily operations. The code areas. The Board believes that there is no need for a must always been gone through with new employees, at special review function in the company. The CFO unit is performance reviews, procurements, operational folheaded by the CFO Per Matses and comprises the low-up, etc. The code of conduct is included as an ﬁnance and accounting staffs, IT staffs as well as legal appendix to business and cooperation agreements. and property staffs. In order to ensure compliance with the code there is a special reporting system for non-conformances or AUDIT violations. This whistleblower function is available on the The task of the auditors is on behalf of shareholders to website and provides guaranteed anonymity. The Ethical examine the company’s annual accounting and accountCouncil goes through all notiﬁcations and discusses how ing records as well as the administration by the Board these should be handled. The Ethical Council consists of and the CEO. The Board communicates with the auditors the General Counsel, SVP Environment and the CSR through the audit committee, by auditors attending Board Manager. meeting at which issues ahead of annual accounts and 36 Board of Directors Göran Persson Helene Biström Eva Färnstrand Thomas Hahn Johan Hallberg Birgitta Johansson-Hedberg Education MSc Eng MSc Eng PhD Agronomics MSc Econ BA, Psychology Degree Elected 2008 2014 2008 2007 2012 2001 Born 1949 1962 1951 1964 1974 1947 Position Chairman Board member Board member Board member Board member Board member CEO Färnstrand projekt AB Researcher at Stockholm Investment Director/Under Resilience Centre Secretary at Swedish Government Ofﬁces Other assignments Chairman of Cambio Chairman of Cramo Oyj. Chairman of Infranord AB. Board member of the Royal Board member of Teracom Chairman of Almi Stockholm Healthcare Systems AB, Board member of Svensk Board member of Indutrade Swedish Academy of Boxer Group AB and Sörmland, Sankt Lukas Scandinavian Biogas Fjärrvärme and KTH AB. Board member of IVA, Agriculture and Forestry. Infranord AB Sverige AB, Svenska Fuels Internationals and Royal Swedish Academy of Board member of the Linnésällskapet. Board Sörmlands kött AB Engineering Sciences Nuclear Waste Fund member of Copenhagen Economics and Vitec AB Previous experience Prime Minister of Sweden CEO of Norrenergi AB, Plant Manager Södra Cell Secretary to the Committee Investment banker HSBC President and CEO of 1996–2006. Leader of Vattenfall in various Mönsterås, CEO Tidningsof Inquiry on the Value of Investment Bank, Stockholm FöreningsSparbanken and Social Democratic Party positions, including Deputy tryckarna, Business Area Ecosystem Services, SOU Corporate Finance, Lantmännen 1996–2007. Minister of CEO Manager SCA. Board 2013:68. Chairman of Lenner & Partners. Finance 1994–96. Member member of Domsjö Fabriker, Economists for the Chairman of Teracom Group of Parliament and Vice Södra Cell, Handelsbanken’s Environment and involved in AB, Springwell Group AB, Chairman of Standing regional bank in Stockholm The Millennium Ecosystem Oak Capital AB. Board Committee on Finance City, Schibsted Trykk and Assessment member of Metria AB, 1993–94. Member of Proﬁlgruppen Arbetslivsresurs AR AB Parliament and Chairman of the Agricultural Committee 1991–92. Minister for Schools 1989–91 Board meetings Attendance 10 of 10 7 of 7 10 of 10 10 of 10 10 of 10 9 of 10 Remuneration Committee Chairman – – – – – Attendance 3 of 3 Audit Committee – – – – Board member – Attendance 7 of 7 Property Committee Chairman – – – – Board member Attendance 5 of 5 5 of 5 Remuneration 2014, SEK Board 400,000 150,000 150,000 150,000 – 150,000 Committee 50,000 40,000 37 Anna-Stina Mats G Ringesten Eva-Lisa Lindvall Sture Persson Per Eriksson Lars Djerf Nordmark Nilsson Education BSc Economics MSc Econ Elected 2006 2009 2007 2003 2010 2010 Born 1956 1950 1951 1957 1966 1966 Position Board member Board member Employee representative Employee representative Employee representative, Employee representative, appointed by Association of appointed by the Swedish deputy, appointed by appointed by Swedish Managerial and Professional Forest and Wood Trade Akademikerföreningen. Forest and Wood Trade Staff. Union. CEO Hjälmare Kanal AB, Union. Planning Manager Harvester operator Manager for Land business. Harvester operator Other assignments Deputy Chairman of Member of the Royal Svenska Kraftnät. Board Swedish Academy of member Dedicare AB, Engineering Sciences PartnerInvest AB, Swedish Academy of Board Directors Previous experience CEO Företagarna, authorPartner Neuman & Nydahl. Property Manager, Sveaskog, ised public accountant and Director and Head of former Press Ofﬁcer Swedish manager PwC, Healthcare Corporate Strategy and Forest Industries Federation, Director Stockholm County Business Development AB project leader Skogforsk, Council, County Council Volvo, SVP with responsibility production leader and timber Director Norrbotten. CEO for Group Strategy & purchaser Sydved AB Piteå-Tidningen. Director Business Development at of Roads. Directorships in Procordia AB. Leading companies, hospitals, positions within the Shell universities, foundations Group, among others. Board and organisations member of V&S Group, Pandox AB, Kongsberg Automotive A/S, VSM Group, Pharmacia Diagnostics Board meetings Attendance 10 of 10 10 of 10 10 of 10 10 of 10 8 of 10 7 of 10 Remuneration Committee – Board member – – – – Attendance 2 of 3 Audit Committee Chairman – – Board member – – Attendance 7 of 7 6 of 7 Property Committee – – Board member – – – Attendance 4 of 5 Remuneration 2014, SEK Board 150,000 150,000 – – – – Committee 40,000 10,000 Auditors Audit ﬁrm PricewaterhouseCoopers AB with Martin Johansson as auditor in charge. 38 Group management Per-Olof Wedin Per Matses Linda Andersson Nina Arkeberg Viveka Beckeman Karin Ericsson Fredrik Klang Position President and CEO Deputy CEO, CFO SVP Communications PA to the CEO, co-opted SVP Legal Affairs SVP HR SVP South Market member of Group Mgmt and Property* Area Education MSc Eng MBA BA Communications MSc Business AdminisLLB BSc Sociology MSc Forestry and Science tration & Management PhD from SLU Born 1955 1958 1971 1967 1971 1956 1970 Employed 2011 2010 2004 2011 2012 2001 2000 Assumed current position 2011 2010 2004 2011 2012 2001 2012 Previous CEO of Svevia, Head of Executive Vice Information adviser at PA to the CEO of General Counsel Aditro Personnel Manager, Regional Manager experience Stora Enso business President and Gullers Grupp, MR Svevia and Grycksbo Holding, lawyer at Administration Sveaskog Götaland, areas Uncoated Administrative Director Ofﬁcer at Vattenfall, Pappersbruk Advokatﬁrman Vinge, Manager, Personnel District Manager and Magazine Paper and at Apoteket AB, MR Manager at Clark at the Court of Secretary and Welfare Head of Silviculture Pulp, head of Transport Finance Director at Posten. Member of Appeal, law clerk at Ofﬁcer at Norrbotten Västra Götaland, and Distribution unit, Postgirot Bank and the Swedish Forest Helsingborg District County Council. Board AssiDomän Forestry. CEO of Grycksbo Finance Director at Industry Federation’s Court member of the SLA Pappersbruk, managePosten Communications Forest Section and ment positions at SCA Council Chairman of SLA Norr. and Modo Other assignments Board member of Board member of Setra Group AB Setra Group AB * Member of Group Management since 1 February 2014. Tommy Nilsson Lena SammeliHerman Sundqvist Hans Welff Jan Wintzell Eva Karlsson Berg Johansson Position SVP North Market SVP Svenska SkogsSVP Forestry SVP Market Area SVP Business DevelopSVP Central Market Area plantor Business Area Central (until Oct. 2014) ment & Innovation Area (from March 2015) Education MSc Forestry MSc Forestry MSc Forestry and MSc Forestry MSc Forestry MSc Eng PhD, SLU Born 1954 1959 1963 1958 1961 1959 Employed 1999 1985 1994 1990 2013 2015 Assumed current position 2012 2005 2008 2012 2013 2015 Previous Forest Manager at Nursery Manager, Forest Strategy District Manager, Leading positions at Managerial positions experience Domänverket (the Regional Manager, Manager at Sveaskog, Sveaskog, Silviculture Pöyry Management with Stora Enso for Swedish Forestry Marketing Manager at Silvicultural Manager Manager, AssiDomän Consulting past 20 years. Service), Account Svenska Skogsplantor at AssiDomän Forestry Forestry Executive at AssiDomän, Market Area Manager at Sveaskog Other assignments Board member of Chairman of the Chairman of Skogforsk, Shorelink and Committee for Seedling Chairman of Swedish Effektivare SkogsProtection in Forestry Forestry Association, bränsle-System and the Swedish Forest Member of the Board Nursery Association. of KSLA, the Forestry Industry’s Forest Committee and Swe Tree Technologies 39 The forest is the key to a sustainable society. 40 Auditor’s Limited Assurance Report on Sveaskog’s Sustainability Report (This is a translation of the auditor’s report in Swedish published in the Sveaskog Annual Report 2014, p 72) To Sveaskog AB (publ) Introduction responsible for the preparation of the Sustainability We have been engaged by the management of Sveaskog Report, and applying analytical and other limited AB to undertake an examination of Sveaskog’s Sustainassurance procedures. The procedures performed in a ability Report for the year 2014. limited assurance engagement vary in nature from, and are less in extent than for, a reasonable assurance Responsibilities of the Board and Management engagement conducted in accordance with IAASB’s for the Sustainability Report Standards on Auditing and Quality Control and other The Board of Directors and the Group Management are generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden. The responsible for the preparation of the Sustainability procedures performed consequently do not enable us Report in accordance with the applicable criteria, as to obtain assurance that we would become aware of explained on page 73 in the Sustainability Report, and all signiﬁcant matters that might be identiﬁed in a are the parts of the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines reasonable assurance engagement. Accordingly, we (published by The Global Reporting Initiative, GRI) which do not express a reasonable assurance conclusion. are applicable to the Sustainability Report, as well as the Our procedures are based on the criteria deﬁned by accounting and calculation principles that the Company the Board of Directors and the Group Management as has developed. This responsibility includes the internal described above. We consider these criteria suitable control relevant to the preparation of a Sustainability for the preparation of the Sustainability Report. Report that is free from material misstatements, whether We believe that the evidence we have obtained is due to fraud or error. sufﬁcient and appropriate to provide a basis for our conclusion below. Responsibilities of the auditor Our responsibility is to express a conclusion on the Conclusion Sustainability Report based on the limited assurance Based on the limited assurance procedures we have procedures we have performed. performed, nothing has come to our attention that We conducted our limited assurance engagement in causes us to believe that the Sustainability Report is not accordance with RevR 6 Assurance of Sustainability prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the Reports issued by FAR. A limited assurance engagement criteria deﬁned by the Board of Directors and Group consists of making inquiries, primarily of persons Management. Stockholm, 10th March 2015 PricewaterhouseCoopers AB Martin Johansson Fredrik Ljungdahl Authorised Public Accountant Expert Member of FAR 41 About the sustainability report Sveaskog describes its sustainability work and reports its by the Sustainability Council. performance against objectives for sustainable business First, all aspects of GRI’s requirements were analysed in a sustainability report which is published in March each on the basis of how important they are for the work with year and relates to the period 1 January–31 December. sustainable development which Sveaskog has identiﬁed From 2014 the report is prepared in accordance with the as signiﬁcant and where each aspect’s effect is greatest, Global Reporting Initiative’s guidelines (GRI G4) and within or outside the company. Based on the identiﬁed externally assured. The report thereby adheres to the aspects the various indicators were analysed and a owner’s guidelines for external reporting. decision taken in the Sustainability Council as to which The Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) is a networkshould be reported. based organisation working in cooperation with the UN The report includes a total of 21 of GRI’s indicators Environment Programme. The organisation has drawn up which are listed with page references in the GRI index global guidelines for how companies report information published on www.sveaskog.se. All GRI’s proﬁle related to sustainable development. Detailed information disclosures are reported. about GRI and its regulatory framework is available at www.globalreporting.org. Boundaries Sveaskog complies with GRI’s guidelines and reports The information applies to the whole of Sveaskog, unless the results achieved for the reporting period against the stated otherwise, a group which also includes the wholly background of the undertakings, strategies and sustainowned subsidiaries Svenska Skogsplantor AB and ability governance. The intention is to present, measure Sveaskog Baltfor SIA. The sawmill group Setra Group AB, and accept responsibility towards stakeholders, both which is owned to 50% by Sveaskog AB, is not included within and outside the company, for what has been in the sustainability report except for that part of the achieved in work towards sustainable business. ﬁnancial result for Setra Group AB which affects The 2014 sustainability report, which comprises pages Sveaskog Förvaltnings AB’s earnings. Sveaskog has two 23–31, 42–44 and the GRI Index on www.sveaskog.se, members on Setra Group AB’s board and is thus able to meets the requirements for criteria according to Core inﬂuence Setra’s sustainability work. GRI G4 and is reviewed by the audit ﬁrm PricewaterhouseCoopers AB. The Board’s signature of the 2014 Global Compact Sustainability Report and the Auditors’ limited assurance Sveaskog has supported the UN Global Compact report will be found on page 70 in Sveaskog’s Annual initiative since 2005 and thereby takes a clear stance on Report with Sustainability Report 2014 (in Swedish) and issues related to human rights, social conditions, environon page 41 respectively. mental responsibility, freedom of association and anticorruption. The Global Compact is derived from the Scope of the report Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the Rio DeclaraSveaskog’s ambition is to provide a comprehensive report tion on Environment and Development which means that of sustainability initiatives, where both negative and Sveaskog commits to working proactively to minimise positive development is clearly stated. Sustainability work environmental risks throughout the company, the ILO’s is based on the code of conduct and the policies and Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at guidelines which govern operations. The undertakings Work and the OECD’s principles and guidelines for how resulting from certiﬁcation and various memberships, multinational enterprises should conduct responsible including FSC® and Global Compact, are of major business. More information about the Global Compact is signiﬁcance for sustainability work. available at www.globalcompact.org. Sveaskog works to To support the issues that have the most effect substantiate how these principles are reﬂected in the on Sveaskog as a company and which are most business. Each year a “Communication on Progress” signiﬁcant for Sveaskog’s external and internal stake(CoP) report is submitted to the Global Compact holders to take into account, the work is based on a presenting the GRI indicators associated with the materiality assessment carried out and decided upon principles. Sveaskog generates and distributes value to different stakeholders as follows: SEKm Stakeholder 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Value generated Revenues From customers 7,773 7,257 6,619 6,361 6,500 Value distributed Operating expenses To suppliers and contractors –5,087 –5,048 –4,850 –4,468 –4,411 Employee wages and beneﬁts To employees and social security costs –523 –578 –535 –552 –522 Net interest expenses To loan institutions –234 –246 –317 –291 –280 Tax To the Swedish state –321 –220 –117 –131 –155 Dividend to shareholder To the Swedish state through (paid during the year) the Government Ofﬁces –487 –856 –4,473 –435 –450 Value retained 1,121 309 –3,673 484 682 42 Sveaskog’s employees Relates to the entire Sveaskog Group unless otherwise speciﬁed. All emRelation between men’s and women’s salaries ployees included in the data have employment contracts with the Group. Since the number of contractors hired during the year varies, these are not included. 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Wage earners Employees Women/men 13/292 17/283 16/252 21/250 18/248 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Women’s median salary Permanent employees 720 726 702 693 678 in relation to men’s, % 92 95 91 86 86 Average number of employees, incl. temporary employees* 964 1 008 949 899 877 Salaried employees Number of wage-earners 320 314 288 293 287 Women/men 110/277 113/283 113/285 108/277 103/274 Number of salaried Women’s median salary employees 400 412 414 400 391 in relation to men’s, % 95 98 99 99 99 Number of part-time/ The comparison does not take into account that different requirements are permanent employees 8/720 9/726 9/702 15/693 11/678 made for different positions but only provides an overview of salary structure Number of full-time/ per agreement area. Salary information and number of employees refer to permanent employees 712/720 717/726 693/702 678/693 667/678 permanent employees in Sweden (excluding foreign subsidiaries). Number of HR managers 99 102 93 95 91 Average age, years 48 48 48 48 48 Number of permanent employees by region Employees within different (market area): age groups –29 101 122 97 94 34 Market area/region 2012 2013 2014 30–49 406 415 403 384 312 North* 239 214 207 50– 457 471 449 421 332 Central* 233 257 249 Proportion recruited internally, % 72 50 79 60 61 South* 139 131 135 * Total number of hours worked/1,650. Stockholm** 55 54 52 Latvia/Lithuania 33 34 34 Finland 3 3 1 * Including employees in staffs stationed within the market area. Breakdown of employees in the Group ** Stationed at the head ofﬁce in Stockholm. 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Women, %* 19.4 20.2 19.9 19.7 19.8 Men, %* 80.6 79.8 80.1 80.3 80.2 Total employee turnover Women/men 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 on the Board, %** 67/33 67/33 50/50 43/57 50/50 Women/men Total 6.9 6.6 5.9 6.2 4.6 in group management, % 33/67 33/67 30/70 36/64 36/64 Women managers, % 25 23 27 26 22 Women/men By age group By market area * Relates to average number of employees. Joined Left Joined Left Joined Left ** Elected by annual general meeting. 6/25 15/31 <30: 12 0 North 7 9 30–50: 18 24 Central 11 22 >50: 1 22 South 4 7 Stockholm 7 6 Baltfor 1 1 Finland 1 1 Total sickness absence of employees’ total regular working hours, % * Proportion of employees employed for at least three years with no sickness absence during the past two years. 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 ** Work-related injuries: accidents, travel accidents, work-related illnesses which on Sickness absence total, % 2.4 2.0 2.1 2.6 2.7 reporting date are expected to lead to absence. Also includes minor injuries at a ﬁrst-aid level. Sickness absence women, % 2.5 2.4 3.4 3.1 3.4 Contractor’s accidents are not included. Sickness absence men, % 2.3 1.9 1.8 2.5 2.6 Work-related injuries are reported in SKIA, the forest industry’s information system for working Long-term sickness absence, % of total sickness absence 51.2 41.4 36.1 49.7 45.4 environment operated by AFA Insurance on Long-term health, %* 40.7 42.9 43.3 44.4 41.3 behalf of the industry. Injuries are not reported by region, but follow-up takes place in the local Notiﬁed work-related injuries**/1,000 average employees 8.3 6.0 9.5 4.4 6.8 safety committees within each market area. *** Total number of injuries divided by hours Notiﬁed work-related injuries, according to GRI*** 7.3 7.2 11.5 5.4 8.3 worked x 200,000. Total absentee days due to work-related injuries**** 66 52 261 33 128 **** All absentee days (of planned working days) commenced within two days of the workSickness absence due to work-related injuries, % 0.03 0.02 0.13 0.02 0.10 related injury. 43 Environmental data 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Production All deliveries, thousand m3sub 11,268 10,605 10,721 10,807 10,838 Deliveries from own forests, thousand m3sub 5,694 5,704 5,962 6,255 6,561 Biofuel deliveries, thousand m3sub 1,461 1,498 1,479 1,359 999 Energy consumption Non-renewable fuels, TJ 1,895 1,750 1,781 1,806 1,752 Renewable fuels, TJ 109.1 80.5 Indirect energy consumption, MWh 10,551 10,143 9,509 9,254 9,222 Emissions to air Fossil CO2, ktonnes 145 133 134 138 153* Of which direct emissions, ktonnes 20 18,5 14 13 16 Of which indirect emissions, ktonnes 125 114.5 120 125 137 Land Total land area, million ha 4.2 4.1 4.1 4.0 4.0 Of which productive forest land, million ha 3.3 3.1 3.1 3.1 3.1 Proportion of unfelled total growth, % ** 44 44 39 40 35 * Starting with the 2014 reporting both production and distribution of fuel are included in the emission calculation. ** Including uncultivated forests. 44 GRI index The below index provides an account of Sveaskog’s reporting according to Global Reporting Initiative’s guidelines GRI G4 and where the information can be found. P = page All page references below refer to Sveaskog’s Annual Report/Sustainability Report 2014, in Swedish W = www.sveaskog.se Content index Standard disclosures Where to ﬁnd information Comments STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS Indicator G4-1 Statement from the CEO about the relevance of sustainability for the organisation and its strategy 2-3 ORGANISATIONAL PROFILE Indicator G4-3 Name of the organisation Cover G4-4 Primary brands, products and/or services 10-14 G4-5 Location of the organisation’s headquarters Back covers G4-6 Number of countries where the organisation operates and names of countries where the organisation has signiﬁcant operations 8-9 G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form 2, 4, 34, 56 G4-8 Markets served 4, 8-9, 12-14 G4-9 Scale of the organisation 9, 41, 74 G4-10 Total number of employees by employment contract, employment type, region and gender 74 G4-11 Percentage of total employees covered by collective bargaining agreements 95% G4-12 Description of organisation’s supply chain 10, 29 G4-13 Changes regarding the organisation’s size, structure, ownership or supply chain 9, 29, 34-37 G4-14 How the precautionary approach is addressed 73 G4-15 Externa hållbarhetsinitiativ som organisationen stödjer Global Compact, The Haga Initiative G4-16 Memberships of associations (such as industry associations) and national or international advocacy organisations Sveaskog is a member of several industry organisations: The Forestry Research Institute of Sweden, Forest Stewardship Council, UN Global Compact, Eustafor, AEIBOM, Svensk Vind, SLA, Forest Based Sector Technology Platform IDENTIFIED MATERIAL ASPECTS AND BOUNDARIES Indicator G4-17 Entities included in the organisation’s consolidated ﬁnancial statements 73 G4-18 Process for deﬁning the report content (materiality assessment) 24-25, 73 G4-19 Aspects identiﬁed in the process for deﬁning report content 24-25 G4-20 Aspect boundary within the organisation for each material aspect 24-25 G4-21 Aspect boundary outside the organisation, for each material aspect 24-25 G4-22 The effect of any restatements of information provided in previous reports, and the reasons for such restatements 26 G4-23 Signiﬁcant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope and aspect boundaries 73 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT Indicator G4-24 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organisation 27 G4-25 Basic for identiﬁcation and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage 26-27 G4-26 Organisation’s approach to stakeholder engagement 26-27 G4-27 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the organisation has responded to these key topics and concerns 26-27 REPORT PROFILE Indicator G4-28 Reporting period 73 G4-29 Date of most recent report 73 G4-30 Reporting cycle 73 G4-31 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents Inside back cover G4-32 GRI content index www.sveaskog.se G4-33 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report 73 GOVERNANCE Indicator G4-34 Governance structure for the organisation 34-37 ETHICS AND INTEGRITY Indicator G4-56 Organisation’s values, principles, standards and norms of behaviour such as codes of conduct and code of ethics 4, 29, 37 45 Report content Speciﬁc standard disclosures Material aspects Governance (DMA) Where to ﬁnd information Comments Economic impact ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE G4 EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 2-4, 6-7, 9, 28, 34-37, W 73 G4 EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organisation’s 4, 6-7, 9, 28, 34-37, W 14, 18-21, 32 activities due to climate change Environmental impact ENERGY G4 EN3 Energy consumption within the organisation 4, 6-7, 19-21, 28, 34-37, 75 7, 32, 75 G4 EN4 Energy consumption outside the organisation 4, 6-7, 19-21, 28, 34-37, 75 7, 32, 75 BIODIVERSITY G4 EN12 Description of signiﬁcant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity in 6-7, 18-21, 28, 31, 34-37 11, 30-31, W protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas G4 EN13 Habitats protected or restored 4, 6-7, 19-21, 28, 31, 11, 30-31, W 34-37 EMISSIONS G4 EN15 Direct greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 1) 4, 6-7, 19-21, 28, 32, 2, 7, 32, 75 34-37, W G4 EN16 Energy indirect greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 2) 4, 6-7, 19-21, 28, 32, 7, 32, 75 34-37, W G4 EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 3) 4, 6-7, 19-21, 28, 32, 2, 7, 32, 75 34-37, W SUPPLIER ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT G4 EN32 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria 3, 4, 6-7, 19-21, 28-29, 29 34-37, W Social impact – Labour practices and decent work EMPLOYMENT G4 LA1 Total number and rates of new employee hires and employee turnover by age group, 4, 6-7, 19-21, 28, 34-37, W 74 gender and region OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY G4 LA6 Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and 4, 6-7, 19-21, 28, 34-37, W 74 total number of work-related fatalities, by region and gender TRAINING AND EDUCATION G4 LA9 Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, and by employee category 4, 6-7, 19-21, 28, 34-37, W 29 G4 LA11 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews, 4, 6-7, 19-21, 28, 34-37, W 29 by gender and employee category DIVERSITY AND EQUITY OPPORTUNITY G4 LA12 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee category 4, 6-7, 19-21, 28, 34-37, W 38-40, 74 Sveaskog does not according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity register employee minority group membership or ethnicity. G4 LA13 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men by employee category, by signiﬁcant locations of operation 4, 6-7, 19-21, 28, 34-37, W 74 SUPPLIER ASSESSMENT FOR LABOUR PRACTICES G4 LA14 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using labour practices criteria 3, 4, 6-7, 16-19, 26, 28-29 30, 34-37, W Social impact – Human rights NON-DISCRIMINATION HR3 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken 3, 4, 6-7, 19-21, 28, 36-37, W 29 SUPPLIER HUMAN RIGHTS ASSESSMENT G4 HR10 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using human rights criteria 3, 4, 6-7, 19-21, 28-29 28, 34-37, W Social impact – Organisation’s role in society SUPPLIER ASSESSMENT FOR IMPACTS ON SOCIETY G4 SO9 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using criteria for impacts on society 3, 4, 6-7, 19-21, 28-29 28, 34-37, W Social impact – Product responsibility PRODUCT AND SERVICE LABELLING G4 PR5 G4 PR5 Results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction 3, 4, 6-7, 19-21, 2, 6-7, 27 28, 34-37, W 46 Sveaskog AB Reg. no. 556558-0031 Sveaskog’s Group Ofﬁces Stockholm SE-105 22 Stockholm Tel +46 8 655 90 00 Visitors’ address: Torsgatan 4 Kalix Box 315 SE-952 23 Kalix Tel +46 923 787 00 Visitors’ address: Torggatan 4 Mail: info@sveaskog.se www.sveaskog.se Contact: Charlotte Jönsson charlotte.jonsson@sveaskog.se Tel: +46 8 655 92 74 47
