SELF-ASSESSMENT  Includes an explicit statement of continued support for the UN Global Compact and its ten principles  Description of actions or relevant policies related to Human Rights  Description of actions or relevant policies related to Labour  Description of actions or relevant policies related to Environment  Description of actions or relevant policies related to Anti-Corruption  Includes a measurement of outcomes  Statement of continued support by the Chief Executive Officer  Statement of the company's chief executive (CEO or equivalent) expressing continued support for the Global Compact and renewing the company's ongoing commitment to the initiative and its principles. 5th October 2015 To our stakeholders: We are pleased to confirm that MAKA Engineering Pte. Ltd. reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. We commit ourselves to the further development of those principles within our sphere of influence. Our participation was prompted by basic principles of UNGC in the way we conduct our business. We felt that the principles are aligned to our own principles of conduct. We are proud to share homogenous ideas and be part of an international development towards professional ethical conducts. We will continue support the UNGC Principles and look forward to report our progress again next year. In order to support public accountability and transparency concerning our efforts, we are committed to share this information with our stakeholders. Sincerely Yours, Wong Ken General Manager. HUMAN RIGHTS  Assessment, policy and goals Description of the relevance of human rights for the company (i.e. human rights risk-assessment). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on Human Rights. MAKA is committed to develop an organizational culture which supports internationally recognized human rights and avoid any involvement in the abuse of human rights. We provide an environment which supports and promotes equal opportunities, dignity and mutual respect. This is clearly stated in our Human Rights and Sustainability Policy.  Implementation Description of concrete actions to implement Human Rights policies, address Human Rights risks and respond to Human Rights violations. MAKA practice no discrimination in race, age, gender and religion. All our employees are allowed to practice their chosen religion and belief without prejudice. Our employees are different ethnics and they are all treated equally. In MAKA, we make sure our foreign workers have an appropriate accommodations and facilities during their stay and work in Singapore.  Measurement of outcomes Description of how the company monitors and evaluates performance. During the reporting period, there are no complaints from employees regarding any violation of Human Rights in MAKA. LABOUR  Assessment, policy and goals Description of the relevance of labour rights for the company (i.e. labour rightsrelated risks and opportunities). Description of written policies, public commitments and company goals on labour rights. We respect the rights of employees to freedom of association and collective bargaining. An open door policy has been established where employees can report grievances to their upper management and the Human Resource Manager.  Implementation Description of concrete actions taken by the company to implement labour policies, address labour risks and respond to labour violations. Our employees had been trained on Labour awareness training and will continue to train all newly recruit employees.  Measurement of outcomes Description of how the company monitors and evaluates performance. No grievances or complaints were reported during this period. MAKA did not receive report of any accident case involving loss of life. ENVIRONMENT  Assessment, policy and goals Description of the relevance of environmental protection for the company (i.e. environmental risks and opportunities). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on environmental protection. MAKA have implemented ways in helping the environment, specifically in recycling. We are conscious of paper printing to see if necessary or if can be electronically saved. A “ Go Green “ approach is taken before anything is printed.  Implementation Description of concrete actions to implement environmental policies, address environmental risks and respond to environmental incidents. There are recycle bins in the office for recyclable items to be placed. We look forward for other ways of reducing our carbon footprint.  Measurement of outcomes Description of how the company monitors and evaluates environmental performance. Our recycle bins are being used on a continued basis. ANTI-CORRUPTION  Assessment, policy and goals Description of the relevance of anti-corruption for the company (i.e. anticorruption risk-assessment). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on anti-corruption. MAKA does not condone or tolerate any corrupt practices, either by its employees or its suppliers; we address our intolerance towards corruption in our Human Rights and Sustainability Policy as well as supplier Code of Conduct.  Implementation Description of concrete actions to implement anti-corruption policies, address anti-corruption risks and respond to incidents. Our employees had been trained on Anti Corruption training and our suppliers had been briefed on the importance of Anti Corruption Policy. MAKA will continue to train all newly recruit employees and brief new suppliers to ensure that all employees and suppliers are fully aware and understand MAKA’s strong stand against corrupt practices in all form. We take reasonable steps to ensure that our books, records and overall financial reporting are transparent.  Measurement of outcomes Description of how the company monitors and evaluates anti-corruption performance. No fraudulent or corruption activities were reported during this reporting period.
