CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Our Responsibility We want to grow and we care about how we do it Arla’s principles for ethics and sustainable development are contained in Our Responsibility – Arla Foods’ Code of Conduct. Arla’s Board of Directors approved the Code of Conduct and it is now available in nine languages and can be downloaded from www.arla.com. The Code serves as both a tool and a compass, guiding us on how we should behave and take responsibility within our business. The Code of Conduct Responsibility governs Arla’s throughout our entire Working responsibly in Arla responsibility work value chain Arla strives to work in a responsible manner throughout its entire value chain; from the work at farms and with suppliers, to operations and distribution, even including recycling of packaging material and supporting consumers to reduce waste. We want to grow and we care about how we do it. We address ethical and quality matters in a sustainable and responsible manner to safeguard the company’s reputation, profitability and growth. To ensure internal commitment to Arla is a global company. Each of the Code, we have established a CSR our business groups deliver content committee with our CEO as chairman and material to this annual and with representatives from our senior report. The report describes how management team. The committee we are progressing in our work with prioritises the areas that need additional responsibility and also gives us the focus. opportunity to readdress, and clarify, the areas on which we need to focus in the future. Embedding a Welcome to our responsible culture A holistic approach 2014 Corporate Responsibility report The 11 areas that the Code describes are the ones covered in this report, from Business principles to Human rights. We have chosen to group these areas under the four themes: Responsible company, Confidence in products, Care for the environment and animal welfare, and Respectful relations. Content 4 8 26 Foreword 4 Responsible company 8 Confidence in products 26 About Arla 6 Business principles 10 Food safety 28 Operational principles 14 Food and health 32 Case study 16 Case study 34 Market conduct 18 Case study 20 Procurement 22 Unless otherwise indicated, the facts and figures in this report cover Arla Foods’ fully owned dairy companies in 2014. Some examples from fully owned subsidiaries and joint venture dairy companies are also included. The report’s chapters correspond to the 11 areas of Arla Foods’ Code of Conduct, which was first published in the spring of 2008. More information is available at www.arla.com. 36 48 62 Care for the environment Respectful relations 48 Detailed facts and references 62 and animal welfare 36 Workplace 50 Arla detailed facts 62 Environment and climate 38 Human rights 54 Materiality 63 Case study 42 Community relations 58 Reference to Global Compact 64 Agriculture 44 Case study 60 Which market is mentioned Case study 46 where? 65 We take joint responsibility for people and planet As a farmer, Arla’s sustainability work is with sustainable methods. In today’s connected We will grow together easy to understand. It’s the same approach society, it is more important than ever that we In this report, Arla explains openly and honestly we have on our farms. We constantly strive communicate our responsible way of working in what has gone well during the year and what can to reduce our resource consumption, order to gain the confidence of our customers be improved. I think this is important for me to we look after our animals and our fields, and consumers in new and existing markets. know as an owner, as well as for Arla’s employees and we are as efficient as possible. Why? and everybody else who is interested in our Well, because in the long run it’s all about An example of constructive ownership business. profitability. For Arla and for us as farmers. cooperation is the new strategy for sustainable dairy farming. Here, we as owners have come Even though the economic situation currently We also understand that sustainability work is together to further reduce our carbon footprint, is tough on many farms, I’m confident about ongoing. There is always room for improvement but we also want to improve animal health and Arla’s continued growth. New owners and new – at our farms and in terms of the demands we reduce our use of resources and environmental employees have much to offer and we can learn owners make on Arla. Thanks to our democratic impact. I’m convinced that this will contribute to from each other. Since we owners are convinced organisation, through which all owners have an an improved bottom line at our farms. of the importance of a sustainable Arla and are opportunity to influence important decisions, we confident in the job we are doing, we can easily can set clear goals that we then follow up and feel We have also decided that our Arlagården® raise the bar. By pulling together we will make Arla proud of. quality programme, which encompasses animal even better and this is a huge strength. welfare, environmental considerations, food The cooperative shows its strength safety and milk composition, should now be Arla’s strong growth, both in terms of the introduced into all our owner countries. This may business and the number of owners, is, of well be seen as onerous by some, but it’s all about course, a challenge. But the more farmers we working together to produce safe raw milk to a are, the stronger we become and the greater consistently high quality, irrespective of where it the effect the sustainability improvements comes from. Both these initiatives lead to quality Ösarp, Sweden, February 2015 that we – about 13,500 dairy farmers – have and development, and even more confidence decided to implement. As Arla grows, it means in Arla among customers and consumers. that more people in the world have access to Confidence that will ultimately lead to us farmers Åke Hantoft nutritional products that have been produced getting paid more for our milk. Chairman of the Board of Directors 4 When I look into the eyes of my children, All this is the result of dedicated work by Arla to our corporate culture and strategies, and and grandchildren in the future, I want to colleagues, and I am pleased to see that our communicating these to our stakeholders and the be able to say that I did all I could to lead colleague engagement survey shows top level world around us. This report is part of this work, Arla in a responsible and sustainable way. scores. This tells me that our responsible culture and it also forms part of Arla’s Annual Report I think this goes for all of us at Arla – we generates both great job satisfaction and high 2014 which is available for download at have a strong will to act in the best way performance. www.arla.com. for both people and planet. Our focus is good growth It is my belief that Arla will grow by adding longAt Arla, we have chosen to display great Going forward, we need to continue to keep term sustainable value to people’s lives, whether responsibility and take the lead in areas close to focus on high standards for food safety, which of they are owners, customers, partners, colleagues our core. I believe our dedication on this path course is a prerequisite. Securing animal welfare – or simply people who want to enjoy a natural, will benefit us as a commercial dairy company, and good environmental practices are also healthy dairy product that makes them feel good. committed to generating revenue for our owners, high on our agenda, as well as on consumers’. This is what I hope you will find examples of in this the farmers. Sustainability and profitability go As Arla continues to grow, we will need to keep report. I also hope it will inspire you to follow us hand in hand. doing things in new and better ways. With more on the responsible way we have chosen. colleagues and entering new markets, we need Arla leads the way to make sure that the broad perspective of One example of many from the past year is our respecting human rights is embedded in the new health strategy, which we are now putting company. And, for new markets, we have the into action. With this we send a message across challenge to develop suitable products. In all that we will do more to provide healthy, natural areas, we will also strive to further increase our and safe food to a growing world population in transparency. a sustainable way. Our approach to sustainable dairy farming also makes me proud. Here, we have We support Global Compact taken lead in the industry, e.g. through showing Seven years ago, Arla joined the United Nations Aarhus, Denmark, February 2015 support for responsible soy production. In Global Compact, an important initiative to addition, we continue to drive the environmental promote ethical business practices. As a agenda with tough targets to achieve our participant, we are committed to aligning the Peder Tuborgh environmental strategy 2020. 10 basic principles of the Global Compact CEO 5 About Arla Arla Foods is a global dairy company and a programme, which includes improving working More owners in more countries cooperative owned by dairy farmers in seven methods and processes. Furthermore, during At the start of 2014, we welcomed 1,300 new countries: Denmark, Sweden, UK, Germany, the year, we implemented structural changes in owners from the UK. In August, the merger with the Netherlands, Belgium and Luxembourg. Sweden and we announced redundancies in the EGM Walhorn was approved, which meant that Our products are sold under well-known UK. Arla, in addition to more owners in Germany and brands in more than 100 countries. We have Belgium, now also has owners in the Netherlands. production facilities in twelve countries and Investing for the future The recent increase in the number of owners has sales offices in 35. Arla is the world’s fifth Arla invests for the long term in order to secure led to changes in Arla’s Board of Directors and largest dairy company, based on milk intake, the highest value for owners’ milk. For example, Board of Representatives. Work is also underway and the world’s largest producer of organic we invest in increasing sales of branded products. to create a common payment model for milk. dairy products. Furthermore, our new large dairy in Aylesbury in the UK is now in operation and supplying fresh Volatile milk price Arla continues to grow milk to the important UK market. Arla Foods From a relatively high level at the start of 2014, Arla has maintained its high growth rate and in Ingredients, which provides ingredients to the the milk price for Arla’s owners was reduced six 2014, net revenue increased to EUR 10.6 billion, global food industry, is investing successfully times during the year. Global supplies of raw milk which corresponds to an increase of 7.5 per cent in production and sales of lactose and whey have increased. One reason for this is the abolition over the previous year. In order to also maintain proteins. of European milk quotas in 2015, encouraging profitability, we operate with a long-term savings many farmers to start producing more. The year MANAGEMENT ORGANISATION OF THE ARLA GROUP Chairman: Åke Hantoft Vice Chairman: Jan Toft Nørgaard Executive Board CEO: Peder Tuborgh Vice CEO: Povl Krogsgaard Corporate Corporate Affairs Supply Chain NET REVENUE 10.6 Corporate HR Corporate Finance Global Categories Consumer UK Consumer Sweden Consumer Denmark and Operations Consumer Consumer Consumer Finland Subsidiaries International Central Europe EUR 10.61 billion (EUR 9.86 billion in 2013), of which 72 per Arla Foods has its headquarters in Aarhus, Denmark. For more information on corporate functions and business groups, please cent comes from our core markets of UK, Germany, Sweden, see page 62. Diagram2: Owners_A_p6 Diagram3: Raw_milk_p6 Denmark, Finland and the Netherlands. Profit for the year was EUR 314 million (EUR 295 million in 2013). Diagram1: Milkprice_p6 MILK PRICE, AVERAGE PER KILO OWNERS RAW MILK INTAKE, MILLION KILOS EUR 0.4 Denmark 4,550 UK 3,848 Sweden 3,366 Sweden 2,035 0.3 Denmark 3,144 Germany 1,744 UK 2,854 Belgium 403 Germany 2,769 Netherlands 266 0.2 Belgium 997 Luxembourg 119 Luxembourg 228 Finland 255 Netherlands 55 Other countries 166 0.1 The number of owners increased by 6.2 per cent during the Arla’s total raw milk intake amounted to 13,385 million kilos, 0 year. an increase of 5.6 per cent. Owners’ milk represents 88 per 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 cent of the total raw milk intake. 6 2014 also saw reduced demand from China and Sweden Netherlands Finland ■■ Owners 3,366 ■■ Owners 55 ■■ Colleagues 333 Russia’s ban on imports of dairy products from ■■ Colleagues 3,301 ■■ Colleagues 315 ■■ Raw milk 255 million kilos Europe. However, the milk price for the entire ■■ Raw milk 2,035 million kilos ■■ Raw milk 266 million kilos year, the Arla performance price (see page 14), is Saudi Arabia slightly higher than 2013, calculated in euros. Denmark Belgium ■■ Colleagues 869 ■■ Owners 3,144 ■■ Owners 997 ■■ Colleagues 7,262 ■■ Raw milk 403 million kilos Eastern Europe Sustainable milk production ■■ Raw milk 4,550 million kilos ■■ Colleagues 577 Arla continues its focus on high quality milk and Luxembourg sustainable milk production. The Arlagården® UK ■■ Owners 228 North America ■■ Owners 2,854 ■■ Raw milk 119 million kilos ■■ Colleagues 483 quality programme has now been implemented ■■ Colleagues 3,550 in all owner countries except the UK, where it ■■ Raw milk 3,848 million kilos Other countries will be introduced during 2015. A strategy for ■■ Colleagues 619 sustainable dairy farming has also been launched. Germany This is part of Arla’s environmental strategy, which ■■ Owners 2,769 ■■ Colleagues 1,846 now covers the entire value chain from farm to ■■ Raw milk 1,744 million kilos fork. ARLA’S VISION OWNER DEMOCRACY Germany, Belgium, Creating the future of Denmark 3,144 owners Sweden 3,366 owners Luxembourg and the Netherlands 4,049 owners UK 2,854 owners dairy to bring health Denmark and Sweden and inspiration to the 53 district councils Germany, Belgium, UK world, naturally. Denmark and Sweden Luxembourg and the Netherlands Local organisations Local organisations 6 regions NUMBER OF OWNERS 13,413 The Board of Representatives 179 members and 12 employee representatives National Council DK National Council CE The Board of Directors National Council SE 17 members and 4 employee representatives National Council UK Arla Foods is a cooperative owned by 13,413 dairy farmers in The chart shows the number of members/owners on December 31, 2014. All elections and polls are held according to the Sweden, Denmark, UK, Colleagues_p7 Diagram4: Germany, Belgium, Luxembourg and Diagram5: ’one member, Revenue_market_p7 one vote’ Diagram6: Revenue_product_p7 principle. The Board of Representatives is Arla’s top decision-making body. the Netherlands. COLLEAGUES REVENUE BY MARKET REVENUE BY PRODUCT GROUP Denmark 7,262 UK 3,550 Sweden 3,301 UK 26.6% Germany 1,846 Germany 16.4% Poland 422 Sweden 14.3% Finland 333 Denmark 9.0% Fresh products 41.7% Netherlands 315 Finland 3.3% Cheese 24.7% Saudi Arabia 869 Netherlands 2.4% Butter and spreads 12.6% Russia 155 Growth markets 11.1% Powder products 10.1% North America 483 Value markets 5.6% Whey products 3.3% Other countries 619 Others 11.3% Other products 7.6% Arla’s average of full time employees was 19,155, a decrease Arla’s total revenue has increased by 7.5 per cent from 2013. Cheese and powder products have increased their of 2.2 per cent from 2013. contribution to Arla’s total revenue, reflecting the development on the global dairy market. 7 Responsible company Is it possible to run a profitable business ethically? At Arla, our answer is a resounding YES. But it’s not something that simply happens. It takes know-how, will-power and hard work. 9 BUSINESS PRINCIPLES Responsibility We act credibly and with integrity in all of our operations. comes from knowing right from wrong Arla is a global business as well as a dairy an internal benchmark study where Arla has farmer owned organisation with owners been compared with other global fast moving in Denmark, Sweden, UK, Germany, the consumer goods companies. In the context of Netherlands, Belgium and Luxembourg. the company’s development, decisions have We comply with local legislation in all the been taken to perform a materiality study, to RESPONSIBLE GROWTH countries in which we operate and we are assess supplementary actions to fulfill UN Guiding committed to the principles contained Principles for Human Rights, and to update within our Code of Conduct. This enables us the Code of Conduct and the governance of to act credibly and with integrity, and sets Corporate Responsibility in Arla. An e-learning a good example of responsible business training module covering Arla’s Code of Conduct, conduct. that will be mandatory to complete for all colleagues in Arla, has been developed during Arla’s support for Global Compact the year. The module is currently available in four Arla Foods’ Code of Conduct complements the 10 languages, reaching more than 90 per cent of all STRENGTHENED COMPLIANCE CULTURE basic principles of the UN Global Compact initiative, colleagues in Arla. see page 64. As a participant of Global Compact, we undertake to incorporate this initiative and its Growth through joint ventures principles in our strategy and company culture and Supporting Arla Foods’ Strategy 2017, we to communicate this commitment to all internal continue the development and expansion of our and external stakeholders. This report describes business relations both inside and outside the the progress Arla has made and where we see EU. During 2014, we have established a number opportunities for improvement. of strategic partnerships through joint ventures, around the world, including in South America CSR committee focus in 2014 and Africa. The joint venture partners have all At the CSR Committee’s ordinary meetings in undergone Arla’s partnership selection model SUPPORT FOR GLOBAL COMPACT 2014, the findings from the 2013 CSR report whereby they have been screened and measured were discussed, as well as the results from against predetermined financial, legal and NEW REPORTING CURRENCY COMPLIANCE TRAINING € Arla has switched from DKK to EUR as reporting currency. 700 colleagues have participated in the face-to-face competition law compliance training (570 in 2013). 10 corporate social responsibility criteria to ensure information about possible irregularities. It is that they satisfy our requirements to commit to an additional channel for them to voice their fair business practices and good citizenship. concerns if they feel that they cannot share these with their manager or they feel that management When seriously considering joint ventures or has not adequately addressed their concern. purchases outside Europe, we use an Integrity In 2014, Arla included the Russian part of the Due Diligence Process provided by reliable organisation in the whistleblower process as well partners. During the process the ‘possible new as the former MUH (Germany) and Milk Link (UK) partner’ is checked for issues such as criminal organisations. records, bribery cases etc. After an initial report, we may need to ask further questions, and decide The number of cases reported, however, declined whether we want to proceed or terminate the in 2014. Therefore, we have increased the focus process. on the process by including information in the e-learning training module mentioned previously. Mergers and acquisitions As of 1 August, the merger between Arla Foods Updated anti-bribery policy amba and Eupener Genossenschaftsmolkerei, EGM Arla has updated its anti-bribery policy during Walhorn, has been finalised. See also page 14. 2014. We found a need to strengthen our focus on anti-bribery, ensure we have adequate On 16 October, Arla signed an agreement to measures in place and enhance transparency. A purchase the Swedish cheese company Falbygdens structured roll-out and training programme will Ost from Atria Sverige AB. The purchase is subject to be completed during 2015. the Swedish Competition Authority’s approval. Since the introduction of the anti-bribery policy Whistleblowing function in more countries in 2010, no reporting of facilitation payments Arla’s whistleblowing function provides an has been made. Still, we have identified several additional opportunity for colleagues to report fraud and bribery attempts – most being external ›› WHISTLEBLOWING FUNCTION GENDER BALANCE 12 different languages are available for reporting in the whistleblowing system. 70 30 Our target is for maximum 70 per cent of team members to be of the same gender, at all organisational levels. 11 BUSINESS PRINCIPLES fraudsters attempting to circumvent the internal control system, which expectedly has proven to be robust. Multiple ‘fake president’ attempts have also been encountered, and the awareness activities regarding this have proven to be effective. Bribery attempts stemming from the presence and expansion in new and developing markets have also been reported and dealt with appropriately. The compliance and control culture in Arla Standardised global processes and a sound foundation from which to make decisions are prerequisites for being able to act responsibly as an increasingly growing and global business. Our Global Risk & Compliance function drives the financial compliance agenda in Arla with support from the Compliance & Control Committee established in 2013. Using a risk based approach, the function monitors the compliance maturity in Arla through various activities, including local compliance visits to ensure implementation of adequate risk mitigating measures. Furthermore, Global Risk & Compliance launches awareness programs throughout the Group to support the message from top management and grow the Arla Compliance Culture. In 2014, we increased our efforts to strengthen our colleagues’ understanding of the acceptable use of IT as well as raise cyber security awareness. 12 Efficiency When Arla relocates a production line, it is They can opt to apply for a job at the new normally to increase operational efficiency. But site, pursue short study courses, or look for a then, what happens with the people who worked position with another company. Arla will then goals versus on that line? And how does the environment fare with the need to transport milk further away? work with this information to facilitate the best opportunities to move on. In recent experiences, in Denmark, between 80 and 100 per cent of concern for Every year our analysis will suggest the relocation of production lines, sometimes even whole affected colleagues have had a new job or study plan by the time the closure was made effective. colleagues dairies, in order to improve supply chain efficiency. Cost of future expansion, potential synergies, Early in 2014, our Ashby dairy in the UK was economies of scale, and new technology play closed in favour of the new Aylesbury plant. a large role in our decision. While profitability While the intent was to increase efficiency, it is the leading indicator, we do evaluate the was foreseen that up to 370 jobs would be expected impact on the environment and on the lost in the process. To mitigate this impact, our colleagues who will be affected in the relocation outplacement team worked on an 8-month process. Based on this, we prepare specific plans plan to support affected colleagues with their to mitigate any potential negative effects. next steps, after the first consultation in 2013 – the first step in the UK process. A significant To measure our impact on the environment, investment was made in training courses, we use greenhouse gas emissions as a base for ranging from forklift and lorry operation to job understanding the net effect of our decision. hunting skills and career counselling. Employer Most often, the result is an overall reduction in road shows were hosted covering all shifts to our footprint. Even though longer distances for give colleagues the opportunity to meet with milk transport frequently represent a significant other companies and agencies. In the end, more increase, aspects such as more efficient than 95 per cent of colleagues who wanted to production, reduced energy and water usage, as continue working found alternative employment well as reduced waste output more than offset before the operation was closed. that amount. Back in 2011, the decision was made to move all Since the year 2000, Arla has closed more than production from our Falkenberg dairy in Sweden 50 production sites in Denmark, Sweden and the to Nr. Vium in Denmark. Such a cross-border UK, and closed or relocated their production move made the process of relocating colleagues lines. Experience has shown us that less than difficult. The Swedish outplacement team 25 per cent of the previous positions are created followed the established best practices to help in a new site. That is why once the decision is those affected in preparing for their life outside reached to relocate, the process of supporting our Arla. Not long after the operation finally stopped colleagues begins. We follow different processes in 2013, the Board of Directors approved a project in different locations based on local laws and to open Europe’s largest cottage cheese dairy regulations, ensuring that we do the right thing in the Falkenberg site. When recruitment for the regardless of location. new operation began in 2014, we were happy to find that 80 of our former colleagues had sent in In Denmark, an initial meeting with the Workforce job applications. By the time production started, Council followed by another with the affected 32 of them were back working with us. colleagues is normally held the day after the decision is reached. Information about the Arla will continue to face the need to restructure. upcoming process is shared, and the need for In the process, we are committed to keeping negotiations is evaluated. Colleagues are asked colleagues and the environment in mind. to fill out forms informing us of their expectations. 13 OPERATIONAL PRINCIPLES Active owners We manage our business in a good cooperative spirit that promotes the financial interests of our owners. influence the growing cooperative Arla’s objective is to create value for its Arla has taken a number of measures to diminish owners. In the democratically governed the impact of the situation. The strong price farmer cooperative, all owners have decline has put Arla’s owners under tough an opportunity to influence significant financial pressure and many farms are being decisions. Owners elect representatives financially squeezed. VOLATILE MILK PRICE to the company’s governing bodies. The Board of Directors is responsible for Farmer owners in seven countries making decisions about the company’s The merger between Arla Foods amba and general strategies and for ensuring that the Eupener Genossenschaftsmolkerei Walhorn, EGM company is managed with the cooperative Walhorn, became effective on 1 August 2014. owners’ best interests in mind. EGM Walhorn is a dairy cooperative located in Eupen, Belgium, and has around 800 milk farmers Milk price development in Belgium, the Netherlands and Germany. EGM Arla’s aim is to maximise the milk price paid to Walhorn is a corporate member of Arla Foods EQUAL TREATMENT OF ALL OUR OWNERS its owners so they can continue to invest in and amba. develop their farms. The milk price was at a good level at the start of 2014 and increased further in In addition to EGM Walhorn, Arla has four February. However, a global rise in milk production, corporate members: Arla Milk Cooperative Ltd coupled with a significant fall in demand in China, (UK) with 1,338 individual members, Arla Milk forced Arla to lower its milk price to members. Link Limited (UK) with 1,516 individual members, The Russian import ban on dairy products further Hansa Arla Milch eG (Germany) with 747 individual exacerbated the situation and put pressure on members and MUH Arla eG (Germany, Belgium the European dairy market. Despite a total of six and Luxembourg) with 2,453 individual members. cuts in the milk price during the year, the Arla performance price (payment to the members plus Common settlement model FOCUS ON BEST PRACTICE retainment) for the whole of 2014 was slightly Following the mergers with Hansa Milch, Milk higher than 2013, calculated in euros. Link, MUH, Arla Milk Cooperative and, recently, Diagram19: Milk price changes_A_p14 MILK PRICE DEVELOPMENT EUR 0.5 The graph shows the on-account price, and the dots the performance price – the average payment to the member plus retainment. The performance price is shown once a year, at the time of the Board of Representatives meeting 0.4 in February, when profits are distributed. The performance price for 2014 was EUR 0.417 per kilo of milk. 0.3 0.2 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 14 EGM Walhorn, the owners of Arla have sought owners and paid out when they leave Arla), and to achieve a common settlement model for the partly as collective capital, forming part of Arla’s payment of their milk. In January, the Board of own equity. Directors decided on a new model which will apply to all owners irrespective of their country. The new policy means that owners will tie up The decision means that, for a transitional period more capital in the company and that revenue until 2018, the various components will be from major divestments can be reinvested in combined into one model, which will provide all Arla. The policy will be employed for the first owners with equal payment for equal milk. The time in February 2015 when profits for 2014 are model is based primarily on the content of fat and distributed. The decision on a new retainment protein. For some owners, this means significant policy has followed a comprehensive democratic changes while for others the changes will be procedure, with a three-stage process at the minimal. Read more about the discussions of the Board of Representatives and a large number of new model on page 17. discussions in smaller groups. New retainment policy in place New material for owner seminars In October, the Board of Representatives agreed Owner seminars are organised by elected on a new retainment policy that will secure the representatives for new and established farmers. financing of Arla Foods’ Strategy 2017. As an The seminars aim to increase knowledge about economic association, Arla has decided on annual Arla and create opportunities for owners to results amounting to 3 per cent of its revenue. meet each other in small groups. The aim is also These are distributed to the owners after the to encourage more people to get involved as release of the annual financial statements and elected officials. 717 have participated in this consist of a supplementary payment per kilo year’s seminars, compared to 1,047 the previous of supplied milk, known as the 13th payment, year. and retainment. The latter portion is held in the company, partly as individual capital (linked to the Diagram7: Owners_B_p15 OWNER INTEGRATION OWNERS IN ARLA 57 15,000 12,000 9,000 Netherlands Luxembourg 6,000 Belgium UK 3,000 Germany mentor/new elected pairs are taking part in the mentor Sweden programme to increase integration between farmer Denmark 0 owners in different countries. 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 RESPONSIBLE COMPANY Farmer-owners’ decision has demonstrated the cooperative’s strength EQUAL PAYMENT FOR EQUAL MILK WAS THE GOAL WHEN ARLA’S OWNERS AGREED ON A COMMON PAYMENT MODEL. 16 The task of devising a payment model that operates in seven countries has been achieved, but not without its challenges. Arla’s four chairpersons of the National Councils reflect on the process and the outcome. In January 2014, Arla’s Board of Directors decided on a new payment model for milk for all cooperative owners, irrespective of country. However, the models for quality payment have not yet been decided. As a consequence of the mergers of recent years, the payment models have been slightly different in owner countries. These differences lie in the factors that form the basis of the payment, such as milk content or volume, the logistics supplement for the supply of Johnnie Russell, UK, Steen Nørgaard Madsen, Denmark, Heléne Gunnarson, Sweden, and Manfred Graff, Germany, chair the large volumes and how often the farmer receives National Councils. payment. During a transitional period of four years, the current models will be transformed into a common Arla model that will give all owners equal pay for equal milk. In addition, the milk will “Previously we focused on producing liquid milk specific market conditions mean that change be quality tested in the same way. with a long shelf life, and at that time volume was takes time. “There are also as many opinions as the priority. The logistics supplement was also there are dairy farmers”, adds Manfred Graff, but “To arrive at a common payment model was part new for us”, says Manfred Graff. he also believes that the democratic process of the agreement with the merger between us for arriving at the farmer-owners’ decision has British farmers and Arla, so it came as no surprise”, Heléne Gunnarson, Sweden, describes the demonstrated the cooperative’s strength. Johnnie says Johnnie Russell, UK. process of deciding on the new payment model Russell agrees: “I think that all parties have shown as intense, necessitating many discussions a lot of goodwill in reaching a common ground “The new owners in Central Europe have also and meetings. She thinks that it has required and finding solutions that work for everybody at been prepared for a modified payment model commitment – and a sense of responsibility Arla. We’ve got closer together in the different since the merger with Arla”, adds Manfred Graff, – from all elected members. Steen Nørgaard countries and now understand more about each chairman for the Central European Council. Madsen, Denmark, also emphasises the other’s businesses.” complexity of the task: “At first I wondered how The basis of the new model is that payment hard it could be. But it is far more complicated “The best result of the process so far”, says will be based on the milk’s content of fat and than one might think. We have different Steen Nørgaard Madsen, “is the new system protein. For owners in some countries, this means legislation, different traditions, different cultures for antibiotic control which comes into force in rather significant changes, while others such as and different testing methods at the laboratories.” 2016 when each tanker will be tested.” Heléne Denmark and Sweden, are already familiar with Gunnarson agrees: “This will be good for Arla, for the system. Ultimately, the aim is a common model, but the the individual milk producer and for consumers.” legislation in the various owner countries and 17 MARKET CONDUCT Competing on We have open and honest relationships with all of our stakeholders. global markets with strong brands We must constantly evolve within an no matter where we are, “health” and “natural” increasingly competitive, fast-moving and are important – albeit for different reasons, dynamic global market. It is essential that in different ways, in different markets. consumers trust us. By acting responsibly, communicating openly and maintaining Growth of brands on the global dairy market CONTINUED GROWTH FOR GLOBAL BRANDS an ongoing dialogue with customers, Arla is now the world’s fifth largest dairy company consumers and other stakeholders, we can in terms of volume of processed milk. As stated in create the right conditions for trust. our Strategy 2017, we will focus on growing our global brands to further strengthen our position. Strengthened corporate and brand identity In late 2013, Arla introduced an evolved corporate Apart from our existing markets, we are focusing identity called Good Growth. This is based on on a number of countries with good economic our cooperative and collaborative philosophy, our development prospects, which are not selfresponsible working practices, our natural and sufficient in dairy. This presents Arla with an INCREASED IMPORTANCE OF SOCIAL MEDIA healthy products and our responsibility toward the opportunity to fill a percentage of the gap society, the environment and our colleagues. These between demand and local supply with export have become our guiding principles. They will help of products, still leaving room for a local supply us as we develop our business further and will also of dairy products. Before entering a new market work toward unifying the organisation as Arla grows an evaluation is made from several business and in new and existing markets. ethical perspectives. Read more on page 10. We remain focused on our three global brands: Strength from organic products Arla®, Castello®, and Lurpak®. Our direction will Arla is the world’s largest producer of organic be to dial up the inherent natural and healthy dairy products. Our biggest organic category credentials that dairy has to offer and develop our is fresh dairy products with fresh milk as key GOOD REPUTATION FOR PRODUCTS AND SERVICES portfolio to reflect this. Read more on page 32. product. Organic products are important to us Consumer surveys in eight countries show that, and a driver for both reputation and business in Diagram8: Consumers_view_p18 CONSUMER VIEWS OF ARLA Sweden Finland Denmark Germany UK The diagram shows the overall score on a scale of 0–100, 80 with 100 being the highest and above 70 considered strong, awarded to Arla by consumers in a survey conducted by Reputation Institute in spring 2014. 70 The survey monitors what consumers, familiar with Arla, think about our company in the seven dimensions Product/Services, Innovation, Workplace, Governance, 60 Citizenship, Leadership and Performance. In Denmark, Sweden and Finland, the awareness and 50 familiarity with Arla is high, while in Germany and the UK 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 they are still low. However, consumers who know our brands in these two countries are very positive about the company. 18 several markets. Today, every second glass of milk committed to creating growth for Danish food from Arla foodservice in Sweden is organic, and production (e.g. new innovation centre, investing every tenth in retail. In Denmark, three of ten milk and creating more jobs), and that we engage in glasses are organic, while two in the Netherlands dialogue with key opinion leaders on agendas and a half glass of ten in the UK. such as health and food waste. In Sweden, Arla is generally recognised as a trustworthy dairy Improved reputation on all core markets manufacturer. In Germany and UK, the familiarity For a number of years we have been conducting and awareness of Arla is still low, however annual surveys to monitor what consumers think consumers who know our brands are very positive about Arla in Denmark, Sweden and Finland. In about the company. the last two years, the survey was also carried out in Germany, and since 2014 in the UK. The scores Active consumer contact have improved in all markets, and are considered Millions of people buy and eat our products strong in most of them, see diagram below. every day, and appreciate the cooking inspiration and recipes we offer, both in print and on Products and services are the main drivers of digital platforms. In the case of complaints and reputation in all markets – the public expects high comments, our consumer relations service quality, great taste and good value for money. answers them by telephone, e-mail, social media Expectations are also high for ethical behavior or letter. In our core markets, the consumer and a positive effect in society. These areas are relations services received more than 100,000 top three in four of the five markets, and of high enquiries in 2014. Furthermore, several importance for improvement in the consumers’ consumers are engaged and want to share their eyes. views on topics like animal welfare, additives, packaging etc., which results in active social Compared to other companies, the biggest media channels. difference in Denmark is the consumer recognition that our top management is 15 ARLA AS SUPPLIER DISCOVERING THE JOY OF COOKING TOP 3 In our core markets we are the largest, or one of the three largest dairy companies, producing both Arla branded and own label products, as well as ingredients for the food industry. Continuous dialogue with customers is For the past 15 years, Arla Sweden has arranged the Arla important, and we take their views and requests very Guldko (Golden Cow) competition for customers such seriously. Many of them express their respect for us as a as food retailers, schools and commercial kitchens. The partner and supplier. Yet, in case of delivery difficulties, our competition aims to highlight shining examples which rating decreases quickly because customers want to be can inspire others. We also sponsor national cooking sure to have our products. competitions in Sweden and Finland. RESPONSIBLE COMPANY Global partnership in the best interest of the dairy industry CRITICISM SHOULD BE COUNTERED BY FACTS, EXPLAIN TWO OF ARLA’S RESEARCH MANAGERS. 20 Together with its industry peers, Arla was By sharing knowledge and supporting behind the inception of the Global Dairy independent research, GDP has been able to Platform – a global collaboration to align present results which, in various ways, impact and support the dairy industry the industry or decisions about it. Paul Cornillon pre-competitive agenda. is responsible for Arla’s Strategic Innovation Centre, ASIC, which heads up Arla’s research In the early 2000s, the dairy industry found itself activities. He is enthusiastic about the positive in the firing line. Dairy farmers were held up as effects of collaboration on scientific research and “climate villains” and the media drew attention to information about the results. milk fat’s harmful effects on human health. Paul Cornillon refers to the string of reports that “We saw a need for an organisation that could GDP has published over the years. They illustrate, respond to criticism with facts,” says Henrik J. for example, the dairy industry’s unique ability to Andersen, Senior Manager R&D at Arla Foods optimise raw materials in the production chain, Henrik J. Andersen, Senior Manager R&D at Arla Foods Ingredients, has been Ingredients. “We wanted to put nutritious milk milk protein’s valuable properties and highlight involved with Global Dairy Platform since back on the public agenda and create a global important links between diet and health. its inception. partnership in the best interest of the dairy industry.” “The research findings are, of course, valuable both to companies and national trade Eight years ago, Arla’s CEO Peder Tuborgh, along associations”, says Paul Cornillon. with the heads of Fonterra, Dairy Farmers of America and current FrieslandCampina, formed The GDP partnership has also paved the way for the Global Dairy Platform, GDP. The aim was to other joint research and collaborative projects. bring together facts and knowledge about milk One example is the Sustainable Agricultural production and dairy to promote a long-term Initiative, SAI, which is designed to promote sustainable dairy industry. The formation of GDP sustainable agricultural practices. was a milestone for the dairy industry. Today, more than 25 commercial enterprises worldwide Henrik J. Andersen believes that, in a relatively and at least 45 non-profit organisations are short time, GDP has gained international members. Arla’s CEO Peder Tuborgh has been credibility and that its power lies in focusing on Chairman for the last four years, 2011–2014. specific areas and in coordinating its strengths. Paul Cornillon, responsible for Arla’s Strategic Innovation Centre, ASIC, heads up “I never dreamt that we would get this far in Arla’s research and development. “Our initial strategy was to highlight the issue of such a short time. Through GDP’s collaborative climate change and respond to the question of approach we have realised that we can support milk fat in a nuanced, fact-based way. We also each other, even though we’re competitors. We wanted to talk about everything that’s good can create synergies that benefit both ourselves about milk, something that was previously a and the world around us.” given, but which the industry seemed to have forgotten,” says Henrik J. Andersen. Read more at www.globaldairyplatform.com and www.saiplatform.org. 21 PROCUREMENT Raising the bar We challenge and encourage our suppliers to support us in our commitment to abide by our Code of Conduct. in sustainable sourcing We source goods and services across yet have full coverage. Ensuring the compliance the world. Our ambition is for our of purchases from preferred suppliers is a key suppliers to meet our code of conduct for focus area across Arla, the aim being to reduce suppliers, which governs ethical, social risk and complexity as well as releasing capital and environmental responsibilities. We and decreasing costs. Read more on page 25. INCREASED NUMBER OF PREFERRED SUPPLIERS encourage them to support us to meet our aim of procuring goods and services in a The diagram below shows the external responsible manner. spend handled by Arla’s global procurement department, distributed across product and Benefits with preferred suppliers service categories. Compared to 2013 there is an The global procurement department has overall increase in ingredients, packaging and logistics. responsibility for procurement in Arla, except Our 10 largest suppliers account for 15 per cent for the purchase of milk. The globally managed (16 per cent in 2013) of our total external spend. external spend represented around 72 per cent of IMPROVED SUPPLIER ASSURANCE our total spend in 2014, compared to 76 per cent Improved sourcing process in the previous year. This change is connected to In late 2014, a new IT system supporting the newly merged companies, which are not yet fully sourcing process, contract management, supplier aligned. information and performance management was launched. In full operation, the system will be Arla now has approximately 1,050 preferred used globally for all sourcing activities conducted suppliers (1,030 in 2013) that are approved by by the global procurement department. The the global procurement department. Signed system will enable us to work with harmonised contracts govern the relationship between Arla processes, tools and KPIs supporting consistent and these suppliers and they are Arla’s first choice execution of the sourcing processes. Furthermore, suppliers. We are working to ensure all suppliers it will improve reliability, transparency and TRAINING OF LEAD AUDITORS Diagram9: from recently Global_contracts_p22 merged companies are also scalability since merged companies can adopt covered by Arla documents, however, we don’t Arla’s processes quickly. GLOBAL CONTRACTS External spend distributed across product and service Packaging 27% categories. In 2014, the following companies were our Logistics 25% five largest suppliers in order of size of spend: Tetra Pak Business services 16% (packaging materials and processing and packaging Denmark Ingredients 15% machinery), PCL Transport (distribution), Elopak Maintenance, repair, (packaging materials and machinery), Carat (media) and operations 9% Logoplaste (packaging materials). Energy 7% 22 Holistic view on procurement Improved supplier audit setup Our Total Cost of Ownership (TCO) process We carry out a number of audits every year, helps us to identify cost saving opportunities during which we visit suppliers and inspect for the entire life cycle of products and services relevant areas. During 2014, we revised the purchased. The aim is to achieve a greater supplier audit setup including the development degree of transparency, as well as improved of a new code of practice and new auditing purchasing terms with suppliers. TCO provides a checklist and program. With this we want to holistic perspective that includes considerations ensure increased focus on social responsibility, in relation to environmental sustainability, environment, health and safety beside the ethics and social responsibility when selecting fundamental food safety and quality demands. a supplier. For example, TCO has been used to Moreover, lead auditors have been appointed optimise the use of corrugated packaging at 34 and trained. Supplier audit focus areas for 2014 sites in Denmark and Sweden. A cross-functional have been food safety certificates, allergen group has collaborated to reduce both costs and management, packaging suppliers’ food safety greenhouse gas emissions. and traceability management, as well as food safety management of agents’ and distributors’ Furthermore, we have strived towards FSC supply chains. (Forest Stewardship Council) certified suppliers of corrugated board; a goal that soon will be In 2014, we conducted approximately 40 audits reached. The FSC certificate means that the globally (40 audits in 2013), focusing on using material is produced from responsibly forested our resources on suppliers who are new in Arla, or timber. Liquid board packaging is another with whom we experience difficulties. In addition sourcing area where we aim for all of our liquid to this, we have held a number of meetings with cartons to be made from responsibly forested suppliers, not registered as audits, which have had timber. We are striving for either FSC certification the same broad focus. ›› or PEFC (Programme for the Endorsement of Forest Certification). CERTIFIED COCOA CODE OF CONDUCT FOR SUPPLIERS UTZ 79% All cocoa used by Arla and Cocio for branded products is UTZ certified. We continue to work towards our target of 100 per cent of all preferred suppliers having signed our code of conduct for suppliers. Of all the preferred suppliers, a total of 79 per cent (85 per cent in 2013), in relation to spend, have signed the code. Actions are being taken to close the gap. 23 PROCUREMENT Supplier assurance improvements In recent years, our key focus within supplier assurance has been on setting up and implementing processes and tools for suppliers of ingredients and packaging. Reviews of suppliers of other sourcing categories have primarily been made with regard to product quality and food safety, and to less extent with regard to social, ethical and environmental accountability. During 2014, we have started to review some of these sourcing categories primarily with regard to risk exposure and social, ethical and environmental accountability. The categories involving the highest risk have been prioritised and key risk areas for waste, transport and facility management have been defined. Follow up on palm oil Arla’s requirements on the suppliers of palm oil have been sharpened during the year, and our global statement has been updated, available at www.arla.com. In 2014, 80 per cent of the total Sourcing from volume of palm oil purchased was certified segregated. The remaining volume was covered by Green Palm certificates. By the end of 2015, Arla will only use segregated certified palm oil based products fulfilling the additional demands. a globalised RESPONSIBLE SOY marketplace 100% All soy used at Arla farms is 100 per cent covered by RTRS certificates or Proterra certified. Read more on page 45. 24 As we source milk from over 12,500 farmers our ability to take action if the selected suppliers Our view about what is best for Arla globally can, across seven countries, we are a company with prove unable to meet our expectations, for obvious reasons, be contrary to local interests. strong local roots. Our farmers contribute to for example, in terms of quality or social For example, it is quite natural that a facility might local employment and overall both local and responsibility. Furthermore, our experience is that want to use local suppliers. They are close at national economy. At the same time, we are one large-scale manufacturing is often better from an hand and are often available at short notice. Not of the world’s leading dairy companies, and we environmental perspective. to use local suppliers could lead to businesses endeavour to buy everything – apart from milk – being closed down and jobs disappearing, which from as few global suppliers as possible. We need The main impact with major global procurement would have a negative impact on the local suppliers as business partners who can deliver is the increased distance to the partners and their society. Nevertheless, we believe that for Arla as large quantities, with consistent quality, to many supply chain. The result is that we do relinquish a whole, centralised procurement offers a better locations, at the right time. some of the responsibility for our partners’ selection process and facilitates development. sub-contractors and consequently some of It delivers greater efficiency and product safety, By purchasing larger volumes from fewer the control of what happens further into the and presents lower risks in general. It also makes preferred suppliers, we achieve joint process supply chain. However, we undertake meticulous better financial sense. improvements, standardised products and evaluation of our partners and agree to clear streamlined delivery routines. This also increases contractual arrangements. 25 26 Confidence in products Supplying safe products is Arla’s top priority. And we strive to do even more – we aim to make it possible for consumers to make their own informed choice of products based on clear information and knowledge. 27 FOOD SAFETY Safe products We meet consumer demand for safe dairy products. are our top priority As a responsible food manufacturer we Arla has developed methods for detecting are dedicated to ensuring that eating and contaminant substances in raw milk. Together with drinking our products does not cause the dairy company, Fonterra, and Foss, an analytical illness or injury. We make every effort to solutions provider, we have developed an analysis ensure that our processes are safe, and method which tests whether the composition of GLOBAL FOOD SAFETY STANDARD that high quality standards are maintained, the raw milk has been deliberately adulterated. and continuously improved, throughout The method, which is based on a “fingerprint” of the entire supply chain, from the raw pure milk, makes it possible to detect adulteration material to the finished product. In the rapidly and with satisfactory sensitivity. The event of an issue, we have full traceability method is being tested commercially in Denmark, of our raw materials, ingredients and end Sweden and China. The aim is that the method will products. be used in the dairy industry worldwide. Focus on safe products We are also constantly taking measures to INGREDIENTS MANAGEMENT Our consumers, quite rightly, set high standards avoid contamination. For example, last year we for our products. Surveys show that consumers decided to phase out the use of all cleaning expect that our products are safe to eat and and disinfectant agents containing quaternary drink, but they also want them to taste good, ammonium compounds at all our production be healthy, look attractive and be convenient sites. Zero tolerance for the use of quaternary to use. It is also important for consumers that ammonium compounds for all cleaning and raw materials have been produced in an ethical disinfecting in relation to handling of milk and way, and that any complaints are taken seriously. cows on farms has also been included in the A proper declaration of product content is a quality programme Arlagården®’s requirements. prerequisite for us as a responsible food producer. Recent “food scandals” in the industry have led to Global system for ingredient specifications SUBCONTRACTING DEMANDS increased focus among consumers. When Arla grows, it is crucial that the supply chain doesn’t become too complex. Therefore, PRODUCT RECALLS 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Three of the recalls were caused by potential food safety risks (two due to failure in management of allergenic ingredients Recalls 0 4 6 7 6 and one due to risk of foreign matter in product). Product quality deficiencies caused the remaining three recalls. All If we have to recall a product from consumers or stop a recalls involved minor volumes, each affecting only one product that has been delivered to our customers, we have domestic market. Aside from the recalls, we have made some procedures in place to ensure that we can act immediately. withdrawals from customers’ stores and shops due to product Despite our efforts on quality and food safety routines, we or packaging issues. have recalled products on six occasions during the year, as the products did not meet required standards. Incidents like these always activate a thorough analysis of the causes and initiate actions so that the error we have made is corrected and the quality irregularity is not repeated. 28 we want to align and simplify specification below. Our customers generally accept GFSI management, possibly leading to a decrease in recognised standards, although they do not the number of ingredients. To support this, we necessarily accept the same. Some sites might have implemented a global system for ingredient therefore still have two or three certificates specifications across business groups. Relevant depending on customer requirements, at least in training has taken place in Denmark, Sweden and the short term. The change in certifications is to the UK. Next training will take place in Germany. be implemented during 2015. The goal is to establish more synergies across quality management, product development, High demands on subcontractors sites and customer functions and to ensure As Arla grows, the number of subcontractors for that ingredients used by Arla stay 100 per cent production and packaging also increases. For compliant in relation to company, product and example, some of the production of Arla branded legal demands. Havarti® cheese is handled by a dairy company in Russia. Furthermore, processed cheese slices Towards one global food safety standard are produced in Austria for the Finnish and During the last 10 years, we have experienced Middle East markets. We need to ensure that an increasing demand for documentation and subcontractors follow the same high quality certification within quality and food safety. Some and food safety standards as Arla sites. During sites have up to four certificates, e.g. ISO 9001, 2014, a global process for subcontracting has IS022000, BRC and IFS. Since this leads to an been established to ensure that the decision expensive and time consuming process, we to subcontract is approved and signed by both have decided to simplify site quality and food supply chain and category senior management. safety certifications. The purpose is to focus on The process ensures Arla’s requirements: a signed fewer standards and thereby implement the contract package, specification and relevant requirements in a more efficient way. All sites documentation, operational processes, etc. ›› must, as a minimum, hold one of the GFSI (Global Food Safety Initiative) recognised standards, see FOOD SAFETY STANDARDS FOOD SAFETY CERTIFICATION GFSI 100% GFSI (Global Food Safety Initiative) recognised standards include FSSC 22000 (Food Safety System Certification), BRC (British Retailer Consortium), IFS (International Food of our sites have a certified or approved Hazard Analysis & Critical Control Points (HACCP) system (e.g. ISO 22000, FSSC 22000, BRC, IFS, SQF). Standard) and SQF (Safe Quality Food). FOOD SAFETY GOOD ANTIBIOTIC MANAGEMENT Arla takes seriously the management of the treatment of ill cows and the presence of antibiotics in raw milk. We have continued with our information campaigns and our advisory service in order to improve the management of medicine. As a part of the new payment model, an Arla strategy for antibiotics has been approved. The purpose is to align control procedures across member countries and to avoid taking milk with antibiotics into the production chain, as well as supporting management procedures that minimise the risk of developing antibiotic resistant bacteria at the farm. The strategy includes all steps in the supply chain, from the management of ill animals and antibiotic use at the farm to the release of the milk for production at the dairies, as well as sanctions for farmers’ milk testing positive. The strategy will be implemented in all member countries beginning of 2015 and forward. However, control on tanker level has already been initiated. When sick animals are treated with antibiotics, milk from the cow is discarded at the farm during the period of treatment and for a period of time afterwards. If milk with antibiotics is delivered to the dairy by accident, it is Diagram10: discarded. The diagram Antibiotics_p30 shows the volume of discarded milk at our dairies in Denmark and Sweden, and since 2013 also including the UK and Germany. Tons 6,000 5,000 4,000 3,000 2,000 Germany UK 1,000 Sweden Denmark 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 In 2014, the volume of discarded milk has increased mainly in Denmark, but also in Germany and Sweden. The volume discarded per incident varied significantly according to the size of the silo or tanker in which the milk was contained. The number of occasions has increased in Denmark and Germany, and decreased in Sweden and the UK. 30 Global It is easy to say that Arla is expanding its business to more countries outside the EU. But what does it really mean to start shipping products say from cost-effective product that can fit the health requirements in the target market. Regardless of the path taken, we have applied three key criteria: expansion Denmark to people in Nigeria or Russia? From Germany to the Chinese market? From the UK to the Middle East? never compromise with food safety, always have a positive overall impact in the target market, and always be a long-term business opportunity for puts product As we expand globally, we are faced with multiple Arla. development consumer habits and preferences. On top of that, Nevertheless, in order to remain competitive in infrastructure and distribution bring challenges these growth markets, we often need to develop such as long distribution periods, unreliable new approaches. To reduce the challenge, we at a test access to a cold chain, or exposure to hotter-thanusual ambient temperatures. continuously invest in research and innovation initiatives. An example is the study that led to using protecting cultures to increase the shelf life Consequently, Arla’s global expansion presents of our Apetina® cubes for export to new markets, new dilemmas. Since Arla’s focus is to produce from four to nine months. healthy and natural dairy products in a responsible way, is it then acceptable to include Other initiatives from which we hope to achieve a non-dairy-yet-still-natural additive to achieve a further successes include the establishment of more competitive price? Can we supply a product the China-Denmark Milk Technology Cooperation that is healthier than the current best alternative? Centre in Beijing, developed in cooperation with Should we influence consumers’ perceptions strategic partner Mengniu, as well as the building about what is natural and healthy? of a state-of-the-art Global Innovation Centre for product development in Aarhus, Denmark. These questions are examples of challenges We look forward to being able to develop more we have faced when doing business in growth healthy, natural and affordable products that we regions. In response, we have tried different can bring into our growth markets, thus reducing approaches in our attempt to supply a the pressure to compromise. 31 FOOD AND HEALTH We make it We meet consumer demands for healthy products and nutritional information about products. easier to live healthy We are committed to meeting consumer Inspire good food habits. We believe that good demand for healthy products and reliable food habits and knowing how to cook are a very nutritional information. We inform our good base for a healthy life. consumers about the contents of all our Accommodate specific needs. We want to further products so they can choose those that develop products for people with specific needs ONE GLOBAL HEALTH STRATEGY best suit their tastes and fulfil their needs. (e.g. overweight, malnutrition and digestive issues). Through research, we aim to increase our understanding of the role of dairy products The strategy is now being implemented. A in a balanced diet. key activity is the launch of the Nutrition & Health Intelligence Program that was created New health strategy in place in Arla’s global research and development unit, Arla has launched a global health strategy that Arla Strategic Innovation Centre (ASIC), where builds on our responsibility to promote and offer we are investigating tailor-made products to healthy milk-based affordable and accessible tackle malnutrition and overweight, as well as BREAKFAST INSPIRATION products to people around the world. The products that aim to reduce the risk of diabetes strategy focuses on four areas with the aim to and infectious diseases. We also have a project improve health for our consumers: focusing on the development of healthy and Stimulate healthy diets. We believe dairy is an affordable products for the growing middle class important part of a healthy and balanced diet for in a number of African countries. everyone (across geographies, age and gender) and we strive to make our products even more Focus on good food habits healthy by increasing nutritional value and We believe that a healthy life starts with a good managing the salt, sugar and fat content. wholesome breakfast. In modern life this is too Simplify the choice. We continue to be often skipped or replaced by unhealthy alternatives. completely transparent about what our products Therefore, in many countries we have made it NEW EU LABELLING INTRODUCED contain, making it easier for consumers to make a part of our health strategy to promote good healthy and natural choices. breakfasts. In Sweden, we launched a breakfast NUMBER OF LACTOSE-FREE PRODUCTS 34 INCREASED INTEREST 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Finland 31 30 37 46 68 Sweden 19 32 32 35 43 UK 9 11 11 13 12 Denmark 1 3 3 8 11 Germany – 2 5 5 5 Netherlands – – – 4 4 Consumer interest for lactose-free products continues In addition, most yellow cheeses are practically lactose-free. to grow. In Finland and Sweden, which are our largest markets for lactose-free, we have launched 34 new lactose-free products during the year, not counting new yellow cheeses. 32 campaign including many different media channels existing labelling, e.g. salt content and type of as well as a breakfast cookbook and handouts of vegetable fat. Keeping consumers well informed is complementary breakfast eatables. At the Arla a key priority for Arla. We have made the changes Foundation food camps in Denmark, we help according to the new regulation for all of our teenagers get the skills and inspiration to love good products, and thereby improved the information food. Read more on page 61. given to consumers. Development of healthier products We are still awaiting a decision on mandatory A lot of new and healthier products in different country of origin, which may come in to force in categories have been launched during the year, 2015 and require additional labelling changes. for example, cheeses and spreadables with We support country of origin labelling when reduced salt content and yoghurts with less the information adds value for the consumer. sugar. In our markets, different ingredients are in However, we do not support mandatory labelling focus in connection to health, but in general there as this will hinder the free movement of milk, has been a focus on reducing energy content, which in turn will decrease efficiency and increase sugar, salt and fat. Arla investigates the possibility cost. Our opinion is that the priority should be of using alternatives to sugar replacements with traceability, not origin. the aim to lower calories. In several markets, such as Finland and the Netherlands, high Questioned health impact protein breakfast and snack products have been During the autumn, results were published from a launched. In Denmark and Sweden, we have Swedish study suggesting a possible link between launched skyr and quark based drinks, high in high consumption of fresh milk and negative health protein and with no added sugar. impact. These results gave rise to media attention in many countries mainly due to the contradiction New EU labelling regulation with the current pool of evidence. We continue to In December, a new EU labelling regulation came carefully follow new research in this field. into force with the objective of harmonising INTERNATIONAL COOPERATION REDUCTION OF SALT ILSI & GAIN Arla is an active member of international organisations like ILSI (International Life Science Institute), a worldwide foundation that seeks to improve the wellbeing of the general public through the advancement of science. Arla Foods Ingredients is a member of GAIN Nordic Partnership which is a Nordic unit of the Global Alliance for Improved Nutrition with the mission to reduce malnutrition of population at risk. 31% In the UK, we have cut the salt in our plain soft cheese by 31 per cent, since 2010, to work towards the targets from the UK Food Standard Agency (FSA). CONFIDENCE IN PRODUCTS Responsibility to influence our consumers’ health ARLA’S NEW HEALTH STRATEGY WILL INSPIRE PEOPLE TO EAT WELL, BUT ALSO TO ADOPT A HEALTHY LIFESTYLE. 34 Health is an important word for Arla. The implementation of the new strategy has To clarify what health means for Arla, begun and will mean changes in many areas the company presented a global health – from research into new products to the next strategy in autumn 2014. generation of declarations of contents and how Arla works with marketing and information. The Over the past two years, Arla has reformulated work on health, which has been undertaken at both its vision and its corporate identity to a national level until now, will be more closely emphasise how important ‘health’ is to Arla. Along coordinated so that more people can benefit from with ‘natural’, ‘health’ is a keyword in Arla’s vision, the initiatives and also to clarify the position Arla ‘to create the future of dairy and bring health and wants to take in the health field. inspiration to the world, naturally’, and is one of the four key principles in the company’s identity. Arla’s health strategy will be used throughout the world and has to be relevant and valid regardless Randi Riisager Wahlsten was responsible “Our health strategy is based on the philosophy of the ongoing public debate about what is for efforts to develop Arla’s new health that health is not just about what you eat, healthy or not. “This differs, of course, from time strategy and is now Senior Director, Global but also about a healthy lifestyle”, says Randi to time and from country to country, so we will Growth Platforms. Riisager Wahlsten, responsible for coordinating work with the official dietary guidelines in each the development of the health strategy. “We market. These guidelines actually don’t vary too want to give people a sensible relationship with much as they are often based on the same pool healthy food, in which they can treat themselves of global science.” sometimes.” When Arla enters new markets in developing The new strategy has a holistic approach to countries, there is often a different perception of health that can be applied to different markets what is healthy. For example, some consumers and consumer requirements. Randi Riisager perceive sugar as a positive ingredient that keeps Wahlsten continues: “In broad terms, the strategy kids alert in school, while others see it as empty is about helping people to live healthy lives calories only. In cases like these, Arla’s strategy is by making it easier to choose good products, to adapt to markets in terms of taste and price, inspiring good food habits as well as making good while still being the company that offers the most dairy products perfect for people’s needs more healthy and natural products. accessible and affordable around the world.” “I think it’s great that we now have a shared perspective on how we work with health in Arla. As a global company, we have a responsibility to influence our consumers’ health for the better. Think about how many millions of people’s lives we are a part of every day. That is both an obligation and an opportunity.” 35 Care for the environment and animal welfare From international climate summits to renewable energy and healthy cows. At Arla we address a wide range of environmental and agricultural issues. And our goal is always the same – to work consistently towards reducing our environmental and climate impact, and maintaining high animal welfare standards. 37 ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE We continue We continually improve our environmental performance by applying sound and sustainable principles – from cow to consumer. to reduce our climate impact Food production and the transportation of 2005 levels, despite increased production. The products invariably affect the environment section of the strategy focusing on the farm is by emitting substances into the air, described on pages 44 and 47. the fields and the water. Therefore our ambition is to minimise such emissions A core dilemma we are facing is the centralisation CLIMATE IMPACT PROGRESS and continually reduce our environmental of production resulting in high savings of energy impact within the entire supply chain and greenhouse gas emissions, while the in order to contribute to sustainable environmental impact of more transportation has development. to be considered. Read more on page 13. Environmental strategy 2020 development Energy and water use Arla has developed a roadmap to assess and Arla’s environmental strategy includes efficiency map all the methods by which the business targets of three per cent annual reduction in water can reach its environmental strategy targets and energy consumption up to 2020. By then, half MAPPING OF ENERGY CONSUMPTION – a 25 per cent reduction of greenhouse gas of our energy consumption must originate from emissions in operations, by 2020, from a 2005 renewable energy sources. The sites in Götene, baseline. A roadmap for our operations has been Linköping and Vimmerby, Sweden, now use over completed, and our logistics and packaging 90 per cent renewable sources for heating and roadmaps are being finalised. These latter areas the Swedish site in Visby approximately 60 per are more difficult and highlight the challenges cent. The new dairy in Aylesbury, outside London, that a growing business faces with expanding is built with optimum energy efficiency which will delivery networks and new packaging formats. contribute to achieving our strategy. Read more However, finalising the roadmaps has also shown about Aylesbury on page 43. that our targets, while challenging, are achievable – given focus, innovation and the appropriate Detailed analyses of the energy use have FOCUS ON WASTE investments. To date, Arla’s total climate impact been carried out at all plants in Denmark and has decreased by 12 per cent, compared to the Sweden, and have been initiated in the UK and Diagram11: Energy_consumption_p38 ENERGY CONSUMPTION, TWh 3.5 The diagram includes all Arla facilities at the end of 2014. Previous years’ data has been updated. During 2014, the 3.0 energy consumption increased by approximately 4 per 2.5 cent. This is an effect of a 6 per cent increase in production and an increased share of cheese and milk powder 2.0 production. 1.5 Oil 1.0 Gas Electricity 0.5 Bioenergy District heating 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 38 at some plants in Germany and the Netherlands. improvements. We also test and evaluate fuel We now have a complete overview of energy options available in different markets. consumption for these plants and a specific energy optimisation plan for each one. An In the UK, we are exploring the use of low carbon optimisation project, which has already been fuels, such as Liquefied Bio-Methane (LBM) and carried out at Rødkærsbro’s mozzarella dairy Liquefied Natural Gas (LNG), to run our delivery in Denmark, has significantly reduced the and collection vehicles. The number of British consumption of natural gas. dual-fuel tractors has increased to 23, from last year’s eleven. In Sweden, a switch to biodiesel We are also working systematically to reduce (rapeseed methyl ester, RME) for tanker transport water consumption. For example, Holstebro is being carried out. When the transition is Flødeost (cream cheese), Denmark, has completed in the first half of 2015, we will have succeeded in reducing its water consumption reduced greenhouse gas emissions by 44 per cent by 44 per cent since 2009, mainly by optimising and replaced about 80 per cent of the standard cleaning processes. Over the same period, diesel. All diesel cannot be replaced with biodiesel energy consumption has been reduced by because it cannot be used in very cold weather. 16 per cent. Packaging in focus The total energy and water consumption in Arla We strive to maximise the use of renewable raw shows a limited increase during 2014, although materials in our packaging. One of our initiatives is lower than the increase in production. the switch from fossil to renewable plastic in caps for milk cartons in Sweden. Brazilian sugarcane Transport improvements is used to produce ethanol, which, in turn, is Optimising transportation and minimising processed into polyethylene (PE) that can be fuel consumption are still areas where we can recycled together with common PE made from make improvements. Careful route planning, fossil raw material. With the new caps, 84 per cent driver training and follow-up of fuel-efficient of the packaging is renewable, an increase of driving in vehicles have Diagram12: contributed to further Climate_impact_p39 4.5 per cent. Packaging of liquid cardboard ›› CLIMATE IMPACT, MILLION TONS OF CO2-e Arla’s goal is to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from 2.0 operations, transportation and packaging by 25 per cent by 2020, compared to the 2005 levels. Since 2005, Arla’s 1.5 total climate impact has decreased by 12 per cent, despite increased production. In 2015, further focus will be placed on reaching the 2020 goals. The greatest challenges to 1.0 achieving the climate goal lie within transportation. 0.5 Packaging Transport Operations 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE and secondary packaging largely comprises paper recycling. In Denmark, Arla has participated in and corrugated board with wood as raw material. projects together with the City of Copenhagen focusing on recycling milk cartons and plastic. In the UK, we have made great progress by reducing the amount of plastic in our packaging Breaches on environmental legislation as well as increasing the use of recycled plastic. The notice concerning an environmental breach The light weight Eco bottles that were introduced at Skövde dairy, Sweden, due to high production last year, will be introduced at all our UK volumes has been withdrawn. production sites during 2015. Proactive environmental work Less waste from food and packaging In connection to increasing the production at Another goal within our environmental strategy Danish Arinco and Denmark Protein, we met is the significant reduction of food and packaging with local NGOs to listen to their opinions and waste. We are constantly looking for ways to suggestions for improvement. One of these was reduce food waste from our production. An to buy and close a fish farm with a major impact example of progress is Arla Foods Ingredients’ on the environment in the creek Holtum å. This newly developed technology which will convert would enable us to increase the outlet from the acid whey from quark and Greek yoghurt waste water treatment plant without increasing production into ingredients for regular food environmental impact. We followed the advice Is people’s products, e.g. cream cheese or milk drink. Before, and made a nature rehabilitation in the area, acid whey was usually dumped in land farming or which we expect to have a positive effect for the used as feedstock. fish and plants in the creek. Reducing consumer food waste is another topic with many different ongoing activities. For waste of example, in the Netherlands, we have introduced a new drinking carton with a special shape that food our responsibility? makes it much easier to fold and empty. In the UK, we are members of the Courtauld 3 Voluntary Agreement. This is a waste reduction programme that aims to reduce consumer food waste. IMPROVED WASTE DIVERTING 82% Furthermore, Arla participates in the EU-project FUSIONS – reducing food waste through social innovation, which, among other things, offers us a network to share innovative approaches to inspire consumers to waste less food. Read more about food waste on next page. Recycling of packaging materials works differently in different markets, where Sweden is at the Our plant in Concord, Canada, has reduced waste going forefront. In several countries, Arla is engaged in to landfill by 82 per cent, by diverting organic waste, development projects with the aim of facilitating cardboard, plastics, wooden skids and metal. 40 Food waste is a big issue. The amount of food To support our ambition, we promote better efficiency. Our purpose is to identify waste food that goes to waste in the Western world is said to planning of food purchases and making full use from manufacturers to stores and consumers. be as much as 30 per cent. Being a major dairy of products for consumers: e.g. online tips and In the Netherlands, we are introducing extended company, Arla’s main objective may well be to tricks for using leftovers, weekly dinner plans, shelf life (ESL) milk, prolonging the milk’s market as much dairy produce as possible to climate friendly recipes as well as finding the right durability. In the UK, we participate in different increase the value of our owners’ milk, however, packaging in terms of portion size and its ability to waste reduction programmes, for the grocery we care if people throw our products away be completely emptied by consumer. We choose business and their suppliers as well as for our unfinished. to believe that we can positively impact people’s colleagues. Another way we handle dairy products way of handling their eatables. near the end of their shelf life that cannot be sold Our respect for milk means that we want it to be to retailers, is to donate them to charity. used as good food, ensuring that all resources However, we understand that we can’t do this and efforts that have been used producing it are on our own. We need to cooperate with others We will continue our pursuit to decrease appropriate and efficient. Arla’s environmental and look at the food supply chain starting in consumer food waste and we feel that we can strategy 2020 includes the ambition to reduce our production process to the customers and influence behaviours with our approach. We food waste both from our production units and the consumers. In Denmark, for example, we welcome more partners in our efforts, as reducing from final dairy products in home kitchens by are running a joint project with a retailer group, food waste would be a victory, not only for us, but 50 per cent, compared with 2008 levels. a supplier and a fund for increased resource for society in general. CARE FOR THE ENVIRONMENT AND ANIMAL WELFARE Next generation fresh milk processing BY CONSTANTLY MAKING IMPROVEMENTS, THE NEW UK DAIRY IS SETTING NEW ENVIRONMENTAL STANDARDS. 42 Aylesbury dairy in the UK officially opened The design and layout itself reduces greenhouse in May 2014. With the potential to produce gas emissions by 60 per cent before adding 1.5 million bottles a day, the dairy is set any renewable energy sources or further to become not only the largest, but also operational efficiencies. The first step was to the most efficient facility of its kind when make milk processing as efficient as possible, operating at full capacity. including simple things such as ensuring the vast refrigerated milk storage is faced north to Aylesbury is setting new environmental standards minimise solar gain, locating each process as on a global scale on its journey to achieve “zero close as possible to neighbouring processes to carbon”. It has already achieved zero waste to minimise pipework runs and sited next to those at landfill and will utilise cutting edge renewable similar temperatures to avoid the need to make energy in future developments. “The size and big changes to process water temperatures. scale here reinforces Arla’s leadership in the dairy Jo Taylor is site director at Arla’s new dairy in industry and we have drawn a line in the sand The dairy’s ambitions are not just about the Aylesbury, outside London, in the UK. when it comes to next generation fresh milk building. As Jo Taylor points out, the site has an processing,” says site director Jo Taylor, “Aylesbury extensive ecological management plan in place has taken advantage of previously untapped which looks after local wildlife and a significant technologies and this gives Arla a significant training and apprentice programme. advantage in terms of being more efficient in converting raw milk into the finished product.” “During our recruitment we sought employees with the same values and aspirations for the The site has its own on-site blow moulding facility, future as Arla. We also wanted to develop the producing lightweight bottles which are 25 per competencies of all our colleagues to ensure cent lighter than a standard milk bottle and using we operate our site as efficiently as possible. We recycled material. The ambition is to increase the are developing technical skills through a dairy use of recycled material to 50 per cent. food manufacturing excellence programme to enable each of us to do our best, not just by The amount of water needed across the site has making a one-off improvement, but by making been reduced by utilising water recovery and improvements every day. We have not achieved rain water harvesting. Milk-contaminated water is all our goals yet, but we are working hard towards being turned into useful energy via an anaerobic them every day.” digestion plant which can handle up to 500,000 litres of waste a day, as Jo Taylor explains; “The dairy waste is broken down by bacteria into solid waste and biogas which has the added benefit of saving on waste disposal costs. The nutrient rich solid waste can be spread straight on to farmland which has helped the facility reach its goal of zero waste to landfill.” 43 AGRICULTURE Towards We support sustainable agriculture. increasingly sustainable dairy farming We want to ensure that farms supplying Luxembourg. More than 1,600 farms (40 per cent) milk to Arla operate in a way that shows have been audited by independent inspectors. respect for milk quality, animal welfare Following the merger with EGM Walhorn, the and the environment. Therefore our milk new farmer owners in Belgium, Germany and the suppliers must adhere to our high standards Netherlands, will be integrated in the ongoing SUSTAINABLE DAIRY FARMING when it comes to dairy farm management, auditing process. In order to obtain accreditation STRATEGY LAUNCHED animal welfare and feed quality, as well as in accordance with Arlagården®, the farmer owner to our collective goal to reduce greenhouse must prove that any non-conformances will be gas emissions. corrected within a set period of time. New strategy for sustainable dairy farming We plan to launch Arlagården® in the UK during In January 2014, Arla’s strategy for sustainable the autumn of 2015. However, our UK farmer dairy farming was launched as an important part owners will also continue to adhere to the Red of our environmental strategy that now covers Tractor Farm Assurance Dairy Scheme, since it is ARLAGÅRDEN® IN MORE COUNTRIES the whole value chain from farm to consumer. the UK industry standard. We will strive to avoid The sustainable dairy farming strategy includes double work for the farmers without compromising both voluntary and mandatory parts in four key the requirements from each standard. areas: animals, resources, nature and climate. The climate goal is to reduce the carbon footprint Animal welfare on the agenda across all Arla farms by 30 per cent before 2020, An important part of Arlagården® covers animal compared to 1990 levels. Read more about the welfare, since we want to ensure that cows and development process and the content of the young stock are properly raised by being kept strategy on page 47. clean, healthy and fed in relation to their different needs. To more clearly communicate our view, we Successful implementation of Arlagården® are preparing a global position paper and stand FOCUS ON ANIMAL WELFARE Diagram3: Raw_milk_p6 During 2014, our quality programme Arlagården® concerning animal welfare, which clearly puts this was implemented in Germany, Belgium and in focus. Diagram20: Cows_per_farm_p44 MILK DELIVERED TO ARLA DAIRIES, NUMBER OF COWS PER FARM MILLION KILOS Denmark 4,550 150 2014 UK 3,848 2013 Sweden 2,035 2012 100 Germany 1,744 Belgium 403 Netherlands 266 50 Luxembourg 119 Finland 255 Other countries 166 0 k lan ar UK S Lu wed xe ds e De m nbo ur nm th Be g lg About 12,500 Arla farms deliver milk to Arla in Denmark, er Ge m rm iu Ne Fin an y lan UK, Sweden, Germany, Belgium, the Netherlands and d Luxembourg, accounting for 88 per cent of Arla’s total The number of cows per farm is an average which includes volume. Arla’s total raw milk intake amounted to all dairy farmers in each country. Source: National trade 13,385 million kilos. associations. 44 Responsible soy and Sweden, we are running a proactive project In January 2012, Arla brought forward the to reduce the amount of heat-tolerant (thermotransition to responsible soy in view of the resistant) bacteria. Annual milk screenings negative impact that soy bean farming could and subsequent advice to farmer owners with have on humans and the environment in South particularly high levels of heat-tolerant bacteria America. The goal is to ensure that all soy used as have resulted in significant reductions of bacterial animal feed for cows at Arla dairy farms is grown counts. according to the principles and criteria defined by the Round Table on Responsible Soy Association Organic milk (RTRS) by 2015. Arla is the world’s largest supplier of organic milk products. During 2014, the volume of organic During 2014, Arla became the biggest purchaser milk increased by 3.2 per cent. In Denmark, of RTRS certificates for soy in the world. All organic milk accounts for 7.9 per cent of all milk soy used at all Arla farms is now covered with delivered to Arla, in Sweden 14.1 per cent. In the certificates or Proterra certified. Furthermore, Arla UK, Germany, Belgium and the Netherlands the has joined a European Task Force aiming to create share is between 1.5 and 7.8 per cent. All organic increased attention for the soy challenge. We also milk in the EU has to comply with EU standards participate in various research and development for organic milk, although many countries have projects aiming at providing alternatives to soy in stronger demands legally or through labelling dairy cows diet. schemes. Improved milk quality Most organic milk in Europe is used for fresh dairy Arla is working long-term to improve the quality products. Arla exports organic milk powder to of milk at our owner farms. If the bacterial count China, where it is mainly used in baby formula. is high, this can create problems at the dairies. We offer advice to farmers who experience difficulties in providing milk of sufficient quality. In Denmark FARM AUDITS SUSTAINABLE DAIRY FARMING PROGRESS 40% Carbon Energy Farm assessments assessments workshops UK 2010–2013 870 – 200 UK 2014 233 – 65 Sweden 2013 250 50 40 Sweden 2014 150 100 0 Denmark 2013 426 – 39 Denmark 2014 210 – 0 More than 1,600 farms (40 per cent) in Germany, Belgium Germany 2014 4 – 0 and Luxembourg have been audited for Arlagården® by independent inspectors. In Denmark and Sweden all Total 2,143 150 344 farms are audited as a minimum once in every three year The table shows the number of activities carried out period. following the sustainable dairy farming strategy. CARE FOR THE ENVIRONMENT AND ANIMAL WELFARE Benefits both the farmer’s economy and the environment ARLA’S HANNE BANG BLIGAARD DESCRIBES THE EXPERIENCE OF WORKING WITH THE NEW STRATEGY FOR SUSTAINABLE DAIRY FARMING. 46 Knowledge sharing and cooperation “The carbon assessment can be extremely helpful are what count when Arla farmers in demonstrating how the farm can utilise its seek to make dairy farming even more resources better, such as saving on feed, fuel sustainable. and energy, which benefits both the farmer’s economy and the environment. A win-win Since 2011, when Arla presented its situation. No question!” environmental strategy 2020, efforts to develop a strategy for sustainable dairy farming have been Hanne Bang Bligaard makes no secret of the fact ongoing. The aim is to incorporate the entire that there are some farmers who are questioning value chain from farm to fork. Arla wanting to influence how they manage their farms, but she says that, so far, most of those who The strategy is now in place covering four focus have tried the carbon assessments and other areas: animals, resources, nature and climate. activities have been positive due to the clear and Hanne Bang Bligaard is responsible for the Targets on animal welfare are mandatory for all defined benefits identified. development and global implementation of Arla farmers while the remaining targets are to be Arla’s strategy for sustainable dairy farming. achieved by voluntary activities. As participation is Implementation of the strategy is now underway voluntary, the efforts need to be beneficial for the in all countries where Arla has owners, but the farmer. Arla believes that where there are benefits, type of activities carried out depends on the farmer engagement will be higher. individual country. In the UK, for example, climate checks are already well advanced, while the first “In developing our approach, we have seen the analyses in Germany were carried out in the strength of being a cooperative”, says Hanne autumn of 2014. See table on page 45. Bang Bligaard at Arla, who is responsible for the development and global implementation of Arla’s During 2014 and 2015 more than 180 workshops sustainable dairy farming strategy. “We have will be held in the UK in a campaign named collaborated and discussed with the dairy farmers, “Growing Together”. In Sweden, Arla farmers will who are also our owners, and together we have engage in a biodiversity project in collaboration come up with the activities that have been with regional authorities. incorporated into the strategy.” “We can learn from each other and share As soon as the strategy began to evolve, experiences between countries. The strategy also the climate goal was clear – to reduce total provides farmers an opportunity to exchange greenhouse gas emissions per kg of milk from experiences with each other, which has proved the farms by 30 per cent by 2020 from 1990 valuable and appreciated.” levels. To accomplish this, Arla offers free carbon assessments providing information on how farm emissions can be reduced. 47 Respectful relations Arla has relationships with people, organisations, communities and countries. No matter what the relationship is, we are committed to maintaining mutual respect. 49 WORKPLACE Together for We have competent and committed employees, and provide safe and healthy working conditions. G A L F G O R E N O K I , N O I TA R T S U L L I SDOOF ALRA retemoraB ytisreviD a more global company Arla has 19,200 colleagues of 81 nationalities lowest scores are related to bureaucracy, stress, in 31 countries throughout the world. We open communication and talent management, strive to continually improve our work which we will continue to focus on. environment and organisation. We also work to strengthen our culture by encouraging Safe working environments HIGH COLLEAGUE ENGAGEMENT people to take the lead in their function, We want our colleagues to be healthy and sense new opportunities by collaboration engaged at work and have a working environment and create better solutions for the future. If that is free from accidents and work-related all colleagues enjoy good working conditions, illnesses. Health and safety are as important for and are committed to their work, together we our workplace as food safety is for our products. can do the best job possible. We are working to reduce accidents and illnesses related to physical and psychological risks. Since Barometer engagement survey the root cause of nine out of ten accidents is The annual engagement survey, Barometer, related to human behaviour, we are focusing SAFE WORKING CONDITIONS was conducted in October and sent to 17,200 on increasing colleague engagement in safety colleagues in 27 countries and in 14 different related activities. Promoting work safety is a vital languages. The response rate was 88.2 per part of our Lean optimisation programmes, and cent. Arla keeps outperforming the top 10 per accidents and near misses are evaluated as part of cent of the benchmark group. Results improved our overall business performance. year-on-year. We have an agile organisation and colleagues are highly engaged and aligned This year we initiated different initiatives to stop towards the strategy, but would like to be more harassment and bullying. For example, we are involved in changes. To ensure that all of Arla is developing a policy and a set of guidelines on ready to handle future challenges and growth, it how to act as manager and colleague when is worth considering how colleagues can become experiencing something that is thought to be TRAINING AT ALL LEVELS more involved in changes. The overall results unacceptable. In 2015, implementation will start show variations between organisational units. The across the organisation. Diagram13: Accidents_at_work_p50 ACCIDENTS AT WORK The total number of accidents has decreased by almost a third since 2010, and by 12 per cent during 2014. The 20 result varies from country to country, and from site to site. In 2014, a number of sites have reached the zero target, for example Hoco in Denmark, while others have 15 much higher numbers, especially sites with lots of manual handling. 10 Our British organisation showed impressive development, as the accident frequency has decreased by 60 per cent 5 since 2010, with 24 per cent alone during 2014. 0 Engagement and focus from colleagues and leaders, 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 together with a wide spectrum of initiatives such as Number of workplace accidents involving more than Behavior Based Safety, are the drivers behind the positive one day’s absence per million working hours. development. 50 As Arla grows globally, travel safety for our that all leaders in Arla know our history and share colleagues has become an increasingly important our vision of the future. Additionally, we stress issue. Arla colleagues visit more than 1,000 the importance of leaders’ behaviour to support different cities every year, including some in the company’s core values and practices. Arla’s politically and economically unstable regions. approach to leadership training has been well During 2014, we decided to improve safety received by the participating leaders. information given to colleagues travelling. We want a tool that, in cases of emergency, gives us In order to strengthen our leadership pipeline we instant geographical overview of which travelers developed Arla’s Talent Acceleration Programme. we have in the area, as well as the possibility This is designed for leaders who have been to contact them when needed. This will be idenitified as having potential to be successful at implemented early 2015. a more senior level within the organisation. Of the 33 leaders that started in the 2013 programme, Preparing for an even more global workplace more than half were promoted during or after the Arla’s goal is to be the employer of choice among programme. potential candidates in order to recruit and retain the best talent. To strengthen our image as an All leaders have the opportunity to participate employer, we want to communicate that in Arla in the ALP (Arla Leadership Programme), which you make a difference not just for yourself, but for targets all levels from senior managers to 1st consumers and colleagues all around the world. line leaders and specialist leading functions. Our new global employer brand is based on this ALP has been running for five years with the as well as a higher demand for diversity. aim of reinforcing the connection between the company’s ambitious growth strategy and Training at all levels managers’ individual areas of responsibility. Following the last years’ mergers with companies In 2014, 241 leaders have participated in the in central Europe, leadership training has been different programmes, raising the total to almost part of the integration process. It is important 1,000 since the ALP started. ›› Diagram4: Colleagues_p7 LEADERSHIP TRAINING COLLEAGUES PER COUNTRY 241 Denmark 7,262 UK 3,550 Sweden 3,301 Germany 1,846 Poland 422 Finland 333 Netherlands 315 Saudi Arabia 869 Russia 155 North America 483 Other countries 619 colleagues participated in one of the Arla Leadership Arla’s average of full time employees was 19,155, a decrease Programmes (ALP) in 2014. of 2.2 per cent from 2013. WORKPLACE Training for the dairy industry Arla drives and actively participates in the development of dairy education programmes in our core markets. In Denmark and Sweden we have around 80 dairy technologist students per year, in the UK, 24 dairy and engineering technicians, and in Germany we take on many apprentices. In the UK, the dairy industry has received grants from the government and industry to develop educational and training opportunities, resulting in a further 500 or so Arla colleagues receiving operator training. Every year we also support 3–5 Masters in Dairy Science and Technology international students at the University of Copenhagen. Collective or individual bargaining in core markets As an employer, Arla respects the right of colleagues to form and join trade unions and to engage in collective bargaining. We endeavour to treat all colleagues consistently, but when it comes to collective bargaining there are substantial differences between the countries in which we operate. See diagram below. Diagram15: Collective_bargaining_p52 COLLECTIVE BARGAINING % White collar Blue collar 100 80 60 40 20 0 SE DK FI DE UK NL 52 Equal work Is there a prayer room or a gym? Do colleagues Arla has many governing policies that clearly set work alone or as part of a team? Are people out our values and principles. When we enter new dressed for the office or for the dairy? Arla’s markets, we evaluate whether our values can environments workplaces are different. At the same time, we say that all colleagues should be treated equally – fairly and with respect – regardless of where in the be upheld. That all colleagues should be treated with respect and offered a safe workplace is a basic requirement, but this can be interpreted for all world they are employed. Is this really possible? We have approximately 19,200 colleagues of differently depending on where we are. In Russia, managers are expected to lead with authority, colleagues? 81 different nationalities in 31 countries. Although whereas in Denmark, it is entirely natural to we share a common goal, we cannot ignore the socialise outside the workplace. Furthermore, fact that cultural, religious, geographical and attitudes to risk and to the use of protective country-specific differences affect life at the place equipment vary in different countries. We also of work. have particular views as to what causes stress. We have colleagues who work varying shift We must learn to be aware of, understand and patterns and some who travel long distances respect differences. It is of the utmost priority to often. Some are monthly paid while others try and do this but we find, on occasion, that it is are paid by the hour. Varying local legislation, challenging. We aim to always live and behave regulations and agreements also shape our according to Arla’s values and culture wherever activities. For example, in Sweden, the law states we operate. Still, we know that for various reasons that colleagues are entitled to 14 months’ differences will always exist. parental leave. In Saudi Arabia, there must be a separate entrance and a separate workspace for female colleagues. In some countries, trade unions are banned, while they are important at the workplace in many others. These are just some examples. HUMAN RIGHTS G A L F G O R E N O K I , N O I TA R T S U L L I SDOOF ALRA retemoraB ytisreviD Further steps We respect and support internationally recognised human rights. to ensure A RLA F OOD S IL LUS TR ATI ON, I K ONE R OG FL A G PRESENTATION, 1 9 .1 2 .2 0 1 4 SCANDINAVIAN DESIGN GROUP CPH Diversity Barometer respect for human rights We have operations in many countries and implementation has been initiated with focus our products are sold throughout the world. on special groups with low representation, e.g. We also do business in locations that do not women in managerial positions. fully recognise human rights or do not yet live up to them. Regardless of where we are Results from engagement survey ENGAGEMENT SURVEY RESULTS located, we maintain a firm conviction that The results of Arla’s annual engagement survey, the human rights of every individual should Barometer, were published in December 2014. be respected and upheld. A new category reflecting Diversity & Inclusion was introduced, based on a number of questions Focus on human rights concerning colleagues’ perception of how they The CSR Committee has decided to update Our are treated. Responsibility, Arla Foods’ Code of Conduct, since our business development focus leads to The number of colleagues who reported having new demands and expectations on our way of experienced unacceptable behavior during the CONTINUOUS FOCUS ON DIVERSITY working. Among other things, we will evaluate the past 12 months has slightly decreased from 17 to consequences of adherence to the UN Guiding 16 percent, compared to the previous year. Three Principles for Human Rights and OECD Guidelines out of four colleagues answered that all people for Multinational Enterprises. in Arla are treated with respect; an improvement over last year, and clearly above comparable Follow up on diversity strategy companies. Even so, we are not satisfied – no-one Our work on diversity and inclusion has in Arla should experience unacceptable behaviour progressed in line with the strategy developed in and everyone should enjoy a respectful workplace. 2011. During 2014, we have continued training managers in how to avoid personal or cultural Dialogue in our growth markets biases when selecting candidates. That said, we We acknowledge that we can be faced with a ATTENTION TO HUMAN RIGHTS IN NEW MARKETS are not satisfied with the pace of the changes. challenge to ensure that there is an acceptable Therefore, a revision of the diversity strategy standard of human rights in some of our growth Diagram16: Share_of_female_colleagues_p54 SHARE OF FEMALE COLLEAGUES LABOUR RELATIONS FORUM EWC Total Top 300 Top 50 30 25 20 15 10 European Works Council (EWC), Arla’s labour relations 2012 2013 2014 forum, now has members from Denmark, Sweden, the There are significantly fewer women than men among our UK, Germany, Finland, the Netherlands and Poland. top managers. Even if we can see a development at senior During 2014, the influence of the council has increased. vice president and vice president level this year (from It is now EWC that ensures the election of employee 11 to 16 per cent) it is far from Top50 the 28 per cent females representatives for the Board of Representatives and among all colleagues, or the 42 per cent among white the Board of Directors. At the work council meetings, all collar colleagues. Arla colleagues can provide input to the agenda. 54 markets. Besides ensuring that our Code of safety. Additionally, our colleagues are offered Conduct is a basic standard within all agreements free access to potable water, lunch and on-site with business partners, we also conduct medical care. inspections of production facilities. These can be planned or without previous notice to get a better Complaint about Arla’s processes impression of local conditions and how people are A Danish NGO filed a complaint about Arla treated. When we visit and audit our partners we failing to adhere to the OECD Guidelines for cover many topics, including human rights issues Multinational Enterprises. The NGO stated that such as child labour and working conditions. Arla did not identify and potentially prevent adverse human rights impacts on local dairy During the last two years, we embarked on farmers when establishing its business in the Ivory two joint ventures in developing markets, in Coast. Bangladesh and in the Ivory Coast. In Bangladesh, we enhanced our cooperation with our existing Arla explained that there is a shortage of milk partner, and the new type of ownership gives in the Ivory Coast, and therefore the country us greater opportunities to influence the depends on the import of dairy products. employees’ terms and conditions. A number of Furthermore, Arla is a minor player in the market. improvements have been made. However, there However, we acknowledge that we have a is still much work to be done, e.g. there are no responsibility in the markets where we operate female colleagues. We are anticipating this to be and, before entering into a market, we will addressed in 2015. analyse the impact of our business on local milk production. Through dialogue with the NGO, we We now operate a packing facility in the Ivory have reached a joint understanding. ›› Coast in collaboration with a local partner. The facility is based in pre-manufactured modules, which means that we can ensure both a good working environment and a high level of food Diagram17: Colleague_employment_time_p55 COLLEAGUE EMPLOYMENT TIME Share of colleagues, We have a wide spread of employment time, and the % average is ten years. The spread is most probably Men Women 20 a consequence of Arla’s long standing culture of engagement and resolute growth. Of our colleagues, 13 per cent have worked less than one year in Arla, and 15 42 per cent not more than five years. Almost 17 per cent of our colleagues have been with the company for more 10 than 20 years, and 80 per cent of these are men. The spread of ages among Arla colleagues is currently 5 satisfactory, and doesn’t change much year on year, see also report 2013. Age should not be, and is not, a factor during recruitment. Arla values the fact that its workforce 0 <1 1–5 6–10 11–15 16–20 >20 years comprises a balanced mix of ages. HUMAN RIGHTS New markets One of the pillars for Arla’s Strategy 2017 is to create growth outside our core markets. While this is both an opportunity and a challenge from present new a business perspective, there are also many social aspects that we need to keep in mind. dilemmas How should we evaluate a new market before investing in it? Will it be possible to maintain a safe and inclusive workplace? How can we deal with risks to the safety of our workforce? How far should Arla’s responsibility for the local economy go when entering developing countries? How can we use our leverage to increase respect for human rights? These questions and many more need to be discussed by our colleagues. Clear data on diversity We would like to track and report more global key data for a number of human resources related areas, for example gender, age and nationalities in different functions. However, due to difficulties in the implementation and data clean-up processes, the online tracking of colleague data has been delayed to early 2015. Female colleagues in Saudi Arabia Developments in Saudi Arabia in recent years have resulted in it now being easier to employ women, although employers have to take special measures. Currently, we have 47 women working in our packaging department. One challenge is that females only are allowed to work daytime, while our operation is 24 hours, seven days a week. However, we are endeavoring to provide as many options as we can to offer women work. DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION 1,400 During 2014, approximately 500 leaders and 900 specialists and team members have been trained in inclusion and diversity. 56 Arla’s stance is that all markets deserve way we choose, we ensure that the people we additional information on local political and social consideration as long as there is a milk deficit will work with are in position to comply with our conditions that they should be aware of. This to satisfy and they represent a solid business requirements. We acknowledge that different year, we have decided to increase the resources case. We believe that we can continue to be a markets are in different stages of development, assigned to tackle the new issues that arise with responsible player even if the market’s situation so we are willing to support our partners in doing business in new markets. on business ethics is not up to internationally identifying gaps and developing plans for how recognised standards. For this purpose we have to close them. It is very important to us that the Even though some may think that doing business chosen to trust and adhere to our Code of whole value chain can align to our goal of doing in countries with social or human rights issues Conduct, and we expect our business partners to responsible business. is not the right thing to do, we believe that acknowledge and live up to it as well. as a multinational company it is actually the In every market we will do our best to prevent responsible way to proceed. By being there, When we look at new markets, there are different our colleagues from getting into controversial providing nutritional food products, upholding routes we can pursue. Sometimes we will open or dangerous situations. Training and policies internationally recognised business standards and a sales office by ourselves, other times we may around areas such as anti-bribery, personal creating sustainable local employment, we expect find a candidate for a merger or acquisition, safety, amongst others, are designed to give our to make a long-lasting positive contribution or even go with a local partner through a joint colleagues a basis for handling any such negative wherever we operate. venture or distributor agreement. Whichever events. Those travelling to unsafe regions get COMMUNITY RELATIONS We build We maintain good, respectful and constructive community relations. relations on knowledge and engagement We accept the responsibility to work with products contribute to more jobs and improved the communities within which we operate. quality of life. We also engage in society through In addition, we endeavour to involve projects such as the Children for Life charity. ourselves in wider social initiatives which The project aims to give children a better future are relevant to our business activities. We by providing food and supporting education, CONTRIBUTION TO SOCIETY want to contribute to the development of currently in the Dominican Republic and communities and do so by building longBangladesh. We are also exploring the possibilities term relationships with people, businesses of similar involvement in African markets where and organisations. we operate. Arla’s role in society Commitment to the dairy industry Arla’s extensive value chain – all the way from As a significant player in the food industry, Arla the dairy farm to the consumer – contributes to participates in public debate, both locally and society’s development in many different ways. In globally. We represent the dairy farmers who are ENGAGEMENT FOR GLOBAL DAIRY our core markets, our owners – the dairy farmers our owners, and we seek to ensure that scientific – produce milk and create countryside jobs. Our research and the regulatory framework benefit business and supply chain partners create jobs, the industry as a whole. We ensure that we are economic growth and tax revenues. Alone and represented in key stakeholder organisations together with peers we develop learning and and strive to have an extensive global network. training programmes in the dairy sector. We offer In 2014, we worked to enhance the role of consumers safe and healthy products and we are dairy products in a balanced diet, facilitate trade involved in areas adjacent to our business, such as across national borders and stimulate further inspiration for cooking and a healthy lifestyle as environmental and climate improvements well as nature and the environment. throughout the value chain. Our ambition is that our arguments should be fact-based, OWNERS MEET CONSUMERS In our emerging markets, our role is different as collaborative, proactive, transparent and honest. we are a minor player, but also here, sales of our See also page 21. Diagram18: Community_relations_p58 ARLA FARM VISITS FOOD CAMPS 535 Visitors at Cows out School children to pasture at farm visits 150,000 2014 120,000 2013 2012 90,000 60,000 30,000 young Danes aged between 13 and 14 have attended Arla 0 Foundation’s first food camps. Read more on page 61. Denmark Sweden Denmark Sweden Germany* * Since 2014, including Luxembourg. 58 Knowledge of the origin of milk Engagement through local activities We wish to provide an insight into the origin of We would welcome involvement in a global our products and the work that takes place on initiative that highlights our social commitment, the farms. We do this by showcasing our dairy but so far we have prioritised local activities that farmers in external communications and by engage our colleagues. These contribute to local inviting the general public to visit our owners’ charities, conservation and sporting activities, farms. For example, a popular event in Denmark see page 62. In several countries, we work to and Sweden takes place in the spring when cows encourage good food habits. Read more about are put out to pasture, see chart below. In the UK, this on page 32. farms organise open days. In Sweden, we arrange farm visits for school children and provide them Part of our environmental strategy involves with free educational materials about life on the reducing the amount of food that goes to waste, farm. Since 1993, nearly 1 million schoolchildren both in our own operations and in consumers’ have visited a Swedish Arla farm. Similar activities homes. In several countries, including the UK, take place in Denmark, Germany, Belgium and Germany, the Netherlands, Canada, Denmark Luxembourg. and Finland, we are working with organisations to ensure that surplus food, which cannot be sold In Denmark, we started food camps for children to retailers as it is near the end of its shelf life, is 13–14 years old to learn more about cooking, distributed to those in need. natural raw materials and sustainability. Learn more about this on page 61. The back of milk cartons provides another means of communicating information and inspiration. This is used in Denmark, Sweden, Finland and the Netherlands. Facts about the farmer’s work at the farm and inspiration for a healthy lifestyle are recurring themes. TEAM RYNKEBY GROWS COOKING INSPIRATION 4.8 50 million EUR was the total amount raised for the Children’s Cancer Foundation through Rynkeby Foods cycling scheme, Team Rynkeby, a 50 per cent increase on the year. 26 cycling teams participated, including teams from We had 50 million visits at our cooking sites in Denmark and Sweden during 2014 – an impressive number as there are only about 15 million people living in these two countries. We also have a cooking site in Finland, which Denmark, Sweden, Finland, Norway, the Faroe Islands and attracted 4 million visitors in 2014. Australia. RESPECTFUL RELATIONS We want to convey the joy and pride in being able to cook ARLA FOUNDATION’S FOOD CAMPS OPENED ITS DOORS IN THE AUTUMN OF 2014. 60 Arla in Denmark wanted to make a “We teach simple dishes that young people can difference to the community while at the cook at home, and we also try to provide the same time profiling an important aspect inspiration for trying out new flavours – which of its business. This was the start for the they’re keen to do once they know what’s in their Arla Foundation’s Food Camps. food.” The Arla Foundation initiative developed from the Since eating habits and lifestyle do not change observation that increasing numbers of young overnight, the Food Camps are part of a long-term Danes are less involved in cooking at home while educational plan. Before the students attend Home Economics tends to be less prioritized the course, they are given an Arla Foundation in schools. Many scientists agree that there is a educational pack. This covers study tasks about link between having no knowledge about food food, health and nature – themes which the and cooking, and finding it more challenging students then continue to explore after the camp to take responsibility for one’s own health. With has finished. Sanne Vinther, responsible for the Arla Foundation, has put food knowledge on the prospect of the next generation having no the timetable. knowledge of food or cooking, Arla in Denmark “We believe that these camps can make a decided to launch an initiative to reverse the difference. I heard a girl say: ‘I now think I can cook trend. and my parents will let me do it because they know I’ve been here.’ ” Arla Foundation’s week-long Foods Camps are attended by 13 and 14 year-olds along with their Arla in Denmark is investing EUR 1.3 million teachers. They learn all about food, raw materials per year in the work of the Arla Foundation and and nature through various indoor and outdoor schools pay a symbolic EUR 67 per child per activities. The overall objective is to encourage week. Looking to 2020, the ambition is that every the participants to adopt good food habits and a year 10 per cent of a cohort of Danish school healthy lifestyle. children will have attended a Food Camp and many more will be aware of Arla Foundation’s “The experience is what matters,” says Sanne message. Vinther, responsible for the Arla Foundation. “More than anything else, we want to convey the “It is, of course, a tough challenge to believe that joy and pride in being able to cook.” we’ll be able to influence an entire generation, but we will do our best.” During the 5-day camp, the budding chefs prepare all their meals. They learn to cook from scratch and to use any leftovers. Other activities The Arla Foundation is an independent body headed by a include collecting herbs from the forest and board with broad expertise in youth issues, leadership, food and health. In order to reach as many people as possible the exploring flavours. The Arla Foundation aims to Arla Foundation has established partnerships with other create awareness of the food we eat rather than organisations working towards similar objectives such as teaching advanced cooking techniques. IKEA, whose aim is to contribute to a physical framework for a “good life”, and the Danish national organisation, “Madkulturen” (Culinary Culture), which has helped develop the teaching materials for the Food Camps. 61 Community engagement – local examples Charity Sport & Health Inspiration to cook  Food as charity in Denmark, Finland, the UK,  Health project in business school in Denmark.  Recipes, cooking sites and cook books in Denmark the Netherlands, Russia and Canada.  Health and exercise campaign and supporting sports and Sweden.  Children for life in Bangladesh and Dominican republic. activities in Sweden.  Arla Foundation in Denmark – food camp for school  Voluntary work by colleagues in the UK and the  Activities together with the Swedish Olympic Committee children. Netherlands, e.g. campaign against loneliness among to make children try different sports.  Food Festival – activity for schools in Denmark. elderly in the Netherlands.  Educational programs for pregnant women and mothers  Arla Guldko – award for customers, food service and  Team Rynkeby – fundraising for Children’s Cancer of primary scholars in Russia. restaurants in Sweden. Foundation in e.g. Denmark, Sweden, Finland and  Sponsorship of National Culinary Team in Sweden and Norway. Finland.  Danmarks insamlingen – annual national fundraising for  Chef of the year and Pastry Chef of the year in Sweden. the world’s poorest countries. Nature & Origin of milk Environment Other  Cows out to pasture event in Sweden and Denmark.  Reduce waste campaign in Denmark.  Milk packaging panels in Sweden, Denmark, Finland and  Farmer blogs in Denmark and Sweden.  Sponsoring of biking track close to dairy site in Finland. the Netherlands.  Farm visits for school children in Denmark, Sweden,  Natuurmonumenten – a foundation to preserve  Open innovation with consumers and suppliers in Germany and Luxembourg. Farm visits for groups of landscapes and cultural heritages – and – National Denmark and Sweden. consumers in Finland. Arkemheen-Eemland – a landscape project – in the  Public debates, e.g. Folkemødet in Denmark and  “Farmers as owners” campaign in Denmark, Sweden Netherlands. Almedalsveckan in Sweden. and the UK. “Meet your local farmer” campaign in  Restructuring of a Botanic Garden in St Petersburg in  NGO cooperation. Sweden. Russia. Organisation of the Arla group, December 2014 Executive Board Corporate Affairs comprises group development and Corporate communication under the management of Peder Tuborgh. Corporate Affairs Supply Chain Corporate Supply Chain handles contact with owners, global supply chain efficiency, global procurement and investments under the management of Povl Krogsgaard. Corporate HR Corporate Finance Corporate Human Resources handles colleague and organisational development matters for the whole group under the management of Ola Arvidsson. Corporate Finance & IT handles finance, IT and legal affairs under the management of Frederik Lotz. Global Categories Consumer UK Consumer Sweden Consumer Denmark and Operations Consumer Consumer Consumer Finland Subsidiaries International Central Europe Global Categories & Operations has general Consumer Business Groups are responsible for the production and product development of fresh produce, logistics, responsibility for Arla’s three global brands – Arla®, marketing and sales of Arla products in their respective markets. Lurpak® and Castello® – and responsibility for global Consumer UK, under the management of Peter Giørtz-Carlsen. categories, marketing, innovation, quality and Consumer Central Europe, including Germany, the Netherlands, Belgium, Luxembourg, France and Austria, under the environment. This business area also handles milk management of Tim Ørting Jørgensen. planning and logistics, industrial sales, product Consumer Sweden, under the management of Henri De Sauvage, who also represents CDK and CFI in the Executive development and production of cheese, butter and Management Group. Head of Consumer Denmark is Tomas Pietrangeli, and head of Consumer Finland is Reijo Kiskola. spreads and milk powder in Scandinavia, as well as Consumer International, including the rest of the world, under the management of Finn S Hansen. production of cheese in Germany, Poland and the US, Subsidiaries wholly owned by Arla: Arla Foods Ingredients, Rynkeby Foods and Cocio. under the management of Jais Valeur. 62 Responsible business – improved prioritisation and reporting MATERIALITY MATRIX Higher Importance to external stakeholders Food safety Healthy & affordable food Animal welfare Transparency Responsible sourcing Greenhouse gas emissions Recycling & waste Innovation Employee health & safety Water Product labeling Ethical compliance in foreign markets entities Supply chain efficiency Local community engagement Stakeholder dialogue Farmer development emerging markets Diversity & inclusion Lower Biodiversity Engaging in public affairs to promote sustainable business Lower Importance to internal stakeholders Higher As Arla is a company with ambitions to aspects for our operation. For this purpose we Furthermore, the materiality study serves as constantly improve every part of the collected input from select groups of internal groundwork together with a gap analysis towards business, this also includes corporate stakeholders, benchmark studies of other the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) guidelines. responsibility activities and reporting about companies, and published industry standards. GRI includes a great number of suggested the progress. Next, a team of Arla colleagues grouped and KPI’s to describe a company’s management prioritized the aspects, starting from a list of and performance within sustainability and Arla’s operations have grown significantly over 58 and shortening it down to a final roster of 19. responsibility. The newest version of the Guidelines recent years, including our farmer owner base, Finally, we reached out to representative internal emphasises the need for organisations to focus the customers, markets and colleagues. As the and external stakeholder groups to get their input reporting process and final report on topics that business of Arla develops and grows, so does our on what should be the top priorities for Arla. are material to their business and key stakeholders. ambition to develop our reporting. Parallel to the production of this report, we have With the feedback we prepared a materiality made a gap analysis between information available During 2014, we have initiated a structured matrix, plotting internal and external stakeholder at present and GRI requirements. Materiality Study. Our main objective has been to views against each other. Based on the results, identify material aspects in the views of our main we have identified Food Safety, Healthy and Our ambition includes working towards aligning stakeholders, and use this knowledge to better Affordable Food, and Animal Welfare as key areas our reporting with Global Reporting Initiative prioritize our activities. Additionally, we expect the of focus, followed by Transparency, Responsible standard, G4 version, making the reporting results to help us improve the scope and focus of Sourcing and climate impact aspects. We will more comparable with other organisations. The our reporting and communication processes. incorporate the findings of the materiality outcome of materiality study and gap analysis study into our decision processes when will be the basis and give important guidance to The first step for the materiality study was to prioritizing activities and use them to guide our further development of the reporting process. identify and list the most relevant responsibility communications with stakeholder groups. New materiality studies will be made on a regular basis. 63 Arla supports the Global Compact Businesses should … Arla examples Page Human Rights 1. support and respect the protection of internationally Business principles 10–13 proclaimed human rights; and Market conduct 18–19 Case study 20–21 2. make sure that they are not complicit in Procurement 22–25 human rights abuses. Food safety 28–31 Food and health 32–33 Case study 34–35 Workplace 50–53 Human rights 54–57 Community relations 58–59 Labour 3. uphold the freedom of association and the effective Business principles 10–13 Seven years ago, Arla signed up to the recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Procurement 22–25 Workplace 50–53 Global Compact, the UN initiative to 4. the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory Human rights 54–57 promote ethical business practices. As a labour; Community relations 58–59 participant, we are committed to observing the Global Compact’s 10 fundamental 5. the effective abolition of child labour; and principles. The table shows where the 6. the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment content of this report relates to each of the and occupation. principles. Environment 7. support a precautionary approach to environmental Business principles 10–13 Since 2008, Arla has been a member of the challenges; Market conduct 18–19 Global Compact’s Nordic Network. In May Case study 20–21 2009, Arla signed up to Caring for Climate, a 8. undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental Procurement 22–25 responsibility; and Environment and climate 38–41 voluntary and complementary action platform Case study 42–43 seeking to demonstrate leadership around the 9. encourage the development and diffusion Agriculture 44–45 issue of climate change. In 2010, Arla’s CEO of environmentally friendly technologies. Case study 46–47 signed a CEO Statement of Support for the Community relations 58–59 Women’s Empowerment Principles, an initiative Case study 60–61 from the Global Compact and UNIFEM (the UN Development Fund for Women). Anti-corruption 10. work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion Business principles 10–13 and bribery. Market conduct 18–19 Procurement 22–25 Read more about the Global Compact and its principles at www.unglobalcompact.org, and more about Arla’s Code of Conduct at www.arla.com. 64 Which market is mentioned where? Page Global DK UK SE DE NL FI B LUX Other The table shows where information Responsible company Business principles 10–13 Africa, Russia, about a specific Arla South America market or subsidiary Operational principles 14–15 can be found Case study 16–17 in this report. Market conduct 18–19 Case study 20–21 Procurement 22–25 Cocio Confidence in Food safety 28–31 China, Russia products Food and health 32–33 China, Arla Foods Ingredients Case study 34–35 Care for the Environment and climate 38–41 Canada, environment Arla Foods Ingredients and animal welfare Case study 42–43 Agriculture 44–45 China Case study 46–47 Respectful Workplace 50–53 Russia, Saudi Arabia relations Human rights 54–57 Bangladesh, Ivory Coast, Poland, Saudi Arabia Community relations 58–59, 62 Australia, Bangladesh, Canada, Dominican Republic, Faroe Islands, Norway, Russia, Rynkeby Foods Case study 60–61 © Arla Foods amba, 2015 Project coordinator: Arla Foods Production management: Anna Michélsen Text: Arla Foods in collaboration with Anna Michélsen Graphic design: Waldton Design Graphic production: Formalix Translation: TextMinded and Katie Schwark Photography: Mikkel Bache (cover, 2, 12, 16, 20, 24, 30, 34, 40, 42, 52, 56), Thomas Carlgren (8, 26, 36, 48, 60), Jens Bangsbo (4, 17), Niels Åge Skovbo (46) and Arla’s archive Printing: Scanprint, 2015 65 Arla Foods amba Arla Foods UK plc Sønderhøj 14 4 Savannah Way DK-8260 Viby J Leeds Valley Park Denmark Leeds, LS10 1 AB England Phone +45 89 38 10 00 Phone +44 113 382 7000 E-mail arla@arlafoods.com E-mail arla@arlafoods.com www.arla.com www.arlafoods.co.uk
