HIKMA PHARMACEUTICALS UN Global Compact COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2014 Hikma Pharmaceuticals Communication on Progress 2014 CONTENT CEO’S STATEMENT OF SUPPORT FOR THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT/3 GRI INDICATORS/4 HUMAN RIGHTS/5 Policies and Procedures/7 Actions and Performance/8 LABOUR STANDARDS/10 Policies and Procedures/12 Actions and Performance/13 ENVIRONMENT/14 Policies and Procedures/16 Actions and Performance/18 ANTI – CORRUPTION/20 Policies and Procedures/22 Actions and Performance/23 1 Hikma Pharmaceuticals Communication on Progress 2014 This is Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC’s Communication on Progress in implementing the principles of the United Nations Global Compact. It covers January 1st until December 31st 2014 and includes a reiteration of commitment from Hikma’s CEO to the principles and incorporates sections of Hikma’s Corporate Responsibility Report, Hikma’s policies, Code of Conduct, and GRI indicators. The report will demonstrate how Hikma is addressing each of the UNGC’s 10 universally accepted principles and continues to actively engage in and improve these practices over the years. We welcome feedback on its contents. 2 Hikma Pharmaceuticals Communication on Progress 2014 CEO’s Statement of Support for the UN Global Compact I am pleased to present to you Hikma Pharmaceuticals’ 2014 Communication on Progress report. Hikma Pharmaceuticals has been a dedicated member of the United Nations Global Compact since 2007. We continue to support the 10 principles and to align our operations with the Global Compact in all our locations as we continue to expand and grow. As CEO of Hikma, I am proud to reaffirm our ongoing commitment to this valuable initiative. Hikma has maintained a strong growth in 2014. We now employ over 7,000 people with operations in Middle East and North Africa, US and Europe with sales in more than 50 countries worldwide. This year the company expanded further by acquiring assets of Bedford Laboratories from Boehringer Ingelheim, significantly strengthening our global Injectables business. As the company progresses, so does our responsibility towards our people, the communities in which we operate and the environment. Our corporate values are aligned with the Compact’s 10 principles, as is our mission of improving lives. Ever since the company’s establishment, ethical conduct has been embedded in our culture and at the core of how we steer our business. We manage our multicultural team fairly and equally, and at the same time cater to our people’s unique cultural norms. Our cultural understanding enables us to meet our patients’ needs to better serve them wherever they may be. Hikma’s Communication on Progress clearly illustrates how we have embedded policies and procedures along our operations and are taking clear actions in human rights, labour, the environment and anticorruption and improving our performance year on year. Through the COP, our company showcases its commitment to employees, patients, community, environment and global welfare. We believe it is our responsibility as a market leader to take an active role in shaping the future, as well as positively contributing to society. We will remain diligent in moving towards a more sustainable business by maintaining our support for the UNGC. Said Darwazah CEO of Hikma Pharmaceuticals 3 Hikma Pharmaceuticals Communication on Progress 2014 GRI Indicators Principles GRI Indicators 1 LA7, LA10, HR2 2 LA7, LA10, HR2 3 EC1, LA7, LA10 4 SO3, HR2 5 SO3, HR2 6 EC1, LA7, LA10 7 EN3, EN8 8 EN3, EN8, EN22 9 EN3, EN8, EN22 10 SO3 LA7: rates of injury, disease, lost days, absenteeism LA10: average hours of training per employee per category HR2: percentage of suppliers / contractors undergone human rights screening EC1: direct economic value, including employee wages and benefits SO3: percentage of employees trained in anti – corruption policies EN3: direct energy consumption EN8: total water withdrawal EN22: total weight of waste 4 Hikma Pharmaceuticals Communication on Progress 2014 Principle One Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Principle Two Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses “Hikma respects the dignity and human rights of its employees and others. Privacy and confidentiality are essential to business and Hikma will respect the privacy of its customers, counterparties and employees, and is committed to maintaining the confidentiality of their information. Hikma is not discriminatory and offers equal opportunities to all.” Dignity and Respect Principle, Code of Conduct 5 Hikma Pharmaceuticals Communication on Progress 2014 “Hikma is committed to providing for its employees a “Hikma expects all of its units to comply with the safe and secure working environment.” highest standards of Health, Safety, Environmental and Health and Safety Principle, Code of Conduct Energy Management to ensure the well-being of its employees and business partners. “Hikma seeks to engage with customers and suppliers We ensure that Hikma complies with and exceeds, whose employment practices respect human rights where possible, the relevant Health, Safety, and whose ethical standards meet the standards set by Environmental and Energy legislations. Hikma.” We also aim to prevent accidents and cases of Trading, Customers and Suppliers Standard, Code of work-related ill health at Hikma. Conduct [We] work with our suppliers and contractors, to bring our Health, Safety, Environmental and Energy Management standards into alignment.” Health, Safety, Environment and Energy Policy 6 Hikma Pharmaceuticals Communication on Progress 2014 Human Rights Hikma prides itself on being a Hikma streamlined its corporate regards to company employment high quality global healthcare values by involving the company’s practices. Hikma also utilises provider, not only through its high different stakeholders from the Suppliers Audit Questionnaires quality products, but through top down. Hikma’s corporate that relate to the UNGC principles implementing its high standards values became unified and to aid in measuring suppliers’ of respect and preservation of communicated to employees. practices. It respects employee human rights in all domains. rights in line with the UNGC Hikma upholds its responsibility Hikma’s Code of Conduct1 human rights principle. Hikma of care for employees, consumers reflects strong ethical practices upholds employees’ right to and the community. Its in relation to labour and human privacy, and protects confidential Corporate Responsibility (CR) rights, as does the company employee information within a strategy focuses on wellbeing mission – improving lives, which is legal and regulatory framework. and education, pillars that have implemented across the business, been embedded in its culture from the board of directors Health and Safety by the company’s founder. The to employees to the company products. Employees’ right to health and plan acts on several platforms – safety is taken seriously in the people, community, environment Contented employees are Hikma culture. Hikma applies a and global welfare and a company’s most valuable strong health and safety mandate ethics, reflecting a strategy of assets. Hikma recognizes that with health and safety policies at commitment to employees and its most important resource is all levels of the company. the community which aligns with its employees and therefore the Global Compact’s themes. makes every effort to provide The company is dedicated to the topmost care for its staff implementing those health and Hikma Pharmaceuticals has safety policies on its employees. operations in Middle East and their families. It has several programs in place that protect The health and safety function is and North Africa, US and governed by a corporate Health, Europe, employing over 7,000 and benefit the employee. These programs include: Special Safety, Environment and Energy people, with 27 state-of-the(HSEE) policy that is upheld from art manufacturing facilities; child care assistance programs for working mothers; fair and the top down and across the several of which have US FDA/ Group. MHRA approvals. In all company equal opportunity employment locations, Hikma applies the that encompasses handicapped Hikma takes great precaution highest of ethical standards persons among others. with employees’ health and in relation to its employees, The principles of the Code safety. Employees are trained in compliance with local and are sustained with its various to operate in a safe and universally proclaimed human stakeholders. When selecting secure manner in their work rights. other companies and entities to environments. The company partner with, there are stringent takes every accessible safety standards by which they need to measure in order to reduce if not eliminate all risks – this is done by Policies and Procedures comply. Hikma would not work ensuring that all health and safety with an entity that does not In 2014, Hikma’s updated uphold internationally accepted regulations are both properly corporate values were rolled out labour standards. understood in order to protect and communicated to employees the employee. in its locations worldwide, Every year, through the supplier audit procedure, Hikma audits Every year, Hikma’s Corporate following a ‘values audit’ in 2013. the companies it works with in Communication department 1 The Code is available on Hikma’s website: 7 http://www.hikma.com/en/corporate-responsibility/code-of-conduct Hikma Pharmaceuticals Communication on Progress 2014 conducts an international of Corporate HR and the General their career advancement and initiative staged at Hikma Counsel. The MENA locations individual growth. locations worldwide ‘You Are utilise a web based compliance Hikma’ that celebrates the reporting system called “Speak Employee Training company’s core values by raising Up” where employees can report Employee training is an essential awareness among its staff on their concerns in a confidential undertaking in Hikma. The health, safety and environmental and anonymous manner. company annually trains its issues. employees in all of its locations In 2015, the CREC will be focused In addition, an in-house doctor on the on-going development in order to constantly enrich and conducts an annual physical and implementation of the challenge its employees. In 2014, examination on employees that compliance program, and further employee training continued includes an eyesight and blood training for employees will be across all of Hikma’ s locations, pressure test to check on basic conducted in order to build with 972 training sessions employee health. a better understanding of conducted in Hikma’s main sites compliance issues across the that include manufacturing Education Group. This will be coupled with operations: Hikma Corporate, localizing policies and procedures Jordan, the Arab Pharmaceuticals Continuous education is a Manufacturing Company in company value embedded in to fit the specific needs and comply with laws and regulations Jordan, The Arab Medical the culture of Hikma by its Containers in Jordan, Saudi founder. Over and above than of the different markets that the company operates in. Arabia, Portugal, Morocco, mandatory annual trainings, Algeria, Tunis, Sudan, Egypt and management rotation plans, Code of Conduct the US. seminars and conferences for its employees, Hikma has a Hikma’s Code is circulated to A total number of 2,645 strong education programme all new employees as soon as employees 36% of the total entitled the Continuing Education the hiring process begins in the employee pool, attended training Scheme that offers employees company. All employees are sessions in 2014. 68 different the chance of pursuing a higher required to annually confirm that training modules were provided in education that is fully funded by they have read Hikma’s Code of 2014 across the group. The total the company. Since 2010 Hikma Conduct, have understood it and training costs in 2014 at all of has funded a total of forty two will abide by its terms. Employees the Hikma locations amounted to employees for higher education also confirm in writing that they USD 1.2 million. with a total cost of USD 852,000. understand their obligations in reporting events of suspected In Jordan, a new personalized non-compliance with the Code. induction process was rolled out In 2014, the company achieved for new employees to rotate Actions and Performance 100% signatures from senior among major departments. This managers across Hikma worldnew plan was rolled out for new In order to safeguard employee wide. managers in 2014, with plans rights, Hikma’s compliance to expand to all of the new division established a Compliance, In 2014, the company updated its employees in 2015. Responsibility and Ethics Code of Conduct and translated Committee (CREC). A global In addition, the human resources it into the seven main languages system was created in order to department constantly updates of Hikma’s locations: English, ensure employees have access to its bylaws. The bylaws are part Arabic, Portuguese, French, a confidential and anonymous of the induction training and a German, Italian and Russian. system that they can report to copy is handed out to the new The code was circulated to all if needed, which is managed by employees. of Hikma’s employees and was a third party in order to ensure published on the corporate In Portugal, Hikma Farmaceutica reporting confidentiality. website. In addition, mandatory the employee manual was Anonymous reporting hotlines occupational training took place updated and feedback was are currently enforced in US and for all manufacturing operators, encouraged by placing suggestion Europe. These hotlines go directly as well as corporate training for boxes. The induction process was to the compliance team, the VP all employees in order to ensure updated to include a tour of both 8 Hikma Pharmaceuticals Communication on Progress 2014 the plants and facilities on the surveillance visit of the OHSAS insurance for the employee as first day. In addition, the company with zero nonconformity as well as his/her immediate family applied for a Portuguese subsidy well. Both the OHSAS and the and therapy counselling. to cover soft skills training. A ISO were renewed to 2014. significant number of employees The site also received the underwent English training, CH08/0686 certificate for the excel and time management and ISO 14001:2004 certification general soft skills training. until May 2014, for meeting the requirements of the design and Health and Safety manufacturing of pharmaceutical In 2014 the company reorganized products. its auditing procedure by Hikma’s Jazeera Pharmaceutical identifying its major suppliers Industries (JPI) in Saudi Arabia and and doing a widespread audit of Hikma Egypt obtained renewal for their supply procedures. Seventy OHSAS 18001 and ISO 14001. one percent of the significant suppliers underwent screenings Employees were trained on health on human rights. and safety procedures through the ‘You are Hikma’ campaign. All of Hikma’s locations comply With more than 350 participants, with accredited safety standards, the campaign this year included a such as OHSAS 18001, ISO range of activities such as medical 14001, ISO 9001 or their testing for the employees, blood counterparts. Hikma’s corporate drive, awareness lectures on Health and Safety department work-related injuries, proper use oversees the environmental of antibiotics, safe use of drugs, management requirements from safe handling of materials and ISO 14001 and manages the forklift training. minimizing of health and safety risks by continuing to fulfil the In addition, Hikma Farmaceutica requirements for preserving the updated its safety policies in OHSAS 18001 certification and 2014. Employees received proper annually renewing it. training for safe evacuation, first aid and emergency fire drills. A Hikma’s Arab Manufacturing drill was conducted in December Facility received the ISO 2014 which was approved by the 9001:2008 certification from Portuguese Civil Protection Entity. 2012 until April 2015, for meeting the requirements of the manufacturing of pharmaceuticals, cosmetics, Employee Benefits infant plastic packaging products Hikma’s full time employees are and related ancillaries. offered several benefits, including In 2013 Hikma Jordan received class A medical insurance, the CH11/2016 certificate for the maternity leave, financial OHSAS 18001:2007 certification maternity compensation for the until December 2014, for sites that don’t have nurseries, meeting the requirements of the retirement provisions through design and manufacturing of social security and a provident pharmaceutical products. fund. Hikma Jordan passed the last Different benefits are provided to surveillance visit of the ISO14001 employees of different countries with zero nonconformity; according to local regulations and the company also passed the job requirements, such as cancer 9 Hikma Pharmaceuticals Communication on Progress 2014 Principle Three Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle Four Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour Principle Five Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour Principle Six Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation 10 Hikma Pharmaceuticals Communication on Progress 2014 “Employees’ right to free association and “All public affairs activities undertaken collective bargaining are recognised and by or on behalf of Hikma must be respected There is a clear, transparent conducted ethically, must align with process for receiving employee relevant local law requirements and suggestions, requests and complaints. applicable industry codes of practice and Effective communication with employees be approved in accordance with internal is promoted, so that issues arising policies. from business decisions are addressed Hikma employees will: have the right appropriately and in a timely fashion.” to be involved in political and lobbying Employment Matters Standard, Code of processes in their own time as private Conduct citizens, but must be clear at all times that these activities are not undertaken on behalf of Hikma.” Public Affairs and Governmental Interaction Standard, Code of Conduct “Employee rights are safeguarded and employment laws and regulations are complied with. Effective communication with employees is promoted, so that issues arising from business decisions are addressed appropriately and in a timely fashion.” Employee Personal Information Standard, Code of Conduct “Hikma is opposed to all forms of forced or child labour.” Employment Matters Standard, Code of Conduct “Hikma operates a discriminationfree working environment and is committed to promoting a culture of respect, dignity and equal opportunity in which employees’ individual rights are protected. Hikma believes that the diversity of its workforce is highly valuable. Hikma is committed to providing an environment in which individuals can flourish based on talent, experience, and performance and where potential is recognised and encouraged.” Employment Matters Standard, Code of Conduct “Discrimination is not tolerated and equal employment opportunities are provided to all. No forms of violence, bullying or harassment are tolerated. Employee rights are safeguarded and employment laws and regulations are complied with. The need for training and development is recognised as central to the on-going development of our people, and their skills and knowledge” Employment Matters Standard, Code of Conduct 11 Hikma Pharmaceuticals Communication on Progress 2014 Labour Standards Hikma seeks to promote a positive remunerations. The subjects providing equal opportunities and enriching work environment, covered by collective bargaining for all employees and potential where employees are all treated with trade unions and employee candidates, as stated in The Equal equally and their well-being is representatives include health and Treatment of Employees and taken care of. Its main priority is to safety, payment compensation Harassments Policy and Procedure: maintain a work atmosphere that plans which include salary [At Hikma we believe in] “equal has no favouritism or inequality, enhancements and bonuses, treatment of employees and do not no form of forced or child medical insurance in terms of condone favouritism or inequality labour and strives to promote a increasing the scope of hospitals in any shape or form. Hikma does discrimination-free work place and and doctors, thereby rendering the not discriminate based on a person’s this is enforced in the company insurance more readily available race, colour, religious creed, age, principles. As mentioned in the for family members and persons sex, marital status, national origin, Code of Conduct, the company who are chronically ill and need present or past history of mental upholds itself to the highest ethical constant visits, in addition to or physical disability and any other standards. training sessions if required. factors not related to a person’s The human resources personnel ability to perform a job.” in the various Hikma locations are Policies and Procedures required to confirm that employee Hikma also verifies that the companies that it partners, does As it continues to expand, the bylaws, which abide with local business or affiliates with also company dedicates the needed labour laws, are well understood upholds and enforces the antiresources to ensure that all of and followed by all employees. discrimination laws. its employees’ basic needs and Orientation and training are rights are met. Hikma ensures that conducted for new employees in Hikma’s Health and Safety Policy its HR policies meet and exceed regards to the company legalities. is applied across the Group. The where possible the laws of the Employee bylaws are circulated policy is translated into health countries where its companies to new employees and clarified and safety processes for each unit are located. Therefore it is vital during the training period. and function. Management is in that Hikma upholds the freedom charge of applying these policies The company applies an “Equal of association needed for a fair into each unit. These policies are Treatment of Employees and representation of its employees regularly updated and stringently Harassment” policy. In order to wherever they may be. Employee enforced in order to protect ensure that all of the employees representation is present at every employees from any unnecessary are aware of this policy the Hikma location, whether as a injuries. The health and safety company managers must circulate labour union or community group. processes cover the following the policy to their employees In every location where unions are areas: and update their policy manual present, employees are covered by periodically. During the hiring Employee health collective negotiation agreements process, recruiters are instructed Accident prevention signed by the General Manager to eradicate any kind of Health and safety training of that site and the head of the discrimination and abide by the union. Monitoring, reporting and equal treatment of employees Management are responsible for policy. The company must confirm communicating educating their employees on that employees are well-informed Training and development their rights as well as conducting of the laws and regulations that negotiations with unions and protect them. improving their employees’ The company believes in 12 Hikma Pharmaceuticals Communication on Progress 2014 Labour Standards it is located, as well as invest in the this approach in 2015. The Hikma holds itself and the community’s youth. In 2014, 73% company exceeds current labour companies that it does business of Hikma’s employees were below laws in Portugal, which calls for with, accountable to high labour the age of 40. a reduction in the percentage of standards that are in line with overtime payment. In addition, The company will focus on global labour requirements. The company profits were distributed education and wellbeing as its company abides by local labour to all the employees as well. corporate responsibility themes laws of its various locations, and in until 2020. Hikma grants As for the rest of the locations, no some cases, exceeds them. Across scholarships for higher education changes were made in relations the Group, there is no underage to its employees, provided that to the unions, and no incidents employment and its policies clearly they fit a certain criteria. In 2014, were reported. All company prohibit the employment of minors the company sent nine employees unions abide by labour laws under the age of eighteen. Hikma to continue their higher education, which are accessible in a clear does not work with any company for both Bachelor’s and Master’s and comprehensible manner with that has any kind of affiliation with degrees. union instructions that are fully child labour. enforced by specialized company Unions Grievance Procedure staff. The company has union labour Hikma adheres to strict liability Recognition representations in the majority of procedures that call for direct Hikma’s sites in Europe and MENA. Hikma won the “Company of the action in reporting any labour In the remaining sites, employees Year, EMEA Award” (Europe, Middle neglect. Employees notify HR are represented by members of East and Africa) at the Global of any shortcomings that they the HR department. Generics and Biosimilars Awards experience and HR is required by in October 2014. The award In the United States, the labour law to act in a swift manner. The recognizes excellent performance laws that are in place at Hikma’s company has a universal open across a range of business company, West-Ward, correspond door policy where employees can activities and was won in strong with the Americans with go up to upper management or competition against a number Disabilities Act of 1990, which the CEO of the company and of leading EMEA pharmaceutical safeguards against discrimination inform them of their grievances. companies. in employing a qualified candidate with a disability. In our US locations, Hikma Actions and Performance continued its renewal with the In 2014, Hikma’s global headcount Collective Bargaining Agreement increased by 170 employees with Teamsters Local 201. The from last year. The company agreement comes into effect on prides itself on being an equal November 1, 2014 and continues opportunity employer. A quarter until October 31, 2019. of the employees are female, a In 2013 and 2014 at Hikma percentage that has been stable Farmaceutica in Portugal, since 2012. Females also make Hikma’s main manufacturing up 77% of Portugal’s workforce, facility in Europe, the company and they occupy strategic top implemented a new “social plan.” managerial positions across the The plan entailed an increase to Group. There was a total of 126 all salaries in order to compensate (20%) females above the level of for increased national taxes that M4 (management) in 2013. In were imposed as part of the 2014, the number of females in international economic support top management in M4 level or during the Portuguese financial above increased to 147 (23%), crisis. From the months of July with a total increase of 3% for to December 2014, Hikma in females in upper management. Portugal paid its employees double The company aims to enhance and in overtime and will continue advance the communities in which 13 Hikma Pharmaceuticals Communication on Progress 2014 Principle Seven Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Principle Eight Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Principle Nine Encourage development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies 14 Hikma Pharmaceuticals Communication on Progress 2014 “Hikma expects all of its units to comply with the highest standards of HSEE Management. As a pharmaceutical company, we recognize that our operations have an effect on the local and global environment and we actively encourage the engagement of our staff at all levels to ensure implementing and maintaining the standards that we set. The purpose of this policy is… to minimize adverse impact on the environment where possible, through the reduction of greenhouse gases (GHG) inventory by reducing the consumption of energy. Hikma is committed to consider energy saving equipment and tools in any project in the future.” Environmental Principle, Code of Conduct “Hikma expects all its units to … maintain an operation that minimizes all adverse environmental and climate change impacts associated with our activities. As a Pharmaceutical Company, we recognize that our operations have an effect on the local and global environment and we actively encourage the engagement of our staff at all levels to ensure implementing and maintaining the standards we set.” Hikma’s Health, Safety and Environment Policy “[Hikma is] committed to benefitting the communities in which it works through charitable donations, volunteering and the operation of its social and environmental policies.” Community Impact and Support Principle, Code of Conduct “We are committed to doing business in an environmentally responsible manner. We continuously monitor and review our performance to meet current environmental legislation.” Corporate Responsibility Strategy 15 Hikma Pharmaceuticals Communication on Progress 2014 Environment We recognise that human health every unit. electrical and thermal energy) is linked to the wider environment that is procured to be utilised The HSEE policy is a groupin which we live and that climate more effectively within the wide corporate policy that is change is one of the greatest facility. By improving energy endorsed by the Vice President challenges facing nations, efficiency, the user does not of Corporate Communication. governments, businesses and need to use as much energy Training sessions and awareness citizens over future decades. to deliver the same tasks or material on the policy are Within its operations, Hikma communicated to the entire staff. processes adopts a preventive approach The policy dictates the need Decentralised Energy towards the environment. to comply with environmental technologies: enable energy Moreover, Hikma’s commitment legislation and regulation in every to be produced at or near to environmental responsibility country in which Hikma operates. not only covers its employees, the point of use, generally The purpose of the policy is to from renewable energy but reaches out to their families ensure the protection of and sources. This is in contrast to and the community at large, the well-being of employees the traditional, wasteful and by undertaking initiatives that and business partners. Its goal increasingly costly method promote greater environmental is to minimize adverse impact of buying energy that is responsibility. on the environment where generated in a centralised Hikma stands by its mission of possible, through the reduction power station that may be improving people’s quality of life, of greenhouse gases (GHG) many hundreds of kilometres including the environment which inventory by reducing the from the point at which the they live in. Hikma realises that consumption of energy: energy is needed environmental responsibility must be built in to its operations. We aim to minimize our impact Hikma’s HSEE management on climate change, air and water involves stakeholder engagement. Pharmaceutical manufacturing pollution, land contamination Hikma interacts with its key can be an energy-intensive and energy use etc. We also aim stakeholders to resolve issues and business and it is therefore our to prevent accidents and cases help improve its performance. responsibility to understand of work-related ill health at Open channels of communication our related environmental Hikma. maintain an effective dialogue. impacts. We strive to ensure the Transparency in reporting also adaptation of environmentally We aim to provide resources improves performance. friendly processes in all its plants and programs to reduce carbon across the Group whenever emissions that are due to our As a manufacturing company, possible. operations. Hikma is keen to do its utmost for the prevention and Hikma continuously seeks to management of environmental reduce energy costs and increase Policies and Procedures sustainability throughout all of its accidents. There are Standards Operating Procedures (SOPs) for Health, Safety, Environment and facilities by implementing Energy prevention and management of Energy Management Conservation Measures (ECMs). environmental accidents within ECMs consist of two groups of The Health, Safety, Environment the HSEE management function. technologies that enable the and Energy (HSEE) policy commits In addition, environmental risks above objectives to be achieved: the company to environmental due to production that may standards from the top strategic Energy Efficiency technologies: be harmful to operators are level to the operational level at enable the energy (both minimised and mitigated by the 16 Hikma Pharmaceuticals Communication on Progress 2014 Health and Safety Department CR Manager: As part of the Scope 1: Facility diesel and alternative processes are CR Manager’s performance combustion, facility natural implemented where possible. the appraisal that determines gas combustion, facility HSEE Architecture their annual salary raise, LPG combustion, fugitive the communications on refrigerants from airThe highest level of climate sustainable matters such conditioning equipment and change and energy reduction as climate change, energy vehicle fuel combustion responsibility rests with the efficient manufacturing President and CEO of MENA and Scope 2: Purchased electricity processes, and a Hikma policy Emerging Markets. Management consumption for our own use statement on energy and ripples down to the operational climate change were included Hikma reports according to the level and has controls and checks Defra Environmental Reporting at every level. The management Health and Safety Manager: Guidelines 2013. Results are procedure is as follows: His performance includes reported in tCO2e emissions, as Executive-level CR committee: advising the GM and senior UK Government emission factors Reporting directly to the CEO management on HSEE for overseas electricity currently as a part of the group’s ethics strategies, maintaining account for carbon dioxide related to the environment. It HSEE certifications (ISO emissions only. is accountable for sustainability 14001, OHSAS18001) and Water Usage activities technical implementation of environmental plans Pharmaceutical manufacturing is Senior Management: (ISO14001, Energy a water-intensive industry. Hikma Committed to reducing conservation plan, waste monitors, sets percentage targets harmful emissions, optimizing management plan), in for reductions and oversees that energy usage and minimizing accordance with regulations sites achieve them. Our ability risk, through setting a and codes; and developing risk to reduce this impact through dedicated budget program to management policy reduced water consumption achieve required targets will also enable us to deliver All employees: Participate significant cost savings. Hikma MENA Operation VP: MENA in global CR campaigns has installed a number of systems Operation VP has a savings that entail volunteering in in its production processes that objective that includes communities to clean up or have increased the efficiency of savings on energy. They are in environmental campaigns. water usage in its manufacturing accountable to the board They can attend awareness facilities in Jordan and Portugal. Business Unit Managers (GM): sessions on environmental Moreover, the company carefully In each business unit the GM issues that the company assesses and monitors the is responsible for reviewing all hosts. All employees are impact of its water withdrawal HSEE activities including the also encouraged to submit on the environment. Hikma setting of emissions reduction new ideas to safeguard the avoids instances where the target and the method of environment impact of a specific withdrawal implementation They are can significantly affect the Greenhouse Gases environment and have wider responsible for setting up and As a company listed in the impacts on the quality of life in ensuring the execution of new London Stock Exchange, Hikma the area. energy saving projects has a regulatory obligation to Energy Saving Procurement Plant Managers: Oversee the report GHG emissions pursuant processes to meet reduction to Section 7 of The Companies Hikma is committed to the targets at every manufacturing Act 2006 (Strategic Report and environment as an integral part site Directors’ Report) Regulations of its corporate strategy and core 2013. business. Thus it considers energy Engineering Manager: Sets saving equipment and tools in The GHG sources that constitute plans and processes for any new projects, whether it was our operational boundary for meeting targets an expansion project, a greenfield the 2014 reporting period are as project or an acquisition. follows: 17 Hikma Pharmaceuticals Communication on Progress 2014 Ethical Suppliers Marketing of products or enforced upon anyone who Hikma’s supply chain services that are specifically smokes in the buildings. Hikma’s integrates environmental and environmentally friendly offices and factories worldwide social elements guided by have been smoke-free since Worked to improve local supplier 1994. the framework of the HSEE relationships or provided policy. The management of technical assistance to suppliers Hikma is a proud member of the Hikma’s supply chain ensures Global Smoke-free Partnership that manufacturing processes Programs to benefit the local (GSP), a global partnership comply with and exceed where community dedicated to promoting effective possible, the relevant local and smoke-free air policies worldwide. international environmental Employee programs training, health, safety Engaging the Community legislations. Hikma works with suppliers and contractors to Certified Management Systems Hikma undertakes a variety of bring their HSEE management public initiatives related to the Hikma reduces negative environment. These come in standards into alignment. It externalities through green many forms, including: cooperates with them to ensure investment and focus on that they are providing optimum reducing the energy usage Advancing community efficiency equipment as well across the group. This onwellness through as environmentally-friendly going process resulted in the environmental education apparatus and machines in order achievement of certifications for Disaster relief support to reduce energy consumption. the environmental management We make sure that our strategic system (ISO 14001), occupational Contributing to policy suppliers are aware of and health and safety management developments conform to the environmental systems (OHSAS 18001) and Partnering with government provision of our policies. energy management system (ISO agencies, academia and other Hikma utilises suppliers audit 50001). stakeholders questionnaire that relate to the The ISO 14001 management Philanthropic programs with environment to help assess the systems are steered by Hikma’s environmentally related suppliers’ practices and increase Health and Safety or Engineering outcomes their awareness of responsible departments of each Hikma operations and business ethics. Transparent Reporting subsidiary, which fulfil the With regards to environmental environmental requirements Hikma deploys transparent matters, the questionnaire asks from ISO 14001 in addition to reporting systems that aim to whether suppliers have: managing health and safety show progress in energy, waste, risks according to the OHSAS greenhouse gas emissions and Obtained certification for 18001. The standards related water consumption. Some of environmental, social and or to environmental management these are mandatory while others health and safety management help Hikma (a) minimize how are self-reporting standards that system(s) the operations (processes etc.) Hikma has chosen to report upon Published an environment/ negatively affect the environment in order to ensure that processes (i.e. cause adverse changes to air, are in line with Hikma’s quality sustainability or a corporate water, or land); (b) comply with standards. These include: social responsibility report applicable laws, regulations, and (please send copy or provide Global Reporting Initiative other environmentally oriented web link) CDP (formerly the Carbon requirements, and (c) continually Established formal and improve its practices to achieve Disclosure Project) Global regular consultation with annual re-certification. Climate Change Report local community and other Corporate Responsibility report Healthy Workplaces stakeholders as part of the company’s We promote anti-smoking and annual report2 Decreased use of resources, healthy workplaces. Hikma is Reports to 3rd party financial increased emission controls, or completely smoke-free in all of its entities as part of our loan increased by-product recycling premises, and penalties are strictly agreements 2 The CR report is available on Hikma’s website: http://www.hikma.com/~/ 18 media/Files/H/Hikma/Attachments/pdf/reports/cr-reports/cr-report-2014.pdf Hikma Pharmaceuticals Communication on Progress 2014 Actions and Performance In 2014, Hikma began operating Hikma is upholding ISO14001 its second photovoltaic system in as we passed the surveillance Green Buildings a Hikma site in Jordan. visit with zero nonconformity All of Hikma’s new buildings will in addition to the OHSAS Hikma is keen to adopt green and be built in an environmentally 18001. Hikma’s main operations sustainable solutions. As part of friendly manner; a state-of-thein Jordan, the Jazeera its energy management strategy, art lyophilised plant in Portugal Pharmaceuticals Industries (JPI) Hikma introduced its photovoltaic that is a fully environmentally facility in Saudi Arabia and Hikma system in Jordan’s facilities, to friendly building and operates Egypt facility are ISO 14001 and produce electricity from solar in accordance with international OHSAS 18001 certified. energy. standards is our latest addition in Corporate Initiatives Hikma Farmaceutica. The primary tests of the system were conducted in 2013. This In 2014, Hikma’s subsidiary in HSEE Management project will be one of a series of the US, West-Ward, received In 2014, Hikma obtained the ISO renewable energy projects to be the Environmental Stewardship 50001 for Energy Management implemented across the Group. Award from the New Jersey System (EnMS) for a main Substantial savings of up to 15% Department of Environmental manufacturing site in Jordan. were achieved. Protection. This was granted for Thus Hikma became the first taking voluntary and proactive GHG pharmaceutical company in steps that exceeded compliance the Middle East and the first During the year ended 31 guidelines. Jordanian manufacturing plant December 2014, Hikma Hikma continued to conduct its to achieve this certification. This Pharmaceuticals PLC emitted employee welfare week “You resulted from three years’ work in 18,931 tCO2e from the Are Hikma” across its global energy improvement and energy combustion of fuel (Scope 1 locations. The 2014 campaign management. direct) and 58,435 tCO2 from organized numerous activities for electricity purchased for our own In 2014, Hikma added energy employees to raise awareness on use (Scope 2 indirect). This is to its policy and issued a new health, safety and environmental equal to 3.42 tCO2e per full-time Health, Safety, Environment and issues. equivalent (‘FTE’) employee and Energy (HSEE) policy. 10.56 tCO2 per FTE employee Several CR campaigns took Hikma aims to reduce emissions respectively. Compared with place across the group such as and this is a factor in the 2013, our total Scope 1 emissions Earth Hour. These encourage performance indicator, with an have decreased almost 10%. This employees to get involved in their absolute reduction objective of is due to greater awareness of communities. 15% scope 1 and 10% scope 2 in our climate change impact as a Reporting CO2 emissions. result of improved measurement and monitoring of organisational To meet its reporting needs, Hikma received a high score on Hikma signed a service agreement greenhouse gases since last year. its CDP Global Climate Change with Credit 360 for global Emissions from Scope 2 electricity Report 2015, which covers the sustainability software in 2014. usage increased by 13%, largely year 2014. Hikma scored 90 ‘B’ The software will assist in due to increased production at in the rating of healthcare sector collecting reliable and complex certain sites, including Algeria responding companies, marking data across the entire group in a and Eatontown, New Jersey. a steady improvement over the consistent manner. This will serve 2014 score of 82 ‘B’ and the Supplier Practices its increasing internal and external 2013 score of 72 ‘C’. In 2014, the company reporting requirements and help Throughout the year, operators reorganized its auditing procedure in engaging various stakeholders. were trained periodically by identifying its major suppliers on Standard Operating and conducting a widespread Procedures (SOP) to ensure audit of their supply procedures. that environmental procedures 71% of significant suppliers and hazards are mitigated in have undergone screenings on manufacturing processes. environmental issues. Solar Energy Certifications 19 Hikma Pharmaceuticals Communication on Progress 2014 Principle Ten Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery 20 Hikma Pharmaceuticals Communication on Progress 2014 “Hikma does not condone or participate “Hikma has a zero tolerance of bribery in any form of corruption and refrains and corruption. from doing business with those who do All directors, officers, employees, and not meet its standards.” other individuals working for Hikma and Integrity Principle, Code of Conduct joint ventures in which it has an equity control are prohibited from offering or “Hikma wishes to encourage an giving, either directly or indirectly, money environment in which full, free, and frank or anything else of value, as a bribe or discussions can be held on issues that inducement: to make, (or as a reward for concern our employees. Therefore, Hikma making or not making), a decision that has always had an open door policy is favourable to Hikma’s interests; or to regarding communication. seek to gain an unfair business advantage Furthermore, we must hear from those or otherwise influence business activities; who have any concerns about the ethics or which compromises their judgment or and integrity of our business. As part of their ability to act objectively. your commitment to this Code, you have This standard applies to interactions a duty to report to the Company as soon with to all individuals and corporate as possible any suspected violations of bodies with whom Hikma does business the Code, its supporting policies or any – healthcare professionals, customers, applicable law or regulations of which suppliers, professional bodies, regulatory you become aware.” authorities, and NGOs – regardless of Speaking Up Standard, Code of Conduct where they are located geographically. At Hikma we will: Act honestly, ethically and with integrity in all company interactions Not engage in or condone bribery or any other form(s) of corruption Not give or receive gifts or hospitality where this could give rise to a perception of a corrupt purpose.” Anti-Bribery and Corruption Standard, Code of Conduct 21 Hikma Pharmaceuticals Communication on Progress 2014 Anti – Corruption Since Hikma’s inception, good business ethics was embedded in our culture to ensure ethical behaviour across our businesses Board and geographies. We believe that a solid reputation for ethical CREC values such as integrity and honesty in how we conduct our business are vital to our Chief Compliance company’s reputation and Officer success. Hikma has a zero Branded Injectables US & Generics Group tolerance policy for bribery and Division Division Division Compliance corruption and does not conduct Champion Champion Champion Manager business with any company that fails to meet its standards. Divisional Divisional Divisional Group Officers Officers Officers Officers At Hikma, we conduct our business with high ethical values and in compliance with all ABC Architecture The Committee also oversees applicable laws. The company Hikma’s speak-up reporting has a strong ethical culture that Compliance, Responsibility and systems for employees to is deeply embedded within its Ethics Committee (CREC) raise ethical concerns, and, operations. Corruption is not where relevant, oversees their tolerated at Hikma and we have The CREC is a board-level investigation. As an organization, applied strict processes to ensure committee that is chaired by Hikma is committed to clear that all of our employees do not Mazen Darwazeh, the President and open communication. The take part in any form of corrupt and CEO of MENA and Emerging company remains open to direct practices. Markets. It sets the overall discussion with shareholders. strategy for the Group’s response Anti-bribery is at the core of to bribery and corruption risks The Chief Compliance Officer Hikma’s ethical conduct as can and is responsible for approving (CCO) reports to the CREC. He be seen in its corporate values of the contents of all of the is supported by local compliance integrity and transparency. business’ policies in areas where departments in each major ethical judgments are important. operational jurisdiction and local representatives at the smaller The CREC oversees the Group’s sites. Policies and Procedures anti-bribery and corruption (ABC) together with Group policies on Code of Conduct As it is listed in the LSE, Hikma complies with guidelines ethics and business conduct. The Hikma’s Code of Conduct has regarding share dealings that CREC reviews Group policy in the been benchmarked against good prohibit the use of internal area of CR and is supported in industry practice and a peer information for personal gain this work by the CR Committee. group of international companies. or insider trading, as per the The CREC is responsible for It was reviewed by the CREC UK Anti-Bribery Act 2010 and overseeing the development of and supported by the Board. It is the Share Dealing Code and the Group’s Code of Conduct, on available in the various languages Disclosure policies. behalf of the Board. of Hikma’s locations and can 22 Hikma Pharmaceuticals Communication on Progress 2014 be found on the company’s undergo extensive induction Hikma’s Suppliers Audit corporate website. training when they join Hikma. Questionnaire, which is used to The Induction program focuses on audit environmental matters, also Each year, Hikma employees are the MENA where pharmaceutical assesses the suppliers’ business required to confirm that they have sales mainly depend on direct practices and attempts to increase read the Code, have understood contact between the business and their awareness of responsible it and will abide by its terms. doctors through medical reps. operations and business ethics. They confirm in writing that they Hikma boasts a strong team of understand their obligations to around 2000 medical reps for its report events of suspected nonbranded segment in the region. compliance with Code. All new Actions and Performance employees are also trained on the Transparency Measures Code of Conduct Code of Conduct as part of their induction training. Hikma maintains an image In 2014, the Code of Conduct of responsible and trusted was reviewed, updated and Training and communication organization, welcoming external approved. The Code has now on ABC policies and the Code stakeholder engagement and been translated into seven continues to enhance employees’ transparency in its business languages to support Hikma’s understanding of bribery and activities. broad operating footprint: corruption risks, and increases A key method of communication Arabic, English, French, German, the penetration of compliance is social media. Hikma has online Portuguese, Russian and issues into the decision making presence on Facebook, Twitter, Slovakian. process for business departments as they consider existing and new LinkedIn and YouTube. These This year we focused on raising business structures. The training are managed by a Marketing internal awareness and further plan for the Code includes faceCommunications Specialist, educating employees on the to-face training for top managers, led by the VP of Corporate importance of human rights, training and discussion sessions at Communication and steered labour laws, the environment and department level for employees through a multi-functional Social anti-corruption, in line with the and lower management. Media Committee. Global Compact’s principles. Speak Up An extensive social media Hikma has previously installed policy was distributed to Hikma anonymous reporting platforms Hikma has an open door policy employees worldwide and has across the US and European in regards to communication become part of their employment operations, and in 2014 Hikma with its employees. When contract to ensure responsible introduced a web-reporting employees are seeking a more and ethical participation in both system for the MENA region. discrete or anonymous method of Hikma endorsed and non-Hikma reporting, they can use the Speak social media platforms. CREC Up system. Hikma operates a web-based compliance reporting Ethical Suppliers In 2014 the Compliance system. The reports are reviewed Department was resourced. A In addition to environmental by the compliance team, VP of new Chief Compliance Officer aspects, Hikma’s supply chain Corporate HR and the General was assigned, who has significant management selects significant Counsel. Hikma investigates all operational experience leading suppliers that uphold ethical reports of non-compliance and different markets across MENA. practices and internationally takes appropriate action. His goal is to implement ABC proclaimed integrity measures. It procedures in each jurisdiction, Responsible Sales verifies that its strategic suppliers delivering the medium-term are aware of and conform to the ABC strategy that was set by the Hikma ensures that responsible provisions of the company’s ABC Committee during the year. sales are maintained. Responsible policies. Hikma’s suppliers follow sales practices are endorsed Good Manufacturing Practices In December 2014, a new board by the Code and perpetuated (GMP) and our significant member joined the CREC. She through the Code training. suppliers are ISO 14001 and has led the development and OHSAS 18001 certified or their oversight of ABC programs Additionally, medical reps equivalent. 23 Hikma Pharmaceuticals Communication on Progress 2014 for major pharmaceutical for the category Best Executive corporations. Remuneration Reporting in the FTSE 250 companies for the best Employee Training practices in reporting following a All managers in all of the Hikma review of the Annual Reports and locations underwent face-toExternal Communications. face roll-out training sessions on compliance and conduct, with over 600 managers receiving the training. After completing the training courses, the managers in turn trained their teams and support staff, with over 1,600 employees receiving the training from their managers. The Sales and Marketing session covered the policy for gifts, hospitality and entertainment as well as proper interaction with healthcare professionals. The training sessions covered the following: Code of Conduct Compliance Overview Sales and Marketing Policy Speak Up Conflict of Interest Suppliers As aforementioned, the company reorganized its auditing procedure in 2014. It conducted a wide scale audit on its major suppliers’ procedures, ensuring that they do not participate in or condone bribery or corrupt practices. In total, 71% of the significant suppliers have undergone ethical screenings. Recognition Our ethical conduct and transparency continued to be recognised in 2014 and Hikma was shortlisted for the Building Public Trust Award by PriceWaterhouseCoopers (PwC) 24 For further information please contact: Hikma Pharmaceuticals P. O. Box 182400 11118 Amman Jordan Telephone: +962 6 5802900 Facsimile: +962 6 5827102 www.hikma.com
