Communication on Progress (COP) 2014 Communication on Progress (COP) 2014 Table of Contents Letter From Our CEO. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3 Communication on Progress. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5 Progress Highlights by the Numbers . . . . . . . . . . . 7 Human Rights. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9 Labor Standards . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11 Environmental . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13 Anti-Corruption. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15 Communication on Progress (COP) 2014 Letter from our CEO Our long-standing commitment of as they related to the Global Compact’s that will inspire, to maintaining a strong inspiring people, companies, and Ten Principles, have enabled us foothold on providing support to brands, and helping to develop to sharpen and better direct our organizations that strive to help people stronger communities where we live community outreach and corporate achieve a better pathway in life through and work has been a driving force investment to specific and measurable economic self-efficiency, education, and behind many of the initiatives in which achievements that have helped raise the job creation, to embarking on a historic we are involved throughout the year. bar in preparation for our next 25 years preservation project rescuing a 200 year We believe that we are a better and of success and growth. old landmark property that was visited more versatile organization because of by several of our nation’s founding our values to help promote economic Our efforts have included ensuring fathers, is on the National Register of growth, sustainability, education, and a plan for sustainable growth from Historic Places, and has eight handempowerment where we do business. our location and operations to our crafted fireplaces documented in the Everything stems from our core values technology and people. It is our Smithsonian Institution, and more, we including integrity, people, and the continual goal to be a great place to are pleased to have made progress and fundamental principles of being the work for our team, and also a company look forward to accomplishing our goal best at what we do for our clients. We that our clients can count on to do the of bringing everything we do to the next are proud to be respected as a true right thing, deliver results, and maintain level in the year ahead. community partner, and are delighted to the highest integrity. We are a company report on our first year of progress with continually recognized for its generosity At PENTA, we take tremendous pride the UNGC. in making our communities better in our people, our work, and in our through our leadership, impact, and commitment to achieving the highest This is our first Communication on stewardship. level of excellence. It is with integrity, Progress as a member of the United respect, creativity, collaboration, and Nations Global Compact (UNGC) in the Our Commitment to the UNGP’s dedication that we accomplish our United States of America. Our objective 10 Principles objectives. Our dedication to the values in this report is to share our progress We are delighted to complete our first of the United Nations Global Compact as it related to the Ten Principles year as a signatory of the United Nations is one way we can do our part to help during the period of April 2013 through Global Compact. We believe that this strengthen our local community, March 2014. We are very proud of our commitment is in alignment with our while joining forces with organizations accomplishments, and for taking the core values and provides a framework of throughout the world that share initiative to make a commitment to which to measure our progress. common values of making a difference the Global Compact by becoming a to positively impact our planet. signatory in April of 2013. From the initiation of a Green Committee that we have named It is truly an honor and privilege to align As an award-winning full service Project Oak to fostering a greater with the UNGP principles. integrated marketing, advertising, emphasis on environmental public relations, website development, Deborah Penta sustainability within our company, to and social media marketing firm which Founder & CEO broadening our support of women’s will celebrate its 25th Anniversary in PENTA Communications, Inc. empowerment through sponsorships April of 2014, the past year’s initiatives, of programs throughout our region 3 Communication on Progress (COP) 2014 How PENTA Implemented the Ten Global Principles in 2013 Principle Highlights on Progress Human Rights 1. Businesses should •• PENTA’s engagement with regional nonprofit organizations that support and support and respect respect human rights by helping individuals and families work towards economic the protection self-sufficiency through education and assistance programs continued; and of internationally •• PENTA’s leadership continued its volunteer board service to a myriad of proclaimed human community organizations that support the UN Human Rights principles including rights; the Workforce Investment Board, Worcester Community Action Council, and, in addition, financially supported numerous organizations which assisted people by 2. And make sure they providing food, shelter, clothing, and mental health services. are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labor 3. Business should •• PENTA helped many client organizations comprised of both management and Standards uphold the freedom union workers through the integration of numerous services which helped of association and the strengthen their marketing communications; effective recognition •• In an effort to foster empowerment for women, PENTA awarded a leadership of the right to scholarship to a college-bound female promoting equality for women relative to collective bargaining; leadership advancement; 4. the elimination of all •• As part of PENTA’s global diplomacy efforts and commitment to worldwide forms of compulsory women’s empowerment, the firm hosted a group of female business leaders from labor; Russia and convened an evening of collaboration with US female leaders of various economic and vertical market sectors; 5. the effective abolition •• PENTA’s CEO was honored with the prestigious YWCA Katherine Erskine Award in of child labor; Business and Law for her commitment to equality for women, and the elimination 6. and the elimination of racism and justice for all; of discrimination •• PENTA sponsored the Nichols College Empowering Women’s Conference in an in respect of effort to support regional educational initiatives to drive economic self-sufficiency employment and for women; occupation. •• PENTA sponsored the Business Forward Female’s (BFF) Luncheon Series, enabling women access to education, empowerment, and networking; and •• With respect to fostering global awareness to school-aged children, PENTA sponsored a Model UN program for sixth grade middle school students. Environment 7. Businesses •• PENTA formed a Green Committee named Project Oak in an effort to initiate should support company-wide education on sustainability and to doing its part to reduce its a precautionary carbon footprint; approach to •• PENTA purchased a property on the National Register of Historic Places and, environmental throughout the historic restoration project, made every effort to repurpose the challenges; building to its highest and best use, promote energy efficiency through the installation of energy efficient mechanical systems, windows, and doors. It also 8. undertake initiatives preserved every possible artifact including its eight hand-crafted fireplaces to promote greater documented in the Smithsonian, and the magnanimous hand-crafted millwork environmental throughout the structure; responsibility; •• The Company started recycling efforts for paper, water bottles, and printer 9. and encourage cartridges; and the development •• PENTA incorporated a green line of services to its clients and made and diffusion of recommendations with respect to how its clients could execute green marketing environmentally strategies within their businesses. friendly technologies. Anti10. Businesses should •• PENTA maintains the highest ethical standards in all of its business operations Corruption work against and relationships. The firm seeks partners and vendors that are in alignment of corruption in all of our core values ensuring high integrity. In addition, we maintain high levels of its forms, including transparency in our client relationships and will not tolerate any level of unethical extortion and bribery. behavior on any level. 5 Communication on Progress (COP) 2014 Progress by the Numbers 80% Percentage of PENTA’s workforce diversity. Over $1.5 million Investment for improving PENTA’s physical workspace. 90% Percentage of PENTA suppliers that are local. 100% Percentage of local contractors used for PENTA’s historic preservation project. $150,000 Invested in nonprofit organizations for pro bono services during the current COP Period. 7 “ PENTA believes that all people should have access to resources that will foster economic self-sufficiency ” and the potential for education and job creation to improve their lives and move up and out of poverty. Communication on Progress (COP) 2014 United Nations Global Compact Human Rights Principle Highlights on Progress Human Rights 1. Businesses should •• PENTA’s engagement with regional nonprofit organizations that support and support and respect respect human rights by helping individuals and families work towards economic the protection self-sufficiency through education and assistance programs continued; and of internationally •• PENTA’s leadership continued its volunteer board service to a myriad of proclaimed human community organizations that support the UN Human Rights principles including rights; the Workforce Investment Board, Worcester Community Action Council, and, in addition, financially supported numerous organizations which assisted people by 2. And make sure they are providing food, shelter, clothing, and mental health services. not complicit in human rights abuses. “ Through our commitment to organizations like WCAC, the Workforce Investment Board, the YWCA, Pernet Family Health, and Big Brothers Big Sisters, among others, we commit ” our talent, resources, and leadership to help these organizations which reach over 110,000 individuals and families in our region. 9 “ ” We believe in hiring the Best People, providing an environment that promotes Teamwork, Collaboration, Excellence, Integrity, and Respect. Communication on Progress (COP) 2014 United Nations Global Compact Labor Standard Principles Principle Highlights on Progress Labor 3. Business should •• PENTA helped many client organizations comprised of both management and Standards uphold the freedom union workers through the integration of numerous services which helped of association and the strengthen their marketing communications; effective recognition •• In an effort to foster empowerment for women, PENTA awarded a leadership of the right to scholarship to a college-bound female promoting equality for women relative to collective bargaining; leadership advancement; 4. the elimination of all •• As part of PENTA’s global diplomacy efforts and commitment to worldwide forms of compulsory women’s empowerment, the firm hosted a group of female business leaders from labor; Russia and convened an evening of collaboration with US female leaders of various economic and vertical market sectors; 5. the effective abolition •• PENTA’s CEO was honored with the prestigious YWCA Katherine Erskine Award in of child labor; Business and Law for her commitment to equality for women, and the elimination 6. and the elimination of racism and justice for all; of discrimination •• PENTA sponsored the Nichols College Empowering Women’s Conference in an in respect of effort to support regional educational initiatives to drive economic self-sufficiency employment and for women; occupation. •• PENTA sponsored the Business Forward Female’s (BFF) Luncheon Series, enabling women access to education, empowerment, and networking; and •• With respect to fostering global awareness to school-aged children, PENTA sponsored a Model UN program for sixth grade middle school students. “ This enables the true concept of team to emerge in an environment where there is diversity that spans genders, generations, experiences, cultures, resulting in harmony. ” 11 “ PENTA has embarked on a journey to become more sustainable in its daily operations. It begins with changing mindsets and habits and by taking a closer look at how we engage with our vendors. We believe that the establishment of our green initiative, while ” it will take time to fully cultivate, will continue bringing us closer to the achievement of reducing our carbon footprint. Communication on Progress (COP) 2014 United Nations Global Compact Environmental Principles Principle Highlights on Progress Environment 7. Businesses •• PENTA formed a Green Committee named Project Oak in an effort to initiate should support company-wide education on sustainability and to doing its part to reduce its a precautionary carbon footprint; approach to •• PENTA purchased a property on the National Register of Historic Places and, environmental throughout the historic restoration project, made every effort to repurpose the challenges; building to its highest and best use, promote energy efficiency through the installation of energy efficient mechanical systems, windows, and doors. It also 8. undertake initiatives preserved every possible artifact including its eight hand-crafted fireplaces to promote greater documented in the Smithsonian, and the magnanimous hand-crafted millwork environmental throughout the structure; responsibility; •• The Company started recycling efforts for paper, water bottles, and printer 9. and encourage cartridges; and the development •• PENTA incorporated a green line of services to its clients and made and diffusion of recommendations with respect to how its clients could execute green marketing environmentally strategies within their businesses. friendly technologies. “ Our primary goals are to become more energy and operationally efficient; to incorporate ” small but meaningful ways of becoming more sustainable through our daily actions; and by continuing to integrate local sourcing as much as possible. 13 “ PENTA is deeply committed to upholding the highest integrity and ethical standards and to complying with anti-corruption laws. ” We have a zero tolerance policy for unethical behavior in our organization, with our vendors, and within our community relationships. Communication on Progress (COP) 2014 United Nations Global Compact Anti-Corruption Principle Highlights on Progress Anti10. Businesses should •• PENTA maintains the highest ethical standards in all of its business operations Corruption work against and relationships. The firm seeks partners and vendors that are in alignment of corruption in all of our core values ensuring high integrity. In addition, we maintain high levels of its forms, including transparency in our client relationships and will not tolerate any level of unethical extortion and bribery. behavior on any level. “ ” We value that our clients seek to work with us based on trust and our dedication to authenticity in all that we do in how we conduct our business. 15 Communication on Progress (COP) 2014 H.E. Ban Ki-moon Secretary-General United Nations New York, NY 10017 United States of America Dear Mr. Secretary-General: On behalf of PENTA Communications, Inc. it is an honor and pleasure to confirm that our organization will continue to support the ten principles of the United Nations Global Compact on human rights, labor standard, environment, and anti-corruption. Over the next year, we look forward to making the Global Compact and its principles a continued focus with respect to enhancing the underlying moral fabric of our company. PENTA intends to make a clearer statement in 2014-2015 to our community and stakeholders regarding our involvement in this initiative, and we are looking forward to another year of growth and progress. We are proud of our first year Communication on Progress and to be in alignment with the core principles on the Global Compact. All the best, Deborah Penta Chief Executive Officer PENTA Communications, Inc. The PENTA Building | 208 Turnpike Road Westborough, MA 01581 USA 508.616.9900 | www.pentamarketing.com
