TABLE OF CONTENTS ABOUT OUR REPORT ABOUT OUR REPORT 1 ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE 40 MESSAGE TO OUR STAKEHOLDERS 4 CONTRIBUTIONS TO THE ECONOMY 42 INVESTMENTS 44 INTERVIEW WITH THE R&D AND INNOVATION 46 We hereby would like to present The Scope and into consideration the GRI principles of INDUSTRY GROUP PRESIDENT OF to our stakeholders our first materiality, stakeholder inclusiveness, SABANCI HOLDING 6 MATERIALS MANAGEMENT 48 Limitations of Our Report sustainability context and completeness, sustainability report that reflects CORPORATE PROFILE 10 our economic, environmental and Unless otherwise stated, the data in this as well as the principles set out in the UN SOCIAL PERFORMANCE 52 Global Compact we signed during the KORDSA GLOBAL IN FIGURES 14 social performance as Kordsa Global report cover Kordsa Global’s activities LABOR PRACTICES AND within Turkey from January 1, 2013 to reporting period, and the International OUR PRODUCTS AND THE for the period 2013-2014. The aim Finance Corporation IFC’s Performance HUMAN RIGHTS MANAGEMENT 54 December 31, 2014. Our company’s MARKETS WE SERVE 16 TRAINING AND EDUCATION 57 of this report is to give our key Standards on Environmental and Social stakeholders the opportunity to international investments are taken up in STRATEGY AND MANAGEMENT 22 OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY 59 Sustainability that were established to the section on our corporate profile and SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT 24 assess the steps we took to measure, pinpoint, assess and manage social and in our stakeholder engagement. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 35 ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE 62 monitor and improve the way we environmental risks in project finance. ETHICS MANAGEMENT 36 ENERGY MANAGEMENT 65 manage the impacts resulting from www.globalcompact.org COMPLIANCE MANAGEMENT 37 WASTE MANAGEMENT 66 our activities. The Principles of Our Report WATER MANAGEMENT 68 We have prepared our report based Our Next Report EMISSIONS MANAGEMENT 69 Our goal is to render our on the GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) sustainability reports one of Guidelines and in accordance with GRI G4 We plan to publish our next report, PERFORMANCE INDICATORS 70 the major communication tools Guidelines – Core option. (G4-17) where we aim to share our sustainability ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE to examine the priorities of our www.globalreporting.org performance in 2015, in the second half INDICATORS 71 stakeholders with regard to of 2016. SOCIAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS 72 sustainability and to share our best In the process of identifying our aspects ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE practices in finding solutions to for strategic sustainability, we took INDICATORS 78 issues today and in the future. ANNEXES 83 AWARDS 83 MEMBERSHIPS 84 UN GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLES 85 IFC SUSTAINABILITY STANDARDS COMPATIBILITY INDEX 85 GRI G4 CONTENT INDEX 86 Kordsa Global Sustainability Report 2014 I 1 As the Sabancı Group, our goal in Turkey and all of the geographies we operate in is to grow while creating long-term value for all our stakeholders, conscious of our social and environmental responsibilities. We are proud to share the first sustainability performance report of our company Kordsa Global, which is among the global leaders of its sector, an examplary for the Turkish industry, as well as a leader in the implementation of technology and innovations. Kordsa Global will continue its sustainability journey by creating value for the future. I would like to express my wholehearted gratitude to all the executives and employees that have played a role in the success corporate sustainability of Kordsa Global. Güler Sabancı Chairman Sabancı Holding 2 I Kordsa Global Sustainability Report 2014 Kordsa Global Sustainability Report 2014 I 3 MESSAGE TO OUR STAKEHOLDERS Esteemed Stakeholders, This year we ramped up our activities to to conduct research and development, but facilities in the scope of OHS, we are pleased Treatment Facility it had prioritized among further improve our sustainability strategy. also is involved in education and production that there have been no fatal accidents since its other investments having calculated its We are pleased and proud to share with you In addition to the Sustainability Task Force, under the same roof. With this approach, the day of our establishment, and continue feasibility and environmental impact. the first sustainability report of our company all our senior executives participated in we took the financial support we extend to to produce with a goal of zero accidents. Kordsa Global that is positioned as the global and supported our efforts. Our employees Sabancı University, and to education each year We constantly support the personal and Since 2013, we have been using waste leader of its sector, providing reinforcement and customers contributed to the report as part of our articles of association one step professional development of our employees plastic recycling pelletizing machines in our materials to the leading tire companies of the as well with the feedback they gave in this further. through training platforms that have become production, which emerged as an innovative world for more than 40 years. Conscious of process during the assessment of our current brands in their own right such as KEEP. idea for an R&D project. At Kordsa Global our responsibility, we have been managing the performance. We received the third prize among the leaders Turkey, we recycle the waste produced at the economic, social, and environmental impact of the textile sector in the Export Champions Ensuring equal opportunity for women and Nylon 6.6 yarn plants into Nylon 6.6 pellets, of our operations in line with the Ethical and Our Economic Awards organized by the Turkish Exporters’ diversity are among our labor priorities. As thus making them available to the engineering Corporate Social Responsibility Principles Assembly. Kordsa Global, we are a signatory to the plastics industry. Having generated a new of the Sabancı Group since the very day our Performance United Nations Women’s Empowerment product from waste, we created both company was founded. In this report, we In 2014, we continued with increased Principles as well as the Equality at Work environmental and economic benefits. present to you the good practices we have In addition to our economic performance, determination to value innovation and novel Declaration introduced to the business world We have proven our commitment to introduced to improve the way we manage materials, and raw material management products, and thereby further raised our under the leadership of the Ministry of Family Another one of our projects that was global responsibility principles once our triple impact, as well as our future plans emerged as our priority sustainability issues contributions to the positive reflections and Social Policies and the co-chairmanship considered a revolutionary innovation in our again by signing the UN Global Compact and objectives. during our strategy discussions this year. they have on the national economy and of Ms. Güler Sabancı, the Chairman of sector was our resorcinol-and formaldehydethat covers the areas of human rights, technology. As the technology leader of the the Board of Sabancı Holding, and we are free ‘green’ dip solution. By developing an labor, environment and anti-corruption We proved our commitment to global One of the most significant developments sector, we sustained the attention we pay to determined to continue supporting similar auxiliary agent that poses no human or responsibility principles once again in 2013 by of 2014 was the inauguration of our second our R&D center, and as a result of that, in 2014, platforms. environmental health risks, we achieved in ten principles. signing the UN Global Compact that covers plant in Indonesia as a continuation of our for the second year in a row, we ranked first compliance with REACH regulations, and the areas of human rights, labor, environment, investments in Asia. Thanks to this remarkable investment, we further reinforced our among the R&D centers of private companies Our Environmental gained the appreciation of our customers at the same time. and anti-corruption in ten principles. We in the textile sector in Turkey according to the consider the promotion of these universal position in Asia with regard to proximity to Ministry of Science, Industry and Technology. Performance principles all throughout our corporate market, and supply capabilities to customers. At Kordsa Global, we aim to keep increasing organization and among all our stakeholders Launching projects that support our profitable growth target, we made sizable investments Our Social Performance At Kordsa Global, one of the most established companies of Sabancı Holding, environmental our profitability in our current business lines with competitive costs in 2015 as well. On as part of our corporate responsibility. in the construction and composites markets. management in production comes first this journey, we will continue to employ The strategy questionnaire and workshops In 2014, while we increased our profitability We opened the production line for Kratos among our operational priorities. In the same innovative technologies; to generate value for revealed that business ethics, occupational as Kordsa Global in tire reinforcement Macro, our product that has been developed vein, our strategy discussions focused on all our stakeholders, notably our employees health and safety, labor practices and human materials, our main line of business, we also specifically for the construction market. energy, waste and emissions management and customers; and to develop environmentrights as well as training and education were made an ambitious entry into new markets among our top priorities. friendly projects. It would help us create more the sustainability aspects that had priority for in order to ensure sustainable growth, and Another ambitious, novel, and unique value for you if you were kind enough to share our company and stakeholders. Therefore, our had a financially successful year. Just like business model, our project which aims to Our projects for energy savings proceeded with us your questions as well as comments report covers our management approach to in previous years, we continued to focus on penetrate the composites market, became in the reporting period. Owing to efforts and suggestions concerning the information ethics, compliance and human resources in efficiency in production and competitiveness official with the investment we made in the such as Project ABC, which has been covered contained in this report. detail. in costs so as to maintain our leadership Composite Technologies Center of Excellence, extensively in the report, we achieved savings in the ever-increasing competition with the groundbreaking ceremony of which of about 12% in steam and 3% in power during Regards, Thanks to all the risk assessments made, Asian players. We owe our aforementioned took place in Istanbul Teknopark. This is a the said period. Kordsa Global Turkey recovers preventive measures taken and occupational and uses at least 25% of the wastewater Cenk Alper profitability to our differentiation strategies pioneering step towards Industry-University health and safety culture promoted in all our it produces thanks to the Wastewater CEO both in production and in the quality of our Collaboration in Turkey, which not only serves products and services. 4 I Kordsa Global Sustainability Report 2014 Kordsa Global Sustainability Report 2014 I 5 INTERVIEW WITH THE INDUSTRY GROUP PRESIDENT OF SABANCI HOLDING Could you describe the position of I can recount our approach with Cenk Alper, signify in Sabancı Holding? Where Kordsa has made important moves in the Kordsa Global, which has been in our current CEO successfully leading Kordsa would you place this approach in third stage. To give you an example, it was operation for more than four decades, Global, who was then our Vice President for Kordsa’s vision? when I had recently come to Kordsa. In its within the Industry Group of Sabancı Technology, to technology in particular. The final processing step, the cord fabric is dipped Holding? In which areas has the Board of Directors of that time consisted of I think it was in 2009, all Sabancı Group into an RFL (Resorcinol-Formaldehyde Latex) company contributed to the Group so very valuable members who had international companies had gathered in a meeting, and bath where it undergoes a chemical process far? experience. They said, “DuPont is longer our an important step was taken towards a focus that ensures adhesion to the rubber. This partner. What are you planning to do about on sustainability, on the three dimensions material does not harm the environment, When you look at the very beginning of these technology? What will be your breakthrough of sustainability, i.e. social, environmental however, officials working for the REACH 41 years, I believe Kordsa is first and foremost in technology?” It was my first term as and financial sustainability. At that point, Regulation in Europe told us that we would a success story in entrepreneurship. It started CEO in Kordsa. Cenk Alper had worked for the Sabancı Group raised the bar internally. have to remove it from the product at some off to serve tire customers in Turkey at a Sabancı before, had been appointed to a post Consequently, sustainability, in fact, became point in time. Our tire producers, too, asked time when resources were limited to the abroad, and had come to Kordsa thereafter. an inseparable part of our business. Now, if us, “What are you doing about this?” So in extent that none of us today could imagine, We set out together to manage technology you ask where this would stand in Kordsa’s 2006, we said, “We can work on that.” Now when there was no access to raw material, in such a way that it links a long-term R&D vision today, I can share with you the stages we are in 2015, it’s been nine years. The with the goal of providing one specific structure with strategy, to truly create a there as well, and position Kordsa in this company never grew tired of the project and raw material to Turkey. It grew gradually, difference in the corporate strategy, and context. First comes compliance. Compliance worked on it continuously. Trials were made, selling first to Turkey, then Iran, and then have witnessed Kordsa cover significant is a must, but there are several levels of formulas were found. In the meantime we several nearby regions, and thus became an distance. It has become a company awarded compliance, like satisfying the bare minimum, applied for a patent because Kordsa produced international company. However, while all at ministerial level; a company shown as an or performing above a certain threshold. In the first cord fabric in the sector that does this was happening, the Sabancı Family, with example. Naturally enough, it has also opened Sabancı, we always aim for high compliance. not contain RFL. In other words, that was its entrepreneurial spirit, wanted to turn the an important window for Sabancı with its I believe we can confidently say that. The the third stage, a new product. In fact, this is company into a “global” business. This was a technology, innovative approach and, let’s put second stage is about the nature of your going to bring us back to compliance; there recurrent theme perhaps for three decades in it that way, contemporary entrepreneurship. business, in the value chain as a whole; about is yet no clear line in compliance for this Mehmet Pekarun Internalizing sustainability as a the 41-year history of Kordsa. It is indeed the Kordsa managed to create a new business your raw material, how efficiently you use aspect of the product. Perhaps what we did business model will contribute to only global company in the Group. Half of the from within the company, and launched the resources in the way you receive them, in not increase the performance of the product the development of innovative, turnover of our Industry Group comes from composites business unit. This is a novel step. your processing and in your delivery to the but it is environment-friendly. We have an environment-friendly products, abroad whereas this figure is 95% for Kordsa. I believe we are going to see it succeed in customer. Throughout this stage, many environment-friendly product in our sector. and consequently higher customer These are very striking figures. Therefore, that field as well, and that Kordsa creates a Sabancı companies, including Kordsa, due to Looking at our competition, we see that none satisfaction. Moreover, I believe it Kordsa, as a global company, is of utmost difference in Sabancı in a wide range of areas. the nature of their respective businesses, are of them owns a product like ours. Kordsa importance for the Group. energy-efficient in production, save water, produced intellectual property in this field, is going to provide considerable As the representative of shareholders, and always produce without harming the and I think this is also significant in terms advantages in terms of costs as well. As a success story accomplished in the period you are actually representing both environment. The third stage is rather about of the sustainability perspective it offers. since 2006 with the Kordsa team, where I Kordsa and Sabancı. In that context, innovation in sustainability. The fourth stage is Notwithstanding all these steps, there is still served as CEO from 2005 to 2010, what does the sustainability approach a lot more advanced, and deals with creating some room for improvement for Kordsa in the new business models based on sustainability. third stage. 6 I Kordsa Global Sustainability Report 2014 Kordsa Global Sustainability Report 2014 I 7 Kordsa designed a brand new production In which ways do you think will investors with regard to sustainability? profitable growth is possible. It is possible stage that uses resources, water, energy internalizing sustainability as a business What do different stakeholder groups if you are a company that has achieved in a much more efficient way with very model contribute to Kordsa Global? want to learn about? compliance, has identified related advantages little investment. This is something in the value chain, and has now designed the First of all, it will contribute to the development I can easily say that I haven’t heard anything product in that particular fashion. beyond environment-friendliness – it of innovative, environment-friendly products, in that sense from the investors. As a is actually like a revolution, where you and consequently higher customer satisfaction. stakeholder, I was expecting a sustainability To make a difference on the customer side, deliver a service that increases the value Moreover, I believe it is going to provide report, and am glad that it is going to be however, we need to use sustainability to of the product right to the door of your considerable advantages in terms of costs as available now. This is valuable because it will develop not only a product, but also a new customer. well. For instance, if you think about the work change the whole way of doing business; business model. That’s where I see part of the we did concerning RFL, you will see that we there will be new challenges, but I would opportunity. Kordsa has become a company To make a difference on the customer were trying to improve the product without like to compare this to, for instance, regular that can try out different business models. side, however, we need to use increasing the financial burden on the customer quality audits. In those audits, there lies the Leveraging sustainability, it can develop a new sustainability to develop not only by using the concept of sustainability. So, discipline of reviewing everything at least business model to serve its current customers there are production technologies involved. once a year. If the company hasn’t re-designed or to target prospects. a product, but also a new business As our R&D activities are both productand all its processes according to the quality model. That’s where I see part of the process-focused, we also test new production standards in question, this turns into an So you are raising Kordsa to the fourth opportunity. Kordsa has become a technologies. Therefore, when you do this extra effort during assessment periods. My level? company that can try out different from an environment-friendly perspective, it expectation from the sustainability reporting business models. ceases to be a product that is compliant only, process is that it changes the way we do Yes, definitely. In my opinion, a company that and becomes an efficient product on top of it business. This is critical now. Once the way we can deal with the third level should start because you have succeeded in addressing the do business is adapted to that mindset, too, thinking about the fourth. economic aspect as well. Tire manufacturers, just we will create a difference that is going to like manufacturers of white goods, want to offer support our sustainability approach. Where do you want to see Kordsa sustainable products. I think, as a result, we will Global in the next three to five years? enjoy the advantage of being the supplier that Is it possible to achieve economic offers more solutions to a customer who thinks sustainability (profitable growth) and In the next three to five years, Kordsa will that way. This is an approach that is even going environment-friendliness at the same continue to grow rapidly as a global company to change our business model. Kordsa designed a time? Where do you see opportunities? particularly in the Asian market. I think it brand new production stage that uses resources, will further foster its success in the tire water, energy in a much more efficient way with This is a journey. Sustainability has been a reinforcement market in Asia, especially very little investment. This is something beyond popular agenda item for about a decade. The with its new products. It will successfully environment-friendliness – it is actually like stages that I have just mentioned aren’t new run its composites business that is based on a revolution, where you deliver a service that either, they are quite well known. It takes a completely novel business model. Finally, increases the value of the product right to the some time to assume that perspective; I think since it is our topic today, I believe it will strive door of your customer. you need to pass certain thresholds. I mean, to turn environmentalism and sustainability in the beginning, you inevitably perceive it as into a new business model advantage. Considering the key stakeholders of a compliance issue. Sustainability, though, Kordsa Global, and that you are in fact is something beyond that – for instance, the representative of a stakeholder, because Kordsa is in the third stage, yes, what do you hear from shareholders and 8 I Kordsa Global Sustainability Report 2014 Kordsa Global Sustainability Report 2014 I 9 CORPORATE Kordsa Global Exporter of Textiles and Textile Raw Materials PROFILE İTKİB (Istanbul Textile and Apparel Exporters’ Associations) As Kordsa Global, the leading producer of Nylon 6.6 and polyester industrial yarns, cord fabric, and single end cord in the world, we have been active Export Stars Platinum Award with our reinforcement products in the tire market since 1973, as well as the May 2013 composites and construction markets since 2014. CORPORATE PROFILE Europe, Middle Asia East and Africa Pacific 41% of 26% of 2014 Sales 2014 Sales North South America America 20% of 13% of 2014 Sales 2014 Sales 699 Million TRY 349 Million TRY 440 Million TRY 214 Million TRY EUROPE, MIDDLE EAST NORTH AMERICA ASIA PACIFIC SOUTH AMERICA AND AFRICA TURNOVER TURNOVER TURNOVER TURNOVER KORDSA GLOBAL IN FIGURES CORPORATE PROFILE SUSTAINABILITY PROFILE CORPORATE PROFILE SUSTAINABILITY PROFILE CORPORATE PROFILE SUSTAINABILITY PROFILE * 1.702 Million TRY 145% 4,048 29% Women 158,637Tons 8% Total Production Cost Reduction Turnover Profit Growth Employees (Energy efficiency, less (Incl. subcontractors) 71% chemicals and scrap) Men Operations in 7,808 55% 98,761 164,452 9 5 Continents Number of Suggestions USD Total Savings Resulting Number of Reused Paper Tubes Production Plants 8 Countries We Receive From Ratio of From The Reuse of 157,420 Employees Suggestions Accepted Materials Number of Reused Shells 41 Years 0 Global Leader In The Nylon 6.6 Yarn and Fabric Market 176 Patent Fatal Occupational 3.08% Reduction in Electric Energy Consumption With 34% Market Share Applications Accidents and Diseases TRY 1,284,000 11.09% Consumption Reduction in Steam 108 Total Amount of Our 120 104 100 4th In The Global 176,460 68 Environmental 80 Polyester Market With 60 Turkey Investments ** 25% Our Wastewater 40 10% Market Share 20 0 International Total Number of Training Hours Average Number of Training Recycling/Use Rate Hours of Our Female Employees ECONOMIC SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL * Percentages in the graph represent white-collar employees. Among all employees the rate of women is 11%. ** Total investment in Turkey by Kordsa Global in waste management, treatment facilities, measurement, insurance and training. Figures are as of December 31, 2014 unless otherwise stated. 14 I Kordsa Global Sustainability Report 2014 Kordsa Global Sustainability Report 2014 I 15 OUR PRODUCTS AND THE MARKETS WE SERVE Kordsa Global is the leading global supplier of high-density Nylon 6.6 and polyester industrial yarns as well as single Nylon Products and Brands Sectors Area of Use Geographical Availability Polyester Products and Brands Sectors Area of Use Geographical Availability end cord products. Our major customers Yarn Nylon 6.6 Products Cord Fabrics Yarn PET HMLS Products Cord Fabrics are manufacturers of automotive tires 1Kordsa® T728 1Kordsa® 2G-HMLS and mechanical rubber goods. Our Tire Industry Industrial Fabrics Tire Industry 2Kordsa® T802 2Kordsa® 3G-HMLS product line-up in tire, concrete and Chafer Fabrics Worldwide Worldwide 3Kordsa® T728 SEC 3Kordsa® 4Gcomposites reinforcement groups, Single End Cord brands, the markets we serve, and the 4InterCord Belt Industry 4HMVLS AA&NAA Security Belts Amount of Amount of respective production amounts are given 5Kordsa® SA164 Ropes and Production Production in the table below. Technical Nylon Cordage 6Kordsa® SA147 Automotive 110,193tons 49,968tons In 2014, we decided to employ our Component Airbag Yarn Industry experience of 41 years and leadership in tire reinforcement materials in the construction and composites Products and Sectors Area of Geographical Products and Sectors Area of Geographical markets that we define as adjacent markets. Consequently, we entered the Single End Brands Use Availability Cord Fabric Brands Use Availability construction market with our concrete Cord 1InterCord 2InterTens Power 1Polyester 2Nylon-based Tires reinforcement material Kratos, and the Transmission cord fabric Tire Industry composites market by producing carbon 3InterVision Tire Industry Systems Worldwide Worldwide fabric. 4InterRex Fiber-Optic Applications Amount of Belt Industry Amount of Automotive Hoses Production Component Production Air Suspension Industry V-Belt 3,523tons Automotive 107,158tons Production Component Industry Special Products Products and Sectors Area of Geographical Concrete Products and Sectors Area of Geographical for Tire Brands Use Availability Reinforcement Brands Use Availability Reinforcement 1Capmax Products 1Micro Kratos Tires Concrete 2Twixtra 2Macro Kratos Reinforcement 3Monolyx Tire Industry Worldwide Turkey Construction Industry Amount of Amount of Production Production 183tons 3.5tons 16 I Kordsa Global Sustainability Report 2014 Kordsa Global Sustainability Report 2014 I 17 Environment-Friendly Tire Environment-Friendly Reinforcement Products Concrete Reinforcement Products Targeting the Global Light Commercial The application of the product on truck In 2014, Kordsa Global introduced the The Kordsa Global Construction Reinforcement Business Unit was Vehicles Market, Capmax® decreases tires was completed in 2013 and revealed world’s virtually lightest hybrid cord set up in 2014 and is involved in market research and technology production costs and increases efficiency significant advantages. The use of product to the market under the brand development for the production of construction reinforcement by eliminating the compound work-up, Monolyx® in cargo tires is associated with name Twixtra®. Significantly lighter than products. The first product developed by the Construction calendering and splitting stages in the a reduction in rolling resistance by 5%. its predecessor, our product enables Reinforcement Business Unit, Kratos is a new, synthetic, concrete standard cap ply preparation process. This translates into an average annual tire production with less raw material. reinforcement fiber for the construction industry. By excluding the need for rubber coating, return of 15% per tire. In the case of Moreover, lighter tires result in lower fuel Capmax® reduces the total rubber dumper trucks, it maintains the integrity consumption. Together with Akçansa and Çimsa, Kratos was awarded with the content of the tire, which translates into of the tire especially under tough road First Prize in the Corporate Synergy Subcategory of the Golden a cost advantage, and contributes to a conditions, and reduces damage to Kordsa® Nylon 6.6 Collar Awards of the Sabancı Group in April 2013, and became the reduction in rolling resistance and fuel the tires. Another critical property of first domestic product in the national fiber market, which has a consumption. Monolyx® is its resistance to cutting. With Products volume of approximately 3,500 tons. While enhancing the loadthis 2.5-times higher resistance profile bearing capacity, resistance and strength of concrete, Kratos also compared to regular textile materials, The T802 cord fabric is predominantly prevents crack formation. With these attributes, Kratos Structural Monolyx® will be used as a protective used in aircraft tires. Kordsa Global is Macro Synthetic Fiber Reinforcements are used in place of steel layer on aircraft tires. the market leader in this segment. It is mesh and steel wires in various infrastructure and superstructure employed as cap ply strip material and projects. carcass, reinforcement strip material in passenger cars, and light commercial The production line of Kratos Macro was commissioned in 2014 and vehicles. Important features of the optimization tests are under way. The commissioning of the Kratos product include light-weight, high micro-packaging line is scheduled for the first quarter of 2015. process ability, durability, enhanced safety and high load capacity. Reliable, Safe, and Sustainable Structures High Quality, High Increased Efficiency, Energy Efficiency, Durability, Safety Resource Savings Climate Protection • Provides long-term durability. • Ensures the efficiency of the • Less reduction in process ability; Non-corrosive. structure; adds a cost advantage to can be applied without changing • Provides effective crack control. the project. the cement content. • It is non-conductive and safe. • Saves up to 40% of time. • Creates 40% less carbon emissions • It does not harm machinery or • Eliminates the need for steel mesh compared to steel. equipment. workmanship. • Provides energy savings thanks • Provides fullness thanks to its • It is lighter and safer than steel. to easy application, pumping and high-energy absorption capacity. • Reduces storage, transportation and spraying. inventory costs by 60%. 18 I Kordsa Global Sustainability Report 2014 Kordsa Global Sustainability Report 2014 I 19 HIGHLIGHTS OF THE REPORTING PERIOD Following an investment of USD 100 million, Seeing that we mobilized all our we opened the second tire cord fabric and Cenk Alper, who joined Kordsa Global in 2007 resources to support Michelin during polyester yarn plant in Indonesia, and thus as Technology Director, and then first served the flood disaster in Thailand, Michelin became the strongest player of our sector We laid the foundations of the Composite as Vice President for Technology and Market awarded Kordsa Global with the As Kordsa Global, we ranked in the Asia-Pacific Region. Technologies Center of Excellence, Development, then Vice President for Operations, ‘Supplier of the Year Award’. 10th in patent applications which is a platform brought to fruition in assumed the position of CEO in the 40th year of with the 16 applications we cooperation with Sabancı University, and the company. made to the Turkish Patent will blend R&D, academic and production Institute. activities. 2013 2014 Capital Magazine named Kordsa Global The Kordsa Global Turkey plant became one of the ‘The Most Admired Company in Turkey’ in the We signed the UN Global Compact, the most most efficient nylon manufacturing facilities in the important document in the world in terms of As a high reinforcement solutions textiles industry as a result of its research on world thanks to our investment of USD 10.4 million (TRY provider, at Kordsa Global, we ‘Turkey’s Most Admired Companies’. corporate social responsibility, offered to the Competing with 248 technical textile projects in 20 million) in the facility’s Line 1, which was designed, business world by the United Nations. the R&D Project Market organized by the Uludağ commissioned a dedicated production manufactured, and assembled by Kordsa Global’s Textile Exporters’ Association for the sixth line for the production of Kratos, the Engineering and Operations teams. time, we won and became the champion of the product we developed to reinforce Turkey Textile Innovation League. concrete. 20 I Kordsa Global Sustainability Report 2014 Kordsa Global Sustainability Report 2014 I 21 STRATEGY AND Kordsa Global Ethical Values and Practices EDMER (Association of the Ethical Values Center) MANAGEMENT ETİKA Turkey Ethics Awards At Kordsa Global, with the strength of our employees, we 2012-2013-2014 continuously improve our operational processes, balance the use of our global resources, and focus on growth that creates sustainable value for all our stakeholders. SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT OUR SUSTAINABILITY OUR VALUES ASPECTS (GRI G4) OUR VALUES with ELT members and workshops on participation of our employees, who are Occupational Health and Safety 72% of our our sustainability strategy held with STF members, we reviewed all our key our number one key stakeholder group, was to raise their awareness on this issue. Safety, Health, and Environment We believe that all occupational Energy employees stakeholders that had an intensive economic, social, and environmental 225 White-collar employees including engineers, specialists, supervisors, and environmental accidents can be Effluents and Waste who responded to the sustainability interaction with our company in light of managers, directors, and ELT members, prevented. Our target is to create a Results-Driven Water assessment questionnaire think that: 100% accident-free and safe work our strategic aspects. We grouped our nearly 55% of which had been working environment and to manufacture Emissions As the leader of the global key stakeholders by the extent they were for Kordsa Global for more than seven with 0% waste production. Materials Nylon 6.6 market and a company that continuously The regular communication influenced by our company’s activities years, participated in the questionnaire creates value for its and their impact on our company’s we carried out for the first time. By way Commitment to Ethical Values Compliance shareholders, we provide our platforms Kordsa Global employs to efforts to achieve its business targets. of this questionnaire, we elicited our Anti-Competitive Behavior customers with the highest find out about the ideas/suggestions The ethical values we are 100% Anti-Corruption quality services. employees’ opinions on our company’s committed to regulate our or expectations of priority sustainability performance, and shared relationships with employees, shareholders, customers, suppliers, Equal Remuneration for Women and Men Open-Minded stakeholders (excl. employees) are Sustainability them in the relevant sections of our Diversity and Equal Opportunity report. business partners, competitors, the environment, and society. Non-Discrimination Innovation runs in our genes. Building on 41 years of adequate. Communication with The communication platforms we Customer-Focused experience, we continuously develop new products, Our Employees employ for our employees and other key technologies, and processes at We grow together with our customers who regard us as the Customer Privacy our technology center. Dialogue with Our The goal of the sustainability assessment stakeholders, together with their content and communication frequency, are given strategic technology partner of their questionnaire we conducted with the choice, and offer them innovative, accurate, and tailor-made solutions. Global Collaboration Stakeholders in the table Communication Platforms with Our Stakeholders. Our strength stems from collaboration – we replicate OUR KEY STAKEHOLDERS (G4-18, G4-24, G4-25, G4-26) best practices observed in one We define our stakeholders as persons Continuous Improvement plant in all other locations. and organizations that are influenced Training and Education We continuously improve all by our activities today and in the future, processes in the organization in Employment and that could, at the same time, have Students/ line with our customer-focused Potential Employees approach and total quality Economic Performance an impact on our company’s efforts management. to achieve its business targets. While striving for sustainable growth at Kordsa Governmental Families of Global, we aim to render the benefits and Regulatory Employees Employees Institutions we create for all of our key stakeholders Customers Organizations that manage to continue facilitate continuous improvement and values we based our growth strategy on. sustainable as well. Group Companies Local Communities and Universities doing business in today’s rapidly changing create value for our stakeholders. Trade Unions Governments (Academics) and competitive world are the ones that We believe that the corporate core With that in mind, we conducted a do not only create jobs and economic Our corporate values support the values that our employees take into sustainability strategy questionnaire Press Members Suppliers value, but also respect their social and foundations of our vision and strategic consideration in their day-to-day during the reporting period with Investors Professional Nonenvironmental responsibilities, and initiatives. The fact that the priority business decisions will function as the support of the Kordsa Global Governmental Chambers Executive Leadership Team (ELT) and the Organizations Shareholders create value for their stakeholders in aspects we identified while devising our a road map in the expansion of our those areas. Conscious of this advantage, sustainability strategy overlap perfectly sustainability strategy, and will facilitate Sustainability Task Force (STF), which we Financial Institutions Research in Kordsa Global we execute all our with Kordsa Global’s corporate values has its implementation by our employees. established in 2014 with the participation Institutions activities in such a manner that they confirmed once again the validity of the of managers representing various departments. At one-on-one interviews 24 I Kordsa Global Sustainability Report 2014 Kordsa Global Sustainability Report 2014 I 25 Communication Platforms with Our Stakeholders Our Stakeholders Communication Platform Objective/Content of Communication Communication Frequency One-on-one Interviews Sustainability Strategy Once a year Sustainability To share developments about the company, sector, and Communication with Reinforcer Magazine Twice a year technology Annual Report To review the previous year of the company Once a year Our Customers Customers To announce new developments about the company Press section on website Continuous through press releases added to the website To announce new developments about the company Magazines and through press releases and interviews in Turkish and Continuous newspapers international publications In one-on-one interviews we made with Trade Fairs To establish contact with existing and new customers Several times a year two of our customers who are of key Lütfü Yüksel Assessment questionnaire Sustainability performance Once a year Purchasing Manager importance among our stakeholders, Plant newsletters such as BRISA the Kordsa Magazine To announce important developments about the company Several times a year we asked them about Kordsa Global’s People Clip To make notifications about the company Continuous impact on their effort to achieve their Employees E-mails by CEO To share important developments As needed own sustainability targets, and elicited Yammer CEO communication Four times a year their comments on room for joint Why do you prefer Kordsa Global as a supplier? Which current Intouch CEO communication Four times a year improvement. As a result, we received the attributes of Kordsa Global in the context of sustainability have All Stars To select the best projects and most successful activities Once a year feedback that it would add value to our influenced your decision? within the company GLS To review the previous year and share the vision of the next Once a year customers if we took concrete steps with It is a global company that attaches importance to customer year regard to ‘responsible supply’ in addition priorities and focuses on quality-delivery performance. Thanks to Face-to-face contact To discuss business issues At least once a month to our existing priority issues. Our plan its plants located in various countries, it offers a sustainable supply Trade fairs To discuss business issues Several times a year Suppliers is to make social and environmental network. The investments they make in R&D and the significance E-mails To discuss business issues Continuous they attach to it complement Brisa’s innovative and sustainable assessments at our suppliers’ locations as Factory visits To inspect, to discuss business issues Several times a year perspective. Face-to-face contact Sustainability Strategy Once a year of 2016, and dedicate more space to the Shareholders topic of ‘responsible supply’ in our future In the same vein, where do you think there is room for Meetings To announce annual results Once a year reports to cover it in detail. In addition, improvement? Does Brisa have any suggestions for those areas? To announce important developments about the company Newsletters through the media Continuous we have extensively dealt with the topics We believe that importance has to be given to cost improvement TV programs To announce important developments about the company Several times a year our customers wanted to see in the activities to have competitive and sustainable prices in the market, Magazines and Newspapers To announce important developments about the company Several times a year report, i.e. innovation, business ethics, and to have flexible and agile practices that can accommodate Shareholders and Investors Website To announce important information Continuous and environment-friendly products, in customer needs in advance. PDP – Public Disclosure To publish the report of the CMB (Capital Markets Board) Four times a year the relevant sections of our sustainability Platform To announce special situations As needed report, and risk management has been What are your main expectations from Kordsa Global to help Brisa To respond to investors’ request for information about the Telephone/e-mails company Upon request from an investor taken up in detail in our annual report. achieve its own sustainability targets? To announce important developments about the company Newsletters through the media Continuous It is critical for us that it is a company that improves itself TV programs To announce important developments about the company Several times a year In the next reporting period, we aim to continuously in issues such as climate change and environment, Local Communities and Governments Website To announce important information Continuous listen regularly to our stakeholders’ ideas human rights, occupational health and safety, employee rights, Kordsa Magazine To announce important developments about the company Several times a year and requests that are directly related to compliance with the legislation, information security, cost and Sabancı Holding our business vis-à-vis sustainability. We operational success and risk management, and that it has exemplary To announce important information Continuous Group Companies Newsletters believe that the feedback thus received practices in these fields. To share a quarterly self-assessment of Kordsa Global with SBU Spot Action Four times a year the SBUs (Strategic Business Units) of the Sabancı Group will guide us in the actions we will take in Governmental and Regulatory What are the performance aspects that Brisa would especially like Institutions Newsletters To announce important developments about the company Continuous the coming period. through the media to see in Kordsa Global’s first sustainability report focusing on its Non-Governmental Institutions (G4-26) operations in Turkey? Press Members Trade Unions TV Programs To announce important developments about the company Several times a year Responsible Procurement Practices, Environment-Friendly Products Financial Institutions and Services, Business Ethics, Risk Management, Innovation. Group Companies Website To announce important information Continuous (G4-27) (G4-18, G4-26) 26 I Kordsa Global Sustainability Report 2014 Kordsa Global Sustainability Report 2014 I 27 In the same vein, where do you think there is room for improvement? Does Michelin have Customer Privacy sign with our customers, and the fact that the security of this category of Management program used by all locations supervises and monitors all any suggestions for those areas? information falls under the responsibility customer complaints online. Kordsa As one of our values that support our of the whole senior management team Global has no written policy on customer Michelin encourages the following strategic initiatives, being ‘customerand all staff in contact with customers. privacy other than its general policy improvements: focused’ includes not only offering Rules concerning the protection of within the scope of ISO 27001 standards Eric de Baillenx innovative, accurate and tailor-made customer privacy are included in the code on information security. Michelin Global Textile • Increase the percentage of ISO 14001 solutions to our customers, but also of business ethics signed by all Kordsa Category Manager certified sites, protecting the privacy of these solutions. • Increase the usage of recycled Global employees. Since there have not been any confirmed In that context, we ensure the privacy percentage water, complaints concerning violations of of our customers, and keep an equal Why do you prefer Kordsa Global as • Introduce reporting regarding child or Feedback on customer privacy is elicited customer privacy or loss of customer distance to all of them and strive for a a supplier? Which current attributes forced labor issues, from our customers through satisfaction data for the last five years, Kordsa of Kordsa Global in the context of “zero complaints” target in order to make • Reinforce sustainable procurement policy, surveys conducted on a regular basis in Global has a good reputation among its sustainability have influenced your including the percentage of suppliers sure they are satisfied. writing or in face-to-face settings, and customers with regard to confidentiality. decision? covered by sustainable procurement the results are reviewed and evaluated Moreover, the fact that we engage in measures. At Kordsa Global, we manufacture tailorby the senior management as well. In special ‘Joint Development Projects’ with Michelin is built on deep-seated values, made products for our customers with which have guided our company since it was addition to that, customer privacy is also our customers who are major players in What are your main expectations from the properties they specify because, founded. They have shaped our culture and Kordsa Global to help Michelin achieve its examined in customer audits (external the tire market further proves that they due to the nature of the tire industry, helped forge our reputation as a provider own sustainability targets? audits) and quality audits (internal consider our company reliable. customer requirements vary according of quality products and services that audits), and practices are checked against to their own production know-how enhance the mobility of people and goods. Michelin encourages its suppliers to always customer expectations. Information security in our company Michelin has implemented responsible and technology. As our main customers improve their CSR performance. Today, is not only significant because of our purchasing with its suppliers for many years Kordsa Global is labeled with a Silver CSR are competitors in the tire industry, it Complaints concerning any violations of customers, but also for our technology by integrating and applying the principles Rating. Reaching Gold label would be a great is critical that the production-product customer privacy and loss of customer and R&D activities. Therefore, Kordsa of sustainable development. Main suppliers achievement. standards and technical specifications data are handled through the customer Global has a dedicated IP (Intellectual such as Kordsa – one of Michelin’s long our customers require are kept lasting suppliers – are regularly assessed on complaints management system. Property) department. Which of the topics that Kordsa Global aims confidential. This is safeguarded with their Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) to cover in its first sustainability report The CRM –Customer Relationships both the confidentiality agreement we Performance. focusing on operations in Turkey could create value for Michelin? The main identified Kordsa Global CSR strengths are: All the aspects stated in the materiality matrix, including sustainable procurement • Global policies on major environmental and creating value are part of Michelin CSR issues and labor and human rights, including participation in the United policy. Therefore, they contribute directly to Michelin’s CSR performance, specifically 88% of our Nations Global Compact since 2014, • Certifications such as ISO 14001, ISO 27001 when Michelin is audited. employees The practices, audits as well as employee and OHSAS 18001, What are additional performance elements who responded to the notification and awareness-raising activities • Measurement of environmental (for that Michelin would like to see in this sustainability assessment Kordsa Global realizes to ensure and protect example: CO2 and VOC emissions, report? questionnaire think that: customer privacy are adequate. electricity and water consumption), health & safety, working conditions, This report should include a specific section • Internal audit on compliance with anti dedicated to sustainable procurement. corruption and bribery policies, (G4-27) 28 I Kordsa Global Sustainability Report 2014 Kordsa Global Sustainability Report 2014 I 29 Our Priority Aspects by Key Stakeholder Groups Kordsa Global In the matrix, aspects that we place under Business Ethics are compliance, the main headings of the relevant sections of our report, and data on our Local Materiality Matrix anti-competitive behavior and anticorruption; and non-discrimination, equal company’s performance in those areas are extensively covered in the report. Communities remuneration for women and men, as Aspects Employees Shareholders Customers Investors Suppliers and well as diversity and equal opportunity The main objective of creating such a Governments are disclosed under Labor Practices and matrix was to clearly identify aspects Economic Performance √√√ √√√√√ √√ √ √√√√√ √ Human Rights. important to both our company and our key stakeholders, and to develop our Materials Management √√ √√ √√√√ √ √ √ The upper right-hand part of the plans and set our targets around these Customer Privacy √√√√√ √√√√√ √√√√√ √√√ graph displays aspects that are of high aspects. In the coming period, we aim to importance for both our stakeholders exchange ideas with a higher number of Compliance √√√√√ √√√√√ √√√√√ √√√ √√√√√ √√√√ and Kordsa Global, and influence our stakeholders, and to further develop the Anti-Corruption √√√√√ √√√√√ √√√√√ √√√√ √√√√√ √√√ company’s performance directly and aspects we will focus on and our related significantly. These aspects constitute targets. (G4-18, G4-19) Anti-Competitive Behavior √√√ √√√ √√√√√ √ √√√√√ √√√ Employment √√√√√ √ √ √√ √ Occupational Health and Safety √√√√√ √√√ √ √√ √ Training and Education √√√√√ √ √√ √ √ High Labor Practices and Human Rights √√√√√ √√√ √ √√√ √√ Business Ethics Energy Management √ √√√√√ √√√√ √ √√ Water Management √√ √√ √ √√√√ √ Customer Privacy Waste Management √ √√ √√ √√√√ √√ (Assessments and Decisions on the Company) Influence on Stakeholders’ Emissions Management √√√ √√ √ √√√ √√ Anti-Competitive Behavior (G4-27) Economic Performance Energy Management Health and Safety Labor Practices and Our Priority We identified our strategic sustainability aspects by way of the sustainability mental and social dimensions as a result of evaluations and intensive discussions Human Rights Training and Education Sustainability Aspects strategy questionnaire conducted with the participation of the Kordsa Global we had at the sustainability strategy workshops carried out with the STF. ConEmployment Executive Leadership Team (ELT) and sequently, we prepared the Kordsa Global the Sustainability Task Force (STF), and Strategic Sustainability Aspects Matrix. one-on-one interviews we made with While preparing this matrix, we made use ELT members. Then we assessed these of the internal assessments with the ELT, Water Management Waste Management aspects individually and prioritized them as well as the opinions of our customers according to their economic, environand employees as representatives of our Materials Management Emissions key stakeholders. Low Management Significance of Impact on Kordsa Global (Reputation, Regulatory, Financial, Operational) 30 I Kordsa Global Sustainability Report 2014 Kordsa Global Sustainability Report 2014 I 31 Aspect Boundaries and Limitations on Reporting Our Sustainability Targets and Commitments Aspect Boundary Limitations on Reporting Completion MATERIAL ASPECTS Our Targets and Commitments Date ASPECTS Internal External Internal External Economic Make the Composite Technologies Center of Excellence operational 2016 Figures are not country specific Performance Economic Performance All of Kordsa Global Shareholder/Investor and represent the company as No limitations Increase the amount of reused materials at all our locations Continuous a whole. Materials Management Increase the amount of recycled materials at all our locations Continuous Materials and Raw Material All of Kordsa Global N/A Turkey only N/A Reduce the amount of material we use per unit product manufactured at all our locations Continuous Management Maintain our company’s performance of ZERO complaints from customers about information Customer Privacy security Continuous No data was collected Maintain our performance of ZERO anti-compliance cases at all locations Continuous Customer Privacy All of Kordsa Global Supplier/Subcontractor No limitations in the reporting period. Compliance Revise ethical rules and adapt them to current legislation if needed by following the latest Continuous developments in the Turkish legislation No data was collected Compliance All of Kordsa Global Supplier/Subcontractor Turkey only in the reporting period. Maintain our performance of ZERO corruption cases at all locations Continuous Anti-Corruption Prepare an Anti-Corruption and Bribery Policy 2015 Supplier/Subcontractor/ No data was collected Anti-Competitive Maintain our performance of ZERO anti-competitive behavior cases in all our marketing activities Continuous Anti-Corruption All of Kordsa Global Customer Turkey only in the reporting period. Behavior Achieve a ZERO accident rate at all our locations Continuous No data was collected Occupational Anti-Competitive Behavior All of Kordsa Global Supplier/Subcontractor No limitations Health and Safety Extend the Finishing Machinery Safety Project to include all plants abroad that have dipping in the reporting period. units (Indonesia, Egypt, Thailand, USA, Brazil), make the risk analyses of plants abroad, and start 2015 and 2016 implementation in 2016 Occupational Health and Reduce the high-potential employee turnover rate in all our companies Continuous All of Kordsa Global Supplier/Subcontractor No limitations No limitations Safety Employment Increase the level of maturity of the suggestion system in plants outside Turkey Continuous Employment All of Kordsa Global N/A No limitations N/A Expand the Global Mentoring Program, increase its effectiveness, and ensure its continuity 2015 Data includes Training and Start special training programs developed by specialists at the Global Technology Center for Training and Education All of Kordsa Global Supplier/Subcontractor Turkey only subcontractor OHS Education technical and production engineers as well as sales teams 2015 trainings. Improve the online platform and increase the number of KEEP training hours 2015 Labor Practices and Human Continue to offer equal opportunity to women and men in recruitment, placement and All of Kordsa Global N/A No limitations N/A Continuous Rights remuneration Labor Practices and Maintain our performance of ZERO discrimination cases at all locations Continuous Energy Management All of Kordsa Global N/A Turkey only N/A Human Rights Internalize and implement the principles of the Equality at Work Declaration Continuous Water Management All of Kordsa Global N/A Turkey only N/A Energy Increase the scope and effectiveness of the ISO 50001 Energy Management System Continuous Waste Management All of Kordsa Global N/A Turkey only N/A Management Reduce our natural gas consumption per production/ton Continuous Emissions Management All of Kordsa Global N/A Turkey only N/A Complete the investment in the reverse osmosis water treatment system at Kordsa Global Turkey 2016 (G4-20, G4-21) Water Management Increase the amount of recycled water Continuous Achieve ZERO waste at all locations Continuous Reduce Kordsa Global Turkey’s domestic waste amount by 20% in kg/ton of product 2015 Waste Management ECONOMIC SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL All of Kordsa Global: Plants in Turkey, Germany, Reduce Kordsa Global Turkey’s hazardous waste amount by 13% in kg/ton of product 2015 Brazil, USA, Thailand, Indonesia, and Egypt. Reduce Kordsa Global Turkey’s effluent amount by 1% in kg/ton of product 2015 N/A: not applicable Achieve ZERO emissions at all locations Continuous Emissions Management Extend the scope of the carbon emissions measurements we started in 2014, and continue with 2015 these activities 32 I Kordsa Global Sustainability Report 2014 Kordsa Global Sustainability Report 2014 I 33 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Kordsa Global realizes its operations Board of Directors Our annual report includes details Sustainability Task Force in conformity with the Corporate Governance Principles published by on the structure of the Board, its working principles, members’ positions, Our Board of Directors, which is the Capital Markets Board, and the internal and external commitments, responsible for ensuring that Kordsa corporate governance principles of responsibilities and the terms of office. With the participation of specialists and Global’s operations comply with the transparency, fairness, responsibility managers from different disciplines and legislation, the articles of association, and accountability. The Corporate Committees that are composed of Board departments, we established Kordsa internal regulations and identified Governance Compliance Report is Members are the Audit Committee, Global Sustainability Task Force in policies, as well as for protecting the therefore included in our annual report Corporate Governance Committee and 2014. The 11 members of the team are long-term interest of our company by along with our company’s policies on Early Risk Identification Committee. The selected in accordance to our projected way of the strategic decisions it takes, human resources, donations and aid, as responsibilities these committees have sustainability impacts. consists of seven members in total, one well as dividend distribution, and covers with regard to sustainability and the key of which is a woman and two of which details on ethics and responsibility, too. stakeholder groups they represent are Sustainability Task Force played an are independent. Only the President given below. important role in establishing the and the Vice President hold executive Having complied with all compulsory sustainability strategy of our company functions. and optional regulations in the along with the ELT members and also Corporate Governance Principles in all Responsibility contributed in developing our first Committees Women Responsibility Key twelve months of 2014, as Kordsa Global Reporting to (% of on Economic Responsibility on on Stakeholders sustainability report. Social Impact Environmental we publish these issues in detail on the the Board total) Impact Represented Impact websites www.kap.gov.tr and www. Compliance Employees kordsaglobal.com for the information of Economic Shareholders Performance Anti-corruption shareholders and beneficiaries Audit Customers 0% Non-competitive Committee Materials behavior Suppliers Customer privacy Investors Energy Corporate Compliance Employees Governance Shareholders Committee Anti-corruption Investors Economic (Nomination 50% Employment Local 84% of our Performance Committee Communities Members Job Title and Wage Labor practices and and employees Committee) human rights Governments Ayça Artut Kutlubay Finance Specialist Burçin Harlak SHE Specialist Employees who responded to the sustainability Shareholders Can Demir Procurement Specialist Compliance Emel Eren Project Coordinator – Laboratory Leader assessment questionnaire think that: Energy Customers Anti-corruption Emissions Erdem Başaran SHE Specialist Legal Risk Occupational Suppliers Miray Gönülşen Human Resources Specialist Kordsa Global manages all its business Management 50% Health and Safety Water Waste Investors Nevra Aydoğan Corporate Communications Specialist processes according to its corporate Committee Non-competitive behavior Materials Onur Alper Legal Consultant governance principles of transparency, Customer privacy Local Communities Özgül Başel Market Research Specialist fairness, accountability and responsibility. and Şule Güven Quality Assurance Engineer Governments Yusuf Akkor Global SHE– Sustainability Manager The names of the members are given in alphabetical order. 34 I Kordsa Global Sustainability Report 2014 Kordsa Global Sustainability Report 2014 I 35 ETHICS MANAGEMENT COMPLIANCE MANAGEMENT The Code of Business Ethics that etik.tr@kordsaglobal.com and phone informing employees about ethical The Legal Obligations heading under the legislation, international law, and the and practices are among audit items regulates Kordsa Global’s relationships numbers of our Code of Ethics rules, deliver regular trainings to ensure Kordsa Global Code of Business Ethics rules governing the group of companies throughout the company in audits with its customers, employees, Consultants on our company’s website. policies and rules are understood, and governs the principles of compliance and the company itself. The goal of the conducted by the Internal Audit shareholders, suppliers, business The Code of Ethics Consultant and/ to communicate continuously with management in our company. We realize management system, on the other hand, Department. The Committee evaluates partners, competitors, the environment or Ethics Board is responsible for employees regarding this issue. all our domestic and international includes identifying the risks associated the outcomes of the audit, and shares and society covers four main headings, investigating and resolving complaints operations and transactions in line with with compliance; taking necessary the results with the Board of Directors. namely legal obligations, integrity, and reports about violations of ethical In the coming period, the activities national legislations and international measures; monitoring 10 key risk Moreover, every year, Sabancı Holding confidentiality and conflict of rules and relevant policies within the we will concentrate on in our legal law, and provide accurate, complete indicators (two of which are optional, and makes a periodical Compliance interest. While protecting the rights of context of the Kordsa Global Code of department will be revising the Code and clear information to the regulatory eight are required by law and regulations); Management assessment and prepares a beneficiaries, Kordsa Global abides by Business Ethics. of Ethics by following developments in bodies and institutions in a timely and managing the risks proactively by report. the Code of Business Ethics, approved by the Turkish legislation, and, if necessary, manner. way of identified thresholds. the Kordsa Global Board of Directors on Reporting to the Chairman of the Board adapt the Code to the then current No monetary or administrative penalties September 15, 2009, in all its operations of Directors, the Ethics Board of Sabancı legislation. The priorities of our company include Compliance risk types concerning were imposed on Kordsa Global in Turkey and relationships. Holding is composed of persons holding establishing a management system Kordsa Global are defined as follows: during the reporting period for breach of the following positions: that is needed to comply with both Legislation on Labor and Social Security, any laws or regulations, including those The Kordsa Global Code of Business Chairman – Head of Internal Audit the requirements of the sector we Legislation on Environment and OHS, on the environment. There was not any Ethics developed by Hacı Ömer Sabancı Department, operate in, and the legislation, laws and Trade Legislation, Financial Legislation case brought to our attention through Holding and revised to suit Kordsa Global Member – Head of Department in charge regulations; defining relevant policies; Information Security Policy, Agreements conflict resolution mechanisms, either. is available in the native languages of the of Legal Affairs of H. Ö. Sabancı Holding communicating findings, risks and new and Other Legal Arrangements. countries we operate in (8 languages) and is published on our website. Member – Head of Department in charge of Labor Relations of H. Ö. Sabancı 81% of our regulations on a regular basis, and making necessary controls; and monitoring and At the end of every quarter, the We achieved 100% of our Compliance Management targets in 2014. Our goals In order to manage the Code of Ethics, a Holding employees managing our compliance management performance. Compliance Coordinator shares the key risk indicators and the results as are to further increase the positive impact of 2014, and continue with the Code of Ethics Consultant responsible for Once they are hired, all employees sign who responded to the Compliance Management Criteria ‘zero negative impact’ performance in the correct implementation of the Code the Code of Business Ethics stating sustainability assessment In 2013, we established the Compliance and Results with ELT members and 2015 in accordance with the compliance of Business Ethics has been appointed that they have read and understood the Management System, which is reviewed responsible departments. In addition management criteria. questionnaire think that: to each plant. The Code of Ethics and all Code, and participate in the ethics survey every year and approved by the Board to that, compliance management relevant policies are reviewed and revised every year. New recruits of white-collar of Directors, in cooperation with the by the Ethics Board of Sabancı Holding employees receive an online training The activities Kordsa Global Compliance Division of Sabancı Holding, in line with recommendations received on ethics, whereas fresh blue-collar carries out to inform, train and started implementation in 2014. The from the Code of Ethics Consultants, employees receive classroom trainings. and raise the awareness of Compliance Coordinator is responsible and once approved by the CEO of Kordsa Both blueand white-collar employees its employees about ethical for the coordination of compliance Global, are announced to all employees. attend refresher courses in ethics every management, whereas all Kordsa two years. business practices are adequate. Global employees are responsible for its Stakeholders who would like to report an management. incident or file a complaint can find the The Global/Local Code of Ethics names, e-mail addresses Consultants are responsible for The objectives and targets of compliance management are based on ensuring the company works in compliance with the 36 I Kordsa Global Sustainability Report 2014 Kordsa Global Sustainability Report 2014 I 37 COMPLIANCE MANAGEMENT Anti-Corruption Employees cannot earn or enable others to earn any money by engaging in trade, In the reporting period, there were not any confirmed corruption cases Anti-Competitive Antitrust Policy. The Board of Directors approves this policy on behalf of the Our stance against corruption within including trading securities on the stock concerning our operations in Turkey; any Behavior company, and we deal with this issue 79% of our Kordsa Global is defined in the statement, “The elimination of offences and exchange, using insider information. The rules mandate that employees cannot cases where an employee was dismissed or given a disciplinary penalty on charges As Kordsa Global, we are subject to the in our operations and agreements very carefully. We pay special attention to employees corruption is critical for us,” under manage an enterprise, neither directly of corruption; any contract with business antitrust and competition laws in force in ensure that no activity we engage in with who responded to the nor indirectly, and that they cannot work partners that was terminated or failed to the countries we operate in. These laws the representatives of other companies is sustainability assessment the heading Our Duties toward the for a third person and/or organization be renewed due to violations related to regarded or accepted as a violation of the Environment, Society and Mankind in our prohibit agreements that limit trade or questionnaire think that: during or outside of working hours in corruption; or any public lawsuit opened reduce competition. antitrust law. Code of Ethics. Anti-corruption is also return for a certain fee or comparable against our company or our employees one of the ten fundamental principles The audits and activities Kordsa gain. because of corruption. Violations of the laws include When needed, we ask for the support of of the UN Global Compact that Kordsa Global signed in 2014. agreements among competitors to fix law firms in order to be informed about Global carries out to inform Although we comply with Article 3.5.2 In the same vein, during the reporting or control prices; boycotting certain developments in competition law and to and raise the awareness of its of the Corporate Governance Principles period, executives of Kordsa Global be able to closely follow the legislation. We keep an equal distance to all public suppliers or customers; sharing products, employees about compliance, that stipulates, “Corporation shall be attended the conference titled Antiregions or markets; or limiting the Our legal department participates in agencies and institutions, administrative sensitive to its social responsibilities and Corruption Legislation – Compliance and various seminars and similar events on including anti-corruption and bodies, non-governmental organizations production or sales of products. comply with the regulations and ethical Risk Management on May 6-7, 2014 as the law as it finds it important to be anti-competitive behavior and political parties, without expecting any benefits, and realize our obligations rules with regard to the environment, speakers in working groups and sessions Kordsa Global has the management up-to-date and equipped, and shares issues, are adequate. consumers, and public health. such as ‘Creating a Corporate Ethics and systems needed in place to make sure the information it receives with all with this responsibility in mind while Corporation shall support and respect Compliance Culture, Starting at the Top’ operations are executed in compliance employees. carrying out all our operations and internationally recognized human rights. and ‘Minimizing Risk Exposure in Joint with the law. Preventing breaches of transactions. Corporation shall fight against any kind Ventures, Consortia and Conglomerates: competition before they occur is an In the reporting period, there was no of corruption including embezzlement Due Diligence, Reps and Warranties’, thus issue managed in that context. We anti-competitive behavior our company Communication and trainings on antiand bribery,” we do not have an Anticontributing to the joint approach of the compete actively in areas that are was found to be involved in; or any corruption in Kordsa Global cover all Corruption and -Bribery Policy yet. We business world to these matters. lawful and ethical only, and avoid unfair new or continuing lawsuit opened our employees in line with our Code of aim to draft one and announce it to competition. with charges of violating antitrust and Business Ethics. Our employees cannot all beneficiaries on the Kordsa Global monopoly prevention laws. Our aim is to engage in any business relationship with website by the end of 2015. All our employees that work in marketing maintain the current situation. family members, acquaintances or third persons that would result in mutual and relevant operations, and that or unilateral benefits. For instance, an inevitably have contact with competitors employee who is authorized to conclude at all locations, particularly at Kordsa procurement decisions avoids doing Global Turkey, follow Kordsa Global’s business with a supplier where a family member works. Exceptional cases require the information and approval of the Chairman of the Board. 38 I Kordsa Global Sustainability Report 2014 Kordsa Global Sustainability Report 2014 I 39 ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE Kordsa Global Most Successful Kordsa Global Innovative Environment-Friendly Products Through new products and know-how in 9 plants located in 8 countries R&D Center in the Textile Industry Ministry of Science, Industry and Istanbul Chamber of Industry that we operate, we export technology as well as the knowledge and Technology R&D Centers Performance 14th ICI Environment and experience of Turkish engineering to the world. We are the leader of the Index of Turkey, First Place Energy Awards, First Place global Nylon 6.6 yarn and cord fabric market with 34% of market share December 2014 December 2014 in sales, and the 4th player in the polyester market with a share of 10%. We are the 3rd largest exporter in our sector in Turkey. CONTRIBUTIONS TO THE ECONOMY Not only did we as Kordsa Global increase our profitability in our The Value We The value we distributed to our suppliers in 2014 increased by 11% whereas this Our Suppliers Local purchasing departments are responsible for the supply and followThe number of suppliers Kordsa Global Turkey has active procurement of more core business in 2014, but we also entered new markets to ensure Distribute to Our increase was 1.5% for our employees. In order to further improve the financial Managed from our headquarters up of all services and raw materials other than the above-mentioned items than USD 10 thousand is around 500. in Istanbul, the global purchasing sustainable growth. On one hand, we focused on efficiency in production Stakeholders agility of the company due to global economic conditions in 2013, no dividend function is responsible for the once global purchasing has reached an agreement with the suppliers with regard Additionally, in the reporting period, we decided to manage products and services procurement of the raw material used and competitiveness in cost, and In direct proportion to the increase had been paid. The chart below does to price and other trading terms. that are of critical importance to Kordsa in at least two of the nine plants in on the other, we improved our in profits in 2014, our donations rose not include the value distributed to Global by dividing them into segments seven countries and/or whose supply economic performance thanks to our significantly. We donated more than capital providers after a decision taken to As Kordsa Global produces nylon and in line with the ‘category management’ is considered critical, and for Capex differentiation strategy. We continued TRY 5 million to educational institutions distribute the dividends of 2014 as of May polyester yarns, cord fabric and single concept, and thus formed two categories and service procurements above USD to offer value to our stakeholders both notably Sabancı University as well as 29, 2015. Suppliers received the highest end cord, our main procurement items by FDPE (Finished Products Distribution 500 thousand, as well as the service with the economy we created and Kocaeli University, Izburs (Association share of the value we distributed to our consist of raw material, particularly Expense) and ‘Packaging Material’, and procurement of our headquarters. our investments during the reporting of Scholarships in Izmit) and the Turkish stakeholders in 2014 with 86%. chemicals, and auxiliary products as well appointed the human resources to period. Educational Foundation. as energy expenditures. manage these categories. In 2014, we reached nearly USD 40 As a result of the importance Kordsa million in turnover with 14 new Global attaches to industry-university products, and we will continue to collaboration, we maintain our tradition The Value Distributed to Breakdown of Global Breakdown of Suppliers of Kordsa Global Shares of increase our turnover rapidly in the to make donations to universities in Purchasing Expenditures Global Purchasing Purchasing Functions coming years with more new products. Our Stakeholders years we distribute dividends. Prior to the reporting period, in 2012, we donated TRY 4.34 million to universities 1% 0.03% 3% 2% 3% and educational institutions, namely 68% of our Sabancı University in Turkey and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology 13% 7% 3% 27% employees abroad. 11% 5% who responded to the sustainability assessment questionnaire think that: 12% Kordsa Global creates significant %86 62% 24% 73% economic value to its priority stakeholders. Suppliers Employees Raw Material Energy Other products & Raw Material Machinery and Global Purchasing Local Purchasing Services Equipment Government Community Chemicals Packaging Materials Software and Consulting Management Expenditures 42 I Kordsa Global Sustainability Report 2014 Kordsa Global Sustainability Report 2014 I 43 INVESTMENTS Capacity Investment Investment in in Indonesia The Composite We increased the capacity of Technologies Center our existing plants in Indonesia through a project we started to of Excellence work on in 2012 and completed Our goal is to complete our in 2014. With an investment of Composite Technologies Center USD 100 million, we opened an of Excellence, the foundations 18-kiloton tire cord fabric plant of which we laid in Istanbul and a 14-kiloton third and fourth Teknopark in the second half of generation polyester HMLS yarn 2014 in cooperation with Sabancı The factors that triggered the decision University collaboration model for the plant. University, in the first half of to make the investment were to position first time in Turkey to establish a platform The factors that triggered the decision Social: By increasing the level of 2016 with a total investment of Sabancı Holding in time to seize the that hosts a synergistic structure to make the investment were the employment, we generated jobs for an opportunity of profitable growth in the covering basic research, technology increase in demand, the rapid growth of additional 170 people. USD 23 million. rapidly growing composites market; development and production based on the market in Asia, and the competitive to offer high value-added products R&D activities supported by the university cost structure. With this investment, we Environmental: The energy efficiency and services to the aviation, defense, for the production of an advanced aim to reach capacity in three years and of the new plant increased owing to its automotive, maritime and energy technology material. In addition to that, receive an annual EBITDA contribution of manufacturing technology. Decreasing sectors; and to contribute to our we aim to make a significant contribution USD 10 million consumption in kwh/ton, we targeted country’s targets for 2023. Our aim is to to solve the qualified human resources less carbon emission per ton of cord increase our market share in the EU to shortage in this field. Impacts and Targeted Gains: fabric produced. 4% in 10 years as a consequence of this investment. Environmental: One of our objectives Economic: Our contribution to Corporate: Indokordsa in Indonesia, and is to give priority to developing Indonesia’s GNP will increase by around Kordsa Global and Sabancı Holding in Impacts and Targeted Gains: environment-friendly technologies at 35%. Turkey and in the world will increase their the Composite Technologies Center of value and market share by reinforcing Economic: We lead the initiation of Excellence. their presence in the cord fabric sector projects geared towards minimizing through this investment. Turkey’s dependence on foreign product Corporate: We aim to enter the development and manufacturing composites sector as a manufacturer of capabilities in strategic areas in the intermediate products, to prepare for shortand medium-term. future growth options, and to position Kordsa Global as the technology and Social: We used an innovative Industryinnovation leader. 44 I Kordsa Global Sustainability Report 2014 Kordsa Global Sustainability Report 2014 I 45 R&D AND INNOVATION At Kordsa Global, we have At our R&D Center, under the leadership of the Chief Technology Officer, who is development, our R&D Center started on 18 new projects and completed 22 to the advantages provided by new technologies in Project Minidip, we At Kordsa Global We included R&D and innovation in the foundations of our also a member of the Executive Board, in 2014. As a result of the assessment achieved 10 to 15% energy savings in twisting machines in Project ABC. Reward Inventions we execute our activities effectively by made in accordance with Law no. 5746 on business strategy together identifying the needs of the enterprise Support for Research and Development Our company received the award for That Create Value! with operational excellence at the highest level with our human Activities, our center was found eligible under differentiation with resources of 73 people and the driving to obtain an R&D Center Certificate on the best R&D performance in Turkey As a global leader of its sector, serving force of the senior management. As a April 24, 2009, and is currently supported as assessed by the Ministry of Science, tire, composites and construction products, quality and service. Industry and Technology according to result of our efforts at our R&D center, by the Ministry of Science, Industry and markets with its reinforcement products, Thanks to our technology where we aim to create dynamism in the Technology. the R&D Centers Performance Index, our company has organized the Kordsa function that has enabled sector with new brands, we increased our University, University of Akron and the and our R&D Center was found to be Invention Awards to encourage R&D more effective conditions for turnover from new product sales to TRY Having allocated an average TRY 15 Tokyo Institute of Technology, and make the most successful R&D Center in the researchers. At the ceremony this year, production through its research 52 million since 2008. In 2014, we made million annually in the last three years use of the qualified expertise in related textiles sector. The assessment was Kürşat Aksoy was the winner of the 176 patent applications in total, 68 of to R&D activities, as Kordsa Global fields and technological facilities at carried out in six dimensions, namely Grand Prize with the highest number and development activities R&D Staff Employment, Intensity of R&D which were in Turkey and 108 abroad. we cooperate with institutions such the universities in the context of our of inventions. While we also presented on materials, processes and as TUBITAK MAM (Marmara Research joint projects as well as consulting and Expenses, Project Capacity, Cooperation certificates to researchers who had equipment, we manage to be the In addition to 21 ongoing projects Center), Sabancı University, Boğaziçi infrastructure services we receive. In and Interaction, Commercialization and received or applied for a patent at the market and technology leader, in materials, process and product University, Koç University, Bilkent subject matters that come up in our Intellectual Property Competence; and ceremony, we extended plaques to and to offer our customers more projects but are outside the scope of Kordsa Global shone with its innovationinstitutions and organizations that our own area of expertise, we contact oriented approach in processes, its had supported Kordsa as a token of competitive and innovative performance and project capacity, as well universities if needed, and work together our appreciation as well. We will keep products. with relevant experts and competent as the human resources it possessed. encouraging and rewarding inventiveness academics. All projects are under the in the years to come. protection of confidentiality agreements; and we are scrupulous about the ethical components as well as intellectual property issues. Our goal in the projects we work on at the R&D Center is to develop new products and technologies that increase energy efficiency and reduce carbon dioxide emissions with a focus on the environmental impact. For instance, while we developed a novel concept in the dipping process thanks 46 I Kordsa Global Sustainability Report 2014 Kordsa Global Sustainability Report 2014 I 47 MATERIALS MANAGEMENT The selection and use of materials The way to reach operational excellence, In addition to the above-mentioned In addition to the need for financial and and raw material rank among which is one of our core strategies at targets, we work on the efficient use of human resources to realize projects the top indispensable elements Kordsa Global, involves ensuring quality materials, producing the same quality that will help us achieve these targets, PROJECT TO REDUCE USE in products and services. Thanks to the product with less material, enabling because we are a global company, we of our company’s production, importance we attach to the materials reuse of materials if possible, and using, also have to plan for the development OF MATERIALS and consequently its existence. management system, our systematic transporting and disposing of materials of special software and technological Materials and raw material approach and our policies, we can satisfy so that their environmental impact is systems to monitor and review the said As a result of monitoring our performance in the use of materials and our efficiency our customers and achieve our targets. minimized. targets. efforts, we achieved improvements of 2 to 78% in the use of chemicals and flake rates expenditures constitute about at our plants since 2011, our baseline year. The table below shows the percentages of 75% of our total procurement. The targets we set with regard to Our commitment to manage our reduction in materials and chemicals used at various plants. materials management include impact by the use of materials and raw The reason for the increase in the Salt Ratio at Kordsa Global Turkey in 2014 is that there improving materials handling systems, material is covered under the continuous was a planned overhaul at our plant, and more salt was used during the start-up stage. enhancing warehouse organization, improvement heading in the joint (The Nylon Yarn plant in Turkey undergoes a planned overhaul for maintenance every conducting field audits of the contracts Commitment for Occupational Safety and three years.) concluded with suppliers, and improving Environment published by Kordsa Global the system established for just-in-time for all its facilities. 71% of our delivery of raw material. employees Material (Plant) 2011 2012 2013 2014 who responded to the sustainability Salt Ratio (Kordsa Global Turkey) 1.22 1.18 1.18 1.22 assessment questionnaire think that: Consumption Rate of Chemicals (Kordsa Global Turkey) 1.14 1.12 1.11 1.12 Consumption Rate of Chemicals (InterKordsa) N/A 4.70 1.70 1.00 Activities and practices geared Consumption Rate of Chemicals (Kordsa Brazil) 1.19 1.13 1.15 1.16 towards raw material and materials Consumption Rate of Chemicals (Kordsa USA – Laurel Hill) 1.09 1.06 1.04 1.03 efficiency at Kordsa Global are adequate. Flake Rate (Kordsa USA – Chattanooga) 1.26 1.19 1.18 1.19 N/A: Data not available 48 I Kordsa Global Sustainability Report 2014 Kordsa Global Sustainability Report 2014 I 49 PROJECT TO REDUCE PROJECT TO REUSE PROJECT ON RESORCINOL-AND FORMALDEHYDE-FREE GREEN CONVERSION COSTS PAPER TUBES DIP THAT WON THE FIRST PRIZE IN ‘INNOVATIVE ENVIRONMENTOur company’s strategic targets include using energy In this project that we developed for Kordsa Global Turkey FRIENDLY PRODUCT’ BY THE ISTANBUL CHAMBER OF INDUSTRY efficiently in production, manufacturing the same quality plants in order to increase the reuse of paper tubes our yarn product with less raw material and chemicals, and products are wound around we aim to contribute to the RFL (Resorcinol-Formaldehyde Latex) adhesive In addition to the positive environmental and social curbing production costs by reducing the amount of scrap corporate budget and natural resource savings. Our goal is formulations have been in use since 1935 as adhesive for implications of the project, there will be potential corporate production. to reuse 100% of the tubes that enter our plants. all synthetic fiber reinforcement materials. Formaldehyde, and economic gains. We plan to introduce the product one of the components of RFL, is a chemical that poses first to markets where environment-friendly products are The graphs below show the improvements we made in three high human and environmental health risks, and its use is supported and incentivized with many new regulations product groups as a result of our efforts in the reporting therefore restricted. RFL adhesives are coated on the cord such as Europe, USA and Japan. period, the baseline being 2012. fabric in the last processing stage of cord fabric production that is called ‘dipping’. Considering the market potential and sales volume of Conversion Cost Rates the said geography that represents 65% of the passenger Number of When tire manufacturers asked Kordsa directly to produce car market, we project that our investment will start to 4.35% 7.51% a more environment-friendly and technological cord fabric, make a profit in 6 months after all product approvals are NY Yarn Reused Tubes Savings Reduction Rate Reduction Rate we decided to develop a water-based formulation that completed. Compared to Baseline could adhere to rubber for high-resistance cords which 100 95.65 92.49 2013 85,760 51,456 USD are used as tire reinforcement material. The objective Cord Fabric was to include chemicals that do not pose a health or 2014 28,692 17,215 USD environmental risk instead of the chemicals resorcinol and 2012 2013 2014 formaldehyde. 4% 6% The new adhesive system we developed at Kordsa Reduction Reduction Number of Global is a FIRST in the tire industry. We made two patent Rate Rate Compared to Baseline PES Yarn Reused Tubes Savings applications for this new adhesive solution, and our international application process is under way. 100 96.00 94.00 NY Yarn 2013 20,000 12,000 USD Properties of the adhesive dip we developed are the 2012 2013 2014 following: 2014 30,000 18,000 USD • No waiting time • The only formulation that is fiber-independent 11.6% 18.85% • Free of hazardous and toxic chemicals Reduction Rate Reduction Rate • Complies with REACH regulations Compared to Baseline • Does not require pre-activation of PET 100 88.40 • Zero formaldehyde consumption/emission 81.15 PE Yarn • Less consumption of dip solution 2012 2013 2014 Calculation of reduction rates is made according to the baseline year 2012. 50 I Kordsa Global Sustainability Report 2014 Kordsa Global Sustainability Report 2014 I 51 Kordsa Global Human Resources Kordsa Global Human Resources SOCIAL PERFORMANCE Processes and Practices Training and Processes and Practices Development Management Category, Leadership in Human Management Prize Grand Prize 21st PERYÖN Human 22nd PERYÖN Human Management Awards Management Awards October 2014 October 2013 At Kordsa Global we act in full awareness of our responsibility to our people and the society in compliance with our Code of Business Ethics, and we are sensitive towards the traditions and cultures of countries we operate in. Diversity in human resources and company culture make up the foundation Kordsa Global Women Employment Practices of our strong corporate structure. Achievement Award İŞKUR (Turkish Employment Agency) March 2014 LABOR PRACTICES AND HUMAN RIGHTS MANAGEMENT At Kordsa Global, we view resources review and succession planning, leadership and employee on employee turnover for all our plants can be found in the social performance and economic context, we adopted the ethical principles of Sabancı Holding, a Equal Opportunity procedures and ethical procedures are integral in our company. We practice our 4,048-people workforce, including subcontractors, in 8 development, overseas assignments, strategic operations related to the tables. principal shareholder of Kordsa Global, and we educate our people about our and Equal absolute equality in recruitment and placement based on our recruitment countries across 5 continents as organizational climate and similar We provide overseas assignments to code of ethics so that they can exercise Remuneration for and placement procedure. We do not an integral part of achieving our processes in line with the sustainability ensure the personal development of their rights and responsibilities within make discriminatory job postings, and strategic goals, and implement and business targets of our company. employees, defined as ‘talents’, and to this framework. Women and Men we prioritize women when we evaluate human resources practices with a develop a common culture across all applications and make job interviews. We organize various activities to expedite Kordsa Global plants. There are 16 Turkish Kordsa Global Code of Business Ethics is At Kordsa Global, one of the first global strategy. the orientation of our new recruits, employees – one female employee – our company’s guiding policy for human companies to provide an equal working At Kordsa Global, besides the fair working and to promote relations with their working on long term assignments at and employment rights. The policy is environment for men and women, we environment for hiring, working, and coworkers, managers and the upper Kordsa Global’s plants overseas as of valid for all Kordsa Global locations and mainstream equality from recruitment career planning for women, we also offer Employment and management. Some of these activities are: breakfasts with operations directors, 2014. companies. Additionally, Kordsa Global’s employment and labor practices are in to retirement. We support our approach with the principles contained in private health insurance that covers childbirth, and lactation rooms for their Diversity a welcome cocktail once a year to bring Protection of compliance with all applicable laws and international initiatives. convenience. A total of 32 employees, together the upper management and regulations in countries it operates. Our 7 of which were women, who earned The Global Human Resources new recruits, roundtable meetings Human Rights employees fulfill all legal obligations Kordsa Global is signatory to the Equality maternity leave during the reporting Department of our company is in charge with the CEO and ELT to get employees’ in their fields of activity, and act in at Work Declaration announced to the period used their leaves fully and of creating and executing this global opinions and feedback, white-collar At Kordsa Global, our approach towards conformity with official regulations. business world by the Platform’s Coreturned to work at Kordsa Global for at strategy. At our Global Human Resources blue-collar interaction meetings, and our people is honest and fair, and we Chair Ms. Güler Sabancı, the Chairman and least another 12 months. Department, we undertake activities actions from focus group discussions commit to a non-discriminative, safe In line with our Code of Business Managing Director of Sabancı Holding, such as recruitment and placement, following the employee engagement and healthy working environment for Ethics and company policies, forced or under the auspices of United Nations wages and fringe benefits, performance survey. all. We make sure our people enjoy their involuntary labor and child labor are Women’s Empowerment Principles and management, organization and human employee rights fully and properly, and strictly prohibited across all Kordsa the Ministry of Family and Social Policies. The average employee tenure across we invest in their personal development. Global locations. Like all our employees, www.isteesitlikplatformu.gov.tr Kordsa Global plants is close to 12 years. We respect their work-life balance, and our security staff is also educated on www.weprinciples.org In Turkey, the figure is over 10 years. Our support the volunteer work they do for code of ethics including our human rights 5.6% employee turnover rate in 2013 policies upon recruitment. These two platforms we support work 85% of our dropped to 3.4% in 2014. Detailed data appropriate social causes acting with social responsibility. In order to maintain to fight against gender inequalities, encourage women’s participation to 73% of our employees employees these tenets in a rapidly changing social The ratio of employees under any type of collective agreement to the total change the otherwise male-dominant who responded to the sustainability who responded to the sustainability business life, empower women in assessment questionnaire think that: assessment questionnaire think Number of Employees number of employees is 51.56% in Turkey, 83.59% in Indonesia, and 82.41% in Brazil. decision-making mechanisms, and ensure that: Our employees in USA, Germany, Egypt, that women enjoy opportunities and Kordsa Global’s recruitment, placement, Thailand and China are not unionized. resources equally. and remuneration practices are There are sufficient communication There have been no incidence in violation adequate to guarantee employee channels for employees to share their ideas and opinions with the 398 366 1.529 1.208 248 of the rights to organize or collective bargain in 2014, and our activities do not With its regularly reviewed Disciplinary Procedures, Kordsa Global Turkey also diversity and gender equality. South America North America Asia Europe Africa bear any apparent risk concerning these meets the requirements of Article management at Kordsa Global. issues. 25 of the Labor Law. The disciplinary 54 I Kordsa Global Sustainability Report 2014 Kordsa Global Sustainability Report 2014 I 55 TRAINING AND EDUCATION Non-Discrimination language, race, gender, political views, philosophical beliefs, religions, sects or As there has been no such incident, we aim to maintain the current situation It takes many different resources training standards, training needs and targets, and all relevant forms and practices to align training other similar attributes, real or perceived of a respectful, healthy and safe are available on the global intranet Kordsa Global is an equal opportunity disability, and other legally protected working environment for employees in and education activities, to bring accessible to all employees. Moreover, employer. At Kordsa Global, our priority a uniform perspective alongside attributes. conformity with all relevant laws and we educate our employees on the is to maintain a fair working environment regulations, and to boost employee local requirements and needs, training and development management for our people. We make sure that employment practices including but Employees who feel or suspect a achievement, development and and to support employees’ processes at ‘Meet with HR’ sessions and violation of our Fair Working Environment engagement. attainment of career goals as regularly share our new practices with not limited to recruitment, placement, Policy must notify their line managers, our employees using different tools. promotions, transfers, rotations, other managers, the Local Code of Ethics they perform their duties safely cancellation of employment contracts, and effectively across all plants Among the tools and platforms we use Consultant, the Global Code of Ethics One hundred percent of Kordsa Global dismissals, leaves, wages, extra Consultant, or the Ethics Committee. We of Kordsa Global, which operates employees undergo performance as feedback to improve our training and payments, social rights, and training are development processes are the employee carried out in a non-discriminatory way have not received any complaints about in seven different countries. and career development evaluations. discrimination from our employees in Although the principal training and engagement survey, training assessment based on our human resources policies. results, post-training development 2014. development process-owner is the The Training and Development Policy Human Resources Department, every evaluations, trainer feedback, and We do not accept discrimination in about the training and development performance evaluations. employee at Kordsa Global is in charge of our business relations on the basis of management processes at Kordsa his/her own development process. Global, the Training and Development The total hours in training – with Procedures on the stages of identifying the number of employees remaining Hiring Working Career planning and measuring the effectiveness of We use performance and competency evaluation results, employee constant – went up by 8% reaching development and career plans, and 176,460 hours in the reporting period. We strictly implement our We do not compromise the principle of equality similar resources to identify employees’ The majority of training was career We do not non-discriminatory code of ethics training needs and devise training development with 67%. discriminate in in Education & plans; and we always consider company the hiring process We provide regular training on ethics Development 73% of our needs and legal requirements as well as employees’ individual requests. Detailed information about training can be found in the social performance We run an ethics survey each year We employ the principle employees tables. who responded to the 1% We do not post We take measures based on our of equality in career sustainability assessment discriminatory Disciplinary Procedures planning questionnaire think that: 10% announcements Breakdown of With designated lactation We warrant equality in Kordsa Global’s personal Trainings rooms, lockers, and restrooms for our performance development training/programs women, we provide a proper working Career Development We do not ask female (technical and personal training, 22% candidates if they plan to environment system Health and Safety career development programs, We respect work-life balance marry or have We employ the principle of equality in the assignment rotations, etc.) for its employees are Personal Development children We provide equal pay for of employees to new adequate. Other 67% equal work positions 56 I Kordsa Global Sustainability Report 2014 Kordsa Global Sustainability Report 2014 I 57 OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY Talent Management at pool. These are trainings organized by Sabancı Holding, and are as follows: training programs, we also encourage our employees to take part in development Health and safety of our people, We implement The 10 Golden Rules of Occupational Safety we identified to the most important capital of our Kordsa Global Generation Next for specialist/engineer level; Leadership Fundamentals for programs organized by Sabancı Holding for specialist/engineer level such as company, come first among our prevent employee injuries, illness, and harm across all our plants. In no plant middle-level management; and, SALT the Young Sabancı program or Group strategic priorities. The common or subcontractor of Kordsa Global’s has Kordsa Global offers various talent management and life long learning Sabancı Leadership Team for upperMentorship program. and only goal of all our people, there ever been any occupational disease programs to improve competencies level management. Global Development locations and departments in or fatal accident. of employees in the talent pool and to Programs focus on developing technical Mentorship: In 2014 we completed charge of occupational safety facilitate uninterrupted employability. expertise and leadership; and are carried our activities to extend the mentorship In addition to the Occupational Health, out by the Global Human Resources system practiced in the Turkey plant is to attain zero occupational Occupational Safety and Environmental the management. It is the Global SHE Alongside internal global development Department. Employees from different prior to the reporting period to other accidents and diseases. Safety Policies approved by our CEO (Safety Health Environment) Manager, programs, trainings, and mentorship, countries and of different levels join countries. We implemented the first and in force since 2001 at Kordsa Global who is responsible for coordination. It is we also provide financial support to these programs, held on global scale, ‘Global Mentorship Program’ with Turkey, the Kordsa Global Commitment the Operations Directors and people in our employees for MA/MB, PhD, and depending on their area of expertise and ‘mentees’ as specialists/engineers to SHE Safety Health Environment charge of SHE at the plant-level who bear certification programs they wish to needs. and newly appointed managers, and published in 2008 and updated yearly these responsibilities in the plants. attend depending on the type and institution of training as laid down in our ‘mentors’ as upper level managers in is applicable across all Kordsa Global Training: Employees in the talent 2014. Our goal for 2015 is to expand plants. These policies and commitments Occupational safety targets range from procedures. pool are welcome to join all trainings the program so as to include more are associated with the OHSAS 18001 strategic to individual, and are evaluated Global Development Programs: organized by our company that cover participants. The mentorship program 90% of our Management System Standard. by the Kordsa Global Performance Evaluation System. Occupational There are three different levels of development programs available their personal, technical or functional needs. Requests for training may be implemented across all Sabancı Holding companies also accepts as ‘mentees’ employees All employees are responsible for safety performance evaluation criteria lodged by the employee him/herself, Kordsa Global talents at specialist/ who responded to the their own and their fellow employees’ for the blue-collars are found in the to develop employees in the talent his/her line manager, or the Human engineer or manager-level. occupational safety. It is the CEO Performance Management System. sustainability assessment Resources Department. Besides internal and the Vice-President in charge of questionnaire think that: Operations, who bear the responsibility for occupational safety on behalf of At Kordsa Global, the importance KEEP (KORDSA E-LEARNING & EMPOWERMENT PLATFORM) given and measures taken to ensure occupational safety and employee In 2010 we launched KEEP (Kordsa E-Learning & Empowerment Platform) at Kordsa Global to create easily accessible and individualized training programs tailored to our company, and to cascade the health are adequate. technical expertise of the world leader in the industry to all our employees in a more efficient, quicker and time-effective manner. All employees with a corporate e-mail address can access the e-learning sessions delivered over the KEEP system in local languages on various categories anytime they want, in or outside company premises, on all our locations. Our employees can join personal development, technical development, corporate integrity, and other development trainings over 19,463 38,117 25 49 3 8 the KEEP system, as well as managing their training plans, apply for classroom trainings, and suggest new trainings. As the classroom training-planning module has been designed to run over the KEEP system, employees can manage all training development activities over the system in a ‘self-service’ mode. We regularly share all updates and notices with our employees since the launch of the system through e-mails, videos, and posters hung up in our plants, screensavers, intranet announcements, and various rewarding activities. 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 Occupational Health Risks Analyses Process Hazard As we put greater weight on classroom training in the reporting period, which we believe to be more effective, 588 hours of KEEP training was delivered in 2014. By making improvements on the online platform we aim to expedite KEEP activities as of 2015. and Safety Trainings Completed Analyses Completed (Hours) 58 I Kordsa Global Sustainability Report 2014 Kordsa Global Sustainability Report 2014 I 59 Mechanisms used to monitor the There is no area in the Kordsa of chemicals. There is no employee at effectiveness of the company’s management approach are internal Global plants, where, due to a specific occupational hazard, more Kordsa Global, who has been diagnosed with an occupational disease through PROJECT ON IMPROVING SAFETY CULTURE occupational safety inspections, external ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 Management frequent accidents or illnesses occur. Nevertheless, employees working in medical screening. IN KORDSA GLOBAL Systems certification audits, insurer areas where hazardous chemicals are Showing a 96% increase in 2014, a total In 2013 we initiated the project named ‘Improving Safety Culture in Kordsa Global” with the audits, Second-Party Occupational Safety used are subject to periodic medical of 57,580 hours of OHS training was objectives of enabling the Management Commitment to make feel in all Kordsa Global plants among all employees, improving the performance of plants to achieve 100% incident-free and safe Inspections across companies of Kordsa screening at the Occupational Diseases delivered in the reporting period. Data on work environment and building up a sustainable Global SHE Management infrastructure based on Global, and performance benchmarks Hospital depending on the chemicals in the OHS performance of the entire plants fulfills technical expertise. between our plants. We issue monthly question and the working conditions. can be found in the social performance Project steps are summarized as follows; global OHS reports to communicate our Medical screening is done in order to tables. 1. Establishment of SHE Network Team performance. identify early on the potential effects 2. Standardization of Fundamental Enabling Safety Practices (Working At Height, HIRA (Hazard Identification and Risk Assessment, Work Permit, Emergency Planning, Occupational Health etc.) Management-Worker Health and Safety Committees SAFETY PROJECT 3. Seven Steps Implementation Methodology (Understand the global standard requirement, make a GAP analysis, define action items to remove gaps with well structural plans, prepare Name of FOR DIPPING local procedures, train people, start implementation, audit/monitor progress) 4. Establishment of 2nd Party Auditing Program (Preparation of audit protocols, training of Committee Definition Legal Status Participants Emergency MACHINES auditor pool, realization of 3 year audit program, audit actions follow up reviews) 5. Behavioral Change Program (Behavior Oriented Safety (BOS) program launched with trainings, Organized for all shifts in the plant. Legal Blue-collar employees e-learning programs and campaigns) Response Team The safety project for dipping machines initiated 6. Safety Campaigns (Golden SHE Rules, Hands Injury Prevention, Off The Job Injuries) to prevent accidents at dipping machines has Monitors energy use and ISO 50001; prepares emerged as a result of the statistical analysis of SHE Network Team established performance indicators in order to follow and recognize the Energy White-collar employees, and Maintenance progress in safety performance and also defined incident free exposure hours to achieve 100% energy reports and manages energy savings Legal occupational accidents, and has become the top Committee Manager as Chair incident-free and safe work environment. projects. priority project for occupational safety targets. Lays down all rules and standards on electricity Our aim is to reduce occupational accidents Electrical Safety Company Mostly white-collar, but also blue-collar and injuries, and to prevent machine-related As a result of the project; hazard in the plant; makes inspections and Committee initiative members accidents. Whereas this project falls within the • Indonesia plant reached 817,720 hours with 950 employees. delivers training. scope of EN 12100 Safety of Machinery Standard • Germany plant reached 210,848 hours with 50 employees. Carries out activities and inspections for and other related industrial EN standards, it is • North America Laurel Hill plant reached 327,490 hours with 250 employees. Process Safety explosions, fires, leaks and occupational Company entirely voluntary. White-collar employees • North America Chattanooga plant reached 530,181 hours with 300 employees. Management accidents that may arise from the production initiative process. Have annual targets. The project spans over three years and we have • Brazil plant reached 1,168,844 hours with 550 employees. Official meeting of the representatives of the Employer representatives, union completed the machinery risk analysis and implementation phase in 2014 in our Kordsa OHS Committee employer and employees. All legal decisions are Legal representatives, managers, subcontractor made on this committee. representatives Global Turkey plant. We expanded the project scope to cover all overseas plants with dipping SMOKING CESSATION AND Meets to improve SHE (Safety Health SHE Management Environment) performance, disseminate SHE Company All department managers and representatives, and Operations Director as units as of 2015 (namely, Indonesia, Egypt, Thailand, USA, and Brazil). In 2015, we will ANTI-OBESITY CAMPAIGNS culture, manage improvement and development initiative continue implementation in Turkey, conduct Committee Chair risk analyses for overseas plants, and we plan to activities, and review performance. Thanks to our smoking cessation launch the project in overseas plants in 2016. In charge of identifying hazards wherever awareness and medical support Hazardous campaign carried out during the chemicals are used, conducting risk analyses, Company Chemicals White and blue-collar employees reporting period to ensure a healthier maintaining signage in proper condition, and initiative Committee lifestyle for our employees, 37% of 248 providing training on chemical hazards. applicants quit smoking for good. In a Established to encourage blue-collar employees’ psychological support campaign started participation. Holds simple inspections Company Participants from all units. Enables in collaboration with a private medical SHE Star Team and instructive sessions in the field. Joins initiative communication in the workplace. center to prevent obesity, 50 employees occupational safety equipment trials in the field. left the “obese” group and stepped into a healthier life. The total workforce represented in these committees is 10.8%. Information on committees contained in this table belongs to Kordsa Global Turkey. 60 I Kordsa Global Sustainability Report 2014 Kordsa Global Sustainability Report 2014 I 61 ENVIRONMENTAL Kordsa Global Human Health and Environmental Protection Kordsa Global Polyester Plant Dryer Silo Pressurized Air System PERFORMANCE During Manufacturing Processes Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources The first of the six values underlying the Kordsa Global’s strategy includes Kocaeli Chamber of Industry 34th Energy Efficiency Week Energy environmental protection. Our priority in all our activities and investments we 20th Şahabettin Bilgisu Efficiency in Industry Project carry out with the target of sustainable development is to prevent environmental Environmental Awards Competition, Third Place January 2014 pollution, reduce emissions, and make efficient use of energy and water through February 2014 investing in clean technologies and waste management. ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT ENERGY MANAGEMENT In addition to the Occupational Health, prioritizing humans and the environment Energy is one of the main inputs Directors, and Energy Management 50001 Energy Management System Occupational Safety and Environmental in the projects we develop. We conducted System Coordinators, who are in certification, Kordsa Global Turkey plants of production. Among Kordsa Safety Policies in force since 2001 at 31 different Environmental Impact responsible for the management of are systematically audited internally and Kordsa Global Turkey, the Kordsa Global Assessments during the reporting period Global’s strategic goals are this area. There are corporate strategic externally each year. Commitment to SHE Safety Health in 2013 and 2014. achieving energy efficiency, and targets as well as country, plant, unit, Environment published in 2008 with reducing energy use per ton of and individual targets in this area. The To see the data trends in the reduction of updates every year is applicable across Our employees, who responded product, alongside other energy effective and efficient use of energy is energy (i.e. electricity, steam, natural gas) all Kordsa Global plants. With targets to the sustainability assessment such as zero waste and zero emissions, questionnaire, state that Kordsa Global 76% of our saving activities. a continuous target. The Vice-President in charge of Operations reviews energy consumption achieved through savings and efficiency initiatives in the reporting the policy contains our commitments on energy, natural resources and the must primarily deal with managing the following environmental impacts: employees efficiency results each month alongside plant-specific business results. period, we calculated reductions in the manufacturing processes at individual preservation of biodiversity. It has been energy management (reduction of who responded to the It is the Operations Director, who plants taking 2011 as the base year. The approved by our CEO and is associated energy consumption, and energy sustainability assessment approves the Energy Management Kordsa Global supports projects for the calculation is based on the ISO 50001 with the ISO 14001 Environmental efficiency) according to 89.29% of efficient use of energy, and reduction Standard. We have achieved 2-21% questionnaire think that: Policy applicable in Kordsa Global Turkey Management Systems Standard. respondents; wastewater and solid prepared by the Energy Committee of energy use per unit of production; reductions in 2014 compared with 2011. waste management (reduction of in 2014 in accordance with ISO 50001 undertakes to provide the necessary All related data can be found in the At Kordsa Global we carry out our environmental pollution) according to Kordsa Global is a company budget, manpower and technology; and environmental performance tables. Energy Management System. The Policy manufacturing activities with humans 83.67%; water management (reduction that protects the environment/ is reviewed annually along with other inspires teams. Projects with proven and nature at our core. Thanks to this of water consumption and efficiency) natural resources and prevents policies. success and payoff are encouraged and To monitor the reductions in the energy approach, we have been found worthy according to 58.16%; and reduction of gas environmental pollution from the cascaded to other Kordsa Global plants. required by products, we calculated of many awards in Turkey and abroad. emissions (fight against climate change) It is the Vice-President in charge Comparisons are made across Kordsa the energy reduction rates at Kordsa We will maintain this approach, and keep according to 44.90%. viewpoint of local communities of Operations, Country Operations Global plants for energy results and Global Turkey plants in the reporting residing in areas where its plants are amounts of energy consumed. Energy period and compared them to baseline located. efficiency project teams are awarded at 2013 figures. The savings we achieved recognition events. for steam and electricity were 12%, and nearly 3%, respectively. The reason Kordsa Global plants act in line with the for the 8.4% increase in natural gas is PROJECT ABC FOR ENERGY SAVING 72% of our energy regulations of the country they explained by more idle time caused by AT TWISTING MACHINES employees are located. Whereas some countries oblige an Energy Management System cleaning of dipping machines between product changes due to a bigger variety who responded to the sustainability to be installed, others have not set of products manufactured compared to ABC Project is an energy saving project whereby the outer yarn (balloon), driven assessment questionnaire any legal targets for energy use or previous period. away by centrifugal force, is drawn with the help of a step motor controlled by energy efficiency. Owing to the ISO an additional electronic card so that the outer yarn becomes narrower, resulting think that: in less air friction and elimination of yarn wound around the disc. Kordsa Global’s energy efficiency Kordsa Global Turkey ABC is a systematic and permanent energy use project. Our aim in the project investments/projects, and other 3.08% 11.09% started in March 2014 at Kordsa Global Turkey plants is to obtain on average 10consumption reduction measures Reduction Reduction Increment 15% savings, and we make different dtex-based observations of average savings. Rate Rate Rate The targeted date of completion of the project in our Turkey plants is May 2015. in line with its aim to manufacture with an environmental sensitivity 8.4% 100 96.92 100 88.01 100 108.40 We started other projects in order to expand the scope of Project ABC to cover are adequate. twisting machines in other Kordsa plants as of 2015. Completion of the project in all Kordsa Global plants is expected to take twoto-three years, making it a 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 medium-term action. Electricity (kwh/ton product) Steam (kwh/ton product) Natural Gas (kwh/ton product) 64 I Kordsa Global Sustainability Report 2014 Kordsa Global Sustainability Report 2014 I 65 WASTE MANAGEMENT Disposal, recovery and reuse of Our Commitment to SHE (Safety, Health, Other priorities include reduction of Mechanisms to ensure efficiency of wastes, including wastewater, Environment) contains targets regarding hazardous waste, increased recovery wastewater management are Ministry reduction of waste at source, reuse or rates, and creating reuse opportunities. of Environment and Urbanization arising in Kordsa Global plants as specified by law are among recovery of materials, and proper disposal of waste for human and environmental At least 65% of wastes arising in Kordsa Global Turkey are either recoverable or inspections, Kordsa Environment Unit and Environmental Officer audits in addition USE OF THE RECYCLE CHIP MACHINE Kordsa Global’s regular activities health. These are the common targets of re-usable. to ISO 14001 audits, ISO 14001 internal At Kordsa Global Turkey, we make sure that waste occurring at Nylon 6.6 yarn like manufacturing. the entire workforce of Kordsa Global in audit, and daily dumpsite controls. We manufacturing plants during the manufacturing process is regenerated into Nylon all departments across all locations. In waste management, the responsibility also make benchmarking studies with 6.6 chips to be used in engineering plastics industry. We have been using the for legal compliance and inspection lies other companies of the Sabancı Holding. recycle chip machine for manufacturing since 2013. The idea was selected among We continuously monitor and have set with the Operations Director, and for Our targets for wastewater and other innovative ideas as an R&D project. The total investment cost of the 400 kg/hran improvement target for the recovery implementation and coordination, with emerging wastes are as follows: capacity regeneration system project was USD 800,000. and reuse of water we consume in the Director of Maintenance and Energy, Economic and Environmental Benefits of the Project: manufacturing. We follow technological and the SHE Department. Projects on According to 73% of research and investment opportunities to take wastewater recovery even further. waste management, and improvement efforts are the responsibility of all Kordsa Global Turkey • Manufacturers of engineering plastics in Turkey now import less Nylon 6.6 raw materials, and they were able to increase their profitability by decreasing raw our employees At Kordsa Global Turkey we recover and departments. Waste management plans range from strategic to individual, and material costs. • We turned Nylon 6.6 yarn waste into a high value-added product, thus increasing who responded to the sustainability use at least 25% of the water treated are evaluated by the Kordsa Global its profitability. assessment questionnaire at the Wastewater Treatment Plant, Performance Evaluation System. • The project served to boost employment. a priority investment according to • We contributed to the preservation of natural resources thanks to the use of think that: recycled Nylon 6.6 raw material. feasibility and environmental impact Kordsa Global’s waste management calculations. efforts, including wastewater management, and efforts to prevent environmental pollution 4.6 4.7 are adequate. Kordsa Global Turkey 2013 2014 2015 2016 (kg/ton production) Target Target 2013 2014 Domestic Waste 6.65 7.64 6 5.5 Wastes Hazardous Waste 9.08 10.38 9 8 (kg/ton production) Water 5.6 5.25 5.2 5 66 I Kordsa Global Sustainability Report 2014 Kordsa Global Sustainability Report 2014 I 67 WATER MANAGEMENT EMISSIONS MANAGEMENT It gets ever more critical to access Water use is of paramount importance for wastewater reuse at Kordsa Global Turkey Among Kordsa Global priorities All our plants act in compliance with For the first time in 2014 we calculated safe and reliable water resources. the manufacturing processes at Kordsa plants. These are the common targets of are emissions management, legal limits and regulations in the our greenhouse gas emissions approved Global plants and auxiliary operations. the entire workforce of Kordsa Global in countries they operate and do not create by the Ministry in line with the GHG The World Economic Forum (WEF) Water quality, accessibility, and all departments across all locations. In reduction of emissions, and a significant negative impact. In our SHE Regulations and our direct CO2 emissions lists water scarcity among its 10 preservation of usable water resources water management, the responsibility for compliance with current laws Commitment, we explain our emissionwere 30,553 tons. At Kordsa Global, we Global Challenges. are essential for the sustainability of compliance and inspection lies with the and reporting. Our goal is to act in related targets under the heading of aim to continue emissions management, our work, and costs. At Kordsa Global Operations Director. Projects on water compliance with regulations on Goal of Zero Waste and Emissions: “We monitoring and measurements, and we monitor how water is used at nine management and improvement efforts greenhouse gas emissions chiefly will drive toward zero emissions, giving to make systematic improvements for plants across five different locations, pay are the responsibility of all departments. priority to those that may present the emission reduction. efforts for a more efficient use of water, We ensure the efficiency of the water in Turkey and other countries, and greatest potential risk to health or the and encourage industrial reuse of treated management system through ISO 14001 file the necessary reports. environment.” This is the common target water. Environmental Management System of the entire workforce of Kordsa Global audits by internal and external bodies. in all departments across all locations. 73% of our We invest in reducing water employees consumption, and increasing the share of 64% of our KORDSA GLOBAL CDP SUPPLY CHAIN who responded to the sustainability assessment questionnaire think that: WASTEWATER RECOVERY PROJECT employees REPORTING who responded to the sustainability We decided to reduce water used at Kordsa Global Turkey plants, and to gradually assessment questionnaire Pirelli, an important customer of ours, is a member of the CDP Carbon Disclosure Project Kordsa Global’s efforts to manage and increase the amount of wastewater recovered at plants, which currently remains think that: Supply Chain Program carried out on behalf of 66 member companies – buyers – who at 150,000 m3 annually as a part of our water efficiency targets. Directorate of represent USD 1.3 trillion purchasing spend. efficienty use water resources are Maintenance and Energy, and the SHE Department started the project in 2014 to be adequate. Kordsa Global’s projects to reduce completed in three years. Within the scope of the project, advanced treatment and CDP members ask their suppliers around the world to respond to the CDP Supply Chain reverse osmosis systems have been set up in the plant. emissions and other reduction Program questionnaire, and we – Kordsa Global – were one of the 3,396 companies measures in line with its aim to who received a request. The various responses suppliers give to the CDP questionnaire Our target is a 25% increase in wastewater recovery with the investment to be made in manufacture with an environmental demonstrate the risks and opportunities climate change creates for major buyers at the 2015 in the first stage. We plan to continue investing in advanced treatment and reverse top of the supply chain. osmosis systems in 2016. sensitivity are adequate. Kordsa Global Turkey As Kordsa Global we scored 69 points out of 100 with our responses to the questionnaire. This score, which attests to the quality of information, is 16 points above the average CDP Supply Chain score. Breakdown according to categories can be found in the table below. Going forward, we wish to continue feeding data to international initiatives like CDP on an on-demand basis, and support the global efforts for to diminish environmental impact. Governance and Strategy Risk and Opportunity Emissions Management Verification Management 5.83 5.84 78 69 52 44 78 60 45 35 2013 2014 Kordsa Global Supply Chain Kordsa Global Supply Chain Kordsa Global Supply Chain Kordsa Global Supply Chain Water Consumption (m3/ton product) Category Point Average Category Point Average Category Point Average Category Point Average 68 I Kordsa Global Sustainability Report 2014 Kordsa Global Sustainability Report 2014 I 69 ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Economic Value Generated and Distributed Unit 2013 2014 GRI Economic Value Generated (Revenues) TRY 1,000 1,626,458 1,811,782 EC1 Economic Value Distributed to Stakeholders Operating expenses TRY 1,000 1,354,901 1,479,798 EC1 Employee wages and benefits TRY 1,000 218,452 221,590 EC1 Payments to government TRY 1,000 14,406 10,671 EC1 Payments to capital providers* TRY 1,000 0 0 EC1 Community investments** TRY 1,000 59 5,150 EC1 Retained economic value (profit) TRY 1,000 38,640 94,573 EC1 Financial Subsidies Received from Unit 2013 2014 GRI Government Turquality TRY 1,000 1,795 1,693 EC4 PERFORMANCE Tax relief/credits*** TRY 1,000 0 24,073 EC4 Incentives TRY 1,000 20,645 25,326 EC4 * About 2014 Dividends: The 2014 Ordinary General Assembly of March 24, 2015 has resolved to pay a total of TRY 67,501,589.37 in INDICATORS dividends to shareholders who represent TRY 194,529,076.00 in capital, that is 34.70% gross or 33.4769% net depending on the legal status of shareholders for the year 2014, and that the payment be made in cash as of May 29, 2015. Due to the global economic context of 2013, dividends had not been paid to further strengthen the company’s financial flexibility. ** Kordsa Global fulfills its social responsibility duties through donations and support to social foundations, associations, training and education institutions, universities, and other persons, institutions or organizations in line with its articles of association, company policies and procedures, principally the Code of Business Ethics, as well as the Capital Markets Legislation, Turkish Commercial Code and other relevant legislation. *** With the R&D discount transferred from 2013, two incentives were utilized including TRY 23,152,316.25 and 921,146.73 investment incentives in 2014. Ratio of Base Salary of Male Employees to Female Employees Employee Category Women’s base salary/Men’s base salary GRI ELT -2%* Director 43%** Manager 3% LA13 * A negative ratio indicates lower income. Engineer & Specialist 1% Supervisor & Shift Supervisor 56%** ** Ratios may differ depending on Operator & Technician (Blue-collar) 13% seniority. Kordsa Global Sustainability Report 2014 I 71 SOCIAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS WORKFORCE By Gender Unit 2013 2014 GRI By Type of Employment Unit 2013 2014 GRI People 3,328 3,336 Men White-collar Women People 211 206 Ratio 88.77% 88.98% LA12 White-collar Men People 573 529 People 421 413 Women Blue-collar Women People 210 207 Ratio 11.23% 11.02% Blue-collar Men People 2,755 2,807 G4-10 By Other Groups Unit 2013 2014 GRI Kordsa Global Total People 3,749 3,749 Women 0 1 Subcontractor Women People 6 10 Ratio 0.00% 0.03% Subcontractor Men People 281 289 Expats Men 15 15 TOTAL People 4,036 4,048 Ratio 0.41% 0.41% LA12 By Type of Contract Unit 2013 2014 GRI Women 1 2 Fixed Term Contract People 199 353 G4-10 Ratio 0.03% 0.05% Persons with disabilities Indefinite Contract People 3,550 3,396 Men 30 32 By Location Unit 2013 2014 GRI Ratio 0.80% 0.85% Turkey Women People 79 87 By Management Category Unit 2013 2014 GRI Turkey Men People 979 1,034 Ratio 1 2 IndonesiaWomen People 67 66 Men 0.03% 0.05% Indonesia Men People 928 1,086 Executives (ELT) Ratio 5 5 Thailand Women People 115 111 Women 0.13% 0.13% Thailand Men People 260 262 Ratio 3 4 Egypt Women People 1 4 G4-10 Men 0.08% 0.11% Egypt Men People 287 244 Director BrazilWomen People 31 33 Ratio 22 20 Brazil Men People 364 365 Women 0.59% 0.53% USA Women People 93 90 Ratio 20 24 USA Men People 288 276 Men 0.53% 0.64% Manager Germany Women People 20 19 Ratio 83 78 Germany Men People 78 68 Women 2.21% 2.08% LA12 China Women People 4 3 Ratio 91 94 China Men People 2 1 Men 2.43% 2.51% Engineer & Specialist Argentina Women People 11 0 Ratio 214 216 Argentina Men People 142 0 Women 5.71% 5.76% By Age Unit 2013 2014 GRI Ratio 4 4 Women 54 51 Men 0.11% 0.11% Supervisor & Technician Ratio 1.44% 1.36% Ratio 125 113 30 years and below Men 593 840 Oran 3.33% 3.01% Ratio 15.82% 22.41% Kadın 92 79 Women 364 263 Oran 2.45% 2.11% LA12 Officer (White-collar) Ratio %9.71 7.02% Erkek 110 114 30 50 years Men 2.087 2.043 Oran 2.93% 3.04% Ratio 55.67% 54.49% Kadın 206 198 Women 103 73 Oran 5.49% 5.28% Operator Ratio 2.75% 1.95 % Erkek 2,773 2,798 50 years and above Men 548 479 Oran 73.97% 74.63% Ratio 14.62% 12.78% 72 I Kordsa Global Sustainability Report 2014 Kordsa Global Sustainability Report 2014 I 73 SOCIAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS WORKFORCE By Gender Unit 2013 2014 GRI Recruitment and Turnover Unit 2013 2014 GRI Men-New hires People 348 487 (All of Kordsa Global) Men-Dismissals People 553 375 LA12 New hires Women People 29 45 Dismissals Women People 66 44 Women-New hires People 29 45 New hires Men People 348 487 LA1 Women-Dismissals People 66 44 Dismissals Men People 553 375 TOTAL – Dismissals People 619 419 MANAGEMENT STRUCTURE TOTAL – New hires People 377 532 5.6% 3.4% Board of Directors and ELT Unit 2013 2014 GRI TOTAL Turnover Ratio By Location Unit 2013 2014 GRI Women Ratio 0.03% 0.05% Turkey New hires People 87 231 30 years and below Ratio 0.00% 0.00% Turkey Dismissals People 318 226 30 50 years Ratio 0.08% 0.11% LA12 Turkey Turnover Ratio 5.8% 8.4% 50 years and above Ratio 0.08% 0.08% IndonesiaNew hires People 104 223 Expats Ratio 0.00% 0.00% Indonesia Dismissals People 87 65 IndonesiaTurnover Ratio 2.7% 4.0% Persons with disabilities Ratio 0.00% 0.00% Thailand New hires People 42 7 Thailand Dismissals People 36 17 TRAINING AND EDUCATION INVESTMENTS Thailand Turnover Ratio 10.5% 9.7% LA1 By Employee Category Unit 2013 2014 GRI Egypt New hires People 46 35 Egypt Dismissals People 45 24 Executives (ELT) Man/Hour 3.0 6.0 Egypt Turnover Ratio 10.7% 13.8% Director Man/Hour 89.5 117.1 Brazil New hires People 52 9 Manager Man/Hour 149.3 67.9 LA9 Brazil Dismissals People 86 26 Engineer & Specialist & Officer BrazilTurnover Ratio 2.5% 2.8% Man/Hour 230.6 173.2 (White-collar) USA New hires People 40 21 Supervisor & Technician Man/Hour 145.9 186.5 USA Dismissals People 38 41 Operator Man/Hour 227.2 257.3 USA Turnover Ratio 3.4 4.0 Germany New hires People 6 6 By Gender Unit 2013 2014 GRI Germany Dismissals People 8 18 Men Man/Hour 239.9 255.5 LA9 Germany Turnover Ratio 4.0% 3.3% Women Man/Hour 98.7 104.4 China Sales Office New hires People 0 0 China Sales Office Dismissals People 1 2 China Sales Office Turnover Ratio 13.2% 16.7% By Age Unit 2013 2014 GRI 30 years and below-New hires People 233 403 30 years and below-Dismissals People 238 178 30 50 years-New hires People 119 104 LA1 30 50 years-Dismissals People 245 177 50 years and above-New hires People 25 25 50 years and above-Dismissals People 136 64 74 I Kordsa Global Sustainability Report 2014 Kordsa Global Sustainability Report 2014 I 75 Turkey Egypt HEALTH AND SAFETY Indonesia Brazil HEALTH AND SAFETY Women Men Women Men Women Men Women Men Unit 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 GRI Unit 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 GRI Kordsa 0 0 0.83 0.91 0 0 1.12 0 Kordsa 0 0 0.57 0.30 0 0 0.24 0.46 Injury rate Ratio Sub contractor 0 0 2.65 2.23 0 0 1.92 0 Injury rate Ratio 0 0 0.00 0.15 0 0 0.00 0.82 Accidents Sub contractor Kordsa None None 4 LTIs 4 LTIs None None 2 LTIs None Accidents Injury type Numbers Sub contractor None None 5 MTIs 4 MTIs None None 1 LTI None None None 3 LTIs 3 LTIs None None 1 LTI 1 LTI 1 Kordsa Injury type Number RWI Lost days as a Kordsa 0 0 3.11 20.84 0 0 16.33 0 LA6 LA6 consequence of Ratio Sub contractor None None 1 MTI 1 LTI None None None 1 LTI occupational accidents Sub contractor 0 0 7.96 19.05 0 0 38.93 0 Lost days as a Kordsa 0 0 None 3.81 0 0 0.00 2.52 Lost Days Lost days as a Kordsa N/A N/A 3.1% 2.2% N/A N/A 4.1% 3.3% consequence Ratio 0 0 4.87 2.20 0 0 0.00 49.18 consequence of of occupational Sub contractor Ratio diseases, etc. Sub contractor N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A accidents (absentee rate) Lost days Lost days as a Kordsa N/A N/A 0.00 1.9% N/A N/A 1.3% 1.0% Unit USA – Chattanooga USALaurel Hill GRI consequence Ratio N/A 1.4% N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A of diseases, etc. Sub contractor Kordsa 0 0 0.45 1.26 0 0.00 0.00 0.80 (absentee rate) Injury rate Ratio Sub contractor 0 0 0.00 0.00 0 0.00 6.61 9.14 Accidents Kordsa None None 1 MTI 3 LTIs None None None 1 MTI Injury type Number Lost Time Injury (LTI) Sub contractor None None None None None None 1 MTI 1 LTI When the worker cannot return to work the first workday following an occupational accident resulting in injury this is classified as LTI. Lost days as a Kordsa 0 0 0.00 10.08 0 0.00 0.00 0.00 consequence of Ratio LA6 occupational accidents Sub contractor 0 0 0.00 0.00 0 0.00 0.00 45.68 Medically Treated Injury (MTI) Lost Days When an accident occurs that require medical treatment and the injured person can return to work the first workday following injury this is Lost days as a Kordsa N/A N/A 1.5% 1.7% N/A N/A 1.4% 3.9% consequence of classified as MTI. Ratio diseases, etc. Sub contractor N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A (absentee rate) Restricted Work Incident (RWI) Unit Germany Thailand GRI When the injured can return to work the first workday after injury, but is asked to work on another task, as he cannot perform his/her regular task due to his/her status this is classified as a RWI. Kordsa 0 0 3.66 3.83 0 0 0.77 0.73 Injury rate Ratio Sub contractor 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Other Causes Accidents Kordsa 3 KİO 1 KİO Includes lactation and maternity leaves, sickness reports, occupational accidents and unpaid leaves. None None 1 KİO 3 KİO None None Number 1 TMO 2 TMO Injury type Sub contractor None None None None None None None None N/A: Data not available LA6 Lost days as a Kordsa 0 0 25.55 21.72 0 0 33.14 7.3 consequence of Ratio occupational accidents Sub contractor 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Lost Days Lost days as a Kordsa N/A N/A %8.40 %8.30 N/A N/A %1.00 %1.00 consequence of Sub contractor Ratio diseases, etc. N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A (absentee rate) 76 I Kordsa Global Sustainability Report 2014 Kordsa Global Sustainability Report 2014 I 77 ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMACE INDICATORS MATERIALS Turkey WATER MANAGEMENT Primary Raw Materials Unit 2013 2014 GRI Total Water Withdrawal and Discharge by Source Turkey Adipic Acid Ton N/A 14,317 EN1 Source: Ground Unit 2013 2014 GRI HMD Ton N/A 13,943 EN1 Water m3/year 525,000 488,204 EN8 Chips Ton 25,376 28,262 EN1 Source: Municipal Water Supply (In cases of 2013 2014 GRI Unit Formaldehyde Ton 213 227 EN1 emergency) Resorcinol Ton 168 160 EN1 Water m3/year 25,000 82,246 EN8 Ammonia Ton 273 310 EN1 Total Water Withdrawal Unit 2013 2014 GRI Latex Ton 3,783 3,957 EN1 Water m3/year 550,000 570,350 EN8 Renewable Raw Materials and Auxiliary Materials Unit 2013 2014 GRI Recycled Water Unit 2013 2014 GRI Wooden pallets Ton 1,027 897 EN2 Water m3/year 143,275 166,440 EN10 Stretch wraps Nylon Ton 177 270 EN2 Total Wastewater Discharge Unit 2013 2014 GRI Paper reels Ton 2,712 2.037 EN2 Wastewater m3/year 190,500 200,580 EN22 Cardboard boxes Ton 670 620 EN2 Estimated amount of paper reels reused* Ton 1,517 697 EN2 EMISSIONS MANAGEMENT Greenhouse Gas Emissions Turkey * Reels not suitable for use in yarn plants are first sent to fabric plants and then to recycling plants. In compliance with GHG Regulations and approved Unit 2013 2014 GRI by the Ministry N/A: Data not available Direct CO2 Emissions t CO2 N/A 30,533 EN15 Significant Air Emissions Turkey By type Unit 2013 2014 GRI DIRECT ENERGY CONSUMPTION Turkey NOx kg 9.73 3.03 EN21 Non-renewable Direct Energy Sources Unit 2013 2014 GRI SOx kg 0.22 0.62 EN21 TEP 13,128,691 14,715,821 EN3 POP kg 0 0 EN21 Natural Gas GJ 549,672 616,122 EN3 VOC kg 0.32 0.90 EN21 INDIRECT ENERGY CONSUMPTION Turkey HAP kg 0 0 EN21 Secondary Energy Purchased or Consumed from PM kg 0 0 EN21 Unit 2013 2014 GRI Non-renewable Energy Sources kWh 160,584,000 169,119,000 EN3 N/A: Data not available Electricity TEP 13,808 14,541,616 EN3 GJ 578,102 608,828 EN3 kWh 33,582,000 31,264,000 EN3 TEP 2,888 2,688 EN3 Steam GJ 120,895 112,550 EN3 78 I Kordsa Global Sustainability Report 2014 Kordsa Global Sustainability Report 2014 I 79 WASTE MANAGEMENT Waste by Method of Disposal Turkey Total Waste by Type and Method of Disposal Turkey Recycling Unit 2013 2014 GRI Waste by Type Unit 2013 2014 GRI Scrap Coils Ton 1,195.00 1,340.00 EN23 Hazardous Waste Scrap Cardboards Ton 388.10 370.00 EN23 Waste Accumulator Ton 1.98 18.62 EN23 Scrap Nylon Ton 125.00 126.00 EN23 Sludge Ton 798.59 964.12 EN23 Scrap Wooden Pallets Ton 761.58 872.60 EN23 Waste Fluorescent Ton 2.13 0.96 EN23 Scrap Iron Ton 202.16 225.79 EN23 Waste Grease Ton 1.28 1.00 EN23 Scrap Aluminum Ton 6.00 2.22 EN23 Waste Cables Ton 6.32 0.00 EN23 Scrap Plastic Ton 16.00 22.00 EN23 Waste Carbonized Polymer Ton 10.54 7.40 EN23 Scrap Flakes Ton 15.00 28.00 EN23 Waste Toner Cartridges Ton 0.77 0.12 EN23 Recovery Waste Capacitors Ton 0.22 0.00 EN23 Waste Accumulators Ton 1.98 18.62 EN23 Waste Lab. Chemicals Ton 1.23 0.85 EN23 Sludge Ton 798.59 964.12 EN23 Waste Mono-ethylene Glycol Ton 4.03 22.90 EN23 Waste Oil Ton 4.74 11.80 EN23 Waste Batteries Ton 0.15 0.15 EN23 Waste Grease Oil Ton 1.28 1.00 EN23 Waste Oil Ton 4.74 11.80 EN23 Waste Cables Ton 6.32 0.00 EN23 Electronic Waste Ton 24.45 15.90 EN23 Carbonized Polymer Waste Ton 10.54 7.40 EN23 Adipic Acid Waste Ton 1.59 2.80 EN23 Waste Toner Cartridges Ton 0.77 0.12 EN23 Contaminated Packaging Ton 84.10 106.97 EN23 Waste Capacitors Ton 0.22 0.00 EN23 Contaminated Waste Ton 63.33 86.73 EN23 Mono-ethylene Glycol Waste Ton 4.03 22.90 EN23 Waste Batteries Ton 0.15 0.15 EN23 Total Ton 1,005 1,240 EN23 Electronic Waste Ton 24.45 15.90 EN23 Non-Hazardous Waste Adipic Acid Waste Ton 0.88 2.80 EN23 Scrap Coils Ton 1,195.00 1,340.00 EN23 Contaminated Packaging Ton 80.00 106.90 EN23 Scrap Cardboards Ton 388.10 370.00 EN23 Contaminated Waste Ton 12.40 86.00 EN23 Scrap Nylon Ton 125.00 126.00 EN23 Landfill Scrap Wooden Pallets Ton 761.58 872.60 EN23 Waste Fluorescent Ton 2.10 0.90 EN23 Scrap Iron Ton 202.16 225.79 EN23 Waste Incineration Scrap Aluminum Ton 6.00 2.22 EN23 Waste Styrofoam Ton 15.00 0.00 EN23 Scrap Plastic Ton 16.00 22.00 EN23 Waste Lab. Chemicals Ton 1.23 0.85 EN23 Scrap Flakes Ton 15.00 28.00 EN23 Adipic Acid Waste Ton 0.70 0.00 EN23 Waste Styrofoam Ton 15.00 21.00 EN23 Contaminated Packaging Ton 2.50 1.98 EN23 Total Ton 2,724 3,008 EN23 Contaminated Waste Ton 50.90 33.60 EN23 Total Waste Disposed Ton 3,729 4,248 EN23 Total Waste Ton 3,729 4,248 EN23 80 I Kordsa Global Sustainability Report 2014 Kordsa Global Sustainability Report 2014 I 81 ANNEXES Awards Reduction on Energy Dipping NY TR 2011 2012 2013 2014 Award Economic Awarding Body Year NG (kwh/ton product) 100 86 71 74 Consumption Other (Steam&Electricity) 100 104 98 87 Textile and Textile Raw Material Exporters Category – 3rd Prize Turkish Exporters Assembly (TIM) & Istanbul Textile 2014 and Apparel Exporter Associations (ITKIB) Amounts of energy reduced thanks Champion of Textile Innovation League Uludag Textile Exporters Association 2014 Dipping PE TR 2011 2012 2013 2014 to savings and efficiency initiatives R&D Centers Performance Evaluation – 2nd Prize in all Industries; Ministry of Science, Industry and Technology 2014 NG (kwh/ton product) 100 99 92 90 1st Prize in Textile Industry broken down into manufacturing Other (Steam&Electricity) 100 120 111 88 Most Admired Companies Award Most Admired Company in Capital Journal 2013 & processes and plants can be found Textile Industry 2014 in the table below with 2011 as the Dipping LH USA 2011 2012 2013 2014 Supplier Appreciation Award Bridgestone Indonesia 2014 base year. NG (kwh/ton product) 100 100 98 90 Textile and Textile Raw Material Exporters Category – Platinum Istanbul Textile and Apparel Exporter Associations 2013 Award (ITKIB) Other (Steam&Electricity) 100 93 99 92 Supplier of the Year Award Michelin 2013 Innovation Category – Special Mention (to Erhan Kop, Murat GökSabancı Holding / Golden Collar Awards 2013 Dipping CA BR 2011 2012 2013 2014 ten) NG (kwh/ton product) 100 93 96 93 Innovation Category Special Mention (to Berk Giray) Sabancı Holding / Golden Collar Awards 2013 Other (Steam&Electricity) 100 93 99 92 Efficiency Category Special Mention Sabancı Holding / Golden Collar Awards 2013 Environmental Dipping IndoK IN 2011 2012 2013 2014 Şahabettin Bilgisu Environmental Award Kocaeli Chamber of Industry 2014 NG (kwh/ton product) 100 91 85 88 Environmental Awards Kocaeli Chamber of Industry 2013 Other (Steam&Electricity) 100 102 95 92 Environmental Awards – 1st Prize (Capmax) Istanbul Chamber of Industry 2013 Environmental Awards – 2nd Prize (Twixtra) Istanbul Chamber of Industry 2013 Dipping TIK THAI 2011 2012 2013 2014 Environmental Awards – 2nd Prize (Cavitation Project) Istanbul Chamber of Industry 2013 NG (kwh/ton product) 100 118 73 80 Social Other (Steam&Electricity) 100 157 97 88 HR Management Award Peryön (Society for Human Resource Management) 2014 ETIKA The Most Ethical Companies of Turkey Award EDMER Istanbul 2013 NY Yarn TR 2011 2012 2013 2014 -2014 Energy (kwh/ton product) 100 92 84 98 Sensitivity Towards Women’s Employment Işkur (Turkish Employment Agency) & Izmit Munici2014 pality NY Yarn CH USA 2011 2012 2013 2014 The Best Employee Indonesia Manpower Bogor 2014 Energy (kwh/ton product) 100 93 78 86 The Best LKS Bipartite in Bogor Regency Indonesia Manpower Bogor 2014 Contribution to Labor Force Training and Employment Ministry of Labor and Social Security 2013 PES Yarn TR 2011 2012 2013 2014 Quality Circles Award KalDer (Turkish Society for Quality) 2013 Energy (kwh/ton product) 100 92 83 79 Talent Management Category Finalist Peryön (Society for Human Resource Management) 2013 Practices that make a Difference / Project Category: Recognition Peryön (Society for Human Resource Management) 2013 and Rewarding Finalist PES Yarn CA BR 2011 2012 2013 2014 Training and Development Management Category – Achievement Peryön (Society for Human Resource Management) 2013 Energy (kwh/ton product) 100 82 83 82 Award Equality at Work – 2nd Prize Sabancı Holding / Golden Collar Awards 2013 PES Yarn IndoK IN 2011 2012 2013 2014 Excellent Establishment on Labor Relations and Welfare Thailand Ministry of Labor 2013 Energy (kwh/ton product) 100 105 98 93 SHE Award-Golden Flag for Health & Safety Management at Work Indonesia Ministry of Labor 2013 82 I Kordsa Global Sustainability Report 2014 Kordsa Global Sustainability Report 2014 I 83 Human Rights Labor Standards Memberships UN Global Compact Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective TURKEY INDONESIA Principles internationally proclaimed human rights; and recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Kordsa Global is a Global Compact Principle 2: Make sure that they are not Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of ACC Legal Consultants Association APINDO (Asosiasi Pengusaha Indonesia) complicit in human rights abuses. forced and compulsory labor; The Employers’ Association of Indonesia member. UN Global Compact is an DEİK Foreign Economic Relations Board innovative corporate responsibility Principle 5: The effective abolition of child EFQM European Foundation for Quality Management HIPERKIBRA Neigborhood Corporate Association labor; and initiative that lays down universal IMA Institute of Management Accountants Indonesian Public Listed Companies Association principles to establish a common Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination İSMMMO Istanbul Chamber of Certified Public culture of development for businesses in respect of employment and occupation. Accountants THAILAND in constant competition. Being party to Thai Authorized Economic Operator (AEO) Importer & Global Compact is voluntary. Its vision KALDER Quality Association Exporter Association is “Sustainable and inclusive global LES Turkey Technology and License Executives Society The Federation of Thai Industries (FTI) economy.” Environment Anti-corruption PERYÖN Personnel Management Association of Turkey Principle 10: Businesses should work The Thai National Shippers’ Council (TNSC) Principle 7: Businesses should support a TBCSD İş Dünyası ve Sürdürülebilir Kalkınma Derneği While enhancing their economic gains in precautionary approach to environmental against corruption in all its forms, including Department of Foreign Trade, Ministry of Commerce (DFT) the medium term, companies who are challenges; extortion and bribery. LES Türkiye Teknoloji ve Lisans Yöneticileri Derneği Ayutthaya Personnel Management Group parties to the UN Global Compact enjoy TBCSD Turkish Business Council of Sustainable Principle 8: Undertake initiatives the prestige and pride that comes from to promote greater environmental Development BRAZIL fulfilling their social responsibilities in responsibility; and TİDE The Institute of Internal Auditors the most mindful and useful way in the COFIC Industrial Foment Committee of Camaçari Principle 9: Encourage the development TKYD Corporate Governance Association of Turkey shorter term. and diffusion of environmentally friendly FIEB/CIEB TÜBİYAD Finance and IT Executives Association technologies. ABRAFAS Brazilian Association of Producers of İTHİB Turkish Textile Employer’s Associations Artificial and Synthetic Fibers TÜRMOB Turkish Chamber of Certified Public American Chamber of Commerce IFC Performance Standards on Environmental and Social Sustainability Accountants Bahia’s Spinning and Weaving industries Union These are performance standards TUSİAD Turkish Industry & Businessmen Association prepared by the International IFC IFC Performance Standard Relevant Section in our Report Pages İTKİB The General Secretariat of Istanbul Textile & USA Finance Corporation (IFC) to manage Our Environmental Performance Apparel Exporter’s Associations environmental and social risks and LBG Scotland County COC PS 1 Assessment and Management of impacts of any project from the Environmental and Social Risks and Emissions 64, 69 GERMANY International Society of Industrial Fabric Manufacturers investment phase to the launch of Impacts AFMA American Fibers Manufacturers Association operations via an Environmental and Firmenausbildungs-verbund Nord-West-Thüringen E.V. PS 3 Resource Efficiency and Pollution Energy Management 65 ISIFM – International Society of Industrial Fabric Social Management System. Prevention Ordat Benutzergruppe E.V. Waste Management 66-67 Manufacturers Chamber of Commerce Our IFC Standards Compatibility Index PS 6 Biodiversity Conservation and Turkish American Coalition Sustainable Management of Living Water Management 68 BVMW regarding the strategic issues discussed Natural Resources in detail in our report can be found in the Our Social Performance EGYPT table below: PS 2 Labor and Working Conditions Arab Federation of Tire & Rubber Industries Occupational Health and Safety 59-61 PS 4 Community Health, Safety, and Egyptian Chamber of Textile Industrial Security Egyptian Chamber of Commerce For Sharkia PS 5 Land Acquisition and Involuntary Governorate Resettlement As our plants are established and operating in industrial zones, these impacts are not Textile Export Council PS 7 Indigenous Peoples among our priority issues. PS 8 Cultural Heritage 84 I Kordsa Global Sustainability Report 2014 Kordsa Global Sustainability Report 2014 I 85 GRI G4 Content Index STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT G4-24 Page 25 G4-25 Pages 25 G4-26 Pages 25, 26, 27 G4-27 Pages 27, 28, 30 REPORT PROFILE GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES G4-28 Page 1 STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS G4-29 Page 1 Pages 4, 5 G4-30 Page 1 G4-1 ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE G4-31 Page 88 Page 88 G4-32 Page 1 G4-3 G4-33 Not externally assured. G4-4 Pages 16, 17, 18 GOVERNANCE G4-5 Page 88 G4-34 Page 35 G4-6 Page 12 ETHICS AND INTEGRITY G4-7 Incorporation G4-56 Page 36 G4-8 Pages 16, 17, 18 G4-9 Pages 14, 15 SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES G4-10 Page 72 MATERIAL ASPECTS DMA AND INDICATORS EXCLUSION G4-11 Page 55 Economic Performance Pages 33, 42, 71 None G4-12 Page 43 Materials Pages 33, 48-51 and 78 None G4-13 Pages 20, 21 Energy Pages 33, 65, 78, 82 None Effluents and Waste Pages 33, 66-67, 79-81 None G4-14 Pages 18, 19 Water Pages 33, 68, 79 None G4-15 Pages 4, 85 Emissions Pages 33, 69, 79 None G4-16 Page 84 Employment Pages 33,54-58, 72-75 None IDENTIFIED MATERIAL ASPECTS AND BOUNDARIES Training and Education Pages 33,57-58, 75 None G4-17 Pages 2, 88 Occupational Health and Safety Pages 33,59-61, 76-77 None G4-18 Pages 24, 25, 26, 31 Equal Remuneration for Women and Men Pages 33, 54-56, 71 None G4-19 Pages 24, 31 Diversity and Equal Opportunity Pages 33,55, 73-75 None Non-Discrimination Pages 33, 56 None G4-20 Page 32 Compliance Pages 33, 37 None G4-21 Page 32 Anti-Competitive Behavior Pages 33, 39 None G4-22 This is the first report. Anti-Corruption Pages 33, 38 None G4-23 This is the first report. Customer Privacy Pages 33, 29 None 86 I Kordsa Global Sustainability Report 2014 Kordsa Global Sustainability Report 2014 I 87 CONTACTS HEAD OFFICE EUROPE, MIDDLE EAST and AFRICA NORTH AMERICA Sabancı Center Kule 2, Kat: 17 34330 Turkey USA 4.Levent Beşiktaş Istanbul Kordsa Global Endüstriyel İplik ve Kord Bezi Chattanooga Kordsa Inc. Tel : +90 212 385 86 57 Sanayi ve Ticaret A.Ş. (G4-17) 4501 North Access Road Chattanooga, Faks : +90 212 282 00 12 Alikahya Fatih Mahallesi Sanayi Caddesi TN 37415-9990 No:90 41310 Izmit/Kocaeli Tel: + 1 423 643 8300 Tel: +90 262 316 70 00 Fax: + 1 423 643 2726 Fax: +90 262 316 70 70 USA Germany Laurel Hill Kordsa Inc. Interkordsa GmbH Am Alten Bahndamn 7, 17780 Armstrong Road Laurel Hill, NC 28351 99974 Mühlhausen Tel: + 1 910 462 2051 Tel: +49 3601 884 0 Fax: + 1 910 462 5040 Fax: +49 3601 884 123 Egypt SOUTH AMERICA Nile Kordsa for Industrial Fabrics Industrial Area B1 10th of Ramadan City P.O. Box 549 Brazil Tel: +20 15 364 592 Kordsa Brazil S.A. Fax: +20 15 367 081 Rua Eteno, No 3832 Polo Industrial de Camaçari Camacari, Bahia/Brazil GSM: 42810-000 Tel: + 55 71 2104-4500 Contact Information for the Report: ASIA PACIFIC Fax: + 55 71 2104-4701 Yusuf Akkor, Global HSE and Indonesia Sustainability Manager PT Indo Kordsa Tbk PT Indo Kordsa Polyester yusuf.akkor@kordsaglobal.com Jl. Pahlawan, Desa Karang Asem Timur, Nevra Aydoğan, Corporate Citeureup, Bogor 16810 Communications Specialist Tel: +62 21 875 21 15 nevra.aydogan@kordsaglobal.com Fax: +62 21 875 39 27 Sustainability and Reporting Consultant Thailand SERCOM Consulting Thai Indo Kordsa Co. Ltd. Elif Özkul Gökmen Rojana Industrial Park, 1/61 Moo 5 Khanham elif@sercomconsulting.com Subdistrict, Uthai District Ayutthaya 13210 DISCLAIMER Tel: +90 533 648 07 40 Tel: +66 35 330 221 to 9 The information and analyses contained in the KORDSA GLOBAL Fax: +66 35 330 230 sustainability report (hereinafter “report”) have been compiled from resources and information deemed as accurate and reliable within Design and Implementation the timeframe the report was prepared for informative purposes China only, and not to be used as a basis for any investment decision. Ünite Communications Sales and Marketing Office Room 1103 A Pacheer Commercial Center The company, its managers, employees, and other persons and organizations who contributed to the drafting of this report cannot 555 Nanjing West Road, 200041 Shanghai be held responsible for the damages that may arise from the use of Tel: + 86 021 62555910 the information contained herein. Our report is digitally produced and is not printed. Fax: + 86 021 62555911 All rights of this report belong to KORDSA GLOBAL.
