Sustainable Development Report 2014 Paper | Packaging | Solutions Smurfit Kappa | Sustainable Development Report 2014 Sustainability in every fibre In this report As one of the world’s largest paper-based Our approach to a sustainable business.................................................................. 3 packaging businesses, Smurfit Kappa maintains Our priorities and performance......................... 29 a relentless commitment to sustainable Supporting data............................................................................. 65 Supplementary information.................................... 77 business that underlies everything we do. We use sustainability as a lens through But current technology means paper cannot which to focus our innovation, our strategy be recycled indefinitely; new wood fibre must and our processes. The transparency be introduced into the system creating an and detail we offer our stakeholders is impact for which we must take responsibility. industry-leading. True closed-loop thinking starts in the For many years, our distinctive focus has forest, which is why we are unique among been on designing for a circular economy our peers in committing to 100% sustainably – a truly closed-loop system in which the sourced new fibre from forests where productivity of the resources we use is biodiversity and human rights are assured maximised and the CO2 emissions generated to the highest globally recognised standards. through our products are minimised. Our customers have unrivalled visibility Simultaneously, we endeavour to promote of the impact of the products they buy from sustainable use of renewable raw materials, us, helping them in turn to realise their own to reduce the use of and replace nonsustainability strategies and better manage renewable raw materials with renewable their impact . ones where we can and ultimately to reuse This is how we do business. It is what drives resources we take out. our success, our competitive energy, our Our innovative, right-weighted, recyclable hunger for fresh challenges. Every day, we packaging delivers real savings in cost prove how our way of working contributes and carbon for our customers and for to a better world and a brighter future. consumers. It is an approach that has That is why we are proud to say that running delivered consistent business growth and through our people, our processes and long-term partnerships with some of the our products, we have sustainability in world’s most respected brands. every fibre. From the production line through to the consumer, packaging can make a difference: through new ideas, it has the potential to shape the way you do business. For more information visit: openthefuture.info Smurfit Kappa at a glance 1 Smurfit Kappa at a glance As a global company, our operations create value for our customers, employees, investors, suppliers and the communities in which we operate. Added value +3% -1.2% CO2 reduction* Paper mills Customers Employees 38 42,000 people employed worldwide Packaging plants 60% Suppliers 235 300 strategic and important suppliers of customers in the FMCG segments worldwide Other converting Investors Local and national governments €125m plants 33 income and other taxes 42% Forests 104,000 Recovered paper facilities 46 Dividends €107m of €252m net profit were paid this fiscal year hectares forest plantation * Relative 2 Smurfit Kappa | Sustainable Development Report 2014 Mustafa Temiz (left) and Tolga Tuzun from Smurfit Kappa Zedek, the Netherlands Our approach to a sustainable business 3 Our approach to a sustainable business What is in this section A letter from our Group Chief Executive Officer ................................................... 4 Our year in highlights ...................................................................................................................................................................................................... 8 Our distinctive sustainable business model ................................................................... 10 Creating shared value ........................................................................................................................................................................................... 12 Customers ..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 14 Suppliers ................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 16 Our Group operations ........................................................................................................................................................................................ 18 Stakeholder engagement ................................................................................................................................................................... 20 Corporate governance and business ethics ................................................................. 24 4 Smurfit Kappa | Sustainable Development Report 2014 Our approach to business A letter from our Group Chief Executive Officer Sustainability for long-term corporate success I am pleased to introduce Smurfit Kappa’s eighth annual Sustainable Development Report. Throughout 2014, Smurfit Kappa After achieving our previous target of continued to meet, and at times exceed, reducing relative CO2 emissions by 20% the sustainable development goals we as compared to 2005, we have since increased a company set ourselves. This report will our level of ambition, committing to reduce highlight a number of these examples, and Smurfit Kappa’s relative CO2 emissions outline where we have progress to make by 25% by 2020. on our ambitious sustainability journey. We achieved the target of using only fibre Our vision from sustainable sources in our production processes, and by completing the certification Gary McGann Sustainability and social responsibility Group Chief Executive Officer of our operational system we will, going are at the heart of our business. They are forward, be able to label all packaging solutions core to ensuring our long-term success delivered to customers accordingly. Summary as a company; not just our view, but one supported by the UN Global Compact. For the first time in our company’s history, —— recognised by FTSE4Good and as part of our continuing commitment We believe that it is also part of our —— new relative CO2 emissions target responsibility, as a global corporate citizen, to invest in the development of our 42,000 to help meet the challenges of climate employees across 32 countries, we launched —— we achieved our sustainable fibre change, increasing resource scarcity, a global engagement survey, MyVoice, giving sourcing target poverty, inequality and conflict. our employees a greater voice in shaping the —— first company-wide employee future direction of our company. Sustainability and social responsibility also engagement survey help us to meet customer and consumer In addition, we remain absolutely committed demand for sustainable products and to the health and safety of our employees services. And, in turn, this helps our and premises. Increased focus was given customers and consumers become more to report and record every accident, sustainable as well. That makes our business irrespective of seriousness and to timely a more attractive investment, strengthening reporting and accurate classification of our licence to operate and increasing our all classes of accidents and their injuries. market share as a result. In short, it makes Although the lost-time through injury rate business sense to be sustainable. did not improve compared to 2013, we remain firmly committed to achieving Our journey in 2014 a reduction of 5% annually by 2017. I am proud to say that in 2014 our contribution to meeting some of these Looking forward societal challenges was recognised While we are proud of our achievements externally. In September we were listed on in 2014, we recognise that Smurfit Kappa is the FTSE4Good index in recognition of our on a journey to embedding sustainability continuing efforts to minimise our impact on throughout all its operations. We are making the environment and to increase the social progress on performing waste assessments benefit we create. We continue to achieve throughout the company, and water impact this in three ways: making our processes assessments on relevant sites. This coming more sustainable; delivering products and year we will define measurable targets services which increase the efficiency of against waste reduction. For water usage our customers’ value chains; and investing we expect to define credible and relevant in the development of our employees and targets before 2017. the communities in which we have the privilege to operate. Our approach to a sustainable business 5 We fundamentally believe in a new model of doing business: the circular economy. In short, the circular economy is by nature restorative: replacing natural resources needed for our production processes and reusing, in the best way we can, those resources which we take out. The circular economy provides Smurfit Kappa with new business opportunities and innovative solutions to reduce material costs, ensuring our business is resilient in the face of growing resource constraints. In our view, increasing resource productivity through a more circular model of production and consumption can be an important contributor to job growth and economic competitiveness. Re-engineering our business in this way requires a holistic approach, working at system level, which promotes innovation and connections across sectors and value chains. While a number of our operations are already advanced in their application of this systemic approach, others are on a journey to doing so. ›› 6 Smurfit Kappa | Sustainable Development Report 2014 The challenge for our The necessary data to analyse how to make our activities more circular has already 2015 is a big year for our planet with the agendas of climate change, sustainable business is not only to been collected and in this report you will development and energy uniting on a reduce the amount of find a wealth of environmental and social data. We aim to be fully transparent on global scale. We have therefore joined the World Business Council for Sustainable natural resources we use, our journey to sustainable development. Development as we believe that business but to use them in the By being transparent we can share sustainability learning and challenges contributions will be central to success in ensuring sustainable economic growth most effective way. more easily between value chain partners. and prosperity for all. In this report you will find a detailed account I hope you will find the content of our of our progress and targets against five key Sustainable Development Report 2014 priority areas: Forest, Climate Change, both interesting and informative and look Water, Waste and People. forward to any feedback that you may have To play our part in the environmental and (sustainability@smurfitkappa.com). social challenges the world is facing, it is a precondition that companies like ours can operate under fair, predictable and competitive conditions. We believe there is a need for an environment for industry that is enabling, allowing business to be more efficient, more effective and ultimately more Gary McGann competitive. It is only by being competitive Group Chief Executive Officer we can make the necessary investments for sustainability. 12 June 2015 Community Testimonial Compassion is a universal language On 6 March 2015 Smurfit Kappa Orange the project. It is heart-warming to see that County launched a partnership with the commercial enterprises like Smurfit Kappa ‘Manitas que Hablan’ Foundation to provide act as good corporate citizens. One of education for children with language Smurfit Kappa’s own employees with impairment and hearing disorders. language and hearing difficulties, Karla Teresa Hernandez (see picture), a Foundation Cruz, offered some motivational advice at Board Member tells us: “Our mission is to the launch, telling our kids to “never give facilitate the integration of these children up, no matter what obstacles you into society by providing them with the tools experience, and always move forward”. to make this possible. Recently we planned to Smurfit Kappa Orange County will build two newly equipped classrooms and to continue to support ‘Manitas que Hablan’ guarantee the salary of four teachers in one for the next two years. Benjamin Olmos, building. Students learn faster and better if Human Resources Manager at Smurfit classrooms are both situated in one building. Kappa Orange County, said: “Part of our This way we would have more opportunities mission is to continue to support our to support the education of our children.” community and what better way to do this “Our kids, volunteers and staff were excited than with a project like this. An initiative by the news that the Smurfit Kappa that offers children the support to fully Foundation donated US$75,000 to support integrate into society.” Our approach to a sustainable business 7 Our five strategic priorities In this report you will Our approach to business creates opportunity find a detailed account to promote positive change. of our progress and targets. Forest All of the raw material used in our paper production is now sourced under certified Chain of Custody systems Find out more how we are committed to increasing certified wood fibre in packaging on page 32 Climate change We set ourselves a new target to reduce CO2 emissions of produced paper tonne by 25% by 2020 Find out how we are reducing our carbon footprint on page 38 Water We have reduced our relative COD discharge by 28% in comparison to our base year 2005 Find out how we are working towards water discharge reduction on page 44 Waste Twelve of our 38 paper mills effectively sent no waste to landfill in 2014 Find out how we are reducing the amount of waste we create on page 48 People Our first company-wide employee survey, MyVoice had a high response rate of 80% Find out how committed we are to safety on page 52 8 Smurfit Kappa | Sustainable Development Report 2014 Our approach to business Our year in highlights Vision into action: what we are doing Business Forest Climate Change FTSE4Good Certified packaging by default Increased CO2 emission An investor rating system that recognises In 2014 we continued to implement Chain reduction target sustainability achievements. of Custody certification that now enables A new target for relative fossil CO2 Achievement: We were listed in the us to deliver FSC® certified packaging emissions was introduced in May 2014 FTSE4Good index for the first time. to any of our customers. We are solving after achieving the original target of a last challenges and giving the guarantee reduction of 20% by 2020 compared to our customers that their packaging to 2005. The new target is to reduce originates from sustainable sources. relative CO2 emissions for our mill Achievement: More than 97% of our system by 25% by 2020 compared packaging can be labelled as Chain of to 2005. Sustainable sourcing Custody certified. Achievement: Our relative reduction Our auditing of suppliers continues to of fossil CO2 emissions in 2014 was 1.2% ensure the materials, resources and New Chain of Custody certifications compared to 2013 and stands at -21.6% services we source are sustainable and 100% of our paper mills and 92% of our compared to the level in 2005. meet our high standards. converting operations are now Chain of Achievement: 100% of our strategic Custody certified according to FSC and/ Piteå powered by bioenergy suppliers in Europe have been audited or PEFCTM. Europe’s largest kraftliner mill Piteå in since we started to audit suppliers Sweden is now effectively completely Achievement: In 2014 we reached FSC in 2010. powered by bioenergy. Chain of Custody certifications at all Venezuelan converting operations and Achievement: The Piteå mill has increased Four acquisitions finalised in 2014 in Chile as well as the San Felipe, Caracas the share of biofuels in its energy mix In 2014, we continued to grow our and Valencia paper mills in Venezuela. gradually. In 2014 the Piteå mill moved to market positions through a number fuelling the lime kiln and recovery boiler of small but important acquisitions New Forest certifications with biofuels, becoming CO2 emissions in the Americas. The forest certification process in neutral. The energy mix now stands at — Colombia, (66%, May 2014), certain Venezuela was started in 2014, achieving 99% biofuels, with 1% being fossil fuels assets and business of Corrumed S.A. the certification for a number of our needed as start fuel for boilers. — Dominican Republic, (100%, plantations during the year. September 2014), certain assets and Achievement: The forest certification New tool that links our carbon footprint business of Cartonera Rierba S.A. process was finished for 31% of our method and our production data plantations in December 2014 and the Smurfit Kappa’s ‘Innotools’ have been — Bates Container LLC (‘Bates’), (100%, certificates were obtained in March 2015. equipped for over two years with the October 2014), four packaging plants The process continues. ability to compute the carbon footprint located in Texas, in the United States of individual packaging products. — Brian Thomas, (100%, October Achievement: A new option in our 2014), a sheet plant located in Texas, Innotools suite of design software allows in the United States customers not only to know the carbon footprint for each packaging unit, but to also track progress over the years. Our approach to a sustainable business 9 Water Waste People Investment in Waste Water Waste to landfill assessments started My Voice Treatment Plants We launched a waste to landfill assessment A Group employee survey that measures Investment in water treatment plants project to map our opportunities to engagement of our employees and their enables Smurfit Kappa to be more reduce waste throughout our operations. view in putting the Smurfit Kappa Vision efficient in cleaning the water we use, Achievement: As a result of the into practice. resulting in more efficient water use and assessment we will be able to set our Achievement: Our first companyreuse throughout production. waste reduction targets. wide employee survey, My Voice, had Achievement: We invested in a new a response rate of 80%. water treatment plant in Forney (U.S.A.) and expanded the capacities of those in Monterrey (Mexico) and Zülpich (Germany). We have reduced our relative COD discharge by 28% in comparison to our base year 2005. Water risk assessments started Health and safety We performed an overall water risk Introduced Total Recordable Injury assessment of all our paper and board Rate (TRIR). mills and developed a mill specific Achievement: TRIR was added assessment tool piloted in our Mexican to our existing health and safety Cerro Gordo mill. performance metrics. Achievement: As a result, we are able to set more specific targets on water and Smurfit Kappa Foundation Mexico make individual improvement plans for We launched this year a third foundation each mill. The mill specific assessments in the Americas. Besides this Mexican continue at most relevant mills in 2015. foundation we also have foundations in Colombia and Venezuela, as well as a Corporate Foundation. Achievement: The network of Smurfit Kappa foundations is expanding with an initiative for a charitable foundation in Mexico. 10 Smurfit Kappa | Sustainable Development Report 2014 Our approach to business Our distinctive sustainable business model Sustainability innovation: driving our competitive advantage At Smurfit Kappa we believe sustainability creates business value. In the communities where we play a part, Embedding sustainability we are proud to contribute to sustainable Sustainability is at the heart of our business. It drives what we do and how we do it, economic and social development, as an creating value for our business and the communities in which we operate. We deliver employer, as a partner and through the sustainability through two avenues: work of our foundations in addressing the principles of the UN Global Compact. This is how we do business. It is what drives Our people drive our success and our competitive energy. Sustainability in Every day our customers’ needs drive us every fibre to be innovative and to contribute to a better, more sustainable world through new solutions. A research-based approach A package’s purpose is to shelter, support, Innovation in Innovation in communicate on and transport a product our products our process to its customer. The most important sustainability criteria are that the package is fit for purpose and does not under or over deliver. This serves both our own customers and our business best. Our We enable our Being a sustainability leader within our industry creates business value. By reducing business, therefore, is about finding the most suitable solution for our customers – customers to develop our impact on the environment, the raw a process that is based on and borne out and grow their materials that we use and by optimising design resulting in more sustainable of continuous research, putting facts and data into practice through innovative businesses sustainably. packaging our customers are able to make packaging solutions. a positive business choice when choosing Our approach is supported by data from Smurfit Kappa as their partner. Sustainability the Industry Council for Packaging and the drives our competitive advantage. Environment (INCPEN), which compared We are looking for packaging solutions the direct and indirect impact of packaging that enable our customers to reduce their on our customers’ value chain. INCPEN carbon footprint by making efficient use found that the energy and therefore CO2 of renewable raw materials. impact of packaging products on the supply Our approach to sustainability is driven chain was less than 5% whereas the indirect by innovative thinking. It drives the way CO2 abating impact is much more significant we do business – from analysing customer for the sustainability of a customer’s challenges, to understanding a specific supply chain. customer market and finding the right We enable our customers to develop and solutions. We help our customers see grow their businesses sustainably. We do this through the new solution, delivering through a web-based suite of design shared value from an innovative idea software, our Innotools – Innobook, Paper to to implementation. Box, Pack Expert and Shelf Viewer – which we Our approach to a sustainable business 11 make available to our customers, supporting developments and changes across our By working in partnership with our robust evaluation of their supply chains. competitive landscape. These include: customers, we tailor our packaging solutions Innotools enables customers to optimise —— More promotional package and brand to their needs, increasing packaging the direct and indirect environmental impact extensions to maintain customer loyalty efficiency, minimising transport runs and of our packaging on their supply chain. continuing the life cycle of packaging by Outputs can range from simple changes —— More visually engaging and colourful enabling in-store, on-package marketing. in pallet patterns or case counts which can packaging designs to enhance brand Through our collaborative partnerships increase the quantity of products loaded, awareness we are able to constantly update our in turn reducing the mileage and carbon —— Responsible packaging via known understanding of the needs of our footprint of transport. resource origins customers and ultimately of consumers. We eco-design our packaging, meaning —— Convenience features An example of an innovation in practice is we tailor packaging solutions to our —— Smaller pack size for single serving the introduction of Shelf Smart service. customers’ needs, whether that be for and ‘on the go’ use Research indicates that 76% of consumer promotion or convenience, while optimising purchasing decisions are made in-store, resources used. In our eco-design approach —— Changing supply chain channels to the meaning that shelf-ready packaging which we look into the entire packaging concept of consumer (e.g. E-commerce) is able to carry branding and consumer our customers’ product, aiming at optimised From an operational perspective this messaging reduces the need for duplicate primary and secondary packaging. requires us to innovate to deliver new shapes, materials to hold products in-store that Driving innovation at the heart of design sizes, materials and print colours in higher reduces the environmental footprint of means we can respond flexibly and definition in an economically feasible way. our customers. sustainably to a number of challenges: As well as providing an innovation challenge, from changing consumer preferences and it also poses a sustainability one. demographics to legislative and regulatory Customer testimonial Lamb Weston/Meijer’s strategy The multiplier effect “Sustainability is one of the three operating Lamb Weston/Meijer, currently one of the principles in our business strategy. We have top three producers of processed potato ambitious objectives for 2020 which we products in the European, Middle East and encourage and need our suppliers to African (EMEA) region, selling high quality contribute toward, by reducing the water products in 100 countries worldwide, has and carbon footprint of our supply chain. ambitions of becoming the industry leader “Smurfit Kappa contributes to this process in sustainable development by 2020. by sharing practical examples on reducing That is a goal that can only be realised if water, energy and emissions in their its suppliers are equally committed to product life cycle. It boils down to new sustainable development. packaging innovations which increase Jolanda Soons-Dings (pictured), senior resource efficiency, waste reduction and manager Sustainability & Regulatory Affairs, the recycling of packaging. With our elaborates: combined expertise we can improve our sustainability performance along the way!” “Smurfit Kappa has been supplying our company since 1985 and today supplies the majority of the 60 million cartons we use annually. 12 Smurfit Kappa | Sustainable Development Report 2014 Our approach to business Creating shared value Delivering value for allour stakeholders The adoption of a We deliver value to our customers, employees, partnership approach investors, suppliers and the communities in means we strive to support and enable which we operate. sustainability across our Our relentless commitment to sustainability Consumers means we set high standards throughout customers’ value chain. our value chain and are able to deliver According to the Regeneration Consumer Study by BBMG, GlobeScan and sustainable packaging solutions for our SustainAbility, consumers are increasingly 69,000 customers worldwide. The adoption aware of the sustainability of the products of a partnership approach means we strive they purchase. Safety and information to support and enable sustainability across about the product ranks high in their our value chain. individual choices where they increasingly Customers hold companies responsible for the impact companies’ products have on the We are committed to being a trusted partner environment and society. and expert on packaging solutions for our customers, helping them meet their own —— Our products meet all food safety targets and commitments. We do this in standards, including OECD guidelines a number of ways: for Multinational Enterprises —— Ensuring the fibre in our packaging —— The quality of our packaging solutions products is sourced sustainably, making us enables high-definition printing, enabling a preferred supplier for many businesses in-store packaging that communicates product information, reducing the need —— Our packaging solutions help reduce for duplicate shelf packaging the carbon footprint throughout our customers’ value chain Employees —— We share knowledge, experience Our people are our most important asset. and expertise on sustainable packaging Their commitment to Smurfit Kappa with our customers and suppliers, to drives our success and innovative help them meet their own approach to delivering sustainable commitments packaging to our customers. To maintain strong relationships —— We have committed to develop the skills we of our employees through a wide range of have embarked on a series of development and training programmes round table customer —— We have committed to listen to our discussions to ensure employees through a company-wide Smurfit Kappa is always survey, MyVoice able to help them meet their increasingly —— We recognise their work through our complex sustainable Innovation and Sustainability Awards packaging needs. Shareholders Sustainability is increasingly being recognised by the investment community as a building block to long-term value creation for shareholders. In recent years a growing number of investment funds have implemented explicit mandates for Socially Responsibility Investing (SRI). Our key achievements in this space are outlined throughout this report. Our approach to a sustainable business 13 LUE CHAIN EFF Our operating model in detail ISE VA ICIE XIM NC MA Y Renewable products Consumption OUTPUT —— Packaging —— Retail —— Paper and board —— Consumption services —— Displays S, S OCIETY Sourcing ER —— Bag-in-box UM —— Sustainable sourcing Inputs CUSTOMER RS Production NSUMPTION LIE S, C PP CO —— Wood SU —— Sustainable production ON —— Recovered paper process —— Energy S PRO DU —— Innovation SOUR —— Water RA CI —— Health and safety U SE UT —— Starch OPE CT S IO OD N NG RE Operations PR RS M TO SO CE E PL S OY VE UR —— Paper and board UR CE E E S, , IN P TI CO M M U N I T Y SO IN EXT —— Corrugating and converting E RE O N S RACT MAXIMIS —— Recycling ION CT I —— Forestry M IV I NI —— Logistics TY MI Suppliers —— Continuous improvement —— Our operations support the employment Maintaining transparent and long-term —— Service and technical support of local people in areas where there are relationships with suppliers is essential to few other employment opportunities —— Environment and sustainable ensuring high quality and financial stability. development Our operations are often located in rural Sourcing represents the single largest areas where we are a significant employer, cost item for Smurfit Kappa. In 2014, we Our risk mapping shows that nearly all of providing employment and development purchased products and services, including the strategic or important suppliers of key opportunities to local people. Through our raw materials, energy, transportation, materials, goods and services are in a investments in those operations we also maintenance and repairs, and investment moderate to low-risk category. provide significant indirect employment goods to the value of €4.7 billion. Our communities opportunities to local suppliers of the To ensure we meet our sustainability equipment and services we invest in. Across all our operations we strive to share Operations at these plants require a lot of commitments a robust sustainable sourcing value from our business growth with the policy is required. raw material and a significant part of these communities in which we operate. supplies are sourced from the regions in Smurfit Kappa’s Sustainable Sourcing —— The Smurfit Kappa Foundation and our which we operate. programme includes a risk assessment other national level foundations’ goal is to of suppliers across the following areas: end the cycle of poverty and dependence —— Quality that exists in some of the communities —— Hygiene and safety and countries in which Smurfit Kappa operates. This is guided by the United —— Order processing Nations (UN) Millennium Development —— Manufacturing Goals, with a particular focus on youth health and youth education 14 Smurfit Kappa | Sustainable Development Report 2014 Our approach to business Customers Partnering with customers To be able to find an At Smurfit Kappa we believe that the right impactful, large-scale, choice of packaging makes supply and value sustainable way for packaging means a chains more sustainable. holistic approach to This is why our customers are vital partners Eco-design in all our packaging development processes. packaging solutions. By adopting a holistic approach, which Our approach to eco-design is underpinned by three actions: examines the entire product value chain —— Paper To Box – a unique software tool including all packaging, transport, storage which allows us to compute measurable and product presentation, we are better environmental impact at a material and able to find significant sustainable packaging level improvements than when each step is considered in isolation. To be able to find —— Sustainable scorecard – our method an impactful, large-scale, sustainable way of presenting reliable sustainability data for packaging means a holistic approach to our customers, tangibly contributing to packaging solutions and quantifiable to customer sustainability targets and transparent data. —— Performance packaging – Smurfit Kappa’s In order to create such breakthroughs unique way to ensure fit-for-purpose it is vital that we are able to quantify the packaging with the lowest environmental impact a packaging solution has on the total footprint. Developed over a number of carbon footprint of a customer’s product. years, new insights are added at each We also aim to maintain or improve its stage. In 2014, using unique insights from functionality. However, ultimately, many the aeronautical industry, Smurfit Kappa trade-off decisions have to be made started to redesign all its materials between material efficiency, logistical Supply chain efficiency and marketing efficiency. We develop supply chain value in the Smurfit Kappa follows a strict approach following ways: to make all functionalities measurable in order to help our customers make the —— Make the environmental footprint of best choice for their business. We call our customer’s supply chain tangible this ‘packaging innovation for business with our unique Pack Expert tool success’. To develop packaging that —— Leveraging our partnership with supply delivers tangible sustainable value to chain engineers we have made significant our customers’ value chain we work with progress in developing new groundthree pillars: breaking insights to reduce product waste 1. Eco-design: develop fit for purpose in the supply chain, with significant effects packaging with lower environmental on environmental footprint footprint —— Together with our high-tech partner 2. Supply chain: develop packaging that Eye See we make consumer behaviour reduces the total environmental impact measurable, enabling us to truly reduce of the final product delivered to the the environmental footprint while consumer maintaining consumer functionality. 3. Co-operation: redesign our sustainability vision together with our customers resulting in long-term strategy that further improves our sustainability profile Our approach to a sustainable business 15 Co-operation —— Awards to bring sustainability alive by Sharing knowledge and expertise with letting supply/value chain partners judge our customers we are able to help them and identify sustainability best practice redesign their sustainability strategy, —— An event where over 200 supply/value using the following: chain partners debate and discuss how —— Training courses and workshops to to further develop the supply chain develop shared insights and inspire new initiatives —— Round tables to re-engineer the industry vision on sustainability and how paperbased packaging can truly make a sustainable difference in the customer supply/value chain 16 Smurfit Kappa | Sustainable Development Report 2014 Our approach to business Suppliers Sustainable sourcing For Smurfit Kappa, The breadth of our product portfolio sustainable sourcing means we source a wide range of products, means requiring our suppliers to adhere materials and services. to basic sustainable These include our principal fibre sources Our sustainable sourcing programme – wood, recovered paper, pulp and paper – includes a risk assessment of suppliers and development principles. other direct and indirect inputs such as consists of the following seven areas: quality, starch, chemicals, fuels, spare parts, and hygiene and safety, order processing, services from IT and logistics to energy and manufacturing, continuous improvement, maintenance services. Our supply network service and technical support and includes suppliers ranging from small-scale environment and sustainable development. local companies to large multinationals. Our risk mapping shows that nearly all our We aim to build long-term relationships strategic or important suppliers of key with our suppliers in order to develop our materials, goods and services are in work together. the moderate to low-risk area The sustainability requirements for our of the risk map. suppliers and our policy on the environment, forestry and sustainable sourcing are available at www.smurfitkappa.com/ vhome/com/Sustainability/OurApproach/ Governance/Policies/Pages/Default.aspx For Smurfit Kappa, sustainable sourcing means requiring our suppliers to adhere to basic sustainable development principles, addressing the concerns of key stakeholders, complying with regulatory frameworks, adhering to best practice and managing supply risks and safeguarding our reputation. Sourcing represents the single largest cost item for Smurfit Kappa. In 2014, we purchased products and services such as raw materials, energy, transportation, maintenance and repairs, and investment goods to the value of €4.7 billion. Where possible we endeavour to procure our products and services from local suppliers. The procurement of a number of major items of expenditure is coordinated centrally to achieve economies of scale. Nevertheless, a significant part of the actual supplier deliveries for these categories could be considered as local as many of the goods and services are provided by suppliers whose production locations are in the same geographical area as our operations. In total, approximately 74% of our suppliers’ deliveries can be classified as local. These interactions between our operations and the local operations of suppliers provide support for local economies. Our approach to a sustainable business 17 Total sourcing costs €4,747bn €400bn €471bn €467bn €628bn €2,781bn Raw materials and consumables Logistics Energy Maintenance and repairs Capital equipment Smurfit Kappa has over 300 strategic and important suppliers of key raw materials and important goods and services in Europe and the Americas. Our supplier auditing programme started in 2010 and in 2014 we completed the audit of 100% of our strategic suppliers and of 45% of our important suppliers in Europe. In the Americas we began auditing suppliers in 2013. Following an initial audit, we work with each supplier on continuous improvement opportunities identified. During 2014, 42 suppliers delivering both key materials and important goods and services have been audited. Approximately 90% of these suppliers scored satisfactorily, the remaining 10% will be compliant once they successfully complete their defined continuous improvement plans in specific areas of attention. Improvement opportunities for these suppliers cover areas including hygiene and environmental management systems. The supplier audits also include questions on social governance covering GRI, Sedex, UNGC and CDP. We aim to increase the number of suppliers of key raw materials, goods and services who commit to the ten principles of the UNGC and who report on social data to Sedex. Fifty-eight of our suppliers, mostly strategic, are currently listed as members of Sedex. 18 Smurfit Kappa | Sustainable Development Report 2014 Our approach to business Our Group operations Creating sustainable value, globally The Americas Key Virgin mills Recycled mills Corrugated Cartons and solid board packaging Paper sacks Bag-in-box Recovered fibre Forestry Operations Virgin mills 2 Recycled paper and board mills 10 Corrugated 38 Cartons 3 Paper sacks 5 Recovered fibre 33 Other 5 Sales Volumes (Million tonnes) Containerboard 1.1 Other paper and board 0.3 Corrugated 1.0 Our approach to a sustainable business 19 Europe Key Virgin mills Recycled mills Corrugated Cartons and solid board packaging Paper sacks Bag-in-box Recovered fibre Forestry Operations Sales Virgin mills 5 Volumes (Million tonnes) Recycled containerboard mills 13 Kraftliner 1.6 Other recycled paper and board mills 8 Recycled containerboard 2.9 Corrugated 157 Other paper and board 1.1 Cartons and solidboard packaging 9 Corrugated 4.2 Recovered fibre 15 Solidboard packaging 0.3 Other 49 20 Smurfit Kappa | Sustainable Development Report 2014 Our approach to business Stakeholder engagement A constant conversation Through our continuous As a responsible business we provide engagement we are opportunities to our stakeholders to able to determine which issues are of most give feedback on our business practices. importance. Stakeholder engagement is guided by Through continuous engagement with these the materiality of the issues of these groups stakeholders we are able to determine which to our business; whether that is employees issues are of most importance to them: whose safety we are responsible for, customers and suppliers in our value chain, Customers investors in our business or authorities —— Chain of Custody of raw materials/ responsible for our regulation. sustainable packaging Smurfit Kappa takes a multifaceted —— Climate change approach, providing opportunities to discuss —— Transparency/ traceability and give feedback on our business, including: —— Water —— Direct meetings with individual —— Circular economy (waste) customers —— Community involvement —— Audits of suppliers —— Social responsibility —— Meetings with investors at our investor days and one-to-one meetings Investors —— Round table discussions organised by —— Chain of Custody of raw materials Smurfit Kappa or stakeholders —— Human rights —— Our first company-wide employee —— Climate change survey (2014) which received a response rate of 80% Employees —— Health and safety —— Personal development Our analysis has found broad alignment between the issues raised by stakeholders and those material to our business operations and, indeed, to our five sustainable development pillars. Our approach to a sustainable business 21 Case study Innovative raw materials Flower power packaging in Barbosa chopped into smaller pieces, cleanliness Flores Funza is a leader in Colombia’s flower was improved and the moisture content industry, utilising methods and products was optimised. After these trials, in 2013, that are socially and environmentally Flores Funza decided it was time to build its responsible. They work with Smurfit Kappa first carnation stem pulp production plant. to supply their packaging. In early 2014, Smurfit Kappa’s Barbosa mill Traditionally, virgin fibres from wood and began to receive shipments of stem pulp and recycled fibres from recovered paper have 70 tonnes of the fibre have been processed been the main sources of raw material for the on the paper machine that annually produces production of paper. Flores Funza, however, 77,000 tonnes of liner and medium paper. had the idea to investigate the possibility of The average ratio of 0.7% of stems to total using the stems of carnation flowers as an pulp can probably be further increased to alternative source of fibres for paper making. 3.7% when a monthly supply of 250 tonnes of stem pulp is realised. The strategic Smurfit Kappa was involved in the project partnership between the two organisations right from the start. Experiments were has gone from strength to strength, with carried out on our paper machine to adjust worthwhile reductions in solid waste and to the new raw material and changes were a new, renewable source of raw material. made to improve the processing qualities of the carnation stems. The stems were There is broad alignment Membership organisations —— International Corrugated Cases Association (ICCA). Smurfit Kappa’s It is our strong belief that sustainability between the issues cannot exist in a vacuum. Our goal is to be Group COO is currently a Board raised by stakeholders the most sustainable packaging solutions member company globally; but that cannot happen —— Asociación de Corrugadores del and those material to without leadership in industry and among Caribe Centro y Sur América (ACCCSA). our business operations. our corporate peers. Along with sharing our Smurfit Kappa Dominican Republic sustainability learning with customers and General Manager is currently a member suppliers, we believe it is important to share of Board of Directors these and potential challenges within our In addition, we are active participants industry and even our competitors. To this in and signatories to a number of mainly end we are involved with a number of trade environmental reporting and sustainability bodies to influence understanding and share organisations: knowledge on embedding sustainability throughout operations. —— CDP (formerly Carbon Disclosure Project) —— Confederation of European Paper —— The Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) Industries (CEPI) – Group and national —— The Programme for the Endorsement level membership. Smurfit Kappa’s of Forest Certification (PEFC) Group CEO is currently the Chairman —— The Supplier Ethical Data Exchange —— European Corrugated Packaging (Sedex) Association (FEFCO) – Group and national —— The UN Global Compact level membership. Smurfit Kappa’s CEO of European Corrugated Division —— The Water Footprint Network (WFN) is currently the Chairman —— The European Round Table of Industrialists (Smurfit Kappa’s Group CEO is a member) ›› 22 Smurfit Kappa | Sustainable Development Report 2014 Our approach to business Stakeholder engagement continued We work closely with How we engage our stakeholders NGOs Customers We are members of the FSC, PEFC, Sedex, our customers around We work closely with our customers around CDP and the Water Footprint Network and sustainable fibre sourcing: sustainable fibre sourcing: the carbon engage with other NGOs where appropriate. the carbon footprint footprint of their value chain and social compliance. We engage with them through Local communities of their value chain and round table discussions, joint sustainability We are proud to support a number of social projects around health, employment and social compliance. projects, representation at customer conferences and support for customer environment in the communities in which sustainability initiatives. we operate, in particular across our Latin American operations where employees Employees are encouraged to contribute to their We offer a range of training and development local communities. This is supported and programmes and are proud to maintain supplemented through the Smurfit Kappa a number of works councils that have Foundation and other foundations at managerial level representation. national level, with a particular focus on youth health and youth education. Investors Government and society We run a programme of roadshows and investor days giving analysts and investors the We maintain membership of industry opportunity to engage with management, associations at a national and international in addition to one-to-one meetings and level, and participate in forums related industry-related investor conferences. to broader business and society. Suppliers We regularly offer suppliers the opportunity to give feedback through audits and questionnaires. Additionally, we require suppliers to conform to our Sustainability Sourcing Policy. For our part, where feasible, we source locally while ensuring quality at the right price. Employee testimonial Chris Blockhus, Smurfit Kappa Forney Coated Products (USA) The General and Mill Manager Programme Smurfit Kappa possesses a vast array of (GMMP) course is a fantastic opportunity to tools and practices that are world class. see all that Smurfit Kappa has to offer. Having Seeing the Development Centre and how only been with the company for a few years these tools are employed demonstrate the through acquisition, this was a great commitment the company has to bringing opportunity to understand the ethos of the the utmost value to our customers’ company through exposure to all aspects applications. of the company. From briefings by the senior The companionship and connections with leadership to functional area presentations our classmates from around the world has on compliance, sustainability and safety we been a special opportunity to understand have a full portfolio to lead our operations how similar and yet different business is successfully. The personal development conducted throughout the group. These sessions by Thrive provide insight to how we connections continue well beyond the function and thereby how we can be selfcourse as we have opportunities to leverage aware of these attributes when dealing with the talents of classmates across the others. It has also provided insight for areas company. to improve to be a more effective leader. Our approach to a sustainable business 23 Employee testimonial Catherine Carey, Smurfit Kappa Paper Solutions Belfast (Northern Ireland) The GMMP programme is a highly valuable industry. The course is well organised and experience that certainly exceeded my actively encourages participants to be open expectations. It was a great opportunity to about their experiences and opinions. meet with other General and Mill Managers Including knowledgeable speakers from and create a network with them and their each of the key areas of the business, experiences. The balance of the course was provided me with practical knowledge that excellent; spending time learning about my I could use as soon as I returned to my plant. style as a manager, as well as furthering my The time spent on this programme has knowledge about the company and the certainly strengthened me in my role. 24 Smurfit Kappa | Sustainable Development Report 2014 Our approach to business Corporate governance and business ethics Commitment from the boardroom to the factory floor Summary —— The Smurfit Kappa Code of Business The Board and Management of Conduct guides employee behaviour Smurfit Kappa support and strive for throughout our business —— The Smurfit Kappa Board has overall the highest standards of corporate responsibility for ensuring that we demonstrate leadership within the governance and ethical business conduct. paper-based packaging sector, promoting an actionable sustainable We believe this should be promoted from Organisation and reporting the most senior levels of the business, Sustainability is hardwired into our development agenda and must be fostered throughout the operations and reporting structures in —— Each significant business unit is whole organisation. The following section a number of ways. Our sales and marketing externally audited for its sustainability describes, in summary, the Group’s teams are responsible, at both a central governance at Board level insofar as it relates and local level, for ensuring the to corporate social responsibility. The full sustainability of our packaging solutions Corporate Governance Statement, together and communicating the benefits they with the Directors’ Report, Remuneration can bring to our customers. Local Report and Remuneration Policy, is set out in operations and divisional management the 2014 SKG Annual Report on pages 38 to 42, have responsibility for managing our Sustainability governance use of energy and water, the health and safety of our workforce and the Sustainable development is at the heart well-being of the local communities of Smurfit Kappa’s operations and activities. in which we operate. Reporting across The Board has overall responsibility for ensuring all these measures takes place through Smurfit Kappa demonstrates leadership within regular monthly and/or quarterly the paper-based packaging sector, promoting reports to the responsible an actionable sustainable development management levels. This is agenda. To this end, our Group CEO sponsors supplemented through specific the development and implementation of reporting, including reporting Smurfit Kappa’s sustainability policies. on the progress made on our At executive management level, the long-term sustainable development Group Steering Committee sets out the commitments. strategy and objectives for our sustainable A Board report on our sustainability development and reviews progress made in activities including progress meeting our commitments. This committee against particular indicators and comprises the most senior executives in targets is prepared and presented the Company including the three Executive to the full Board twice a year. Directors (Group CEO, Group COO and Group CFO) and management from each Code of Business Conduct division and from Group headquarters. and corporate policies The Group Steering Committee is supported The Smurfit Kappa Code of by a Sustainability Working Group, comprised Business Conduct (the ‘Code’) of key representatives from the operating applies to the Group’s Board divisions in Europe and the Americas, and of Directors, officers and employees Group headquarters. This working group’s worldwide. We require all individuals, entities, task is to monitor how targets are being agents or anyone acting on the Group’s met across a wide range of sustainability behalf to comply with the Code, which has indicators and to promote the principles been translated into 17 languages to ensure of sustainable development with Smurfit full accessibility. ›› Kappa’s customers, suppliers and corporate peers. This working group is also responsible for the preparation and production of the Annual Sustainable Development Report. Our approach to a sustainable business 25 26 Smurfit Kappa | Sustainable Development Report 2014 Our approach to business Corporate governance and business ethics continued We have created specific policy statements in key areas of sustainability that we believe are integral to improving Smurfit Kappa’s performance. The Code takes account of the following international conventions and codes: 1. International Labour Organisation (ILO) Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work (core conventions). 2. UN Declaration on Fundamental Human Rights. 3. OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises. 4. UN Global Compact. The Code provides accessible and understandable guidance for each and every employee in every jurisdiction. It sets out our position and expectations from employees in relation to compliance with local, regional and national law, adherence to ethical standards and commitment to quality and service. Each Group company and its employees, regardless of geographic location, is required to apply the Code and abide by the particular laws and practices applicable to their industry and/or required by the jurisdiction in which they operate. The Code makes it clear that personal and professional integrity is core to conduct business in an ethical manner, which is the duty and the responsibility of each employee. A major ‘Group-wide Awareness Campaign’ to educate all employees on the core principles of the Code, begun in 2013, was completed in 2014. During 2014, of the incidents considered to be non-compliant with the Code of Business Conduct, only one was deemed to be significant. Our approach to a sustainable business 27 The Code is supplemented by a series of In addition to these internal audits, all (FEFCO) and the European Round Table policies covering a number of areas relating national operating companies must adhere of Industrialists (ERT). We also work closely to our operational and managerial practices. to the Group’s Financial Monitoring Policy. with the Irish Business and Employers’ We have also created specific policy This includes completing risk assessment Confederation (IBEC) and equivalent statements in key areas of sustainability analyses covering over 50% of the Group’s bodies in other countries. that we believe are integral to improving larger facilities, carried out by accredited At all times those representing the views Smurfit Kappa’s performance. These policy professionals within each country. of Smurfit Kappa do so having due regard statements cover Environment, Sustainable Using this system we have identified the to its Code of Business Conduct and the Forestry, Sustainable Sourcing, Social following audit risk: significant material local laws and regulations applying to the Citizenship and health and safety issues. mis-statement of financial results, deliberate Group’s operations. There were no All of these Codes and policies are available or otherwise, arising from a poor control significant criticisms of the Group in this on our website www.smurfitkappa.com. framework. During 2014, no such respect in 2014. In line with the Group’s misreporting was identified. Code of Business Conduct no financial Audits contributions were made to political parties Public policy in 2014. No national government is a direct Each significant business unit is the subject of an external and independent financial As a multinational organisation, our shareholder in Smurfit Kappa. audit conducted on an annual basis by the businesses are subject to legislation and rules determined by the jurisdictions in Compliance Group’s external auditors. which they operate. It is Group policy to comply, as a minimum, Most of our other business units are the with the applicable laws and regulations subject of local statutory financial audits. In that context, Smurfit Kappa adopts positions on a variety of matters that are in each of the countries in which we operate Our Internal Audit Department has its material to our business, representing our and to ensure that our employees are own extensive work programme using positions to the parties concerned, either aware of this and conduct themselves the Group’s Financial Risk Management directly or through industry bodies such appropriately. No material fines were System. During the course of 2014, 81 as the Confederation of European Paper imposed on the Group in 2014 in respect of detailed internal financial and IT audits Industries (CEPI), the European Federation any breaches of such laws and regulations. were completed. of Corrugated Board Manufacturers Global Enterprise Project testimonial Inspiring youth to be the social innovators of tomorrow In 2011 the European Round Table of Livia di Nardo (see picture), director of Industrialists (ERT) started the Global development at JA-YE Europe, states: Enterprise Project (GEP) together with “Smurfit Kappa also financially supports JA-YE Europe, Europe’s largest provider of the educational efforts with its GEP entrepreneurship education programmes. partnership. We work closely together with Smurfit Kappa CEO Gary McGann personally the Smurfit Kappa’s HR-department to get took a keen interest in the initiative and in contact with professionals within Smurfit inspired his colleagues to also volunteer to Kappa who are willing to help boost help educate teenagers on the importance employability and foster an entrepreneurial of globalisation, entrepreneurship and spirit among the youth.” modern day skills. Annually GEP reaches more than 4,000 “It is quite unique that the CEO of a major students who complete the course, start European company volunteers himself to up 170 mini-companies and participate share his experience and expertise with in an international competition. Caroline our 15 to 18-year-old students”, says Jenner: “Gary McGann and his colleagues Caroline Jenner, CEO of JA-YE Europe. demonstrate that Smurfit Kappa really “His enthusiasm has motivated over 50 high cares about bridging the gap between level executives at Smurfit Kappa to invest education and the world of work to help more than 400 hours of volunteering for the young people create a bright future.” GEP in seven European countries.” 28 Smurfit Kappa | Sustainable Development Report 2014 Jonnathan Vanegas, Harold Dussan, Monica Mejia, Alvaro Henao and Mayra Gonzalez (from left to right) from Smurfit Kappa Colombia Our priorities and performance 29 Our priorities and performance What is in this section Materiality ...................................................................................................................................................................................................30 Forest ..................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 32 Climate Change .......................................................................................................................................................................... 38 Water ....................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 44 Waste ...................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 48 People ................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 52 30 Smurfit Kappa | Sustainable Development Report 2014 Our vision and priorities Materiality Governing Group behaviours and activities Through consultation We take a robust approach to identifying the we are able to identify environmental, social and economic factors on and prioritise a range of issues that are important which our business operations have an impact. to our stakeholders. Our process has four stages: Internal and external factors 1. Assessing internal and external factors The assessment of internal and external material to our business factors start with examining the principles 2. Assessing factors material to stakeholders that define the way we operate. They include, of our business but are not limited to: our overall mission, vision on sustainability, long-term strategy 3. Benchmarking our approach against and the Code of Business Conduct which customers, investors, suppliers and governs Group behaviours and activities. corporate peers We reflect the internal factors with the 4. Stress testing issues identified with business environment that we operate in. stakeholders These factors we receive through different We limit the issues considered in this channels, and we use the most measurable report to only those which have a direct and credible means to understand the impact on our activities, the environment relevance. In this we benchmark with data or our stakeholders. collected from us and used in different ratings, comparisons and regulatory and compliance drivers such as: the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), issues highlighted by the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP), Sedex, FTSE4Good and the Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI). Material aspects facing Smurfit Kappa Key 11 Biodiversity 12 Climate change Influence on stakeholder assessments and decisions Environment topics 01 13 Environmental Social topics awareness 12 02 Economic topics 14 Responsible Sourcing 07 09 06 General topics 04 15 Sustainable agriculture 08 14 05 16 Career development and 13 3 Topics Employee training 10 17 Well-being employees 01 Health and Safety 18 24 21 02 Energy use 18 Compliance and transparency 25 03 Governance and 11 20 Business ethics and value 19 Employee benefits and 16 19 17 remuneration 04 Water intake & discharge 20 Labour relations 22 23 05 Waste 21 Natural raw material 06 Sustainable packaging sourcing and certification 07 Diversity 22 Transport and 15 08 Community involvement distribution 09 Human Rights 23 Quality Management 10 Sustainable product 24 Food safety development 25 Sustainable forestry Significance of economic, environmental and social impacts Our priorities and performance 31 Stakeholders Benchmarking Acknowledging these regional differences, the The assessment of internal and external The material aspects identified as a result of final phase is to stress test their relevance factors is then compared with results of our analysis are then benchmarked against and priority with our national and international consultations with our stakeholders. the views of customers, investors, suppliers stakeholders. We do this in a number of ways: Through this, we are able to identify, clarify and corporate peers. Here we concentrate —— Organising meetings and round table and prioritise a range of aspects that are on benchmarking the annual sustainability discussions with sustainability important to our stakeholders. reporting of our stakeholders. Based on representatives from our customers Prioritisation is determined using both our stakeholder assessment we have been —— Participating in sustainability discussions a qualitative and quantitative approach. able to identify 91 relevant customers, within our industry, especially through our Assessing aspects that are material to our investors, suppliers and corporate peers membership at CEPI stakeholders, a qualitative approach is used whose reports we use to quantify the importance of each material aspect. This is —— Participation in CDP, DJSI and to determine factors. This is based on the FTSE4Good surveys views of our management, sustainability, done by assessing companies performing purchasing and sales teams. We also conduct a materiality analysis and the frequency —— Engagement with investors interviews with representatives from different with which material aspects were referenced, —— Community engagement through the stakeholder groups (that are featured as an indicator of importance to the business. Smurfit Kappa Foundations in various throughout the report), which help to identify The materiality matrix represents the three countries important internal and external factors. step assessment. Although not all aspects —— Benchmarking against UN Global We group the aspects under four main highlighted in the graph have the same Compact guidelines categories: relative importance for Smurfit Kappa, for transparency reasons they have been As the final result of the materiality analysis, —— Environmental considered in determining issues material we have come to five key strategic —— Social to our business, and indeed our sector, sustainability priorities that we concentrate and are plotted in accordance with on in our daily operations and reporting. —— Economic GRI guidelines. These five key strategic priorities are: —— General The most relevant sustainability aspects —— Forestry, under which we look into We then determine the significance and to Smurfit Kappa land on the high level of sustainable forestry, biodiversity and prioritisation of material aspects through interest by our stakeholders as well as high natural material sourcing quantitative analysis of the feedback received. level significance for Smurfit Kappa itself. —— Climate change, under which we look into These aspects are then assessed against Some of the sustainability aspects may energy use, climate change and transport two axes: overlap with each other but have a focus and distribution 1. whether their impact is significant that clearly differentiates the issue from other similar topics. —— Water, under which we look into water enough to warrant attention and action intake and discharge 2. their priority to our business and to Stress testing —— Waste, under which we discuss about our stakeholders Material aspects vary across countries avoiding waste to landfill and hazardous The higher in each axis the aspect is, the and regions. For example, in Europe we waste more relevance it has for Smurfit Kappa. have found environmental aspects to —— People, under which we look into health have a higher priority whereas in the and safety, diversity, human rights, career Americas social aspects are considered development and employee training, more important. well-being of employees, labour relations and community involvement The material relevance of each priority is explained in the following chapters. Other topics we consider to be part of responsible business as such and have therefore commented on these topics throughout the report. 32 Smurfit Kappa | Sustainable Development Report 2014 Our vision and priorities Forest Managing our forests sustainably Summary At Smurfit Kappa we produce paper from Chain of Custody certification —— Smurfit Kappa is committed to virgin and recycled fibres. In this chapter we Transparency throughout our supply chain promoting sustainable forest discuss our approach to sustainably sourcing is key to the delivery of our sustainability management with strong ecosystem our fibres, covering both fibre sourcing and responsibilities. We are committed to services and welfare of the local forest management at our own plantations. maintaining, in as great a way as we can, communities. We put our commitment Smurfit Kappa is committed to producing robust monitoring and third-party auditing into action through supporting Forest the highest quality paper-based packaging of our supply chain to ensure sourced Certification in the most sustainable way. At the heart fibre is compliant with our sustainability —— We have set ourselves a relentless of this is minimising our resource impact by principles. Key to our commitment is target to purchase and produce all of using raw materials as efficiently as possible. forest certification and Chain of Custody our fibres either FSC, PEFC or SFI Chain This means a responsible approach: we use certification. A significant part of that of Custody certified by the end of 2015 recycled fibre where we can, and virgin fibre commitment includes maintaining high and require this from our suppliers where necessary, given the limited life cycle levels of biodiversity – particularly for our of wood fibre. own forestry operations. It is this aim that —— In 2014 we sold 41% of our European guides our sourcing and management packaging as FSC labelled and have Throughout the paper production process there will always be a need for virgin wood approach. While Smurfit Kappa does not now a potential to sell 97% of our global source wood fibre from areas where the risk production labelled as certified. fibres. Fibre can only be recycled approximately eight times before the quality of deforestation is high, it is nevertheless an becomes too poor. As a result we have to important issue that affects the reputation source virgin raw material from forests. of the whole industry. We use both wood fibres and recovered The availability of certified fibres at our paper paper to produce virgin and recycled paper mills currently reaches a level that enables us globally at a ratio of 26% to 74% respectively. to produce some 88% of our paper as Chain of The combination of actual impact and being Custody certified according to FSC or PEFC. a highly visible user of forests places an The remaining 12% are non-controversial important duty on the sector, and also on fibres managed through mills’ Chain of Smurfit Kappa, to play a leading role in ensuring Custody certified risk assessment systems. the resource is used in a responsible, sustainable way. Fibre origin 2014 – all operations* We believe forests can create sustainable, renewable sources of fibre when managed well. Smurfit Kappa manages its own eucalyptus and 18% pine plantations in Colombia and Venezuela and manages a small number of hectares of forest in Spain and France. We also procure 6% pulp wood from suppliers throughout Europe, 1% including from Sweden, France, Spain, the 56% Baltic States, Austria and Germany. 19% Everything we do is subject to strict principles of sustainability and the highest standards of practice to ensure sustainable forest management. We hold our suppliers to the same standards. Recycled pulp produced internally Wood pulp produced internally Market virgin pulp Virgin papers purchased Recycled paper purchased *All operations include: P&B mills, Sack plants, Corrugated, Board converters Our priorities and performance 33 Case study Smurfit Kappa Central Forestal: portable bridge Bridging the gap in Spain Arbaitza stream, the best preserved river The mountains and valleys in Spain’s Basque in Biscay, is home to an endangered country are characterised by their forests. crayfish. Stirring up the sandy bottom The abundance of small streams that flow of the river would cloud the water with through the western Pyrenees make it sediment and as a result the oxygen difficult to harvest wood in the region without intake of the crayfish would be jeopardised. disturbing nature, but Smurfit Kappa has The solution is an innovative portable managed to bridge the gap. bridge that can be reused and does not have any impact on nature. The common way to deal with water obstructions was to either build permanent The light portable bridges, weighing only bridges or to channel the streams through 1.4 tonnes, can easily be dismantled and buried pipes. Building a permanent structure moved to other locations. The lorry used has a major impact on the surroundings. in harvesting also carries the bridge to the The use of buried cement pipes disturbs the harvesting site, thereby ensuring a reduction bottom of the river and requires constant in CO2 emissions as well. The stakeholders maintenance. involved in the harvesting projects in Basque country support the new method of Smurfit Kappa Central Forestal’s innovation crossing streams and endorse its sustainable was triggered by a harvesting project characteristics, making the harvesting surrounding the village of Orozko. The nearby activities more acceptable to the public. The complete Smurfit Kappa paper and board mill system in Europe is Chain of Except for one small converting operation, the Chain of Custody certification of our We deliver transparency in Custody certified under either one or both converting operations in the Americas was our supply chains through schemes we support in Europe (FSC and PEFC) since 2010. This means that we have completed by March 2015. In Europe, 95% of our converting operations are Chain of a comprehensive certified reached a 100% production capacity with Custody certified. We are in the process Chain of Custody system. Chain of Custody certification for our paper of certifying the remaining operations both and board production in Europe. in the Americas and Europe. With this high In the Americas, we reached a Chain of percentage of both certified paper and board Custody certification status for all of our mills produced and converting operations under in January 2015 when our Venezuelan paper Chain of Custody certification we have now mills were also certified. This includes mills a potential to label 97% of the paper based producing virgin and recycled containerboard, packaging we produce in the Group beyond carton and solid board, sack paper and our commitment to achieve 90% by 2015. machine glazed papers. We are currently Our commitment to sustainable fibre working towards increasing the percentage of production capacity with Chain of Custody Our target is to source fibres that originate certification in the Americas. Currently, from certified, well-managed forests or are depending on the product line, the level of of a non-controversial origin. We also use produced certified products varies between recovered paper as a raw material. All of 61% and 100% per production line. the material should be delivered through a third-party verified, Chain of Custody certified supply chain. We accept FSC, PEFC and SFI certified wood and the Chain of Custody systems at our mills and plants also cover recycled fibre sourcing. ›› 34 Smurfit Kappa | Sustainable Development Report 2014 Our vision and priorities Forest continued In Europe we offer The packaging products we deliver to our customers should therefore not only meet Wood-based subsidies and their effects on wood markets forest management the above requirement but also meet the The 2020 EU Renewable Energy Policy services through our commitments we make in our various policy statements (Forestry policy, Code of targets are supported by subsidy schemes wood supply companies Business Conduct, Social Citizenship, etc.). that both increase the price as well as impact the availability of our raw materials. This can in Spain and France. Most of these have been covered in Chain of Custody certification. This concerns all be seen in Austria, for example, which has turned from a wood-exporting country into a fibres and fibre-based products we use or wood-importing country due to the building manufacture, whatever the origin or form of subsidised biomass power plants. For the of the fibres. 2020-2030 period the target for renewable A total of 57% of the wood used in the Smurfit energy has been increased, and participants Kappa mill system for producing virgin paper are expected to reach 27% energy from or pulp is currently Chain of Custody certified renewable sources by 2030. The EU calls for under the FSC and/or PEFC schemes and the an improved biomass policy to allow for fair remaining 43% is wood from non-controversial competition between the various uses of origin. This status has been risk assessed biomass resources in, for example, paper and through our FSC and/or PEFC Chain of pulp industries. This in effect supports our Custody system and verified by a third party. favoured concept of resource hierarchy with Smurfit Kappa recycling operations handle policy support for the highest added value some 5.4 million tonnes of recovered paper applications for fibre, such as producing annually in Europe and 1.2 million tonnes paper, over lower added value applications, in the Americas. We have a network of 14 such as energy generation. recycled paper depots in Europe and 33 in the Regulation and certification Americas that supply recovered paper from municipalities, retailers, industrials and our As a company operating across a number own corrugating and converting operations. of European countries, we are aware of the differing level of implementation of the EU Risks, challenges and opportunities Timber Regulation effective since March 2013. Deteriorating quality of recovered fibre While countries like Germany implemented very strict controls, others like Latvia, Across the globe more and more paper is Lithuania, Estonia, Poland and Slovakia did not. being recycled. This has a positive impact Current levels of illegal material are estimated on the fibre supply when more paper and to be between 3% to 8% (EU DG Environment). paper-based packaging is needed, especially in developing and emerging economies. But While the EU is beginning to address this, we using more fibre that is recycled also reduces believe more can be done. As a result, Smurfit the quality of recovered paper and hence that Kappa must rely on the forest certification of newly-made recycled paper. As forest areas schemes FSC and PEFC to ensure the are still converted mainly into agricultural land, materials we source meet our standards. future availability of wood for various purposes However, both have also faced issues with the including the production of paper is at risk. integrity of their Chain of Custody systems. The solution is to strike a balance between the To tackle this, both schemes have made use of recovered fibres and the use of virgin efforts to improve their systems including fibres made directly from wood. Sustainable updating Chain of Custody standards and forest practices and only using material from creating platforms that enable increased sustainable origin/Chain of Custody certified transparency for certificate holders’ data. material is key to striking that balance and to maintaining an equilibrium. Our priorities and performance 35 Origin of fibre Purchased Recycled Recycled Purchased wood paper pulp paper Pulp Paper Converting Packaging Forestry Wood production Pulp production Paper operations solutions to customers Smurﬁt Kappa target 1: Smurﬁt Kappa target 2: By 2015, all ﬁbres produced and purchased will be labelled By 2015, over 90% of our paper-based packaging as Chain of Custody certiﬁed under FSC, PEFC or SFI. As a will be labelled as Chain of Custody certiﬁed under minimum requirement, ﬁbre should be from a sustainable origin. FSC, PEFC or SFI. Smurﬁt Kappa External wood Smurﬁt Kappa operation based product wood based product Across the globe more As a member of the FSC Chain of Custody technical working group, Smurfit Kappa has Colombia Our largest forest plantation area is in and more paper is being been assisting in the revision of the standard. Colombia. In total we own or manage recycled. This reduces The proposed revisions take a positive approach to the preand post-consumer approximately 69,000 ha, including: the need for virgin waste balance, making post-industrial waste —— 44,000 ha of commercial plantations, of which 5,900 ha are partnerships with fibres which is good for equate more closely with post-consumer waste. The result is that higher quality private land owners maintaining forest cover paper waste from converting operations —— 22,000 ha of protected natural forest internationally. would qualify as Chain of Custody certified raw material, improving both the quality —— Just over 3,000 ha of land given over to infrastructure and availability of certified packaging raw material. In our commercial plantations 60% of the land is occupied by pine trees and 39% by Forest and plantation management eucalyptus trees, while 1% is dedicated for research. The Americas Smurfit Kappa owns and manages 103,000 Venezuela hectares (ha) of forests and plantations in Our forests in Venezuela are situated in Colombia and Venezuela that provide almost the three western states. Totalling all the virgin wood fibre we require in those some 35,000 ha of forest and plantations, countries. They are all subject to protection they include: programmes managed by Smurfit Kappa —— 21,000 ha of commercial plantations based on the best sustainable development principles promoting responsible use of —— 13,000 ha of natural forest natural resources alongside economic —— Approximately 1,000 ha of land given development and social inclusiveness. over to infrastructure ›› We also conform to comprehensive legal, technical and environmental regulations set by local governments and international bodies, and subject to annual review. 36 Smurfit Kappa | Sustainable Development Report 2014 Our vision and priorities Forest continued In 2014 the inventory —— In our commercial plantations 60% of the land is dedicated to short fibre species Not converted to plantations, this land helps to maintain the rich biodiversity of the area, of carbon captured by (eucalyptus and gmelina) and 31% by long preserving watersheds and conserving 25,000 ha of pine and fibre pine. The remaining 9% is used for research and development, including habitats and ecosystems. To maintain the biodiversity and sustainability 16,207 ha of eucalyptus silviculture, plantation management and of forests in these areas, our guiding reached 2,521,855 forest protection activities. principles are to: tonnes. Certification —— Conserve natural forests under our stewardship, protecting and promoting Our Colombian forest management programmes have been certified by the species diversity, thereby sustaining FSC since 2003. ecosystems and contributing to the protection of water sources and habitats Our Venezuelan forests and plantations are for flora and fauna managed to the highest standards. By the end of 2014, 45% of the area was certified —— Identify appropriate species and to FSC Controlled Wood standards. practices that increase plantation yields while protecting the environment We finalised a FSC Forest Management standard certification process for 31% —— Continuously and systematically develop of the plantations in December 2014 and research programmes to preserve and received the certificate in March 2015. enhance soil productivity Plantation forestry offers a means to produce Conservation sustainable fibres for paper production in an Of the forest land owned by Smurfit Kappa efficient manner. In our Colombian and in Colombia and Venezuela, 32% and 37% Venezuelan holdings this is done in carefully respectively is dedicated to protect the selected areas, avoiding valuable ecosystems sustainability of forests. and protected forest areas. Employee Testimonial Continuous education changed my life José Ramiro Ríos Diaz to benefit forestry workers, their families One of the areas in which Smurfit Kappa and the neighbouring community. Colombia’s Forestry Division is most active “This year I hope to graduate from is Pereira, the nation’s sixth largest city. Universidad Abierta y a Distancia (UNAD). Located in Colombia’s Western region, Successful completion of the Open forestry thrives in the foothills of the Andes University and Distance Learning Program as a result of fertile soil and good weather. grants me the title Agro-Forestry And as a result of the focus on personnel Technologist. Smurfit Kappa’s continued training and development by Reforestadora support for my personal development Andina S.A., a Smurfit Kappa subsidiary. has allowed me to progress within “I joined the forestry project as a 23 year old Reforestadora Andina and to move up field worker in 2001. At that time I only had the ranks from field worker to the position completed the 5th grade of elementary of Manager of Farms II. I am thankful and school. Smurfit Kappa offered me the proud that nowadays I am in charge of chance to go to high school and join the a significant forestry nucleus in the programme for Adult Education that Colombian Andean Zone belonging to the Smurfit Kappa hosts in co-operation Departamentos of Quindío and Risaralda.” with Caja de Compensacion Familiar. The programme is especially designed Our priorities and performance 37 Biodiversity and habitats As a result, we established in 2014 that the Protecting and promoting biodiversity inventory of carbon captured by 25,500 ha Forest and natural habitats is at the heart of our of pine and 16,200 ha of eucalyptus reached 2,521,855 tonnes. Boundary: This strategic priority discusses approach. To achieve this, we work with relevant issues around sustainable forest third-party institutions and through our Since the start of our Colombian forestry management, biodiversity and natural own research centre in Colombia. activity, the amount of carbon dioxide material sourcing. We limit our reporting to removed from the atmosphere by 44,000 ha our own forest management, raw material In Colombia we have worked with three of plantations is 9,255,206 tonnes. sourcing, production and labelling our products. local universities – Cauca, Valle and Quindío since 2009, studying the flora and fauna We implement sustainable forest management Engagement with communities and principles for our own plantations and forests populations in and around our protected stakeholders and aim to achieve FSC and PEFC certification and planted forests. Examples of our for all of our plantations and forest. work include: In addition to our work in biodiversity and nature protection, we work in close cooperation We certify our own Chains of Custody —— A partnership with the Biology with the communities neighbouring our according to FSC and PEFC standards, Programme of the Natural Science plantations. In the communities in which we covering both virgin and recycled fibres. School of Universidad del Valle, begun in operate we endeavour to engage local We expect our suppliers to be able to deliver 2013 to study the ‘diversity of birds, fibrous raw materials through complete FSC, people around decision-making processes. PEFC or SFI certified Chains of Custody. mammals and plants in the natural forests This is especially important in Latin America, of the forestry nucleus in Sevilla’ where indigenous people may have rights to Commitment #1: All fibre produced and —— A literature review, carried out in 2014, the land and local communities’ livelihoods purchased is Chain of Custody certified which aimed to inform conservation are dependent on the forests. under FSC, PEFC or SFI. planning by identifying areas of special Timeframe: Target to be reached by 2015. biodiversity in close proximity to the Europe Progress made: We achieved 99.9% company’s plantations and natural forests In Europe we offer forest management certification in 2014, the highest number that in the Santa Rosa-Pereira core areas services through our wood supply companies can reasonably be achieved. During the past three years, studies in Spain and France. In both countries we Commitment #2: Over 90% of our packaging developed by Smurfit Kappa identified 990 follow local best practices for forest is labelled as Chain of Custody certified under species in our forests. This includes 458 management, as certified by PEFC. FSC, PEFC or SFI. trees, 473 birds, and 59 mammals of which Our wood handling operations are Chain of Timeframe: Target to be reached by 2015. 30 species are to some extent endangered. Custody certified according to FSC and PEFC Progress made: In Europe we reached 41% It is clear to us that our plantations and the standards, while our complete paper and in 2014. neighbouring protected natural forests form board mill system has been certified since Our perspective: Independent third-party important wildlife corridors that contribute early 2011. verified certification is the most reliable means to species conservation in the Andean to promote sustainable forest management ecosystem, and therefore need careful and combat deforestation. We manage our management. forest holdings based on our sustainable development principles, promoting economic Carbon sequestration growth, responsible use of natural resources To explore the carbon sequestration and fostering social equity in the regions where potential of the pine and eucalyptus species our plantations and forests are located. planted by Smurfit Kappa, we launched a The recyclability of paper fibres is an important partnership with the National Centre for contributor to the sustainable nature of our Coffee Research (CENICAFÉ). Together we products. Recovery of used paper is a global developed the ‘Carton of Colombia Carbon necessity and policies should stimulate Fixation Program’ or 3CFix, for the calculation setting up well-functioning paper recovery systems. For Smurfit Kappa communicating of carbon fixed by our plantations. the sustainable nature of our products is important. Therefore we have included the sourcing of recovered paper to the scope of our Chain of Custody certifications. FSC, PEFC and SFI currently offer the most reliable standards that deliver credible sustainable fibrous raw materials. 38 Smurfit Kappa | Sustainable Development Report 2014 Our vision and priorities Climate Change Tackling the challenge of climate change Summary The production and use of fossil energy is towards the use of renewable energy is —— Smurfit Kappa is committed to reducing one of the major contributors to greenhouse needed. This shift could be achieved by the amount of energy it uses and the gas emissions and climate change globally. embracing biomass energy. However, this emissions associated with its business The effects of climate change is one of the may limit the availability of wood fibres for practices and products biggest challenges we as a society face. paper production. Cost is also a risk and a Use of energy, carbon footprint and GHG challenge. Increased cost of the raw material, —— We have committed to a 25% reduction possibly as a result of government incentives in relative fossil CO2 emissions emissions are all material to Smurfit Kappa’s business. We also recognise that these that encourage the use of biomass, could (compared to 2005) in our paper and create a competitive disadvantage board mill system by 2020 issues are material to wider society, and indeed to the environment itself. compared to less energy-intensive —— We have already achieved a 21.6% packaging materials. reduction against this target Paper production is energy intensive and the cost and supply of energy are key Smurfit Kappa supports efforts to curb decision factors for our sector. To meet this climate change and establish a global level challenge, our industry must reduce the playing field. The upcoming COP 21 meeting energy intensity of production and move, in Paris in December 2015 provides another where economically feasible, from fossil fuels opportunity for governments to make to renewable sources, including biomass. economic growth and measures to restrict global climate change to 2°C mutually As a company we strike a balance between compatible, through stable policy using wood (and recovered) fibres for the frameworks that offer certainty to support production of paper and using wood fibres innovation and investment decisions. such as sawdust, bark, black liquor and fibre containing sludge for bioenergy production. Specifically the EU, now that its policy By the nature of its processes, the paperframework for the period 2020-2030 has producing industry is one of the most been approved, needs to think carefully efficient users of wood and energy alike. about how to avoid so-called ‘carbon We only use wood biomass that cannot leakage’ – the transfer of business be used in any higher value production for operations to countries with less robust energy generation. In addition, we reuse environmental targets. as much as we can of the by-products of Smurfit Kappa supports the EU initiative bioenergy production, including black liquor, for an Energy Union. We believe it will enable as a fuel in our own production processes. European companies to deliver innovative, efficient products and technologies to tackle Risks, challenges and opportunities climate change, provided it is established in We know that climate change represents the correct way. With 70-75% of our business a global risk. More intense and extreme based in Europe we are affected by the weather poses a risk not only to our business, enduring high energy costs in the region. but to society as well. In the global drive to The Energy Union aims, among other things, decrease fossil CO2 emissions a shift to address this issue. Our priorities and performance 39 Looking further ahead, the Forest Fibre Direct fossil (scope 1) CO2 emission Direct fossil (scope 1) CO2 emission Industry 2050 Roadmap to a low-carbon European mills The Americas mills bio-economy paper showed that a CO2 reduction for our sector of 50-60% Ktonnes Kg/tonne Ktonnes Kg/tonne 2,000 1,000 2,000 1,000 compared to 1990 levels is possible based on available and emerging technologies. 1,800 900 1,800 900 To reach a reduction of 80% by 2050, the 1,600 800 1,600 800 development and availability of breakthrough 1,400 700 1,400 700 technologies is necessary but must be available by 2030. 1,200 600 1,200 600 We are participating in a consortium that 1,000 500 1,000 500 is investigating the viability of one such 800 400 800 400 breakthrough technology called Deep 300 300 600 600 Eutectic Solvents. To transform the energy consumption of production processes, 400 200 400 200 cooperation within and between businesses 200 100 200 100 across different sectors, particularly around 0 0 0 0 research and development, is essential. 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Governments and the EU have a central Absolute emission (ktonnes) Absolute emission (ktonnes) role to play in incentivising projects to meet Specific (kg/tonne) Specific (kg/tonne) this challenge. ›› Case study Supply chain CO2 reduction Fanfold® by train The team turned to the railways, investigating and subsequently reviving Progress is not always the result of new an existing in-house railway connection. developments. It can just as well be inspired Deutsche Bahn now loads a couple of by ideas from the past. Smurfit Kappa wagons a week, each the equivalent of Germany looked back to take a step forward 2.5 truckloads. In 2014 60 train wagons and exchanged the European highways for travelled to Sweden instead of 150 trucks. railways. Expenses have dropped and almost Fanfold® is a continuous sheet of corrugated 150 tonnes of CO2 emission from board that has been scored and folded like a trucks was replaced by the much smaller fan. It is an ideal solution for customers who CO2 output of the modern freight train. have many different sized products and Production also benefits with a longer packaging specifications. Every year 150 lead time for the corrugator planning. truck loads of Fanfold® each travelled a Both the client and Smurfit Kappa are distance of 1,250 kilometres to Sweden. satisfied with the major CO2 reduction The challenge was to find an alternative, that benefits the whole supply chain. less expensive, lower environmental impact transportation solution, that still guaranteed in time customer service. 40 Smurfit Kappa | Sustainable Development Report 2014 Our vision and priorities Climate Change continued To tackle climate change Biofuels and fossil fuels we are moving to a lower European mills PJ GJ/tonne fossil-fuel, less CO2 32 16 intensive energy mix. 28 14 24 12 20 10 16 8 12 6 8 4 4 2 0 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Biofuels absolute consumption (PJ) Fossil fuels absolute consumption (PJ) Biofuels specific consumption (GJ/tonne) Fossil fuels specific consumption (GJ/tonne) Progress in 2014 We achieved a decrease of 21.6% of our fossil To tackle climate change we are moving to CO2 emissions in 2014, in comparison to our a lower fossil-fuel, less CO2 intensive energy baseline year 2005. Our target is measured mix, promoting renewable sources where against produced tonnes of paper rather economically feasible and closing loops to than absolute values as the company is in create circularity in our production process. dynamic growth and also subject to opening We do this through a three-pronged approach: and closing facilities. —— Investing in efficient energy generation Combined heat and power —— Efficient energy generation by investing During 2014, one major CHP project was in highly efficient Combined Heat and finalised and one was initiated. Power (CHP) systems. Our industrial —— In Saillat, France, the internal CHP runs Direct fuel consumption All operations* need for both electricity and heat year round and, during Q2 2014, a new means we are well suited to scaling up more efficient boiler was installed leading our use of CHP generated power to a 16% decrease of fossil CO2 emissions —— Improving the efficiency of our current —— In Hoya, Germany, an additional CHP was boiler houses, minimising heat losses started in April 2014, resulting in a decrease —— Investing in energy reduction programmes of 5,000 tonnes of CO2 emissions from —— Reducing our absolute use of energy start-up until the end of 2014 44% 48% through investment in research and In Ania, Italy, we are investing in a new CHP new replacement technologies that will be operational in 2016 and lead to —— Investing in fossil CO2 reductions electricity self-sufficiency and an emission 2% reduction of 2,400 tonnes of CO2 per year. —— Reducing carbon emissions through a shift to CO2 friendlier fuels such as 6% biomass and natural gas Natural gas Other fossil fuels Coal Biofuel *All operations include P&B mills, Sack plants, Corrugated, Board converters Our priorities and performance 41 At our Cali mill in Colombia, a new lime kiln has Biofuels and fossil fuels been operating for a year, using natural gas The Americas mills instead of heavy oil as fuel. Energy efficiency PJ GJ/tonne has been improved by 20% per used tonne 32 16 of lime, CO2 emissions have decreased by 28 14 13.000 tonnes representing 3%, and waste has decreased by 5,000 tonnes annually. 24 12 Our Piteå mill achieved full bioenergy-based 20 10 production in 2014, moving to biofuel in its lime kiln and recovery boiler. The main energy 16 8 sources are now by-products from the pulping 12 6 process, resulting in specific fossil CO2 emissions of 22kg per produced tonne of 8 4 paper, 5% of typical fossil CO2 footprint. 4 2 Closing loops 0 0 We close loops and create circularity in our 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 energy production through fully utilising, Biofuels absolute consumption (PJ) Fossil fuels absolute consumption (PJ) where possible, any by-products that have Biofuels specific consumption (GJ/tonne) Fossil fuels specific consumption (GJ/tonne) a high energy value. In addition to traditional bioenergy usage at pulp and paper mills – burning black liquor at integrated pulp and Efficient infrastructure 2015 we expect to create lower CO2 paper mills and utilise the biogas produced At our Townsend Hook mill we are rebuilding emissions than when operating the two during the anaerobic water treatment at our the mill by replacing two paper machines older machines. When a new CHP is recycled paper mills as fuel – we are currently with one new machine. This new technology installed by 2018 we expect to reduce exploring further options for creating energy will improve absolute energy use and CO2 emissions by 35-50% in comparison to and heat from our side streams that have emissions. When production restarts in the previous situation. otherwise no other valuable use. ›› Case study Vacuum systems Energy efficiency through best in class energy use and reduced wear vacuum systems of wires and felts at the machine. Vacuum systems that are being used to At the corrugating and converting operations, support the dewatering process in paper vacuum is typically used to move and board machines is no news in the paper corrugated sheets through production industry. The Smurfit Kappa corrugated lines. At Smurfit Kappa Düsseldorf division however, found that using vacuum (see picture) a thought of using the exhaust in a new innovative way at its operations vacuum exhaust air in a smart way led can also bring many benefits and efficiencies. to an innovative approach to removing At paper and board machines, a vacuum conversion waste and rejects with system is used to remove water from the otherwise wasted vacuum exhaust air. paper sheet and also to dewater and clean The new system means that instead of press felts. Improving the control of vacuum blowing the vacuum exhaust air to the levels and removing inefficiencies can production hall, we now use it to suck waste significantly help to save energy. and rejects and direct them to a collection At Smurfit Kappa SSK we improved the point in a controlled manner. The innovation PM4 vacuum system by improving its control. is recycling air and at the same time We now use only two pumps for four vacuum increasing efficiency to the plant’s waste devices instead of four. This change led to management. 42 Smurﬁt Kappa | Sustainable Development Report 2014 Our vision and priorities Climate Change continued Using a suite of tools, Examples of these include: the carbon footprint for each packaging unit, but also to track its development over — Experimenting with producing biodiesel including our Paper to from black liquor at our Piteå mill that the years. Box and Pack Expert, then can be used as fuel for the trucks Emission from transport transporting goods to and from the mill we continue to work with — Burning tall oil, a high-energy value The vast majority of our CO2 emissions stem customers to determine by-product from the pulping process, at the from our manufacturing activities at our production locations. Of the remaining CO2 the carbon footprint of lime kiln and at the recovery boiler at Piteå. emissions, those caused by the transport of raw materials, intermediate and ﬁnal their packaging. Working with our customers products to and from our production Using a suite of tools, including our Paper locations are also signiﬁcant. For our to Box and Pack Expert, we continue to work European operations we calculate, on an with customers to determine the carbon annual basis, the CO2 emissions related to footprint of their packaging. These tools the transport of the main raw materials to give access to CO2 emissions data and other our mills and converting plants. For 2013, information to optimise packaging solutions. we have, for the ﬁrst time, estimated the In 2014, Paper to Box was used 2,172 times CO2 emissions related to the transport of a day and Pack Expert 1,052 times a day customer products from our European on average. As we work towards our 2020 corrugated operations to customer points target of 25% reduction of our speciﬁc CO2 of delivery. Transportation of our products emissions, these tools can capture this data is mostly outsourced to external parties. for customers’ own calculations and beneﬁt. In the CO2 emissions reported we include A new option in our Innotools suite of design the transport of wood, recovered papers software allows customers not only to know and market pulp used in our mills. We also Supplier testimonial Innovative adhesive aeration system in cooperation with Henkel Henkel is the world’s largest adhesives Signiﬁcantly less adhesives are needed for manufacturer. It provides innovative the same laminating area resulting in solutions and leading product technologies greater eﬃciency and value. through a network of industry experts. Also Productivity and performance are further this year, Henkel is included in the Dow Jones improved by faster handling and less Sustainability Indices since their launch in containers, storage, transport, and 1999, ranked eight times as industry leader. cleaning time of returnable containers. Sustainability is truly embedded in the The life cycle assessment shows that the company culture, values and goals. “Henkel aeration technology reduces the carbon searches for solutions that are footprint up to 20% compared to environmentally compatible and deliver traditional solutions. In conclusion, it leads added value through a reduced ecological to reduced emissions and saves resources. footprint”, says Johanna Friess (pictured), marketing manager for Industrial Adhesives The system has been implemented at the Europe. corrugated plant of Smurﬁt Kappa Massa Lombarda in Italy. Bruno Pelloni from the Henkel and Smurﬁt Kappa joined forces to plant says: “This is a good example of introduce the innovative next generation cooperation between stakeholders which Adhesive Aeration. The system incorporates can be implemented at more plants to a laminating adhesive and a third generation achieve better environmental eﬃciency.” glue-mix unit that adds controlled quantities Further implementation of the system is of air to the gluing process. The application under consideration in Germany and Sweden. increases the volume of the adhesive. Our priorities and performance 43 take into account CO2 emissions from the Transportation for the above activities transport of intermediate products to paper represents approximately 6.2 billion Climate mills and/or converting plants (reels of so-called tonnekilometres. 54% of our paper, corrugated board sheets, solid board transport needs are carried out by road, 35% Boundary: This strategic priority looks into sheets, plastic films and other items to the by sea with the balance carried out by train. energy use, climate change and greenhouse converting plants) as well as CO2 emissions gas emissions. We limit our reporting to our For the calculation of the CO2 emissions for own operations and transport from our of the transport of finished products to our the transport of finished products from our suppliers and to our customers’ gates. customers (mainly packaging solutions). converting plants to customer points of All CO2 emissions from our paper and board While the calculation of CO2 emissions for delivery, we have accurate data for 29% mills (directly used or indirectly used through the transport of paper reels between our of the total volume. We consider this figure buying secondary energy) related to the own mills and the converting plants is to be representative for all finished goods production of paper. Only paper production accurate (representing 70% of the total transport. By way of simple extrapolation is taken into account given its relative fuel volume), we believe we have made a good of both volume and 2013 data, we have use compared to our converting operations estimate of emissions for the transport estimated the total relevant CO2 emissions (90%) and hence its contribution to fossil fuel of the remaining reels of paper supplied to be 101,900 tonnes (100% by road). CO2 emissions. to our corrugated plants by third parties. Commitment #1: A 25% reduction in relative For 2014 we have extrapolated the 2013 data total fossil CO2 emissions (compared to 2005) adjusted for production units. Following that (scope 1 and 2) in our mill system by 2020. method, CO2 equivalents for transport of Timeframe: Target to be reached by 2020. raw materials amounted to 217,700 tonnes. Progress made: Original target of 20% The CO2 emission factors by transport mode reached in 2013. In 2014 a new target was are extracted from the European Reference set; currently we are at 21.6% reduction. Life Cycle Database version II (ELCD). Commitment #2: Collaborate with customers to determine the carbon footprint of the packaging life cycle. Timeframe: Continuous Progress made: We have developed a suite of tools that help to determine the carbon footprint of our customers’ packaging (Paper to Box and Pack Expert). In 2014 these tools were used in average more than 3,000 times a day. Our perspective: The impact of climate change is one of the biggest challenges we as a society face. Our use of energy, carbon footprint and GHG emissions are all material to Smurfit Kappa’s business. We therefore need to find ways to fundamentally re-engineer our operations to be less fossil-fuel intensive. In our case it means reducing energy use and increasing energy efficiency and increasing the use of renewable sources where feasible. Our opportunity is to design products that allow customers to take out energy usage in their supply chain. 44 Smurfit Kappa | Sustainable Development Report 2014 Our vision and priorities Water Using less water to create more packaging Summary Water is a key consideration for Smurfit to ensure that the water we discharge is in —— Sustainable water management is Kappa. Our production processes require optimal condition. With over 90% of the increasingly important as fresh water water to turn raw materials into our end water we use returned to water bodies in becomes scarcer and more unequally products. While our operations are designed good condition, Smurfit Kappa is a processor distributed to use the minimum amount of water, our of water – not simply a consumer. 38 paper and board mills nevertheless —— We are committed to reducing the process 119 million m3. The supply of good Risks, challenges and opportunities organic content of water (COD) quality water is therefore of material concern A significant decrease in the availability of returned to the environment from our to our business. or an increase in the cost of fresh water will mills by one-third by 2020 compared materially impact the ability of our business to 2005 levels We also aim to minimise our impact on the environment resulting from our water to operate. —— Between 2005 and 2014 the COD processing and discharge. Two-thirds of our Water is vital for the ecosystems and content of processed water returned usage is to facilitate production processes, environments in which we operate. Water to the environment has decreased the remaining part is used for cooling. We that is being returned to the environment by by 28% relative to production reuse our water a number of times at various an industry can impact its ecosystem either —— We are performing water impact production stages before treating it in our by creating a nutrition imbalance, polluting assessments on our sites and water treatment plants, thereby limiting our the water or changing its temperature. developing water usage measures overall water intake. Although the majority Regulatory requirements and continued as appropriate of our mills are not located in areas of water scrutiny means that the quality and safety stress, we have nevertheless taken the of the treated water we return to the step of undertaking water risk assessments public water bodies must always remain across our sites, a programme which we uncompromisingly high, to mitigate any expect to be completed in 2017. impact on biodiversity. To this end, we Our paper mills are neighbours to many have invested €39 million since 2005 in different industries, communities, agricultural the development of our process water land and living areas. Therefore it is important treatment plants. Case study Water saving programmes Tough objectives for kind solutions challenge, including initiatives to recycle Water levels in the Yaracuy river, Valencia water in our paper making process, lake and Guaire river in Venezuela have incorporating previously treated process changed in recent years. Research indicated water. water sources near the Smurfit Kappa mills In addition, we trained personnel and in San Felipe, Valencia, and Caracas needed installed temporised automatic valves more attention from industry and for the press felts knock-off shower to government. Local legislators mooted reduce washing time and fresh water stricter regulations although Smurfit Kappa consumption. The mills replaced had already set in motion a Water Saving conventional mechanical seals with Programme for its Venezuelan mills hydrodynamic seals, installed level control supporting their ISO 14001 certification. valves in clarified water tanks in the effluent Our objective is to minimize the impact our treatment plant and rotating IPEC filters to water usage and discharge have on the reuse water and recover fibres. Pumps now environment. The three Venezuelan mills recover 600 gallons/minute of treated showed a high rate of water consumption water that is sent back to the process that could be reduced by implementing section and the irrigation system. several changes in the production process Consequently water consumption rate and with paper machines. at the three mills dropped by 26%, We developed a water management making their operations significantly programme specifically tailored to this more sustainable. Our priorities and performance 45 Key achievements in 2014 Water released Water released European mills The Americas mills We continuously implement best practices Mm3 M3/tonne Mm3 M3/tonne in water treatment in our mills. In 2014, over 90 45 90 45 90% of paper and board was produced at mills where best practice water treatment 80 40 80 40 systems are in place. This involves treating 70 35 70 35 process water to decrease the organic 30 30 charge of effluent, through anaerobic and 60 60 aerobic treatments, before returning to 50 25 50 25 the environment. 40 20 40 20 Working with external auditors to monitor 15 15 and manage ongoing water sustainability, 30 30 we have conducted a high-level review of 20 10 20 10 the water impact and risk of our operations 10 5 10 5 based on the Aqueduct and Water Risk Filter (WRF) measurement, which takes into 0 0 0 0 account additional water-related site-specific 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Process (Mm3) Process (Mm3) information. Where sites are identified to Cooling (Mm3) Cooling (Mm3) have a higher risk of water vulnerability, Water released – specific (M3/tonne)* Water released – specific (M3/tonne)* an on-site survey to design relevant risk mitigation and monitoring strategies has *To note: this calculation does not include those of our mills which discharge their treated water to a community water been developed. treatment plant and not directly to a surface water body. In 2014, the first such in-depth assessment was carried out at our Cerro Gordo mill Water intake Water intake in Mexico. The mill is located in an area of European mills The Americas mills considerable water stress and the process Mm3 M3/tonne Mm3 M3/tonne confirmed the – now addressed – need 90 45 90 45 to monitor the long-term availability of 80 40 80 40 sufficient water. Similar activities were carried out at our Spanish Mengibar mill 70 35 70 35 in addition to our largest recycling mill, 60 30 60 30 Roermond, in the Netherlands, during the 50 25 50 25 first quarter of 2015. An ongoing programme of assessments will be carried out throughout 40 20 40 20 2015 and 2016 for additional mills. 30 15 30 15 Between 2005 and 2014 the COD 20 10 20 10 content of processed water returned to the environment has decreased by 28% 10 5 10 5 relative to production. 0 0 0 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Performance in 2014 Absolute (Mm )3 Absolute (Mm ) 3 In 2014, our total water intake decreased to Specific (M3/tonne) Specific (M3/tonne) 121 Mm3 from 125 Mm3 the previous year (-3%). For 2014 the average water intake by The challenge for Smurfit Kappa will be production processes are water intensive our paper and board mills equalled 17.2 m3 to both maintain and demonstrate our have demonstrated an interest in sharing per tonne of paper produced (in 2013 the responsible approach to water use as a knowledge with Smurfit Kappa on water average water intake was 17.7 m3 per tonne). low consumer of water. We must ensure management practices. The performance of our mills’ organic that companies within our sector and more We have set ourselves a clear target of content of water directly discharged to broadly, do not tolerate water waste even reducing the organic content of water (COD) surface water bodies has improved by 28% when they operate in areas with no water by one-third by 2020 and we are assessing in 2014 compared to the basis year 2005 scarcity. Indeed, customers whose the risk related to water at our mills. and improved by 3% compared to 2013. ›› 46 Smurfit Kappa | Sustainable Development Report 2014 Our vision and priorities Water continued Water sources – all operations* Process water discharges Process water discharges European mills: COD The Americas mills: COD 1% Ktonnes Kg/tonne Ktonnes Kg/tonne 3% 18 18 18 18 13% 15 15 15 15 12 12 12 12 9 9 9 9 83% 6 6 6 6 3 3 3 3 Surface Ground 0 0 0 0 Grid Other 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 *All operations include P&B mills, Sack plants, Corrugated, Absolute (ktonnes) Absolute (ktonnes) Board converters Specific (kg/tonne) Specific (kg/tonne) Testimonial Smurfit Kappa’s water stewardship strategy In May 2014 Smurfit Kappa commissioned Companies such as Smurfit Kappa are Deloitte to conduct a water-related risk increasingly moving towards the assessment across Smurfit Kappa’s implementation of water stewardship global industrial operations. Assessing strategies to evaluate operational risks potential risks from water availability and and costs associated with disruptions quality is a complex process, which covers to a company’s water supply. Water multiple aspects specific to each stewardship strategies are forward looking geographical location. as they quantify water-related risks and Thirty-six Smurfit Kappa mills were screened include actions to mitigate these risks. using the WWF Water Risk Filter and WRI Will Sarni is director and practice leader Aqueduct tools. In a second phase, on-site enterprise water strategy at Deloitte assessments were carried out performed Consulting LLP, author, board member using a tool specifically for Smurfit Kappa. of the Rainforest Alliance, and a member This tool was used to perform the in several organisations such as the assessments which included the collection Water Leadership Working Group for the of data and engagement with external World Business Council for Sustainable stakeholders. Three mills have been Development (WBCSD) and the scientific assessed to date. These assessments Program Committee for Stockholm provide detailed water vulnerability World Water Week. evaluations and support Smurfit Kappa in enhancing the water sustainability of their operations. Our priorities and performance 47 Process water discharges Process water discharges European mills: TSS The Americas mills: TSS Water Ktonnes Kg/tonne Ktonnes Kg/tonne Boundary: Under this strategic priority 6 6 6 6 we concentrate on the water intake and discharge. It covers all Smurfit Kappa paper mills discharging their process water directly to bodies of water. Mills that have their process water treated externally are not 4 4 4 4 included. Only paper production is taken into account because this contributes to 95% of all organic discharges. Organic discharges in the process water 2 2 2 2 is measured with the indicator COD. Commitment #1: A reduction of the organic content of water returned to the environment from our mill plants (COD) by one-third 0 0 0 0 compared to 2005 levels. 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Timeframe: Target to be reached by 2020. Absolute (ktonnes) Absolute (ktonnes) Specific (kg/tonne) Specific (kg/tonne) Progress made: At end of 2014, we achieved for the mills discharging directly to surface, 28 % of COD reduction per tonne Process water discharges Process water discharges of paper produced compared to 2005. European mills: BOD The Americas mills: BOD Commitment #2: Perform environmental Ktonnes Kg/tonne Ktonnes Kg/tonne impact assessments of the water use of our 6 6 6 6 sites (where relevant) and develop water usage measurements. Timeframe: Target to be reached by 2017. Progress made: Overall environmental 4 4 4 4 impact assessment of the water use at our sites was made during 2014. As result of this work, a tool to assess mill specific risk related to water was created and piloted at our Cerro Gordo paper mill in Mexico. 2 2 2 2 Our perspective: Through a programme of investment and technological innovation in the treatment process of discharged water, our vision is to significantly 0 0 0 0 reduce the water impact of our 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 operations over time. Absolute (ktonnes) Absolute (ktonnes) Specific (kg/tonne) Specific (kg/tonne) Water-related data for all our operations To provide an accurate overview of Group (including details for individual mills in Europe performance for all water indicators, and the Americas) are shown in the tables BOD discharged is estimated in some on pages 68 to 73. For the mills where water mills (Nervión and Navarra in Spain and treatment is subcontracted to an external SSK in the UK) by using COD discharge third party, in all disclosures relating to the in combination with the ratio COD/BOD process water content (COD, BOD, TSS), obtained from surveys performed during we report levels in the water discharged by 2014 in those mills. the mills to these external treatment parties. 48 Smurfit Kappa | Sustainable Development Report 2014 Our vision and priorities Waste Moving to eliminate waste from production Summary Our operations generate sizeable volumes parts. To reuse as much of the recovered —— Waste, the inefficient use of natural of non-hazardous waste. As much as is materials as possible, we separate these resources, is an important challenge economically and technically feasible, we elements from the production process by in the production of paper – in particular have implemented processes to reuse our using water. Some of this water is retained recovered paper which contains waste. Ultimately, our vision is to closely by the non-usable materials and therefore unwanted auxiliary materials follow a circular economy model. We already contributes as much as 50% of the waste use rest streams from other production we ‘generate’. —— Paper-based packaging is one of the processes – mostly recovered paper – as raw most recycled materials globally, and material. An efficient paper recovery system Risks, challenges and opportunities can be converted to a valuable resource is therefore an important consideration for Our expressed aim is to closely follow for paper production, used up to 8-10 our business. Wherever possible we use a circular economy model and we are times through its wood fibre life cycle, recycled raw materials, resulting in recovered committed to working with the recycling before being further utilised as a source paper making up 74% of raw material in paper and paper-producing industries to achieve of energy or biodegradable material, production. Finally, we maximise the use of this. This is one of the central pillars of our particularly in agricultural applications recovered paper for producing paper and sustainability strategy. Our Roermond paper —— Smurfit Kappa is committed to board before using it as fuel at the end of mill in the Netherlands is just one example conducting company-wide assessments its life cycle. of this and has realised new uses for 99.5% to minimise non-hazardous waste, To this end most of our waste from the of its waste. We are also working with the hazardous waste and waste to landfill recovered paper we use can be considered World Economic Forum, participating in by the end of 2015 non-usable. On average we need 1,070 kg three pilot programmes through Project of recovered paper to produce one tonne of Mainstream, to progress the application paper. The bales we receive contain plastic, of the circular economy. metals, glass, sand and other non-usable Case study Central Chemical Dosing System process requires the use of various cleaning safety and environmental issues with chemicals and glue. Often such industrial its Central Chemical Dosing System. chemicals are concentrates that need A separate chemical warehouse was to be diluted on site. This affects dosage designed for the new system and equipped control and consequently the impact on with cameras, electronic alarms and level the environment. sensors to constantly control and monitor There is also a possible safety risk for the chemicals. The substances are transported employees responsible for the handling and to the converting machines through a dosage of the chemicals, and the chemical piping network with valves and pumps concentrates take up a lot of work space mostly controlled by a computer steering near converting machines. system. As a result, fewer chemicals are used, quality control improved, employees Gdańsk’s different types of packaging do not come in contact with the dangerous designs are mainly manufactured for substances and more space was created food, pharmaceutical, cosmetics and around the converting machines. consumer electronics companies. These Hands-on and in control often internationally active corporations Hands-on solutions to improve place much emphasis on sustainability. sustainability performance that have Most packaging products made in Smurfit Sustainability is also a key business driver the potential to be implemented across Kappa’s Gdańsk plant (see picture) in for Smurfit Kappa. Smurfit Kappa operations globally, are Poland require high quality printing, valuable innovations. Smurfit Kappa die-cutting, combinations of paperboard, Consequently, the people at Smurfit Kappa Gdańsk devised such a solution. and multipoint gluing. The production Gdańsk found a solution to overcome these Our priorities and performance 49 Packaging recycle rate in EU (%) Smurfit Kappa welcomes initiatives that make the recycling processes more efficient Paper-based packaging Source Eurostat and environmentally friendly. We remain recycling rates are at 83 84 2011 2012 in favour of a strong EU Waste Directive that creates a level playing field across industries. 84% in Europe whereas 73 72 73 Ambitious collection and recycling targets plastic is at 35%. 71 can be an important driver to increasing recycling levels. However, these should focus on setting incentivising parameters for those currently unable to meet industry standards, particularly in emerging 35 economies. 34 The current debate around the Directive creates regulatory uncertainty that has an impact on the ability of companies within the sector to make investment decisions that have the potential to reduce waste Paper-based Glass Metallic Plastic and increase recycling rates. packaging We also welcome the various Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR) initiatives Paper and paper-based packaging is a highly that extend responsibility for a product recyclable material and currently the most beyond the post-consumer stage. The recycled packaging material worldwide. central principle of the ERP is the creation While the overall paper industry in Europe of incentives throughout the production generally achieves 72% recycling rates chain to make products more sustainable. (which is lower than the 84% recycling rate This is ultimately characterised by the for paper based packaging shown in the shifting of responsibility upstream toward above graph), in the US and in Latin America the producer and the provision of incentives 67% and 45% recycling rates respectively to producers to take into account have upward potential. environmental considerations when The collected waste and by-products from designing their products. our industry can become new raw materials. However, for these initiatives to succeed The central challenge for our industry we believe it will be important to balance is finding a means to process the many the financial burden throughout the value auxiliary materials added to paper by chain, rather than simply on producers. downstream industries. Although paper This creates a broader Chain of Custody is 100% recyclable, these materials cannot and instigates others to also find ways of be sorted from paper in the dry-sorting increasing waste collection and sorting. ›› steps before they reach paper mills. 50 Smurfit Kappa | Sustainable Development Report 2014 Our vision and priorities Waste continued Case study Recycling solutions Cleverly simple Glaces Thiriet. These trays are packed A simple solution with a big impact. Or as It is very rare to find a solution that pleases with frozen foods and delivered to the Glaces Thiriet communicates to consumers: every party, is cost neutral, is easy to consumer. But once the delicious food is ‘Pack delivered, pack returned. The planet implement and is quickly replicable. It is eaten, it is down to the consumer to ensure thanks you!’ even rarer that the solution also benefits the equivalent of 2,000 tons of waste paper is the environment. recycled through local waste collection. Against all the odds, that is exactly what the To improve this, Smurfit Smurfit Kappa Corrugated Division in France Kappa and Glaces Thiriet achieved with their client Glaces Thiriet. now offer the consumer the option to ensure the paper Glaces Thiriet is one of the largest products are recycled manufacturers of ice cream in France, without any effort on their producing more than 450 varieties of ice part. Packaging can be cream and frozen desserts. It also delivers returned to the delivery over 750 other kinds of high-end frozen person, who returns it to foods direct to consumers’ homes. To do the distribution centre. so, the company operates a fleet of more From there the trays are than 850 trucks, backed by a network of collected by Smurfit Kappa 90 distribution centres. and are put into the Meanwhile, Smurfit Kappa manufactures recycling process at our approximately six million trays per year for paper mills. 74% of our raw material Progress in 2014 The total amount of non-hazardous waste generated in our operations decreased by Smurfit Kappa has gathered detailed comes from recycled information on its waste streams from all of 8% since 2013 and waste generated per sources its operations on a regular basis since 2008. produced tonne of paper at our paper mills decreased by 5% since 2013. Over 90% of our waste is generated in our paper mills. The majority of this waste The majority of hazardous waste per is generated in the recovered paper pulping produced tonne of product is being and screening process, including reject generated in our printing and converting materials. Other waste sources include operations when cleaning the machines sludge from the process water treated in our from printing inks. Another part is irregular water cleaning facilities, calcium carbonate hazardous wastes from our operations that residues from lime kilns and ashes from are generated typically during maintenance biomass boilers. A large part of what is and include items such as used lighting. registered as waste is actually waste with The amount of hazardous waste has a water content of approximately 50%. remained stable, at 8,800 tonnes in total. The amount of waste sent to landfill has been Variation between years is mainly due to steadily decreasing. The total amount sent the low frequency of disposal of hazardous to landfill from our operations has decreased waste that is being stored at mills before by 13% since 2013. Waste sent to landfill per disposal of larger quantities at a time. produced tonne of paper at our paper mills In 2014, a detailed assessment on waste decreased by 12% since 2013. In 2014, the reduction possibilities was launched at our share of waste sent to landfill decreased to paper mills. This assessment will be finished 53% from 56% in 2013, while 12 of our 24 in 2015, contributing to targeted waste paper and board mills in Europe effectively reduction and mill specific plans. did not send waste to landfill. Our priorities and performance 51 We also started an in-depth analysis to In 2014, we were able to find a new solution understand the amount of hazardous at our Ania mill, where the mill now sends its Waste waste in our waste streams in 2014. These high-energy value waste to be incinerated hazardous waste streams are regular from to generate energy. At the same time, we Boundary: Under this strategic priority our converting and printing operations experienced a step back when the outlet for we report on non-hazardous waste and incidental from our paper mills. ashes from our Navarra mill was no longer (recovered and landfilled) and hazardous waste generated from Smurfit Kappa’s available. The construction industry, for Work towards optimised use of which ash is an important raw material, has manufacturing processes. raw materials been severely hit by the recession in Spain, Commitment #1: Company-wide Paper recycling is fundamental for our raw which meant we lost our principal customer assessment of non-hazardous waste and material sourcing. Globally, 74% of our for the ashes from the mill. This means that targets to minimise the burden of such waste. raw material comes from recycled sources. we had to return to sending the ashes as Timeframe: Target set by end of 2015 Producing paper from recycled raw material waste to landfill again. Progress made: Assessments have begun converts our customers’ waste into valuable We are not only sending materials from our in 2014 to assess and measure impact. raw material. This creates a circular loop at waste streams to other industries to use. Work to develop targets continues in 2015. a macro level . On top of receiving recovered paper, we Commitment #2: Company-wide Our converting operations send their also seek to identify creative and efficient assessment to minimise waste to landfill and paper clippings directly back to our paper solutions with our stakeholders. One of set targets according to 2014 assessments. mills delivering high-quality recovered those is that at our Roermond mill where Timeframe: Target set by end of 2015. fibres for the mills. we receive phosphorus from the baby food Progress made: Assessments have begun Our virgin and recycled paper production industry where it is an unwanted substrate in 2014 to assess and measure impact. processes produce various side streams and use it as nutrition for the bacteria in our Work to develop targets continues in 2015. most of which are being utilised in a anaerobic waste water treatment plant. There it is a vital element to keep the water Commitment #3: Company-wide meaningful way. We continuously look assessment to minimise hazardous waste for new uses for those side streams that cleansing bacteria live and well. and set targets according to 2014 would otherwise be our waste. Other uses of our side streams include the assessments. agriculture, food and medicine industries Timeframe: Target set by end of 2015. and we continuously collaborate with Progress made: Assessments have begun other sectors to find more outlet for our in 2014 to assess and measure impact. side streams. Work to develop targets continues in 2015. Our perspective: Our objective is to contribute to a circular economy. All paper packaging provided to our customers is already 100% recyclable. Eventually we will take all avoidable waste out of our production system and minimise waste to landfill of those materials that are not further recyclable and/ or recoverable. 52 Smurfit Kappa | Sustainable Development Report 2014 Our vision and priorities People Safeguarding our biggest asset: people —— Smurfit Kappa employs some 42,000 – Our people, the communities in which we —— Sharing incident information across our we take very seriously our responsibility operate and the people who form those operations to employees in the fields of health, communities are important to Smurfit —— Promotion through our annual excellence safety, rights and fair treatment, pay, Kappa. Supporting our people to reach their in health and safety awards programme diversity, training and personal full potential is vital to the success of our development business. Doing so will not only mark us out —— Promoting technical and engineering as a respected business, good corporate improvements through our innovation in —— We also see it as our responsibility safety awards programmes to engage with and support the citizen and employer of choice; it also gives communities in which we operate, us the opportunity to make a genuine —— Internal benchmarking of health and both as a local employer and as a difference to people’s lives. Accordingly, we safety performance on a monthly basis major business are committed to adhering to and setting using a suite of performance metrics high ethical and professional standards. —— Conducting cross audits in health and —— We are committed to promoting and People’s rights, health, safety and well-being ensuring safe behaviour and well-being: safety involving our panel of trained are of primary importance. internal health and safety coordinators. reporting near misses and taking preemptive action to prevent accidents, Health and Safety 2014 in review reducing injuries by decreasing the We have an unwavering commitment to lost-time accidents and injury rate by In 2014 we took several important steps the health and safety of our workforce. to harmonise our Group-wide health and 5% annually over five years (2013-2017) At Smurfit Kappa we have a structured and and achieving zero fatalities safety policies, programmes and reporting systematic approach to health and safety practices. In March 2014 we introduced a —— We will also work to enable Smurfit and are confident of making further common one-page Group Health and Safety Kappa foundations to reach 100,000 improvements to safety performance. Policy statement which has been adopted people in local communities by 2020, The commitments within our revised Group by≈all mills and plants to promote more spending at least €1 million per annum Health and Safety policies are consistent consistent understanding of our core health on the education of children and with those of the internationally recognised and safety commitments. The Group €1 million per annum on (scientific) OHSAS 18001 occupational health and Health and Safety Policy statement was research on areas like biodiversity safety system application. followed by a Group Good Health and Safety Key to our approach are the following Practice Policy. The policy sets the standard principles and measures: of 16 elements that are being adopted as a minimum mandatory requirement across —— Providing regular health and safety all divisions. training and briefings to employees —— Health and safety as a primary agenda topic in all relevant management and employee meetings Our priorities and performance 53 Aligned with the policy process we standardised the reporting throughout In 2014 we continued putting emphasis on good communications about health An annual health all divisions and geographies. The key and safety with the ambition to drive and safety week was outcomes of this work in 2014 were the revised Health and Safety Incident and behavioural change towards good practices. We introduced monthly Safety Incident developed which gives Injury Reporting Standard which defines Bulletins that have been adopted in each a week long focus on the mandatory reporting requirements and has been applied across all Smurfit Kappa of the three divisions. An annual health and safety week was developed which gives a the topic throughout the operations. The standard has led to more week-long focus on the topic throughout Group’s communication consistent, complete and robust reporting. We also introduced a site level web-based Group’s communication channels followed with Health and Safety summits in Europe channels. self-assessment tool, which is a questionnaire and the Americas for health and safety consisting of 48 questions with which site managers. Part of the health and safety managers can measure their site’s compliance week’s communications is to give voice for with the Group-wide policies and standards. testimonials from those involved in injury Each country or cluster is responsible for incidents within our operations. We also managing the closure of gaps identified in started to prepare for the introduction of this assessment. behaviour based programmes that target changing our and our subcontractor’s employees’ attitudes towards best practice behaviours. ›› Case study Efficient production floors On the crossroads to a safer factory The main focus of the team was to realise Smurfit Kappa Olomouc, in Czech Republic, Smurfit Kappa’s commitment to provide produces laminated packaging printed in a healthy and safe working environment colours just as attractive as its picturesque for employees and guests. By rearranging surroundings along the Morava River. But the gluing machines and moving the while the surroundings are idyllic, the working MOSCA packaging machine the team environment was more serious. made some major changes to the layout of the factory. Not only did this create The mill’s MOSCA packaging machine was safer working conditions, it also resulted positioned in such a way that the walkway for in a 7% reduction in forklift transport employees and visitors between the finished hours and accordingly in a significant cut goods section of the production facility and in energy consumption with regard to the expedition hall crossed the route of the in-company transport of finished goods. mill’s forklift trucks. In order to reduce risks, With the risk of colliding with forklift trucks factory rules were introduced to make fully eliminated Smurfit Kappa Olomouc people more aware of the potentially has taken a responsible approach to dangerous situation. improve working conditions for the Not stopping there, the mill’s team took the employees who contribute to its success initiative to improve the situation further – on a daily basis. and discovered that changes could not only improve safety, but could also benefit energy consumption and transport needs. 54 Smurfit Kappa | Sustainable Development Report 2014 Our vision and priorities People continued We are committed to Key developments —— Our European Corrugated Division experienced a slight increase in its lost —— Our European Paper Division achieved managing relationships a 34% reduction in its lost time accident time accident frequency rate from 0.57 with employees, frequency rate, reducing the rate from in 2013 to 0.60 in 2014 mainly due to increases in the number of lost time 0.76 in 2013 to 0.50 in 2014. 17 mills and business partners and other operations reported zero accidents accidents in France and Germany. 105 host communities in in 2014 and since 2011 the number of lost plants reported zero accidents in 2014 and since 2011 the number of lost time time accidents decreased from 65 to 44, a socially responsible a decrease of 32%. The Total Recordable accidents decreased from 271 to 214, manner. Injury Rate (TRIR) for 2014 was 1.65 a decrease of 21%. The TRIR for 2014 was 1.61 Lost Time Accident Frequency Rate Lost Time Accident Severity Rate Full Year 2013 vs 2014 Full Year 2013 vs 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 0.76 19.20 18.57 18.00 0.62 16.40 0.57 15.23 0.55 0.55 13.75 0.50 0.50 0.47 10.55 9.55 Corrugated Paper The Americas Group* Corrugated Paper The Americas Group* *All employees *All employees Days Lost Due to Accidents Number of Accidents Full Year 2013 vs 2014 Full Year 2013 vs 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 11,460 405 414 10,162 6,464 5,633 214 195 156 143 3,318 2,937 1,593 1,682 67 44 Corrugated Paper The Americas Group* Corrugated Paper The Americas Group* *All employees *All employees Our priorities and performance 55 —— The Americas region’s lost time accident —— Regrettably, a subcontractor sustained Freedoms of association and frequency rate increased from 0.47 in fatal injuries arising from a fall from a loading collective representation 2013 to 0.50 in 2014. 48 mills, converting platform while working on a capital We support freedom of association and plants and other operations reported improvement project at our Oude Pekela collective bargaining. Our employees have zero accidents in 2014 and since 2011 the Board Mill in the Netherlands in October. the right to become (and remain) a member number of lost time accidents decreased of a trade union, have their representatives from 166 to 156, a decrease of 6%. The Citizenship negotiate and bargain on their behalf and region’s TRIR rate for 2014 was 1.15. We are committed to managing relationships assist them in grievance and disciplinary —— For the Group as a whole the lost time with employees, business partners and host matters. We are not aware of any confirmed accident frequency rate remained communities in a socially responsible manner. case in which either the association or effectively flat at 0.55 in 2014 compared In keeping with the United Nations Declaration bargaining rights of any individual or group(s) of to 2013 and has decreased by 27% since of Human Rights and the Fundamental employees have been denied to them during 2011. Since 2011 the total number of Principles and Rights at Work developed the course of 2014. The collective agreements accidents has decreased from 502 to 414, by the International Labour Organisation, currently applying in some 90% of the Group’s a decrease of 18%. The accident severity the following principles and conditions are sites and covering 66% of our employees are rate increased by 11%, from 13.75 in 2013 maintained in every country in which we the result of either local and/or national to 15.23 in 2014 but decreased by 21% have a presence. negotiations in the countries concerned. since 2011. The TRIR for the Group in Discrimination 2014 was 1.43. Working fairly We prohibit discrimination on the grounds We prohibit child labour. We will not employ, —— Accident reporting for subcontracted of race, colour, gender, sexual orientation, labour workers was initiated in 2014 with in any capacity, anyone who has not either age, religion, national origin, disability or reached the mandated school leaving age or a total of 227 lost time accidents. other legally protected status in the the minimum age set for employment in any —— There were no fatalities affecting countries in which we conduct business. country in which we operate. No issues under employees across the Group in 2014. No issues of discrimination in any of these this heading were identified in 2014. We do categories were reported in 2014. not approve or tolerate forced labour or ›› Case study Skills and safety in Alto Potreros can accommodate 30 in chainsaw operation, hoe chucker people at a time. It was specifically set up setting, loading, equipment, operating, to improve labour skills of workers through line chief management and supervising. education and training, and additionally The accommodation includes facilities to contribute to the development of the like bedrooms, a kitchen, and classrooms. forestry sector in Colombia in general. The property also features an area Its educational programme focuses on of forestry plantations and natural theoretical, technical and practical safety forests, where students can identify aspects for forestry workers. The initiative, risks, and an area with simulators for located in an old coffee plantation house practical training. that was completely rebuilt, provides a Last year Smurfit Kappa Colombia trained structured learning method. It makes use more than 500 contractor employees of controlled simulators that allow training who regularly work for its Forestry in high risk practices which are carried out Division. With the implementation of Our new forestry training centre in forestry operations on a daily basis. this programme in Alto Potreros Smurfit Understanding the importance of a topThe main objective is to develop these Kappa is confident that the technical of-the-line safety strategy in forestry practices into a structured operation that level of the forestry workers will further operations, the Forestry Division of meets all the standards of a safe workplace. improve and that this in turn will be Smurfit Kappa Colombia has invested in The students are mostly workers of reflected in the strengthening of safety a modern training centre and an extensive Smurfit Kappa’s forestry operations. as an important value in all forestry safety education programme. The facility The training programme offers courses operations. 56 Smurfit Kappa | Sustainable Development Report 2014 Our vision and priorities People continued We believe strongly in physical abuse, whether it originates from within our business (and is directed internally In common with many large businesses, Smurfit Kappa provides a range of employee offering our employees or externally) or its source is an individual benefits. Some, such as maternity and the chance to increase (or organisation) with whom (or with which) we have a business relationship. No issues paternity leave, are provided under the legislation of specific countries. Other and broaden their under either heading were identified in 2014. employee benefits, such as Pension Plans skillsets and knowledge, Fair pay, compensation and benefits and Life Insurance, form an integral part of an employee’s remuneration package helping them to fulfil We compensate fairly and review wage and provided by the Group in various countries. their potential. salary levels at regular intervals. The Group does not discriminate between men and Development women in terms of salary, benefits or any We believe strongly in offering people at other consideration. The Group applies all levels of the organisation the chance the policy of ‘same job, same pay’. to increase and broaden their skillsets We strive to operate as a meritocracy, and knowledge, helping them to fulfil their and promote on the basis of suitability, potential and widen their career prospects. reward fairly, encourage personal and To achieve this, a broad range of training professional development and promote and development initiatives are driven effective communication at every level centrally and at local levels. Two of the of the business. key programmes run in 2014 were the Advanced Management Development We reward employees based on market (AMD) programme for the Group’s high best practice. While the basic salary of an potential talent, and the General and Mill individual manager may be different from Manager Programme (GMMP) for newly that of a colleague in an identical or similar appointed front line senior managers. role, the difference will generally be a These programmes had 21 participants reflection of a difference in responsibility, from 12 countries, and 23 participants size of the job, experience, performance, from 13 countries respectively. country of residence and other factors. Case study Sustainability Academy first hand how devoted Smurfit Kappa is At the end of the day the academy to sustainability. accomplished that employees gained more Sustainability is a key business driver for confidence to interact with customers on Smurfit Kappa. Smurfit Kappa Benelux the subject of sustainability. The next step realised it would benefit its employees to is to organise the Sustainability Academy know more about its sustainability strategy for customers too. and successful examples. The Smurfit In the meantime customers are made Kappa Sustainability Academy was set aware of Smurfit Kappa’s sustainability up to inspire them, but also to give them efforts by an apple tree campaign. sufficient knowledge about sustainability Corrugated apple trees were sent by Inspiring potential to be able to interact with customers post to communicate that Smurfit Kappa and suppliers, and to differentiate wants to build a sustainable future together Mortarboards were thrown high in the Smurfit Kappa. and to draw attention to the then newly air by the 140 Smurfit Kappa Benelux acquired Chain of Custody certification employees who attended the first Smurfit The organising team put together a very diverse programme featuring lectures, in the Benelux. As a follow-up account Kappa Sustainability Academy in the Dutch managers visited clients with a real mini town of Roosendaal. Employees active in videos, a quiz and speeches. Different topics were covered such as sustainable apple tree, a striking way to kick off the management, external and internal sales, dialogue about sustainability. customer service and design experienced packaging, Chain of Custody and FSC. Our priorities and performance 57 Our business language is English. We have Total employees 2014 Total employees worked with a leading language school for by length of service by age 2014 almost 10 years to run up to seven programmes a year to improve employees 1% English language skills. There are also many 4% 9% additional locally delivered programmes 16% which are often the first step in developing 27% language skills. In 2014 a significant emphasis 23% 18% was placed on English as a development objective for a number of employees. As part of this, a new e-learning tool was made 25% available across the Group. Provided in collaboration with Education First (EF), the language skills of all non-native English 24% 22% speaking managers (approx. 1,100) were 31% assessed according to an internationally recognised scale. Anyone who was found to be below the ‘Upper Intermediate’ level -5 years 21-30 years -20 years 41-50 years is now engaged in training to help improve 5-10 years 30+ years 21-30 years 51-60 years their level of English. 11-20 years 31-40 years 60+ years Overall in 2014, each employee spent 16 hours on average in training. remaining 20% distributed between the the greater proportion of senior operational As in previous years, Smurfit Kappa other 22 countries where we have production positions are held by local managers (same continues to enjoy close ties with leading and/or a sales and marketing presence. nationality as the country where the operation European and American Business Schools is located), which is appropriate to our In 2014, 17% of all Smurfit Kappa employees in the area of Executive Development. business needs. In general, the composition were female and 83% were male. Of the indirect labour positions, almost 36% are of the Group’s workforce typically reflects Employee Demographics local ethnic diversity, thereby enhancing the occupied by women. At the end of 2014, the Group had some bond with local communities. 42,000 employees, including both our own In 2014, over 2% of our workforce took parental leave of which close to 60% Employee turnover in 2014 in the organisation employees as well as contracted labour. returned to work after their parental leave was stable at a level of 4%. Retirements Some 43% of our own employees are 40 and the pursuit of other careers or interests period (male: 74%, female 51%). years of age or under, with almost a third of were the main reasons for over 68% of the total between the age of 41 and 50 years. Smurfit Kappa’s policy is to strive for an departures of employees in 2014, while increasing level of participation of women rationalisation and redundancies accounted More than 50% of our employees have been in management roles in the company. In for 13% of the departures. There were 1,826 with us for 11 years or more, 9% have been that context we have reviewed the areas and new entrants to the Group during 2014, of with Smurfit Kappa for over 30 years. roles where the retention level and further which 40% were in the Americas, linked to Approximately 5% of our employees are advancement of women has the greatest our recent acquisitions. engaged on a temporary contract. potential for success. We promote female 68% of our workforce is involved in participation in management training Retired employees production and manufacturing activities programmes such as the Advanced Our retirees have a special relationship with categorised as direct labour. Employees Management Development programme. Smurfit Kappa and we are grateful for their engaged in management, administrative Since 2010, the participation rate of women contribution to our success over many years. or clerical activities – such as sales and has increased from 11% to 24% in 2014.We Today there are approximately 13,000 marketing, finance, human resources and also pay extra attention to female managers pensioners from Smurfit Kappa and there procurement – are categorised as indirect and high potentials when reviewing our are a variety of different associations in labour activities. succession plans. different countries that manage a host Of our total workforce, 80% were employed During 2014 some 17 nationalities were of social activities. Such events help to in ten countries (Mexico, Germany, France, represented at the most senior levels in the maintain the bonds the pensioners enjoyed Venezuela, Netherlands, United Kingdom, organisation. While our policy is to select the as working colleagues. ›› Colombia, Spain, Italy and Sweden), with the best person for a position, in practice by far 58 Smurfit Kappa | Sustainable Development Report 2014 Our vision and priorities People continued While most of the activities are managed Management by Gender – Top 10 countries by the pensioner associations themselves, there is also ongoing Group support at 300 local level. 250 Works Councils 200 Smurfit Kappa recognises the right of 150 employees to freely associate and all 100 Smurfit Kappa employees are free to join trade unions. 50 UK France Mexico Germany Spain Italy Netherlands Spain Venezuela Sweden In many countries Smurfit Kappa conducts 0 Male Female formal employee consultation processes with the local Works Councils. By far the largest representative group in Smurfit Total Employees by Gender – Top 10 countries Kappa in Europe is the European Works Council (EWC), which represents about 6000 80% of our employees from the 21 countries 5000 in which we have operations. 4000 The Agreement, renewed in January 2012, governs the functioning, rights and 3000 duties of the EWC, and will remain in place 2000 for four years. During 2014 we had two 1000 regular EWC forums and four Select Mexico Germany France UK Venezuela Netherlands Colombia Spain Italy Sweden Committee meetings. 0 Male Female Community Testimonial Fundación Smurfit Kappa México Children activity after school and many other issues. By developing Ecatepec is the most populous suburb of a health and sports conscious culture Mexico City and the 15th-most-populous among the children, the project hopes suburb in the world. So many people, but to keep the kids away from crime. only a few green areas for children to take There are two Smurfit Kappa companies part in sport. A problem that Fundación located in Ecatepec. The Cerro Gordo Smurfit Kappa México helped tackle. Complex houses subsidiaries specialised In alliance with the Smurfit Kappa Foundation in corrugated packaging and folding and Smurfit Kappa in Mexico, the Foundation carton packaging. created a football school to help the The football facilities were built right behind community and perhaps find the next the storage yard of the mill, where 1,700 Enrique Borja, Oswaldo Sánchez or Javier students from surrounding elementary Hernández! schools can make use of it, just like the 60 The grass roots facility’s – and Smurfit Kappa’s children from Smurfit Kappa employees. – real goal is to contribute to local children’s The school’s first goal was to enrol 250 kids, development by promoting sportsmanship, kicking off on 6 December 2014 in the fitness and competition. All fundamental presence of more than 200 guests. building blocks for a healthy lifestyle. The Thereafter, relationships with local sporting activities open opportunities to elementary schools were built to enable talk with children about related topics like Smurfit Kappa to promote the football nutrition, health, safety, bullying, self-esteem, school to all local children. Our priorities and performance 59 European Works Council must take place Top 10 countries headcount 2014 prior to any decision being made. This is in addition to local and country actions and 6000 consultations. 5000 This set of actions, at the appropriate level, 4000 ensures that the needs and requirements of 3000 our employees are taken into account in each case where an operation is discontinued, 2000 without compromising the Group’s ability to 1000 take the appropriate action(s) to protect its Mexico Germany France UK Venezuela Netherlands Colombia Spain Italy Sweden commercial interests. 0 The period of notice, measured in terms of the time between the initial communications The EWC consists of a maximum of 30 In those cases where a local operation to the employees concerned and the members, representing all employees. discontinues its operations, any negative introduction of the changes, ranges from The procedure for the nomination and economic effects on its host community six weeks to 24 weeks. selection/election of its members is in are mitigated by actions that are agreed Acquisition practices accordance with national regulations and with local and, if applicable, country A key aspect of due diligence in any practice in each of the countries involved. Works Councils. The outcome, reflecting acquisition process involving Smurfit Kappa Although the EWC is not a negotiating forum, local and/or national custom and practice is an examination of the target organisation’s it does complement existing local and or legislation, will result in one or more of human resource policies and practices, national structures where information the following: both in terms of their compliance with local, dissemination and consultation occurs. —— severance pay national and international laws and in their When queries arise from our employees —— career counselling day-to-day interpretation and application and/or their representatives or meetings in the organisation. are requested, our policy is to respond in —— job search workshops In the event of any potentially serious issue a timely manner. —— financial advice arising as a result, such as child labour, When a decision is taken to introduce —— early retirement where appropriate continuing with the acquisition will be change, employee consultation takes place Where the change has transnational reconsidered. promptly. During the course of such implications, and/or decisions that will There were four acquisitions during the discussions, the impact of the proposed significantly impact on the interests of its course of 2014 and no such issues arose. changes, together with the implementation employees in two or more EU member plans, are discussed with employees and States, a consultation process with the Group awards their representatives. Through our Smurfit Kappa Awards events in both Europe and the Americas, we stimulate Management by Gender Total employees by Gender the ambition of our people and our business units to always do better. The various award competitions serve several purposes. The core objective is to encourage, recognise 17% 17% and reward entrepreneurship, innovation and superior performance whether it is in the area of operations, innovation, safety or sustainability. The awards are visible to the organisation’s entire workforce and this helps in sharing the objectives of the organisation, creating an aspirational climate and enforcing its priorities. 83% 83% In 2014 we recognised our mills, plants and employees in the following categories: Companies of the Year and Health and Male Female Male Female Safety Awards ›› 60 Smurfit Kappa | Sustainable Development Report 2014 Our vision and priorities People continued Engagement survey With MyVoice2014, Smurfit Kappa has outcomes of the survey and in the context On October 1st, Smurfit Kappa launched its offered to all its employees (permanent of the local strategies. A consolidation of first Group-wide Employee Engagement and temporary), in all its 32 countries to say all action plans at country and divisional level Survey, ‘MyVoice2014’. what they really think about their working will then take place. It is also intended that experience in Smurfit Kappa, using a we have an overall consolidation at Group Engagement is the state of emotional and questionnaire with 63 questions based level, with common organisation-wide intellectual involvement and commitment on a tailor-made engagement model. trends to be addressed by company-wide that leads people to do their best at work. actions, if required. It is expected (proven and recognised by a Official response rate for the entire Group number of international researchers) that is 80%, with high consistency across the During 2015 all action plans will be a company with engaged employees shows organisation. We consider this as an excellent implemented, and results analysed. It is better results in the long term in a number result, far above the initial expectations that planned to repeat the survey in late 2016 or of business areas such as higher growth, were targeted around 60-65%. early 2017 in order to track improvements faster innovation and greater customer A top-down approach has already been and ensure an ongoing engagement satisfaction, etc. considered to ensure a smooth deployment process. The engagement survey is a ‘business tool’ of all the outcomes of the survey along the Community Involvement which offers each Smurfit Kappa business organisation. Reports will be provided to divisions, countries, all plants and mills in that Smurfit Kappa is committed to creating and manager the opportunity of understanding maintaining positive relationships with host the level of engagement of their direct sequence. It is a fundamental requirement of this process that all employees receive communities in a socially responsible population and strengths/areas of manner. We invest significantly in those improvement in their organisation. Based a transparent and clear report of the results and main outcomes of the survey communities contributing to their economic on the outcomes of the analysis, all Smurfit and social development. We also take into Kappa business managers will have the of their operation. account the concerns and interests of the opportunity to identify the actions that, if During Q1/2015, following a bottom-up wider communities at national and feasible and in accordance with their local approach, each business manager will international level. Community involvement strategy, can help make their organisation have to decide on an action plan for their builds trust and also serves as a link to issues a better place to work. organisation, in response to the main close to us, such as the value of forests and Employee testimonial Alessandro Ferullo, Smurfit Kappa Anzio (Italy) The GMMP programme provides a valuable company and it is extremely determined source of knowledge, strategy and experience to create value for both us and for our that can make the difference. The programme clients. A clear demonstration of that was is a great opportunity to gain a clear insight into in the analysis of our tools, our Research the Group, its strategy, its vision and its future. and Development Center, our approach The approach is really modern and provides to innovation and our aim to become the all the right information necessary to change real leader of the future. I enjoyed the my mindset towards the goal of achieving topics that were discussed during the success. The company makes a huge programme, but the best result was the investment to ensure my future success. fantastic team spirit created by our Smurfit Kappa is a customer-focused lecturers and speakers. Our priorities and performance 61 the education of (young) people. Local Smurfit Kappa Foundation Smurfit Kappa SSK is based in Birmingham general managers are expected to represent The Smurfit Kappa Foundation supports and some of its employees are actively the company as part of the local community projects in the countries where we operate, involved with this charity. One of the and play a positive part in its development. with the focus being on projects involving programmes which the Nechells POD We focus on areas such as self-help young disadvantaged children in the organises is the Bookshare Project for young initiatives, education and health areas of health and nutrition, basic care, children and the Smurfit Kappa Foundation programmes and we contribute through and early education. Currently, the is now funding this. financial donations and through volunteering Foundation supports a number of such The project involves giving every child in year by local employees. Another key part of our projects in Colombia, Germany, Ireland, one in the Nechells Education Action Zone approach is the work our foundations the Netherlands and the UK. schools a brand new book every month for undertake and support. The following initiatives have been recently a year. This gives every child their own mini Although no central record is kept of assisted by the Foundation: library to share and enjoy with their family charitable donations by our operations, we thus fostering a culture of reading by the estimate that as a Group close to €1 million UK: Nechells children and their immediate families. was donated in cash and kind in 2014 on a The Nechells POD (‘Place Of Dreams’) is The Richard Krajicek Foundation wide range of activities, including education a ‘Safe Haven’ in the heart of Nechells in of children and research on areas such as Birmingham, United Kingdom, where it is The Richard Krajicek Foundation (RKF) is biodiversity. based in one of the most disadvantaged based in the Netherlands. This charitable areas of the city. The goal of the POD is to foundation is involved with over 100 sport The Smurfit Kappa Foundation reached in playgrounds in many municipalities 2014 the amount of €1.5 million it was able to develop children and young people as well as supporting the local community to raise throughout the country, including seven commit in the three-year period 2011-2014. where Smurfit Kappa has operations. Other Smurfit Kappa foundations operating aspirations, bring about social cohesion and develop community empowerment. The playgrounds, which cater for different at national level donated approximately sports, are generally situated in parks in €3 million to educational, research, health or near disadvantaged areas. ›› and social inclusiveness projects and reached approximately 100,000 people. Employee testimonial Udo Lück, Smurfit Kappa Baden Karton (Germany) The GMMP programme offers a deep I highly value the opportunity to network insight into the Smurfit Kappa organisation with colleagues who are at a similar and the future strategic direction of the managerial function in an international company. I received a comprehensive mix context. of development tools in leadership as well Overall I feel that through the programme as specific feedback on how to use my I have gained a deeper understanding of personal skills more effectively in context Smurfit Kappa organisation, expanded with team achievement. my network inside the Group and gained In particular I appreciated meeting the senior valuable support to broaden my management and receiving the presentation capabilities as a leader that I can directly about their respective area of responsibility apply at work. as well as their specific guidance to my leadership role. 62 Smurfit Kappa | Sustainable Development Report 2014 Our vision and priorities People continued The Smurfit Kappa The model of the RKF is that they organise the ‘software’: initiatives for new grounds, Netherlands: Studying Mothers Support Foundation supports organisation, management, etc. and that In Rotterdam and other areas of the projects in the countries the ‘hardware’: the playgrounds and facilities, are mostly provided by the local municipality. Netherlands, young single mothers who where we operate, The local municipality also puts in place a are claiming social security find it difficult to resume work and advance their careers with the focus being on sports leader at the playground. through further study and training due to The RKF, working with help of the sports the high costs of childcare. projects involving young leader, tries to find older youths with The Studying Mothers Support initiative, disadvantaged children some potential, and offers them modest scholarships for further education and which was founded in 2006, specifically in the areas of health follow-up study: this is usually at second level. focuses on making a study-work-lifebalance possible for such mothers. In and nutrition. In return, the scholarship recipients have to devote time supervising and helping collaboration with a number of state agencies and NGOs, the programme children at the playgrounds and in this role, provides free online/telephone expert they frequently become coaches and advice as well as workshops and coaching important mentors for the children. sessions about the options available for The Smurfit Kappa Foundation has provided education, training and care/childcare costs. funding for 25 scholarships. In addition, in some cases they also provide finance directly to help with childcare costs for children up to seven years of age to enable the mothers to undertake courses of study or training. This structured reintegration programme helps to improve the chances of the participating mothers to re-enter the job market. Our priorities and performance 63 People Health and safety Citizenship Community involvement Boundary: Health and safety reporting Boundary: All Smurfit Kappa operations both Boundary: The local communities or regions applies to our own employees. When in Europe and the Americas, where we have the privilege to operate. applicable to subcontracted labour workers this is specifically indicated. Commitment: Local management teams Commitment: Smurfit Kappa foundations to (mill/plant level) to comprise at least 90% reach 100,000 people in local communities Commitment: local citizens in every country where we by 2020, spending at least €1 million per —— Zero fatalities operate. annum on the education of children and —— Safe behaviour and well-being: Promote Timeframe: Continuous €1 million per annum on (scientific) research reporting of near misses and pre-emptive on areas like biodiversity. Progress made: We believe local management action to prevent accidents teams comprise at least 90% local citizens in Timeframe: Continuous —— Injuries: Reduce the lost-time and injury every country where we operate. Progress made: By the end of 2014, Smurfit rate by 5% annually for the next five years Kappa Foundation has dedicated 100% of (2013-2017) Our perspective: We believe it is very its committable funds (€1.5 million) for the important that our business embraces local three-year period since 2011. Timeframe: Continuous cultures, employing people from the Progress made: No fatalities affecting community at all levels. Our goal is, therefore, Close to €4 million in charitable donations employees across the Group in 2014. to mainly hire local people where feasible. were made by the Group and its foundations However, regrettably a subcontractor operating at national level to activities sustained a fatal injury. including educational, research, health and social inclusiveness projects. The LTA frequency rate remained effectively flat compared to 2013, however the LTA Our perspective: Our management teams in severity rate increased by 11%. plants throughout the Group have undertaken In 2014, we witnessed more comprehensive local community initiatives over the past years accident reporting throughout the Group as ranging from charity fundraising to volunteering a consequence of the special focus given to activities in local projects and activities. improving awareness of the precise reporting requirements within plant management and closer monitoring by divisional and group management. Throughout 2014, progress was made throughout our operations in introducing a set of core practices deemed critical to creating a safer and healthier working environment. Our perspective: The Total Recorded Incident Rate is being added to our existing suite of Group health and safety performance metrics. The TRIR metric does provide a more representative indicator of safety performance since it captures a larger pool of less serious injuries including restricted work cases and medical treatment cases in addition to lost time injury cases. Many of these less serious accidents are a good forecaster of more serious accident potential. 64 Smurfit Kappa | Sustainable Development Report 2014 Anne Le Kernec (left) and Pauline Roux from Smurfit Kappa Siemco, France Supporting data 65 Supporting data What is in this section Input/Output Europe ................................................................................................................................................... 66 Input/Output the Americas ........................................................................................................................ 67 Environmental data Paper and Board Mills Europe .......................................................................................................... 68 Operations total Europe .............................................................................................................................. 70 Paper and Board Mills the Americas .............................................................................. 71 Operations total the Americas ................................................................................................. 72 Total Group Operations ............................................................................................................................... 73 Management system certifications ..................................................................................... 74 Employee, Health and Safety and Sourcing ..................................................... 75 66 Smurfit Kappa | Sustainable Development Report 2014 Supporting data Input/Output 2014 Europe Input Output Wood and fibre Production Wood(1) 5,151 ktonnes ar Papers (All grades) 4,655 ktonnes Market virgin pulp 99 ktonnes ar Corrugated Packaging* 4,609 ktonnes Other pulp 32 ktonnes ar Board and laminated Boards* 859 ktonnes Recovered Paper 4,178 ktonnes ar Converted Board* 286 ktonnes Paper or Board purchased 1,684 ktonnes ar Sacks* – ktonnes Plastic films, other plastic item (BIB) 21 ktonnes Other packaging 21 ktonnes Starch (all types) 249 ktonnes ar Inorganic raw materials 234 ktonnes ar Emissions to air(3) Other organic raw materials 190 ktonnes ar CO2 fossil 1,624 ktonnes CO2 biogenic 3,175 ktonnes Dust from fuels 0.5 ktonnes SOx from processes 0.6 ktonnes NOx from processes 3.8 ktonnes Energy Energy output Energy from fossil fuels 27,344 TJ Electricity to third party 320 GWh Energy from purchased biofuels 4,375 TJ Thermal energy to third party 174 TJ Electricity from grid 1,835 GWh Biomass sold 2,228 TJ Wastes Hazardous wastes 6.1 ktonnes Non-hazardous Wastes sent to landfill 212 ktonnes Non-hazardous wastes recovered 318 ktonnes Other non-hazardous wastes 26 ktonnes Water Discharges to water Water intake(2) 89 Mm3 Water released 82 Mm3 COD 26 ktonnes BOD 8.8 ktonnes Total Suspended Solids 4.9 ktonnes N 0.6 ktonnes P 0.09 ktonnes Notes (1) Wood & sawmill chips as delivered to the mill (2) Water intake includes rainwater and waste water from another organisation (3) Includes emissions from own production and energy sold to third parties * Partly produced with Smurfit Kappa paper or board ktonnes ar: kilotonnes as received The table reports total energy consumption of the site, taking into account the fuels used to produce electricity and/or thermal energy sold externally. This results in different figures for these parameters compared to those on pages 68-69. The latter pages show the energy consumption for the production of the paper or board manufactured. Supporting data 67 The Americas Input Output Wood and fibre Production Wood(1) 1,016 ktonnes ar Papers (All grades) 1,212 ktonnes Market virgin pulp 2.8 ktonnes ar Corrugated Packaging* 1,105 ktonnes Other pulp – ktonnes ar Board and laminated Boards* 168 ktonnes Recovered Paper 1,187 ktonnes ar Converted Board* 64 ktonnes Paper or Board purchased 373 ktonnes ar Sacks* 53 ktonnes Plastic films, other plastic item (BIB) 1.9 ktonnes Other packaging 1.8 ktonnes Starch (all types) 36 ktonnes ar Inorganic raw materials 85 ktonnes ar Emissions to air(3) Other organic raw materials 55 ktonnes ar CO2 fossil 1,058 ktonnes CO2 biogenic 544 ktonnes Dust from fuels 0.09 ktonnes SOx from processes 2.2 ktonnes NOx from processes 1.1 ktonnes Energy Energy output Energy from fossil fuels 16,592 TJ Electricity to third party 0.4 GWh Energy from purchased biofuels 678 TJ Thermal energy to third party – TJ Electricity from grid 703 GWh Biomass sold – TJ Wastes Hazardous wastes 2.6 ktonnes Non-hazardous Wastes sent to landfill 233 ktonnes Non-hazardous wastes recovered 47 ktonnes Other non-hazardous wastes 0.7 ktonnes Water Discharges to water Water intake(2) 32 Mm3 Water released 31 Mm3 COD 13 ktonnes BOD 3.3 ktonnes Total Suspended Solids 5.0 ktonnes N 0.2 ktonnes P 0.03 ktonnes Notes (1) Wood as delivered to the mill (2) Water intake includes rainwater and waste water from another operation (3) Includes emissions from own production and energy sold to third parties * Partly produced with Smurfit Kappa paper or board ktonnes ar: kilotonnes as received The table reports total energy consumption of the sites, taking into account the fuels used to produce electricity and/or thermal energy sold externally. This results in different figures for these parameters compared to those on page 71. The latter pages show the energy consumption for the production of the paper or board manufactured. 68 Smurfit Kappa | Sustainable Development Report 2014 Supporting data Paper and Board Mills Europe Environmental data 2014 Cellulose du Pin, Mengibar, Spain Nettingsdorfer, Morava, Czech Alfa D'Avignon, Navarra, Spain Piteå, Sweden CD Haupt, Hoya, Viersen, Zülpich, Austria France Republic Germany(5) Germany(5) Germany Germany France bkl, tl tl, mg paper bkl, wtkl, wttl bkl, wtkl, wttl tl, fl wttl, sb, fl, tl fl, tl, cart fl fl, tl fl, tl, wttl tl Production ktonnes 434 109 465 703 62 311 411 75 472 205 72 Energy Electricity Co-generated GWh 155 64 330(1) 330 – 67 110 – 164 107 – Self-generated GWh – – – – – – – – – – 0.01 Hydro power GWh 0.00 – – – 1.4 0.2 – – – – – Grid supply GWh 139 75 66 274 20 29 57 23 26 –(2) 28 Total electricity GWh 294 139 396 604 22 96 167 23 190 107 28 Fuel usage Biofuels TJ 3,462 2,331 8,783 10,332 10 54 77 – 284 45 – Fossil fuels TJ 1,185 215 578 123 302 1,535 2,291 319 3,006 1,475 370 Total fuels TJ 4,647 2,547 9,361 10,455(3) 311 1,589 2,367 319 3,291 1,519 370 Water withdrawal Surface Mm3 13 4.8 8.2 34 0.4 0.5 – – 1.7 1.6 0.6 Ground Mm3 – – 0.9 – 0.00 0.7 2.2 0.3 0.4 – – Grid Mm3 0.06 0.00 0.02 0.07 0.00 – 0.16 0.01 0.01 0.06 – Total water(4) Mm3 13 4.8 9.7 34 0.4 1.2 2.4 0.3 2.1 1.7 0.6 Discharges To air CO2 fossil direct ktonnes 68 15 33 11 17 86 129 18 239 84 21 CO2 fossil indirect ktonnes 30 22 4.1 4.7 12 14 27 11 12 – 1.7 CO2 biogenic ktonnes 364 258 940 1,154 0.8 4.1 6.8 – 25 6.4 1.7 Dust tonnes 55 14 27 342 0.1 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.3 1.4 0.0 NOx as NO2 tonnes 252 130 779 829 9.1 55 85 6.1 253 361 17 SOx as SO2 tonnes 31 115 40 34 1.6 0.2 4.1 0.2 112 47 7.7 To water Process water Mm3 5.3 4.5 9.9 13 0.3 0.3 1.8 0.2 – 1.3 0.5 Cooling water Mm3 7.4 – – 21 – 0.5 0.05 – 1.0 – – Cod tonnes 7,790 277 4,669 3,379 34 86 260 N/A – 227 53 Bod tonnes 4,146 40 1,221 656 1.9 4.8 10 N/A – 16 5.5 Total Suspended Solids tonnes 633 97 613 634 6.2 2.5 45 N/A – 79 5.9 Total N tonnes 39 7.9 79 76 5.7 0.2 22 N/A – 28 13 Total P tonnes 3.4 0.9 21 19 0.4 0.2 1.5 N/A – 1.6 2.0 Solid wastes Total non-hazardous wastes tonnes 21,384 26,025 42,735 30,995 9,253 15,701 34,479 8,289 20,093 35,299 3,441 Landfill tonnes 3,719 9,985 9,186 1,142 3,824 – 19 – 9,630 35,161 3,383 Recovery tonnes 17,629 16,039 33,549 29,853 5,428 15,701 33,855 8,289 1,170 138 53 Other tonnes 36 – – – – – 605 – 9,293 – 4.3 Hazardous wastes tonnes 200 82 560 271 4.0 21 36 4.8 39 30 6.9 Notes (1) CHP partly or totally outsourced (2) Electricity exported by CHP (3) Part of heat exported outside the Group (4) Total water includes rainwater and waste water from another organisation (5) Both C.D. Haupt and Hoya consist of two mills on one site. Data are aggregated data per site Water discharges: in grey and italic: mills that do not discharge their process water to surface Individual cell entries have been rounded. The figures in the total column may not tally due to rounding differences Supporting data 69 Roermond, Townsend Hook, Oude Pekela, Coevorden, Nieuweschans, Nervíon, Spain Hoogkerk, the Rethel, France Saillat, France SSK, United Badenkarton, Herzberger, Ania, Italy the Netherlands Kingdom United Kingdom Germany Germany the Netherlands Netherlands the Netherlands the Netherlands Total Mills tl fl, tl fl, tl fl, tl tl, fl cart sb sb sb sb sb sack paper 57 255 213 592 223 – 132 256 55 73 88 99 150 5,513 – 15 34 113 62 – 59 76 16 – 14 28 118 1,863 – – – – – – – – – – – – 0.01 0.01 – 1.6 – – – – 2.0 0.9 – – – – – 6.0 23 98 38 38 –(2) 3.2 –(2) 11 –(2) 12 9.0 –(2) 70 1,041 23 115 73 151 62 3.2 61 89 16 12 23 28 188 2,910 18 225 28 160 35 – – – – – – – 2,988 28,831 296 1,092 1,181 2,881 1,324 3.8 1,059 1,550 381 296 357 572 80 22,472 314 1,317 1,209 3,040 1,359 3.8 1,059 1,550 381 296 357 572 3,068 51,303 – 1.9 – 2.2 – 0.01 1.2 3.7 0.01 0.3 0.3 0.4 2.6 76.8 0.5 – 1.7 – 1.0 0.04 – 0.00 0.2 – 0.3 – – 8.3 0.00 0.01 0.00 0.2 0.1 0.03 0.02 0.00 0.02 0.01 0.03 0.05 0.01 0.8 0.5 1.9 1.7 2.3 1.1 0.07 1.2 3.7 0.3 0.3 0.6 0.4 2.8 87.0 17 61 65 163 75 0.27 59 87 21 17 20 32 5.1 1,344 1.4 6.0 15 15 – 1.4 – 5.5 – 5.0 3.6 0.1 20 212 1.8 26 2.0 11 3.6 – – – – – – 0.7 334 3,140 0.4 0.2 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.00 0.3 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 27 467 17 62 50 133 134 0.16 23 69 20 5.8 17 38 328 3,672 3.0 2.0 0.5 18 1.3 0.14 0.50 9.1 0.04 0.04 0.07 8.9 85 520 0.4 1.6 1.5 1.6 0.8 0.01 0.9 1.3 0.2 0.2 0.2 0.3 2.0 49 – – – – – – 0.08 2.2 – – 0.4 – – 32 37 866 133 284 3,829 – 118 162 22 33 1,041 44 1,131 24.478 6.4 158 12 9.2 1,269 – 8.4 11 0.7 1.2 532 1.5 269 8,379 9.3 479 20 26 1,629 – 6.6 26 3.0 3.8 27 6.3 102 4,452 2.1 97 12 24 111 – 0.69 1.5 1.1 1.3 5.0 1.7 1.7 530 0.2 16 1.5 2.4 15.9 – 0.07 0.2 0.1 0.1 0.2 0.1 0.3 87 5,044 30,356 22,545 36,258 25,943 10,747 12,431 18,482 4,817 2,074 5,626 5,691 81,891 509,599 1,119 25,922 633 – 20,926 1,040 – 52 – – – – 77,885 203,627 3,922 4,433 21,912 36,106 5,017 9,707 314 18,430 4,817 2,074 5,626 5,691 4,006 283,760 3.8 – – 153 – 0.16 12,117 – – – – – – 22,212 28 13 17 14 50 234 35 19 2.5 6.5 12 11 84 1,782 bkl: brown kraftliner mg paper: machine glazed paper wtkl: white top kraftliner cart: carton board sb: solid board wttl: white top testliner fl: recycled fluting tl: testliner N/A: not available 70 Smurfit Kappa | Sustainable Development Report 2014 Supporting data Operations total Europe Environmental data 2014 Integrated Other Paper & board corrugated packaging Other Total mills operations operations operations operations Production ktonnes 5,513 4,334 580 2,487 Energy Electricity Co-generated GWh 1,863 6.6 – – 1,869 Self-generated GWh 0.01 – – – 0.01 Hydro power GWh 6.0 – – – 6.0 Grid supply GWh 1,041 500 87 3.4 1,631 Total electricity GWh 2,910 507 87 3.4 3,507 Fuel usage Biofuels TJ 28,831 122 – – 28,953 Fossil fuels TJ 22,472 3,987 178 92 26,728 Total fuels TJ 51,303 4,109 178 92 55,681 Water withdrawal Surface Mm3 77 0.03 77 Ground Mm3 8.3 0.3 0.02 8.7 Grid Mm3 0.8 1.3 0.09 0.01 2.2 Total water(1) Mm3 87 1.6 0.1 0.01 89 Discharges To air CO2 fossil direct ktonnes 1,344 229 10 6.8 1,589 CO2 fossil indirect ktonnes 212 161 31 1.4 406 CO2 biogenic ktonnes 3,140 13 – – 3,154 Dust tonnes 467 4.1 0.09 0.01 471 NOx as NO2 tonnes 3,672 83 3.3 4.5 3,762 SOx as SO2 tonnes 520 45 1.7 4.2 571 To water Process water Mm3 49 0.6 0.05 – 49 Cooling water Mm3 32 0.1 0.00 – 32 COD(2) tonnes 24,478 1,736 26,213 BOD(2) tonnes 8,379 463 8,841 Total Suspended Solids(2) tonnes 4,452 407 4,859 Total N(2) tonnes 530 21 551 Total P(2) tonnes 87 0.7 87 Solid wastes Total non-hazardous wastes tonnes 509,599 27,360 7,314 11,966 556,239 Landfill tonnes 203,627 5,382 1,812 873 211,694 Recovery tonnes 283,760 18,398 5,160 11,092 318,410 Other tonnes 22,212 3,580 342 1.6 26,135 Hazardous wastes tonnes 1,782 3,432 901 1.0 6,117 Notes (1) Total water includes rainwater and waste water from another organisation (2) Sum of available data (for mills details are reported in individual tables) Individual cell entries have been rounded. The figures in the total column may not tally due to rounding differences Supporting data 71 Paper and Board Mills the Americas Environmental data 2014 Coronel Suarez, Cali, Colombia Barranquilla, Cerro Gordo, Forney, USA Los Reyes, Monterrey, Caracas, Valencia, San Felipe, Total Mills Bernal, Barbosa, Argentina Argentina Colombia Colombia Mexico Mexico Mexico Venezuela Venezuela Venezuela fl, tl fl, tl P&W, sack paper, tl, fl fl, tl fl, tl, cart tl, cart, fl fl, tl cart, tl, wttl cart bkl, sc fl tl, fl cart, tl, sc fl, virgin pulp, bkl, wtkl, wttl Production ktonnes 67 49 266 60 76 76 292 34 14 47 103 298 1,380 Energy Electricity Co-generated GWh – – 232 38 – – – – – 4.2 121 44 439 Self-generated GWh – – – 0.04 – – – – 2.5 42 0.1 – 44 Hydro power GWh – – – – – – – – – – – – – Grid supply GWh 33 17 104 0.8 38 49 166 20 5.4 12 1.1 97 543 Total electricity GWh 33 17 337 39 38 49 166 20 8.0 58 122 140 1,026 Fuel usage Biofuels TJ – – 4,166 – – – – – – – 748 675 5,589 Fossil fuels TJ 411 219 5,636 665 408 532 1,275 219 172 1,172 3,362 1,049 15,121 Total fuels TJ 411 219 9,802 665 408 532 1,275 219 172 1,172 4,110 1,725 20,710 Water withdrawal Surface Mm3 0.074 – 22 1.2 0.5 – 0.5 – – 24 Ground Mm3 0.6 0.3 0.1 0.4 1.6 0.1 0.8 3.2 7.0 Grid Mm3 – – – 0.01 – – – 0.02 0.2 0.04 – 0.6 0.8 Total water(1) Mm3 0.7 0.3 22 1.2 0.5 0.4 1.6 0.1 0.7 0.8 3.2 0.6 32 Discharges To air CO2 fossil direct ktonnes 23 12 424 37 32 30 72 12 10 66 191 59 969 CO2 fossil indirect ktonnes 13 6.7 11 0.08 4.1 22 75 9.1 1.3 2.9 0.3 49 194 CO2 biogenic ktonnes 0.7 – 383 – – – – 0.3 – – 86 74 544 Dust tonnes 0.00 0.06 55 1.2 0.6 0.7 2.0 0.00 0.00 0.09 25 4.8 89 NOx as NO2 tonnes 21 9.4 554 7.5 22 24 67 5.5 16 111 195 58 1,091 SOx as SO2 tonnes 4.8 0.1 2,008 0.4 85 0.06 0.6 0.04 0.8 4.0 6.2 23 2,134 To water Process water Mm3 0.4 0.2 24 0.9 0.3 0.2 0.8 0.07 0.6 0.4 2.6 0.08 31 Cooling water Mm3 0.2 – – – – – – – – – – – 0.2 COD tonnes 50 65 6,277 1,828 1,809 24 266 46 616 93 1,307 375 12,757 BOD tonnes 16 9.2 998 885 714 1.6 33 3.6 179 16 149 208 3,212 Total Suspended Solids tonnes 6.7 25 2,593 1,534 183 1.0 32 8.5 407 18 128 9.4 4,946 Total N tonnes 3.6 6.3 158 14 6.0 0.8 4.8 2.1 6.6 3.1 34 3.6 242.7 Total P tonnes 0.3 0.2 19 0.1 0.4 0.3 2.0 0.4 0.2 0.1 3.1 0.6 26 Solid wastes Total non-hazardous wastes tonnes 6,310 2,085 111,034 2,088 7,353 2,090 46,866 5,019 678 7,934 40,948 31,476 263,881 Landfill tonnes 6,239 2,068 109,354 2,043 5,664 1,825 14,253 4,783 658 7,777 35,477 31,344 221,486 Recovery tonnes 72 17 1,415 45 1,682 264 32,613 236 20 157 5,391 132 42,042 Other tonnes – – 265 – 7.2 – – – – – 80 – 352 Hazardous wastes tonnes 30 4.9 129 18 5.9 9.1 30 9.8 9.7 9.7 340 0.02 597 bkl: brown kraftliner P&W: printing and writing grade virgin pulp: virgin pulp sold externally cart: carton board sc fl: semi-chemical fluting wtkl: white top kraftliner fl: recycled fluting tl: testliner wttl: white top testliner Notes (1) Total water includes rainwater and waste water from another organisation Water discharges: in grey and italic mills that do not discharge their process water to surface Individual cell entries have been rounded. The figures in the total column may not tally due to rounding differences 72 Smurfit Kappa | Sustainable Development Report 2014 Supporting data Operations total the Americas Environmental data 2014 Paper and Other Total Board Mills Operations Operations Production ktonnes 1,379 3,011 Energy Electricity Co-generated GWh 439 – 439 Self-generated GWh 44 0.05 44 Hydro power GWh – – – Grid supply GWh 543 159 702 Total electricity GWh 1,026 159 1,185 Fuel usage Biofuels TJ 5,589 2.7 5,592 Fossil fuels TJ 15,121 1,471 16,592 Total fuels TJ 20,710 1,474 22,184 Water withdrawal Surface Mm3 24 0.02 24 Ground Mm3 7.0 0.3 7.3 Grid Mm3 0.8 0.4 1.2 Total water(1) Mm3 32 0.7 32 Discharges To air CO2 fossil direct ktonnes 969 89 1,058 CO2 fossil indirect ktonnes 194 59 253 CO2 biogenic ktonnes 544 0.3 544 Dust tonnes 89 1.4 91 NOx as NO2 tonnes 1,091 34 1,125 SOx as SO2 tonnes 2,134 23 2,157 To water Process water Mm3 31 0.1 31 Cooling water Mm3 0.2 0.00 0.2 COD tonnes 12,757 146 12,903 BOD tonnes 3,212 47 3,259 Total Suspended Solids(2) tonnes 4,946 35 4,981 Total N(2) tonnes 243 2.7 245 Total P(2) tonnes 26 0.2 27 Solid wastes Total non-hazardous wastes tonnes 263,881 16,696 280,577 Landfill tonnes 221,486 11,424 232,910 Recovery tonnes 42,042 4,958 47,001 Other tonnes 352 314 666 Hazardous wastes tonnes 597 2,053 2,650 Notes (1) Total water includes rainwater and waste water from another organisation (2) Sum of available data (for mills details are reported in individual tables) Individual cell entries have been rounded. The figures in the total column may not tally due to rounding differences. Supporting data 73 Total Group Operations Environmental data 2014 All operations 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 Energy Electricity Co-generated(1) GWh 2,308 2,350 2,405 2,401 2,250 Self-generated GWh 44 33 – – – Hydro power GWh 6.0 7.0 5.5 5.5 8.3 Grid supply GWh 2,333 2,330 2,081 2,049 2,321 Total electricity GWh 4,692 4,720 4,491 4,456 4,580 Fuel usage Biofuels TJ 34,545 34,461 31,936 33,102 32,769 Fossil fuels TJ 43,320 43,868 44,723 46,202 46,631 Total fuels TJ 77,865 78,329 76,659 79,304 79,400 Water withdrawal Surface Mm3 101 106 104 103 109 Ground Mm3 16 15 16 15 15 Grid Mm3 3.4 3.5 3.1 3.0 3.2 Total water(2) Mm3 121 125 126 122 127 Discharges To air CO2 fossil direct ktonnes 2,647 2,681 2,775 2,860 2,861 CO2 fossil indirect ktonnes 659 683 584 572 661 CO2 biogenic ktonnes 3,698 3,716 3,622 3,606 3,517 Dust tonnes 562 561 665 699 772 NOx as NO2 tonnes 4,887 4,367 4,688 4,767 5,595 SOx as SO2 tonnes 2,728 2,411 3,334 3,893 3,691 To water Process water Mm3 80 81 79 78 82 Cooling water Mm3 33 34 34 32 33 COD(3) tonnes 39,116 38,188 35,665 36,278 35,024 BOD(3) tonnes 12,100 12,253 11,473 11,638 11,404 Total Suspended Solids(3) tonnes 9,840 9,526 7,752 8,504 8,033 Total N(3) tonnes 796 888 711 643 653 Total P(3) tonnes 114 86 91 97 109 Solid wastes Total non-hazardous wastes tonnes 836,816 906,764 919,084 906,389 888,775 Landfill tonnes 444,604 512,101 565,345 525,854 453,240 Recovery tonnes 365,411 363,976 322,712 329,880 377,493 Other tonnes 26,801 30,686 31,026 50,655 58,043 Hazardous wastes tonnes 8,767 9,523 12,813 10,717 12,448 Notes (1) For the years 2010, 2011 and 2012 electricity is co-generated and self-generated (2) Total water includes rainwater and waste water from another organisation (3) Sum of available data (for the individual mills details are reported in regional tables) 74 Smurfit Kappa | Sustainable Development Report 2014 Supporting data Management System Certifications Forestry Forest Wood Sourcing Chain of External Paper Sourcing Chain of The Americas Management Europe Custody Europe Custody CO Colombia Forest FSC ES Central Forestal PEFC & FSC European Paper Sourcing (EPS) PEFC & FSC VE Venezuela Forest FSC CW FR Comptoir Du Pin Aquitaine PEFC & FSC FSC March 2015 European Mills Quality Environmental Health and Hygiene Chain of Management Management safety System Management Custody System System for Foodstuffs packaging Virgin mills ISO 9001 ISO 14001 OHSAS 18001 EN15 593 (or alternatives) AT Nettingsdorfer l l l PEFC & FSC ES Navarra l l l PEFC & FSC Nervíon l l l PEFC & FSC FR Cellulose Du Pin l l l l PEFC & FSC SE Piteå l l ISO 22001 PEFC & FSC Recycled mills CZ Morava l l l l PEFC & FSC DE Baden Karton l l l l PEFC & FSC CD Haupt l l l l PEFC & FSC Herzberger l l l l PEFC & FSC Hoya l l l l PEFC & FSC Viersen l l l l PEFC & FSC Zülpich l l l l PEFC & FSC ES Mengibar l l l l PEFC & FSC FR Alfa d’Avignon l l l PEFC & FSC Rethel l l l PEFC & FSC Saillat l l l l PEFC & FSC IT Ania l l FEFCO GMP PEFC & FSC NL SBM Coevorden l l l l PEFC & FSC SBM Hoogkerk l l l l PEFC & FSC SBM Nieuweschans l l l l PEFC & FSC SBM Oude Pekela l l l l PEFC & FSC Roermond l l l l PEFC & FSC UK SSK l l l l PEFC & FSC Townsend Hook l l l l PEFC & FSC The Americas Mills Quality Environmental Health and Chain of Management Management safety System Custody System System Virgin mills ISO 9001 ISO 14001 OHSAS 18001 CO Cali l FSC VE San Felipe l FSC January 2015 Recycled mills AR Bernal l FSC Coronel Suarez l FSC CO Barbosa l FSC Barranquilla l FSC MX Cerro Gordo l l FSC Los Reyes l l FSC Monterrey l l FSC US Forney PEFC & FSC & SFI VE Caracas l FSC January 2015 Valencia l FSC January 2015 Supporting data 75 Employee, Health and Safety and Sourcing Total Group 2014 2013 2012 2011 Employee demographics Total number of employees (including contracted labour) 41,816 40,654 37,757 37,556 of whom female (%) 17% 17% 16% 14% Employees leaving the company 1,675 1,598 1,596 1,524 of whom % of resignation & retirement 62% 59% 53% 53% Employees joining the company 1,826 1,743 1,890 1,404 Age distribution (%) < 20 years 1% 1% 1% 1% 21-30 years 16% 16% 16% 16% 31-40 years 25% 26% 26% 27% 41-50 years 31% 31% 32% 32% 51-60 years 23% 22% 22% 21% > 60 years 4% 4% 3% 3% Employee turnover (%) 4.0% 3.9% 4.1% 4.0% Length of service, above 11 years (%) 51% 52% 54% 53% Female in Management (%) 17% 16% 16% 14% 2014 2013 2012 2011 Health and safety Lost Time Accidents (LTA) (%) 414 405 440 502 Contractor Lost Time Accidents (CLTA) 227 N.A. N.A. N.A. Days Lost due to Accidents (DLA) 11,460 10,211 10,362 12,948 LTA Accident Severity Rate (ASR) 15.23% 13.8% 15.4% 19.4% LTA Frequency Rate (FR) 0.55 0.55 0.65 0.75 Fatalities Own employees 0 1 0 3 (Sub)contractors 1 1 2 0 2014 2013 2012 2011 Sourcing data Number of audits Strategic suppliers 22 23 26 12 Important suppliers 21 31 9 3 Satisfactory scores Strategic suppliers 19 22 26 11 Important suppliers 18 28 8 2 76 Smurfit Kappa | Sustainable Development Report 2014 Eduardo Garces Holguin, Andis Geste and Karin Agius Ferrante at the Advanced Management Development training in Dublin Supplementary information 77 Supplementary information What is in this section About this report ...................................................................................................................................................................... 78 GRI-Index ..................................................................................................................................................................................................... 79 Business in the Community Ireland ........................................................................................84 UN Global Compact ......................................................................................................................................................... 85 Glossary ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... 86 Independent Assurance Report .....................................................................................................88 78 Smurfit Kappa | Sustainable Development Report 2014 Supplementary information About this report The information in this report covers the There were two closures (Preston, UK This tool is integrated into the Group’s international activities of the Smurfit Kappa and Vercellli, Italy) and no divestitures. intranet, enabling sites to report their Group for the calendar year 2014 and also Environmental data on the acquired and environmental data online according includes some information for early 2015, closed sites is not included in this report. to GRI guidelines. As the information is where mentioned specifically. We cover in The acquisitions, divestitures and closures stored centrally, this allows for easier and this report our environmental and social do not impact our targets that are being faster processing. activities at our own operations as well measured on specific volume performance. We make continuous efforts to introduce as our approach to sourcing and how we Apart from the acquisitions and closures new functionality to allow individual support our customers’ targets. mentioned, no significant changes in the operations to compare their performance The report describes Smurfit Kappa’s scope, boundary and measurement with previous reporting periods, to extract vision, approach to sustainability, and methods were applied to the report data for further and individual processing activities across environment, economic compared to previous years. of their own data, and to alert operations and social areas. Topics, issues and targets where significant deviation occurs. At the end of 2014, our operations included Smurfit Kappa fully recognises that In 2013, we initiated a programme to support 352 facilities in 32 countries across Europe sustainable development embraces social our mills in developing their own internal and the Americas. This includes a small and business issues as well as environmental protocols for the reporting of environmental number of joint ventures and minority ones. These issues have been selected on indicators to ensure a robust and fully holdings. Information from all the operations the basis of input from various stakeholder traceable reporting of their environmental where Smurfit Kappa has majority ownership groups. Smurfit Kappa collected data from data in strict compliance with Group reporting is included in this report excluding the four all its manufacturing operations that were protocol. This contributes to our objective operations acquired in 2014 (see below). operational at the end of 2014 with the of ensuring the consistency of reported For these companies, 2014 data is only exception of the above-mentioned acquired data across our global operational system. included when specifically mentioned and closed operations. This programme has been extended to more in the relevant section of the report. paper and board mills in 2014 and will be When quantified performance or targets completed in 2015. Employee demographics covers our own are mentioned in this report, they are related employees. Contract labour is only included to production levels. Other information For the most part, data is based on measured if specifically indicated. is reported in absolute figures, unless or metered quantities, or on best estimates otherwise stated. based on industry knowledge and established Acquisitions, divestitures and calculation factors. CO2 emission calculations closures 2014 Reporting guidelines, data collection have been based on established fuel During 2014, Smurfit Kappa acquired the Among the various references used for the consumption and specific CO2 emission following companies and/or activities: development and identification of baseline factors. Definitions and calculations for —— Colombia: (66%, 1 May 2014), certain data included in this report are the G4 the performance indicators can be found assets and business of Corrumed S.A. Sustainability Reporting Guidelines issued in the glossary on pages 86 and 87. by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). Ongoing initiatives continue to further —— Dominican Republic: (100%, 4 September The GRI is an independent institution whose standardise the data gathering system at 2014), certain assets and business of mission is to provide a trusted and credible Smurfit Kappa to improve data quality and Cartonera Rierba S.A. framework for sustainability reporting. consistency in the use of Group definitions —— United States: (100%, 24 October 2014), Smurfit Kappa applied the GRI guidelines and scope requirements of our key indicators. Bates Containers, consisting of four at a comprehensive level. packaging plants located in Texas, and We commissioned an external assurance Every effort has been made to provide data provider, KPMG, to provide limited assurance —— United States: (100%, 24 October 2014), that is as accurate as possible. Data relating on the data and the text of the report. KPMG’s Brian Thomas, a sheet plant located to environmental factors is gathered assurance report can be found on page 88. in Texas through a Group-wide IT-based reporting system implemented in all Smurfit Kappa operations. Supplementary information 79 GRI-Index KPMG has provided limited assurance on the full Sustainable Development Report 2014 of Smurfit Kappa. Please refer to page 88 of the report for the Independent Auditor’s Assurance Report. Where cross-references are made to sections in the report, the respective information is included in the scope of this assurance engagement. For other references, assurance is not applicable. GRI-G4 Description Source/Comment Page(s) Profile 1.1 CEO Statement on relevance of sustainability to the SDR 4-6 organisation and its strategy 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks and opportunities SDR 12, 16, 27, 30, 32, 34-35, 38-39, 44-45, 48-49 Organisational Profile 2.1 Name of the organisation SDR Cover 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services SDR 1, 13,18-19 2.3 Operational structure of the organisation Website 2.4 Location of organisation’s headquarters SDR Outside back cover 2.5 Countries where the organisation operates SDR 18-19 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form AR 16-17 2.7 Markets served Website 2.8 Scale of the reporting organisation AR 3-5 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period in size, SDR 78 structure and ownership 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period Website Report profile 28 Reporting period (e.g. fiscal/calendar year) SDR 78 for information provided 29 Date of most recent previous report (if any) SDR 78 30 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.) SDR 78 31 Contact point for questions regarding the report SDR Outside back cover or its contents 32 Report the ‘in accordance’ option the organisation has chosen SDR 78 33 Report the organisation’s policy and current practice with SDR 78 regard to seeking external assurance for the report 34 Report the governance structure of the organisation AR 38-42 35 Report the process for delegating authority for economic, SDR 24 environmental and social topics from the highest governance body to senior executives and other employees 36 Report whether the organisation has appointed an AR 38-42 executive-level position or positions with responsibility for economic, environmental and social topics, and whether post holders report directly to the highest governance body 37 Report processes for consultation between stakeholders AR 38-42 and the highest governance body on economic, environmental and social topics. If consultation is delegated, describe to whom and any feedback processes to the highest governance body 38 Report the composition of the highest governance body AR 38-42 39 Report whether the Chair of the highest governance body AR 38-42 is also an executive officer 40 Report the nomination and selection processes for the AR 39 highest governance body 41 Report processes for the highest governance body to AR 38-39 ensure conflicts of interest are avoided and managed 42 Report the highest governance body’s and senior AR 39 executives’ roles in the development, approval and updating of the organisation’s purpose, value or mission statements, strategies, policies, and goals related to economic, environmental and social impacts. 43 Report the processes for evaluation of the highest AR 40 governance body’s performance 80 Smurfit Kappa | Sustainable Development Report 2014 Supplementary information GRI-Index GRI-G4 Description Source/Comment Page(s) 44 Report the processes for evaluation of the highest governance AR 38-42 body’s performance with respect to governance of economic, environmental and social topics. Report whether such evaluation is independent or not, and its frequency. Report whether such evaluation is a self-assessment 45 Report the highest governance body’s role in the AR 38-42 identification and management of economic, environmental and social impacts, risks, and opportunities 46 Report the highest governance body’s role in reviewing AR 32-33, 38-42 the effectiveness of the organisation’s risk management processes for economic, environmental and social topics 47 Report the frequency of the highest governance body’s AR At least 5 times per year, 40, 42 review of economic, environmental and social impacts, risks, and opportunities 48 Report the highest committee or position that formally SDR 24 reviews and approves the organisation’s sustainability report AR 41 and ensures that all material aspects are covered Website 49 Report the process for communicating critical concerns to SDR 24 the highest governance body 50 Report the nature and total number of critical concerns that SDR 24 were communicated to the highest governance body and the mechanism(s) used to address and resolve them 51 Report the remuneration policies for the highest AR 39 governance body and senior executives 52 Report the process for determining remuneration SDR 39 53 Report how stakeholders’ views are sought and taken into Views are not actively sought. account regarding remuneration, including the results of Independent Directors and AGM votes on remuneration policies and proposals, if applicable have approved remuneration policies and remuneration packages 54 Report the ratio of the annual total compensation for SDR No information provided due to the organisation’s highest-paid individual in each country privacy reasons of significant operations to the median annual total compensation for all employees (excluding the highest-paid individual) in the same country 55 Report the ratio of percentage increase in annual total SDR No information provided due to compensation for the organisation’s highest-paid individual privacy reasons in each country of significant operations to the median percentage increase in annual total compensation for all employees (excluding the highest-paid individual) in the same country Economic Indicators Disclosure on management approach SDR EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed AR 10, 68, 88, 90-91 EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities CDP 2013 Investor Module risks and opportunities for the organisation’s activities due to climate change EC3 Coverage of the organisation’s defined benefit plan obligations AR 106-109 EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government No financial assistance received from government EC6 Policy, practices and proportion of spending on locally based SDR 16-17 suppliers at significant locations of operation EC7 Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior SDR 56 management hired from the local community at significant locations of operation EC8 Development and infrastructure provided primarily for public SDR 60-63 benefit Other than local community involvement, no engagement by Smurfit Kappa Supplementary information 81 GRI-G4 Description Source/Comment Page(s) Environmental Indicators Disclosure on management approach SDR EN1 Materials used by weight or volume SDR 66-67 EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials SDR 32, 50 EN3 Energy consumption within the organisation SDR 39-41, 66-73 EN4 Energy consumption outside of the organisation SDR Only relevant factor is transport, 42-43 EN5 Energy intensity SDR 40-41, 66-73 EN6 Reduction of energy consumption SDR 39-43 EN7 Reductions in energy requirements of products and services SDR 10-11, 14-15 EN8 Total water withdrawal by source SDR 44-47, 66-73 EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water SDR 44-46 EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused SDR 45 EN11 Location and size of land by protected areas and areas of SDR 35-37 high biodiversity value Website EN12 Description of significant impacts of activities, products and SDR 36-37 services on biodiversity EN13 Habitats protected or restored SDR 37 Permanent protection EN14 Total number of IUCN Red List species and national SDR 37 conservation list species with habitats in areas affected by operations, by level of extinction risk EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 1) SDR 39 EN16 Energy indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 2) SDR 39, 66-73 EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight SDR 40-41, 66-73 EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and SDR 39-43 reductions achieved EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions SDR 38-43 EN20 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight SDR 66-73 EN21 NOx, SOx and other significant air emissions by type SDR 66-73 and weight EN22 Total water discharge by quality and destination SDR 45-47 EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method SDR 49-51 EN24 Total number and volume of significant spills SDR No significant spills in 2014 EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products SDR 44 and services, and extent of impact mitigation EN27 Extent of impact mitigation of environmental impacts of SDR 32, 38, 44, 48 products and services EN28 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials SDR 32-36 that are reclaimed by category EN29 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of SDR 27 non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations EN30 Significant environmental impacts of transporting products SDR 42-43 and other goods and materials for the organisation's operations, and transporting members of the workforce Labour Practice Indicators Disclosure on management approach SDR LA1 Total workforce by employment type and region SDR 57-59, 75 LA2 Total number and rate of employee turnover by age group, SDR 57-59, 75 gender and region LA3 Benefits provided to full-time employees SDR 56 AR 105-109 LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining SDR 55 agreements LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding significant operational SDR 59 changes 82 Smurfit Kappa | Sustainable Development Report 2014 Supplementary information GRI-Index GRI-G4 Description Source/Comment Page(s) LA6 Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, SDR 54, 75 lost days, absenteeism, and total number of work-related Not by gender fatalities, by region and by gender LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days and SDR 54, 75 absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities by region LA8 Education, training, counselling, prevention and risk-control SDR 56-57, 60-61 programmes in place to assist workforce members, their families or community members regarding serious diseases LA9 Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, No distinction made between employee categories/gender; training and by employee category (opportunities) provided where appropriate LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee by SDR 57 employee category LA11 Programmes for skills management and lifelong learning SDR 56-57 LA12 Employees receiving performance and career SDR 56 development reviews LA13 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of SDR 34 employees per category according to gender, age group, AR 57 minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity LA14 Ratio of basic salary of men to women by employee category SDR 56 Same job, same pay LA15 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, SDR 57 by gender (partial reporting) Human Rights Indicators Disclosure on management approach SDR 55-56 HR1 Percentage and total number of significant investment SDR 55 agreements that include human rights clauses or that have≈undergone human rights screening HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers and contractors that have SDR 17 undergone screening on human rights and actions taken HR3 Total hours training on policies and procedures concerning Employees are made aware of relevant policies through awareness human rights programmes regarding Code of Business Conduct HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken SDR 55-56 Website HR5 Operations and significant suppliers identified in which the SDR 17, 55 right to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining may be at significant risk, and actions taken to support these rights HR6 Operations with significant risk for incidents of child labour, SDR 55-56 and measures taken to eliminate HR7 Operations with significant risk of forced or compulsory SDR 55-56 labour, and measures to eliminate HR8 Percentage of security personnel trained in the Not applicable organisation’s policies or procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations HR9 Incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous people SDR 55-56 and actions taken HR10 Percentage and number of operations subject to human SDR 55-56 rights reviews HR11 Number of grievances related to human rights addressed SDR 26, 55 and resolved Social Disclosure on management approach SDR 55-56 SO1 Percentage of operations with implemented local SDR 60-61 community engagement, impact assessments and development programmes SO2 Percentage and total number of business units analysed SDR 27 for risks related to corruption SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organisation’s SDR 26 anti-corruption policies and procedures Awareness campaign completed in 2014 Supplementary information 83 GRI-G4 Description Source/Comment Page(s) SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption SDR No such incidents occurred SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy SDR 4-6, 21, 34-35, 38-39, 44-45, development and lobbying 48-49 SO6 Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political SDR 27 parties, politicians and related institutions by country SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behaviour, SDR 27 anti-trust and monopoly practices and their outcomes SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of SDR 27 non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations SO9 Operations with significant potential or actual negative SDR impact on local communities In general, we recognise that our operations are of economic significance for the local communities in which they are located. It is our policy to be actively involved socially in our host communities. Environmentally, our paper and board mills may pose a risk of effluent leakages which, if they occur, may temporarily affect local water streams with increased COD/BOD or TSS levels. Our operations do not pose a significant risk of emissions to air of substances that may affect human health. Our operations do not pose a risk to their host communities regarding the use of natural resources with the possible exception of those areas where water is scarce SO10 Prevention and mitigation measures in operations with In general, by complying with local and international laws, there is no need significant potential or actual negative impact on local for further prevention and/or mitigation measures with regard to potential communities environmental risks that could possibly impact host communities SO11 Total number of grievances about impacts on society No such grievances have been filed during the reporting period filed through formal grievance mechanisms during the reporting period Product Responsibility Indicators Disclosure on management approach SDR 14-15 PR1 Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of SDR 12-13 products and services are assessed for improvement, and percentage of significant products and services categories subject to such procedures PR2 Incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary SDR 12-13 codes on health and safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes PR3 Type of product and service information required by SDR Not applicable. Our products are procedures, and percentage of significant products and B2B and in general no such services subject to such information requirements information is required PR4 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with SDR Not applicable. Our products are regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and B2B and in general no such service information and labelling, by type of outcomes information is required PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results SDR 20 of surveys that measure customer satisfaction PR6 Programmes for adherence to laws, standards and voluntary SDR 16 codes related to marketing communications, including advertising, promotion and sponsorship PR7 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with SDR Not applicable. Our products are regulations and voluntary codes on marketing B2B and this indicator is not communications, including advertising, promotion and relevant to our business sponsorship by type of outcomes PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding No substantiated complaints identified breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with No material fines and/or substantiated claims for non-compliance with laws laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of or regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services products and services were identified 84 Smurfit Kappa | Sustainable Development Report 2014 Supplementary information Business in the Community Ireland External Commentary – Smurfit Kappa Group plc Sustainable Development Climate Change: Smurfit Kappa has While the procurement of major items is Report 2014 committed to reducing relative CO2 emissions co-ordinated centrally to achieve economies Smurfit Kappa delivers sustainable by 25% by 2020 and already has achieved a of scale, 74% of deliveries can be classified as packaging solutions to 64,000 customers 21.6% reduction against this target. local, providing support for a vast number of and employs 42,000 people in 32 countries. Wood biomass (that cannot be used in any local economies. Sustainability is the lens through which higher value production) is used in some 100% of strategic suppliers in Europe innovation in the business is focused and it locations for energy generation and the (supplying materials, resources and services) is fantastic to see that Smurfit Kappa is now by-products of bioenergy production and 45% of important suppliers have been designing for a circular economy. The details (e.g. black liquor) are reused as a fuel in the audited on sustainability. 90% of suppliers are impressive: production processes. scored satisfactorily and the remaining 10% Since 2013, Smurfit Kappa has been will become compliant on the completion of The company has committed to 100% a continuous improvement plan. There is also sustainably sourced new fibre from forests, estimating the CO2 emissions of the transport of customer products from an aim to increase the number of suppliers where biodiversity and human rights are who commit to the UN Global Compact and assured to the highest, globally recognised European corrugated operations to customer points of delivery. Attention is report their social data to Sedex. standards. 98% of the paper-based packaging produced in the Group is Chain now being given to re-engineer operations We were interested to read that Smurfit of Custody certified, well exceeding the to be less fossil fuel intensive by reducing Kappa Group is sharing knowledge and 90% target by 2015. energy use, increasing efficiency (via CHP expertise with suppliers (via training courses and heat exchangers) and using renewable and workshops) to help them become Recycled raw materials are used whenever sources where feasible. more sustainable and inspire new initiatives possible – recovered paper now constitutes to ‘re-engineer the vision of the industry 75% of raw material in paper production. Water: the company has reduced COD discharge by 28% on 2005 figures. In 2014, on sustainability’. A 2014 highlight includes the launch of over 90% of paper and board was produced the Catcherboard MB12 – an innovative, at mills where best practice water treatment Company risks articulated well recyclable solution that maximises food systems are in place. Total water intake As with previous reports, Smurfit Kappa safety for customers. This is an example decreased by 3%. excels in the articulation of the risks facing of how Smurfit Kappa is able to tailor the company. Challenges are outlined around packaging solutions to customer needs. Waste: 12 out of 38 paper mills sent no waste the deteriorating quality of recovered fibre; to landfill in 2014. Total waste sent to landfill the differing levels of implementation of the For by way of business as normal, the company decreased by 13%. The Roermond paper mill offers a suite of design software to customers March 2013 EU Timber Regulation; and the in the Netherlands has identified new uses need for the continuous improvement of the (Innobook, Paper to Box, Pack Expert & Shelf for 99.5% of its waste. Viewer) to optimise the direct and indirect forest certification schemes FSC and PEFC. environmental impact of the packaging on the People: the first ever survey of all 42,000 supply chain; increase the quantity of product employees (to give each employee a greater Good use of case studies loaded and reduce the transport carbon voice in shaping the direction of the The case studies on the use of carnation footprint. Such tools require ongoing innovation company) had a response rate of 80%. stems (page 21) as an alternative source of to deliver new shapes, sizes and print colours Employees are also being engaged via the fibre and how 150t of CO2 emissions were in an economically and sustainable way. Smurfit Kappa Sustainability Academy, so reduced by transporting by freight train that they understand the detail and efforts instead of truck (page 41) are worth a read. It is not at all surprising that in September 2014, Smurfit Kappa was listed on the FTSE4Good made by the company on sustainability when We also enjoyed the story of how Smurfit Index in recognition of the ongoing efforts interacting with customers and suppliers. Kappa and Glaces Thiriet (page 50) ask for to minimise environmental impact and On Health & Safety, 2014 saw more packaging on home deliveries to be instantly increase the social benefit created. comprehensive accident reporting across returned to the delivery person, who brings it the Group to improve awareness of precise to the distribution centre for it to be recycled 5 Strategic Priorities reporting requirements within plant at the paper mill. In this way, customer waste Following on from the well-illustrated management, and closer monitoring by is converted into valuable raw material and materiality analysis, Smurfit Kappa Group divisional and group management. it is a great example of the circular economy has five strategic priorities. Note the in action. progress made in 2014: Sustainable procurement in action Forest: 100% of paper and board mills, Sourcing is the single largest cost item for and 92% of converting operations, are Smurfit Kappa. In 2014, €4.7 billion was Chain of Custody Certified according to spent on purchased products and services FSC and/or PEFC. (e.g. raw materials, energy, transportation maintenance & repairs). Supplementary information 85 UN Global Compact Conclusion and recommendations Smurfit Kappa became a supporter of the indicators that illustrate Smurfit Kappa’s From this Report, it is clear Smurfit Kappa United Nations Global Compact (‘UNGC’), support for the ten Global Compact is deeply committed to making company a worldwide corporate citizenship initiative, principles in its everyday business. processes more sustainable. We warmly in 2010. Measurements of performance related commend the company for the emphasis As a network of more than 12,000 corporate to the Global Compact principles are given placed on stakeholder engagement and participants and other stakeholders from using indicators provided by the Global materiality assessment in addition to the over 145 countries, it is the largest voluntary Reporting Initiative (GRI), wherever feasible. increased level of reporting in accordance corporate responsibility initiative in the In particular, GRI performance indicators with the GRI G4 Guidelines – Comprehensive. world. Supporters of the UNGC promote ten relating to human rights, labour and However, there seem to be a few areas of core principles in the areas of human rights, anti‑corruption principles are presented overlap in key achievements that were also labour, environment and anti-corruption. in the Social Development section while conveyed last year. In addition, while the These principles are listed in the table below. environmental performance indicators case studies included are very good, more are reported in the Environment section. As a part of this commitment, Smurfit Kappa A complete GRI-Index can be found on examples would be welcome to give credit reports on the company’s corporate toÙthe range of exciting innovations that pages 79 to 83 of the Report. responsibility activities and performance in are being introduced. an annual Communication on Progress (COP), The following table shows how our We are delighted to see that our using the annual Sustainable Development performance in relation to each UN Global recommendation last year to utilise the Report as the platform for this communication. Compact principle can be reported using corporate website to convey the company’s a number of GRI performance indicators. The Sustainable Development Report This is based on guidance documents key impacts and leadership role in the provides a number of examples of ongoing packaging industry was taken on board. published by the UN Global Compact. activities, as well as relevant key performance Smurfit Kappa might also consider using the website to convey the main elements UNGC Principles GRI Indicators of this report in bite-size segments to Human Rights encourage increased readership, e.g. the 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally HR1-11, LA5, LA7-8, company impact at a glance, the strategic proclaimed human rights; and LA13-15, PR8 objectives, the challenges and risks faced 2 Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human HR1-11 and how these are addressed. rights abuses. Labour We would also welcome a change in how 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective LA4-5 the information in the hard copy Report recognition of the right to collective bargaining; is presented, so as to more fully engage 4 Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and HR7 the reader; it would also benefit from compulsory labour; being shorter. 5 Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour; and HR6 6 Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect EC7, LA2, 13-15, of employment and occupation. HR4 Environment 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental EC2, EN18-19, challenges; 26-27 8 Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater EN1-30, PR3-4 environmental responsibility; and Tina Roche 9 Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion EN2, 5-7, 10, Chief Executive of environmentally friendly technologies. EN18-19, 26-28 Anti-Corruption Business in the Community Ireland 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including SO2-4 extortion and bribery. 86 Smurfit Kappa | Sustainable Development Report 2014 Supplementary information Glossary BOD Biochemical Oxygen Demand (one element of the COD, unit: mg O2/litre) refers to the level of oxygen uptake by micro-organisms in a sample of water measured over a period of five days. Biofuels Fuels coming from biomass (wood rejects, bark, black liquor produced during the production of virgin pulps, pitch oil, biomass part of mixed wastes and biogas produced during the anaerobic treatment of water). Black liquor Residue from pulping that contains organic compounds (like lignin). This residue is burnt in paper mills to produce energy and to recover the chemicals. CEN Comité Européen de Normalisation. The European Committee for Standardisation is a major provider of European standards and technical specifications. CEPI CEPI, the Confederation of European Paper Industries. It is a not-for-profit organisation representing the European pulp and paper industry. Certified wood product Certification is given to companies and landowners to verify that their forestry practices are consistent with requirements laid down in these standards. Only certified wood product might carry a label. The label on wood products guarantees that consumers can trust the sources. Actual certification is carried out by independent certification organisations that are accredited by FSC or PEFC or SFI to carry out audits. CHP Combined Heat and Power: a combination of a boiler and a gas and/or steam turbine that simultaneously produces electricity and thermal energy (steam) by burning fuels. This system is considered to be the most efficient technology in industries using both steam and electricity. When mills sell part of their produced steam to an external party or have net electricity export (selling more to an external party than purchasing), the consumption of fuel and emissions reported for this mill is adjusted to report only that part used to produce paper. This adjustment is based on a reference heat boiler with an efficiency of 90%, which is also used by CEPI and the European Commission for EU ETS benchmark calculations. CHP (outsourced) A CHP installation, belonging to an external party, located at or near a Smurfit Kappa site for delivering electricity and steam to the Smurfit Kappa production facility. All fuels and electricity used for the production of paper as well as emissions related to that are included in the figures for the Smurfit Kappa production facility. COD Chemical Oxygen Demand is the most commonly used test to measure the amount of organic compounds in water (unit: mg O2/litre). The result indicates the level of all organic compounds that can be oxidised by a strong oxidising agent. CoC Chain of Custody certification applying to wood/fibre material and products. Chain of Custody is an information trail about the path taken by products from the forest or, in the case of recycled materials, from the reclamation site to the consumer including each stage of processing, transformation, manufacturing and distribution where progress to the next stage of the supply chain involves a change of ownership. Co-generated electricity Electricity generated by a CHP system belonging to our organisation or from an outsourced CHP system. Self-generated electricity Electricity generated by an electricity generator without production of steam. Containerboard Papers and boards mainly used in the manufacture of corrugated board. They are made from virgin or recovered fibres. Included are kraftliner, testliner, semi-chemical fluting and recycled fluting. Corrugated board Structured board made by a corrugator usually formed by gluing one wave formed liner (called fluting) in the middle to two flat-facing sheets of containerboard (kraftliner or testliner) outside. CO2 biogenic Carbon dioxide emitted when burning biofuels. This CO2 is considered to be carbon neutral as it is removed from the atmosphere and stored in biomass within a short period of time. CO2 fossil Carbon dioxide emitted when burning fossil fuels for the production of paper. The calculation is made according to international guidelines from the carbon content of each fuel (WR/WBSCD GHG protocol). CO2 indirect Fossil carbon dioxide generated, externally to the site, to produce the electricity purchased from the grid by the company. Source: International Energy Agency Data Services for year 2011. ‘CO2 emissions from fuel combustion – 2013 Edition’. Carbon dioxide equivalent A metric measure used to compare the emissions from various greenhouse gases based upon their climate change potential CO2-eq (CCP). The CO2-eq carbon dioxide equivalent for other emissions is derived by multiplying the amount of the emission by the associated CCP factor. Dust Particles coming from the combustion of fuels. Dust emissions are measured mainly by the mills. Where dust is not measured (converting plants), emissions are calculated from fuel consumption using the emission factors listed in the Ecoinvent database version 2.1. ELCD European Reference Life Cycle Database. The ELCD has been developed within the ‘European Platform on Life Cycle Assessment’ by the Commission’s Joint Research Centre, Institute for Environment and Sustainability (JRC-IES). Environmental A set of processes and practices that enable an organisation to reduce its environmental impact and increase its operating efficiency. Management System Fluting The wavy formed middle layer in corrugated board. Fossil fuels Fuels originating from natural resources (gas, oil, coal, peat and lignite). FSC The Forestry Stewardship Council is an independent, non-governmental, organisation established to promote the responsible management of the world’s forests through independent third-party certification. GJ Gigajoule, a unit of energy that generally applies to fuel. 1 gigajoule (GJ) = one billion joules = 109 joules. Grid supply Electricity purchased from a national distribution network. GWh Unit of energy, generally applies to electricity – 1 GWh (GigaWatt hour) = 1 million KWh (KiloWatt hour). Inorganic raw materials Raw material used for manufacturing our products that are not organic such as: fillers, sodium hydroxide, sodium sulphate and calcium oxide. ISO 9001 Scheme certified by independent third party that ensures that the operation certified applies internationally recognised standards and procedures of quality management. Supplementary information 87 ISO 14001 Scheme certified by independent third party that ensures that the operation certified applies internationally recognised standards and procedures of environmental management. ISO 22001 This standard specifies requirements for a food safety management system where an organisation in the food chain needs to demonstrate its ability to control food safety hazards in order to ensure that food is safe at the time of human consumption. Kraftliner Paper made mainly from virgin wood fibres. ktonne One ktonne = 1,000 tonnes, where one tonne (metric tonne) = 1,000 kilograms. Lost Time Accident Refers to a work-related injury incident sustained by a Smurfit Kappa employee while performing their work duties that results in their absence from their scheduled work after the day of the incident. Lost Time Accident Refers to the Number of Lost Time Accidents per 100,000 hours worked. [LTA Frequency Rate = Number of LTA x 100,000/Total Frequency Rate Number of Hours Worked]. Lost Time Accident Refers to the total Number of Days Lost per 100,000 hours worked. [LTA Severity Rate = Number of Days Lost x 100,000/Total Severity Rate Number of Hours Worked]. N (Nitrogen) Total nitrogen is the sum of organic nitrogen, ammonia, NH3 and ammonium, NH4+ discharged with the process water. NOx Mix of nitrogen oxides (NO and NO2) calculated as NO2 (nitrogen dioxide) coming from combustion of fuels. They can contribute to the acidification of soil and water. NOx emissions are measured mainly by the mills. Where NOx is not measured (converting plants), emissions are calculated from fuel consumption using the emission factors listed in the Ecoinvent database version 2.1. Non-controversial origin Virgin wood or wood fibre which has been verified as having a low probability of including wood from any of the following categories, in line with FSC and PEFC schemes: a) Illegally harvested wood; b) Wood harvested in violation of traditional and civil rights; c) Wood harvested in forests in which high conservation values are threatened by management activities; d) Wood harvested in forests being converted from natural and semi-natural forests to plantations or non-forest use; e) Wood from forests in which genetically modified tress are planted. Number of Days Lost Refers to the Number of Days Lost arising from any Lost Time Accident. When counting the Number of Days Lost due to an accident, the day of the accident is not counted as a lost day. Other organic raw Raw materials used for manufacturing our products that are organic excluding fibres, starch or plastic raw materials which are materials reported individually. This category includes oil, lubricant and organic additives such as colourant or dyes. PEFC Programme for the Endorsement of Forest Certification. PEFC is an independent, non-governmental organisation which promotes sustainably managed forests through independent third-party certification. P (Phosphorous) Total phosphorous is the sum of phosphorous compounds discharged with the process water. PJ Petajoule, a unit of energy. 1 petajoule = 1,000 terajoules = 1015 joules. Process water Quantity of water containing organic compounds released to the environment (river, sea) after internal water treatment or released to an external treatment plant (municipal water treatment). In all cases, levels of pollutants released are reported as outputs of the company even in the case of operations that send process water to external treatment. Recovered paper Recovered paper refers to used paper and board separately collected and classified for the purpose of recycling for use as raw material in the manufacture of new paper and paperboard. Sludge A solid waste that is produced during water treatment from biological activity (mainly aerobic stage). SFI SFI Inc (Sustainable Forest Initiative) is an independent, non-profit organisation dedicated to promoting sustainable forest management. Companies are certified Chain of Custody according to the SFI standard through independent third-party certification. Solid wastes Wastes are classified as non-hazardous wastes or hazardous wastes and are reported separately. Wood wastes and corrugated board shavings are excluded. All amounts of wastes are reported in mass as disposed. Total non-hazardous Sum of all solid non-hazardous wastes that are going to landfill or are recovered or comprise other wastes. Each category of wastes non-hazardous wastes is defined and reported. Non-hazardous wastes Part of the non-hazardous wastes that are disposed of in either internal or external landfill in accordance with national legislation. Landfill Non-hazardous wastes Part of non-hazardous wastes that are reused or recycled or composted or used in agriculture or incinerated with energy Recovery recovery. The incineration facility is classified as a recovery operation if the efficiency of the plant complies with the definition laid down In Annex II of the Directive 2008/98/EC on waste. Non-hazardous wastes Part of non-hazardous wastes that does not belong to the two previous categories. This includes wastes incinerated without Other energy recovery or wastes for which the final disposal is uncertain. Hazardous wastes Residues of oils and other hazardous wastes (building wastes containing asbestos, ink residues, etc.). SOx Mix of sulphur oxides calculated as SO2 coming from combustion of fuels. Sulphur dioxide contributes to the acidification of soil and water. SOx emissions are measured mainly by the mills. Where SOx is not measured (converting plants), emissions are calculated from fuel consumption using the emission factors listed in the Ecoinvent database version 2.1. Testliner Paper manufactured from recycled fibres. TJ Terajoule, a unit of energy that generally applies to fuel. 1 terajoule = 1,000 gigajoules = 1012 joules. Total Suspended Solids Total Suspended Solids refers to the level of small solid particles released with process water. Virgin fibre Pulp obtained through a chemical process used to remove lignin from wood. As a result, the fibre can be used to produce paper. The lignin residue and other organic compounds are subsequently collected and used in the formation of black liquor. 88 Smurfit Kappa | Sustainable Development Report 2014 Supplementary information Independent Auditor’s Assurance Report To the readers of the Sustainable Development Report 2014 of Smurfit Kappa Group plc Introduction We conducted our engagement in —— Visits to production sites in Alfa d’Avignon We were engaged by the Board of Directors accordance with the International Standard (France), Ania (Italy), Facture (France), of Smurfit Kappa Group plc (further: on Assurance Engagements (ISAE 3000): Forney (United States), Gallargues (France), ‘Smurfit Kappa’) to provide assurance on Assurance Engagements other than Audits Rethel (France) to review the source data the Sustainable Development Report 2014 or Reviews of Historical Financial Information, and the design and implementation of (further: ‘the Report’). The Executive issued by the International Auditing and controls at local level. Directors of Smurfit Kappa are responsible Assurance Standards Board. This standard —— Evaluating internal and external for the preparation of the Report, including requires, among others, that the assurance documentation, based on sampling, to the identification of material aspects. Our team possesses the specific knowledge, determine whether the information in the responsibility is to issue an assurance report skills and professional competencies needed Report is supported by sufficient evidence. based on the engagement outlined below. to provide assurance on sustainability information and that they comply with the —— An analytical review of the data and trend Scope requirements of the Code of Ethics for explanations submitted by all production Our assurance engagement was designed Professional Accountants of the International sites for consolidation at corporate level. to provide limited assurance on whether Federation of Accountants to ensure their During the assurance process we discussed the Report is presented fairly, in all material independence. the necessary changes in the Report and respects, in accordance with the G4 reviewed the final version of the Report to Guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative. Work undertaken ensure that it reflects our findings. We do not provide any assurance on the Our procedures included the following: achievability of the objectives, targets —— A risk analysis, including a media search, Conclusion and expectations of Smurfit Kappa. to identify relevant sustainability issues Based on the procedures performed, as for Smurfit Kappa in the reporting period. described above, nothing has come to our Procedures performed to obtain a limited attention to indicate that the Report is not level of assurance are aimed at determining —— Evaluating the design and fairly presented, in all material respects, in the plausibility of information and are less implementation of the systems and accordance with the G4 Guidelines of the extensive than those for a reasonable level processes for the collection, processing Global Reporting Initiative. of assurance. and control of the information in the Report, including the consolidation of Amstelveen, 12 June 2015 Reporting criteria and the data for the Report. KPMG Sustainability, assurance standard part of KPMG Advisory N.V. —— Interviews with relevant staff at corporate Smurfit Kappa applies the Sustainability level responsible for the sustainability W. J. Bartels, Partner Reporting Guidelines of the Global Reporting strategy, policies, communication and Initiative (G4) as described in the section management, as well as other relevant About the Report. It is important to view staff at corporate level responsible for the performance data in the context of providing the information for the Report. these criteria. This Report is printed on Multi Offset paper which is FSC certified and produced chlorine-free.
