MGTD Communication on Progress MGTD Foreign Trade Department 1/1/2015 In 2011,MGTD became signatory of the United Nations Global Compact. Such action mirrors our agreement with the Ten Principles of the Global Compact, which relate to human rights, labor practices ,the environment and anti-corruption measures. The Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact Human Rights Principle 1 Business should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights,and Principle 2 Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Labor Principle 3 Business should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 4 the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5 the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6 the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment Principle7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8 undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9 encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-Corruption Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Message from the CEO: I am pleased to confirm that MGTD reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labor, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy , culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Assessment ,Policy and Goals Being committed to create an environment in which our employees and business partners respect to the universal declaration of Human Rights and avoiding complicity in human rights abuses is our goal. We have already set up Code of Conduct in order to have a vivid policy and in this way we respect to available international conventions. Implementation To avoid any human rights violation, MGTD has taken the followings: 1-MGTD`s Telegram Page Such internal communication page gives our employees this opportunity to know each other’s well and to be in contact easily with top managers. 2-Internal Communication system Such system provides all nesseccary trainings, data and emails for employees to have major data regarding the products available any time. 3-Poll Box HR manager is the responsible authority to receive all complaints and suggestions, to follow it, reflect it 4-Breakfast together One day per each month, all employees gather in company dining room at 7 am to have a friendly breakfast together .There is a happy environment in which new personnel also may know others and all have friendly gaps 1-We value communication with customers We do our best to maintain an open and honest communication with our customers. Our customers include professionals (Medical health cares, drugstores, Chainstores, beauty shops) and general customers. Customer Contact Medical Representative, Call Customers Marketing Foreign Center Trade 2-Cooperation with TAF Organization with mission of helping disabled 3-Schools oral care training Measurement of Outcomes Each department (Marketing, Sales, Foreign Trade…) has a weekly internal meeting ,in which they evaluate their tasks one of which is what they have done regarding Human Rights. The result of such meetings will be reflected in managers’ monthly meetings to be sure that the total organization does the best to respect to the human rights. Assessment ,Policy and Goals MGTD is committed to providing equal opportunities for all employees ,situation like some loans ,free financial consultants and etc. MGTD does not utilize or promote forced or child Labour of any kind. The company adheres strictly to country laws governing Labour standards. Employees should all be over 18years. MGTD has a handbook in which employee’s rights and responsibilities are stated. Implementation -Being member of Iranian Import Organization to arrange its activities based on its rules: http://www.majmavaredat.com/ -All employees, even people who are passing training courses and still do not have fixed contract, are ensured via the company for their working life and health: -Employees are frequently offered personal development and training programs designed to enhance their skills. -Mr.Ali Babaie, MGTD CEO, translated a book called ”Corporate Guideline for Family Owned Business “ collected by World Bank`s International Finance Corporation .This book has been published in 750 copies by supporting of the company`s corporate responsibility and its available free of charge to all employees. Measurement of Outcomes We have not been involved in any investigations ,legal cases related to contravention of the Global Compact Labour principles. Assessment ,Policy and Goals We are totally dedicated to preventing pollution in order to assure protection of human health and the environment. MGTD emphasize on the actions which avoids any activity regarding harmful impact on the environment. Implementation -Saving water: We encourage our people to join the campaign of saving water both during the time they are in the company and even in their personal life. We also encourage our customers to save water via our marketing activities: -Reduce Paper usage: Internal and external communications via emails. Each paper that is not valid any more shall be used as check print. -Having paper bag instead of plastic bags for our products. -Planting in our yard to help air pollution. -Participating in recycling plans We use LED lights Measurement of Outcome We monitor record and evaluate the consumption of water and light. Successful connection with recycling center. Assessment ,Policy and Goals We remain committed to implementing the principle of anti‐corruption and ensuring its total elimination in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Implementation Finance director continuously looks over the checking system which daily reports all financial affairs. Such reports are also reviewed by the CEO at the end of each day. The company is committed to the governmental taxes affairs ;near to the due time our company gather all necessary documents and present its tax file on time. Measurement of Outcome MGTD has an agreement with an external audit company to do internal audits for each fiscal year.
