Kıymet-i Harbiye Communication on Progress (COP) 2012-2014 Period covered by the Communication on Progress (COP) From: 01.01.2012 To: 31.12.2014 Statement of continue d support by the C hairperson To Our Stakeholders, I am pleased to confirm that Kıymet-i Harbiye reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labor, Environment and Anti -Corruption. With this communication, we express our intent to advance those principles within our sphere of influence. As an enterprise developing business regionally but on a global context; we remain committed to actual sustainability agenda. Additionally, the fact that we are an Organizational Stakeholder and the Regional Data Partner of Global Reporting Initiative, we operate as a member and supporter of the UN Global Compact, Global Compact Local Network, Copenhagen Communiqué and the 2 Degrees Communiqué conferred us several responsibilities. In line with our management strategy, “to integrate sustainability in our business environment” we also reflect our sustainability experience to our own operations in terms of human rights, labor practices, environment and anti-corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe all our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours, Murat Özden Chairperson Human Rights Principles Assessment, Policy and Goals Our engagement with global principals and initiatives such as The Universal Declaration of Human Rights (UDHR), GRI and UNGC enable us to create more value for our society, including in terms of human rights. As Kıymet-I Harbiye, we support internationally recognized human rights and avoid complicity in any kind of human rights abuses. Additionally, working with some of the biggest actors of the Turkish economy, we multiply this value interacting within our sphere of influence as well. We act in accordance with a human resources policy that is grounded on human and employee rights, employ a governance model that is built to increase employee engagement, create a healthy and safe working environment, and pursue practices that would enhance employee satisfaction and motivation. Implementation One key element in our human resources policy is the diversity in its all forms. Women empowerment in business is also an ongoing commitment at the heart of our responsible business. In this respect, 66% percent of our workforce consists of female employees. t and B u si n es se s should suppor Principle 1: tionally t th e pr ot ec ti on of interna respec ; and uman rights proclaimed h ey are not ip le 2: m a k e sure that th Princ abuses human rights complicit in Labour Principles At Kıymet-I Harbiye we main aim is to form a decent workplace for our employees while growing our business. We take that as a major responsibility taking its source from our founding values. In that vein, we adopt ILO Core Conventions and The Universal Declaration of Human Rights (UDHR). Being a micro company makes it harder to clearly demonstrate our commitment for labour principles because of the scale of operations. However, we publicly recognize freedom of association of our employees and we do not recruit child labour. We reject any form of discrimination no matter what is the basis. We recruit and treat people solely in professional terms and in line with human dignity. Thus we also reject any form of forced or compulsory labour. At Kıymet-I Harbiye, we are dedicated to maintain the work-life balance. While recognizing the demands of our profession, we respect and value employees’ private life. Accordingly, our working hour and leave arrangements are in compliance with Turkish labour law. The employees follow the work hour and leave procedures which are communicated to them while hiring process. Furthermore our business principles prescribe that all interactions with our employees and business partners should be not only in line with Turkish labor law, but beyond. We are committed to provide a workplace where all are treated with respect and differences are valued. Accordingly, at Kıymet-I Harbiye we run our business in line with the policy of equal employment opportunity and do not discriminate in the terms of employment on account of race, age, gender, ethnic origin, religion, etc. We also promote these principles amongst our clients, business partners and all other stakeholders ion and the ld up hold th e fr eedom of associat inesses shou Principle 3: Bus e bargaining; gn ition of the right to collectiv effective reco bour; s of fo rced an d compulsory la fo rm imination of all Principle 4: the el labour; and the effe ctive abolition of child Principle 5: ment rim in at ion in respect of employ imination of disc Principle 6: the el and occupation Principle 7: Busine sses shou ld suppor to environ t a precau mental ch tionary a Principle a ll e n pproach 8: underta g e s; ke initiati environm ves to prom ental resp ote greate Principle onsibility r 9: encoura ; and ge the dev environm elopment entally fr and diffu iendly tec sion of hnologies Environmental Principles As a consultancy company, we have a limited in-house environmental impact; therefore we consider our environmental footprint also with reference to our sphere of influence. To that extend, we mainly provide support within our sphere of influence to our clients or our stakeholders in their strategy-defining processes; help them determine their environmental KPIs and back them in environmental performance evaluation. Yet our efforts for minimizing our ecological footprint are considerable in the context of operation management and employee engagement. We help several stakeholder groups improve their environmental performance evaluation. Among other services, we provide awareness-raising trainings and other services in this regard to our stakeholders. During the reporting period we have provided such services to 8 companies, 1 sectorial group and 3 university students groups. In terms of our in-house impact, we collect and parse wastes emerged in our office and recycle them nearly 100% via Municipality’s recycling program. Collected paper, plastic, glass and metal wastes for recycling, in the reporting period, raised from 291 kg to a level of 632.6 kg by the end 2014 effecting by our workforce nearly doubled in 2014 and our new initiative to collect glass. The only waste we send to disposal are domestic wastes arising from the personal food consumption. The disposal of these wastes is carried out via municipality’s collection services. As a result of our in-house operations and employee commuting/business travel, during 2012-2013 part of the reporting period the total net emissions we have generated is estimated at 9,59 tons CO2e. The emission reduction we achieved within the same period, on the other hand, is estimated at 0.78 tons CO2e. As of the end of the 2013, potable water consumption per employee was 0.56 m3, while the tap water consumption per employee was 13.17 m3. However even if the employee number has doubled in 2014 the tap water consumption per employee decreased slightly to 10,08 m3 and potable water to 0.43 m3 In the next reporting period, we plan to reduce the average tap water consumption and increase the average potable water consumption. Anti-Cor ruption Principles Kıymet-i Harbiye’s business values significantly strength the integration of rules in various areas: Development of transparent, loyal and honest relationships; compliance with competition rules and management of potential conflicts of interest. As a consultancy company, we are dedicated to conduct our business in an impartial manner. We do not engaged in any kind of corruptive act. Accordingly, in our business environment we provide a base where any of our employee shall directly or indirectly accept or offer a bribe or other perquisites. To this end, as our business grows, we establish more effective communication methods with our internal and external stakeholders which will allow us to be more transparent. Principle 10: Busin esses sho against uld work corruptio n in all it includin s forms, g extortio n and br ibery.
