O rient al CSR Report 2014 CONTENTS 1. Table of content 2. Managing director statement 3. About Oriental Group 3.1 History 3.2 Mission & Values 4. CSR approach and Organizational structure 5. CSR activities 5.1 United Nations Global Compact 5.2 BSCI – Business Social Compliance Initiative 6. Other CSR related activities 6.1 Supply chain 7. Oriental staff 8. Environmental impact 8.1 Chemical Testing 8.2 Environment 9. Anti corruption 10. CSR result year 2014 11. CSR goals year 2015 2. MANAGING DIRECTOR STATEMENT In our CSR report for 2014 we will give you an update on our continuous strive to improve all matters related to CSR in Oriental and within the suppliers we cooperate with. Responsible behaviour is one of the key values of Oriental. On the global level, we support the UN Global Compact 10 principles, working for improvement of human rights, workers fair treatment, beneficial actions towards the environment and measures of anticorruption. On the European level, we have been a member of the BSCI since 2008. We focus on improving our supply chain awareness and compliance to guidelines of the BSCI and are constantly improving the joint effort of all partners in our garment production. On the national Chinese level, we participate as a full member of our local society and we cooperate with our Chinese employees and suppliers to make a difference, now and in the future. Managing Director Oriental China Henrik Poulsen 3. ABOUT ORIENTAL GROUP 3.1 HISTORY Oriental is a Danish founded garment company we work together with a customer, the better that has assisted retail customers in Europe in we can meet their design preferences and the designing and production of their fashion production requirements. We strongly believe collections since 1994. in the value of ethical business practices and use them as guiding principles in our relations We operate our sales from offices in Aarhus, with both our customers and suppliers. Denmark and Suzhou close to Shanghai in China. In 2011 we opened our first fully-owned manufacturing factory in China, besides our own factory we also work with sub-factories in 3.2 Mission & Values China and India. MISSION We strive to offer the best services for our Our mission is to make our customers more clients at all levels: Our in-house design team competitive in their respective markets. creates designs that reflect the latest European We do this through providing cost effective fashion trends. They work closely with our production options at the agreed quality level customers to understand and support their combined with value added know-how and design ideas. Our in-house technical team customer specific services. work to ensure that each design is transformed into a perfectly fitted product and work closely VALUES with our factories and other suppliers to Our core values impact all activities at achieve the best results. Our in-house sample Oriental and define the way we do business. room assures correct samples on time. Our These values are the foundation for our merchandisers closely oversee all orders, strategic development, our daily decision ensuring clear and effective communication making process as well as our interaction with and our Quality Control team carefully employees, business partners and the wider monitors the entire production process, from society. fabric inspection to the loading and signing off of our finished garments by our Shipping department. Our 3 core values are: At Oriental, we tailor our services to according • Honesty to each individual company’s needs and offer • Responsibility the best value for our customers. The longer • Constant improvement 4. CSR APPROACH & Manager who reports directly to Oriental China’s Managing Director. ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE 5. CSR ACTIVITIES Corporate Social Responsibility is a global issue that needs a joint global effort. Oriental is committed to being a responsible Corporate 5.1 UNITED Citizen and Corporate Social Responsibility NATIONS GLOBAL is firmly rooted in our business approach and values. Our CSR activities are examples of COMPACT how we impact the world around us in a positive way. The United Nations Global Compact tackles human rights, labour conditions, the impact • All of our CSR activities related to our on the environment and ethical business supply chains in China and India are managed practices. Their ten principles are universally from our office in Suzhou, China. recognised. We at Oriental aim to embrace support and follow this framework of core • All CSR activities, fall under the values within our sphere of influence. responsibilities of our Finance, HR and CSR 5.2 BSCI – BUSINESS SOCIAL COMPLIANCE INITIATIVE As a member of the European organisation BSCI since 2008, we are dedicated to improving social compliance across our supply chain in line with the BSCI Code of Conduct to ensure our suppliers take social responsibility seriously. We do this through a comprehensive monitoring and QC system. The BSCI Code of Conduct is built on the most important international labour standards protecting workers’ rights taken from the International Labour Organisation (ILO) Conventions, the OECD guidelines for multinational enterprises and the UN Global Compact and other important declarations. 6. Other CSR related activities 6.1 Supply chain To strengthen and streamline the management of our supply chain and ensure all of our suppliers are doing business with the highest levels of honesty, integrity, consideration and respect, we have developed our own Oriental Supplier Manual. In the manual, amongst others, it states that the supplier must follow the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact, the BSCI Code of Conduct and the European REACH legislation related to garments. We ask all suppliers and employees to read, acknowledge and sign this manual and consider the principles as they carry out their daily responsibilities. • Our QC team regularly visit our supplier factories to inspect them and our Audit personnel conduct regular evaluations and appraisals to determine their strengths and weaknesses. • Supplier CSR Risk Assessment process: • For suppliers that do not meet CSR requirements, Oriental offers advice and guidelines to improve their business practices in accordance with international principles. • We also carry out third party audits performed by internationally recognised institutions Intertek, SGS and Bureau Veritas. 7. ORIENTAL STAFF • At Oriental we work in accordance with European REACH specifications and legislation and conduct random chemical testing validated In oriental we acknowledge, that one of our by internationally recognised third party testing main strengths is a dedicated and highly organisations such as Intertek, SGS and resourceful staff, we strive to support and Bureau Veritas. advance them. We provide an employee handbook to make company policies • We pay special attention to the selection transparent to all. We provide a daily lunch of dyes and chemical auxiliaries and ensure meal based on healthy and nutritious food. that products are free of hazardous substances We are open to all ethnic groups. Oriental such as azo dyes, formaldehydes, pesticides seeks to take action to provide equal and toxic heavy metals. employment opportunities to all qualified employees. We provide air-condition both • We have updated our Supplier Manual to in summer and winter to assure a comfortable include the newest REACH specifications and work climate. our suppliers are instructed to meet these standards, we follow a detailed random testing of fabrics and accessories schedule. 8. ENVIRONMENTAL • We renewed OEKO-TEX100 certification IMPACT in 2014. We are proud to be able to provide our customers with this option to purchase OEKO-TEX100 products from us and thus 8.1 CHEMICAL TESTING avoiding the use of harmful substances in the The production of fabrics and accessories in garment production. the garment industry requires the use of chemicals, some of which can be harmful to our health and the environment. Thus it is absolutely necessary to take a responsible approach to handling chemicals. 8.2 ENVIRONMENT 9. ANTI CORUPTION In Oriental we In Oriental we do not engage in business acknowledge the relations with customers or suppliers, where importance corruption, bribe or personal relations and of environmental issues. gifts are necessary to drive business. No We put constant focus employee is allowed to take bribe, we have on integrating environmental zero tolerance to fraud, bribe and theft and friendly procedures and progress in within our if such is detected it will lead to immediate own production and in our supply chain. We termination of the employment. The promote: anti-Corruption guidelines have been incorporated in our management guidelines. • Responsible purchasing: We only work with suppliers that use environmentally friendly chemicals and observe environmentally 10. CSR friendly processes, including how they dispose of wastewater. RESULTS 2014 • Reuse and recycle: We reuse and recycle Through a rigorous and constant focus on wherever possible to minimise our waste. We our CSR work, we have managed to purchased a cutter to minimise fabric waste and achieve our goals for our CSR work in use both sides of paper when we print. We 2014: collect cartons, papers, PET bottles, aluminium • 3 of our sub-suppliers gained BSCI cans and fabric and send them to be recycled. certification for the first time in 2014, 1 of our sub-suppliers had a re-audit in 2014. • We strive to use the minimum of electricity, so therefore we have changed all our • 73 % of our production is produced in office light to LED lights, so we use 50 % less BSCI certified facilities in 2014 and we are electricity now. getting close to our 2015 goal to have minimum 75% of our production produced in • We strive to run a punctual production so BSCI certified facilities. we can send garments by sea freight and there by keep the CO2 emission at the lowest • We have increased our in house fabric possible level. and accessories purchasing significantly, this enable us to focus on fewer sub suppliers. • Clean work environment: Oriental ensures We have therefore gained increased a clean, hygienic working environment for all knowledge about our supply chain. employees. • We had our Oekotex 100 certificate renewed. • We executed a thoroughly random testing program of fabrics and accessories that verified that our production live up to customer requirements and EU legislation. 11. CSR GOALS 2015 • We project that 2 of our sub-suppliers will gain BSCI certification by the end of 2015. • We project that 4 our sub suppliers will be re-audited for BSCI in 2015. • We project to reach our 2015 goal to have minimum 75% of our production produced in BSCI certified facilities. • We will continue and further strengthen our random testing program of fabrics and accessories in order to live up to customer requirements and EU legislation. By this systematic testing, we will further strengthen our supply chain. • We project to upgrade our IT system, which will facilitate the daily workflow in the office • We will continue to lead by example at Oriental and incorporate socially and environmentally responsible business practices both in-house and across our supply chain. CONTACTS Henrik Riis Jensen Oriental Denmark Mosevej 20A 8240 Risskov Denmark Mail: henrik@ori.dk Henrik Poulsen Oriental China No. 687 Binhe Road 215011, SND, Suzhou, Jiangsu P.R. China Mail: henrik@oriental-sz.com.cn
