2014-2015 Communication on Progress A Report on BDP’s commitment to the ten principles of the United Nations Global Compact Statement from the CEO BDP Background BDP International, Inc. (“BDP”) I am proud to present BDP’s annual Communication on Progress (COP) report. BDP was founded in 1966, and is now remains committed to good corporate citizenship in the global community. This report established as one of the leading expresses our continuing commitment to the UN Global Compact and its principles. At privately held freight logistics/ transportation management BDP, we strive to ensure that these principles are ingrained in BDP’s business culture, firms in the United States. We operations and mission as a company. BDP’s most valuable assets are its integrity have operations in more than and ethical commitment, which set us apart from the competition. Protecting these 120 countries, including more than 115 offices across the world, assets and our reputation is the duty of everyone in BDP. To that end, we also strive to and employ over five thousand influence those with whom we do business (including our employees worldwide. BDP People agents, consultants, suppliers and customers) to adhere to believe in delivering on the promise of service excellence, integrity, fair and embody our guiding principles. As a member of the dealing and social commitment. UN Global Compact, we will continue to promote and conform to these values within our sphere of influence. BDP provides a range of services, including ocean, air and ground transportation; freight forwarding; Sincerely, logistics consulting services; and state of the art web-based shipping management systems. Richard J. Bolte, Jr. Chairman & CEO 2014-2015 Communication on Progre ss | 2 HUMAN RIGHTS LABOR STANDARDS ENVIRONMENT ANTI CORRUPTION Businesses should Businesses should uphold Businesses should Businesses should work support and respect the the freedom of association support a precautionary against corruption in protection of internationally and the effective approach to environmental all its forms, including proclaimed human recognition of the right challenges; Businesses extortion and bribery. rights; Businesses to collective bargaining; should undertake should make sure that Businesses should uphold initiatives to promote Principle 10 ..... page 16 they are not complicit in the freedom of association greater environmental human rights abuses. and the effective responsibility; and recognition of the right to Businesses should Principle 1.........page 4 collective bargaining; the encourage the diffusion Principle 2.........page 6 effective abolition of child and development labor; and the elimination of environmentally of discrimination in friendly technologies. respect of employment and occupation. Principle 7....... page 11 Principle 3.........page 8 Principle 8....... page 12 Principle 4.........page 9 Principle 9....... page 15 Principle 5....... page 10 Principle 6....... page 10 2014-2015 Communication on Progre ss | 3 HUMAN RIGHTS – Compensation, benefits, discipline, and company-sponsored programs and activities Principle 1 are administered without regard to race, color, religion, age, national origin, gender, sexual orientation, disability, veteran status or any other status protected by federal, state or local laws. – BDP employees are informed of the policy via training and have access to BDP’s Equal Employment processes and mandate through the Employee handbook (given to all new employees at BDP). BDP also provides employees with anonymous Businesses should support and respect hotlines and web complaint forms via the company intranet, to report any violations or complaints to Human Resources and the Legal Department. the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; – BDP’s equal employment policy is a global policy which applies to business in all regions, in order to promote the principles of non-discrimination and equal opportunities regardless of race, religion, national origin, gender, sexual orientation, disability, veteran or any other protected status. Commitment BDP supports the internationally recognized human rights contained within “We expect that all employees the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and seeks to avoid complicity in human rights abuses. Processes and Systems Equal Employment: BDP International does not discriminate in employment will be treated equally without opportunities or practices on the basis of race, color, religion, age, national origin, gender, sexual orientation, disability, union affiliation, veteran status regard to these characteristics.” or any other status protected by law. We expect that all employees will be treated equally without regard to these characteristics. Consistent with this BDP Human Rights Policy: BDP maintains and enforces a Human Rights policy, BDP International strives to ensure that: policy to ensure that all BDP employees, regardless of their region, are – Applicants are recruited, hired, and trained for all jobs without regard to race, color, treated fairly and equally, without prejudice, abuse or exploitation. This religion, age, national origin, gender, sexual orientation, disability, veteran status or includes discrimination and other forms of abuse, in regions where US laws any other status protected by federal, state or local laws. do not apply and civil rights procedures are not entirely clear or known to BDP. We strive to maintain a universally acceptable standard for human – Transfers, promotions, and lay-off decisions are made without regard to race, color, rights, in accordance with UN principles and our global human rights policy. religion, age, national origin, gender, sexual orientation, disability, veteran status or Employees are expressly informed about the policy, which is available to any other status protected by federal, state or local laws. and enforceable for all levels of employees, including senior management. The policy is maintained on the company intranet, and trainings designed by BDP’s Legal, Human Resources and Compliance teams are created to promulgate the policy company wide. 2014-2015 Communication on Progre ss | 4 HUMAN RIGHTS BDP Anti-Harrasment Policy: BDP maintains Access to basic healthcare: BDP offers access to an anti-harrasment policy, to prevent workplace health, dental and vision insurance. Our US based abuse and discrimination. The Policy applies to sexual harassment as well as harassment on “BDP values the Human Resource Management System provides employees access to a wealth of health and wellness the basis of race, color, religion, gender or sex, national origin, veteran status, age, disability, commitment knowledge which allows employees to proactively manage their own medical history. Onsite flu vaccines sexual orientation, familial status or any other every employee are provided in several of our US locations. makes to the characteristic protected from discrimination under US law. Harassing behavior consists of Safe working environment: Through its Safety Committee, BDP aims to maintain a safe and discriminatory intimidation, ridicule, or insult that has the purpose or effect of unreasonably organization and healthy workplace by eliminating workplace injuries, as such provides interfering with an individual’s work performance identifying hazards and suggesting ways to prevent or of creating an intimidating, hostile, or them. offensive work environment, as viewed from the perspective of a reasonable person. The policy many benefits to The objectives of the Safety Committee are: also forbids all forms of physical, sexual or other kinds of harassing behavior. The policy is global, help employees – Promptly review all safety-related incidents, injuries, accidents, illnesses, and deaths; and provides for reporting procedures in order to ensure accountability. BDP also maintains achieve a greater – Conduct quarterly workplace inspections, identify hazards, an anonymous complaint form on the company intranet, and a reporting hotline. work/life balance.” and recommend methods for eliminating or controlling the hazards; and – Annually evaluate BDP’s workplace safety and health Code of Business Conduct and Ethics: BDP program and recommend improvements to management. maintains a Code of Business Conduct and Ethics (the “Code”). The Code applies to every Work/life balance: BDP values the commitment officer, director and employee of BDP International. We also expect that those every employee makes to the organization and as such provides many with whom we do business (including our agents, consultants, suppliers benefits to help employees achieve a greater work/life balance, such as: and customers) to adhere to the Code. Our Code is designed to help our vacation time, sick time, personal time, select holidays off of work, short-term employees comply with the law and maintain the highest standards of ethical and long-term disability as well as honoring any regional government laws conduct. All BDP International’s officers, directors and employees must carry such as Family Medical Leave Act. out their duties in accordance with the policies set forth in this Code and with applicable laws and regulations. 2014-2015 Communication on Progre ss | 5 HUMAN RIGHTS those actions but does not act appropriately to correct them. In addition to Principle 2 imposing its own discipline, BDP International may also bring suspected violations of law to the attention of the appropriate law enforcement personnel. BDP International encourages employees to notify Human Resources if a situation arises which the employee believes conflicts with this policy. Additionally, BDP maintains a hotline and intranet based complaint form which allows employees to report violations to the legal department Businesses should make sure that they are anonymously. All policies operated by BDP encourage employees to report any violations to the appropriate supervising authority. not complicit in human rights abuses. Commitment “To provide the finest At BDP, we pride ourselves on our people, processes and technology that reach beyond simply delivering our business services. To provide the finest service experience in the world, BDP emphasizes the values of accountability, customer care and enduring relationships in all regions where we have operations. These values are consistent with our culture of service experience in the supporting human rights; we uphold the internationally recognized human rights contained within the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and seek world, BDP emphasizes the values of accountability, to avoid complicity in human rights abuses, and combat them however we can. BDP also maintains separate policies to reinforce our stance against child labor, harassment and human rights violations respectively. Processes and Systems customer care and enduring relationships in all regions Violation of Business Ethics, Code of Conduct, Human Rights Policy, Child Labor Policy, Equal Employment Policy or Anti-Harassment Policy: Any violation of applicable law or any deviation from the standards embodied in the Code will result in disciplinary action, up to and including termination. Disciplinary action may also apply to an employee’s supervisor where we have operations.” who directs or approves the employee’s improper actions, or is aware of 2014-2015 Communication on Progre ss | 6 HUMAN RIGHTS Global Talent Management Team: BDP’s Training, Education and Local Leadership Globally: BDP has experienced local leadership in every Development (TED) demonstrates that BDP is committed to investing in its BDP location and staff who thoroughly understand local laws, cultures, most important asset, our people, by having global responsibility for the business practices and regulations. education and development of all employees. BDP was recently honored by the Corporate University Best-in-Class Awards (CUBIC™), established Industry Thought Leader: As a sought after industry thought leader, to recognize internal training organizations and corporate universities that BDP encourages clients and employees through our various trade set standards of excellence. BDP University is used to administer global communications, Trendwatch, TradeAdvisory, and Gateway, to maintain awareness programs such as: ethical best practices in all regions of the world. BDP also participates in and hosts events geared towards industry issues, externalities and ethics. For – Hazardous Material example, in 2014 we participated in the Ethisphere Global Ethics Summit in London, England; in 2015 we will Co-Organize the Ethisphere Oil and Gas – Industry Regulations Ethics Summit in Houston, Texas; and in 2015 we will also host the Export/ – Anti-Dumping procedures, Environmental obligations Import Regulatory Seminar in Houston, Texas; among other conferences we are involved in. – Regulatory and Legal Compliance “Small enough to care, large enough to leverage value”: Privately held – Government Security Programs and family owned, we never lose sight of what matters most, which is our integrity based and ethically driven business model. BDP is nimble to – Anti-Corruption Compliance changing business, economic, political and legal conditions, and we can – Managing Office Politics react swiftly and efficiently in any market. However, we cannot and will not allow our economic flexibility to compromise our familial and social – Business and Ethics Risk Management values, which remain firm in the face of economic uncertainty because of our structure. We strive to avoid violations of human rights within our realm – Effective Emergency Management of responsibility, whether it be our own organization, our service vendors, suppliers or clients. Hotline: In the event that employees become aware of any facts surrounding a transaction that might be suspicious and give rise to a violation of the Code of Conduct, they may anonymously advise BDP by calling +1 (866) 631-2807. Anonymous Complaint Form: Employees may also inform the company with regards to potential violations via an anonymous complaint form, available on the company’s intranet site. 2014-2015 Communication on Progre ss | 7 LABOR STANDARDS timeframe and communicate their expectation for increased responsibility Principle 3 and/or salary requirements. Employee Classification: BDP classifies employees under applicable employee categories for the region in which they operate (ex: exempt/nonexempt). All employees have a service date associated with their date of hire that governs their eligibility for various benefits such as vacation accrual rates, service recognition and participation in retirement plans. Further, Businesses should uphold the freedom of employees have the opportunity to apply for internal job postings, transfers association and the effective recognition and promotions within BDP. of the right to collective bargaining; Mentoring Program: Being a privately held, family owned company that values personal relationships, BDP has historically used informal mentoring and networking throughout the organization. BDP’s structured Mentoring Commitment Program varies vastly from informal mentoring as it is focused solely on BDP strongly encourages all employees to own their personal career the leadership development of a small group of high potential employees development through a variety of policies and programs within our identified by management. The purpose of the Mentoring Program at organization. Every employee has the right and ability to improve their status BDP International, Inc. is to foster career development and share career within the organization. Through our performance based processes, every experiences between BDP management and high potential employees. The employee has the ability to re-negotiate their positions and wages during the long-term goals of the Mentoring Program are specifically to: review period. Performance reviews and internal job postings are used to incentivize career development and personal growth for all BDP personnel. – Identify and reward high potentials within the organization by providing them with Further, BDP maintains assistance programs, such as relocation assistance, personal attention and guidance from BDP management; and policies for accommodating emergencies or other employee needs, for example in the case of a disability. “Flexitime” or flexible working hours are – Lay the foundation for a succession plan throughout the organization; also available upon necessity and management approval, and performance – Improve morale and job satisfaction of high potential employees; reviews are conducted with employees every six months, to allow for the discussion of any employment related issues. – Establish a culture that values career development and networking while fostering trust throughout the organization; and Processes and Systems Pay: BDP follows minimum pay requirements in each location we operate and – Aid in retention and recruitment of high potential employees. offers competitive industry compensation. Development Opportunities Performance Management: Each year, BDP publishes Key Performance – Behavioral competencies; Indicators for the entire global organization. These indicators are communicated clearly and swiftly throughout the organization, and each – Individual development tools; employee is assigned personal Key Performance Indicator by their manager. Through a semi-annual review process, each employee has the opportunity – Succession planning; and to discuss their progress towards meeting these goals within the annual – Performance development. 2014-2015 Communication on Progre ss | 8 LABOR STANDARDS Leadership Development Program: The goal of BDP’s Leadership Principle 4 Development Program (LDP) is to cultivate the next generation of leadership at BDP through a series of leadership development courses, networking opportunities and educational classes. The LDP includes four major components: 1) Leadership Boot Camp Week; One week consisting of intensive leadership development training delivered at the Global Corporate Headquarters, with training designed by Dale Carnegie. the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; 2) Leadership Development Specific BDP University Courses; A series of courses and presentations conducted by Senior Management designed to help enhance the skill sets of BDP’s future leaders as they prepare for the next level of responsibility at BDP. These courses are available BDP adheres to all social and labor obligations to support its employees on BDP’s online learning platform, BDP University. globally. These obligations include, but are not limited to, employee medical 3) Capstone Project benefits, family and medical leave, term disability benefits and paid vacation, Employees identify an opportunity to better BDP, and then develop a consistent with requirements of each jurisdiction. Also see Principles 2 and business case study to implement that project. 3. BDP also offers employees flexible working hours upon management approval, safety policies at the work place, sick leave, personal leave, and 4) Networking. other social/life insurance benefits for eligible employees. A strong network is essential for all leaders. All participants in this program meet with the executive leadership of the company in both formal and Further, to combat exploitation and abuse at home and abroad, BDP informal settings in order to discuss their path within the company. maintains a global ethics code. BDP also maintains an Equal Employment Policy, a Human Rights Policy, a Policy against Child Labor and an AntiBDP University: BDP’s Corporate University helps keep employees up-toHarrassment Policy. All staff are notified and trained with regards to these date on the latest transportation and logistics issues, regulations and best policies, and are accountable for adherence to them and the code of conduct. practices. A personalized curriculum with live classroom sessions, online Violations can lead to disciplinary action such as probation, suspension, and webinars and self-paced “on demand” courses assists staff in professional other penalties, up to termination. BDP encourages all agents, customers and and personal development. Training is available for legal, technical, industry subcontractors to follow these policies as well. specific and other educational topics, which will be of use in assisting employees on the job. BDP maintains an anonymous complaint form on its intranet website to ensure accountability with our ethical mandate, as well as a complaint hotline. 2014-2015 Communication on Progre ss | 9 LABOR STANDARDS Principle 5 Principle 6 the effective abolition of child labor; and the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Commitment Anti-Harassment Policy: An important aspect of BDP International’s Equal BDP International fully complies with the Child Labor provisions of the Employment Opportunity Policy is to ensure that all individuals have the right Fair Labor Standards Act and applicable state statutes, which govern the and opportunity to work in an environment that is free from harassment of employment of minors. any nature. Harassment in any form including that of employees, applicants for employment, temporary employees, temporary agency workers, vendors, Systems and Processes maintenance workers, or customers is unacceptable conduct that is not Policy: BDP requires that all its employees and representatives shall tolerated by BDP International. This policy applies to harassment on the basis recognize the U.N. Convention on the Rights of the Child, and that its of race, color, religion, gender, national origin, veteran status, age, disability, business partners comply with all relevant national and international laws, sexual orientation, familial status or any other characteristic protected from regulations and provisions applicable in the country of operation. Employees discrimination under law. Employees are notified about the policy and trained and partners are obliged to take the appropriate measures to ensure that no about its requirement through courses and the employee handbook. The child labor occurs at their places of operation. policy is also revised and updated periodically. Background checks: BDP conducts background checks prior to hire to Anti-Harassment, Diversity and Cultural Sensitivity Training: BDP ensure minimum age requirements are met for all employees. conducts on-going training for all employees to ensure that BDP maintains a workplace free from all forms of harassment. BDP maintains an active policy against child labor. All staff are notified and trained with regards to the policy, and are accountable for adherence to Harassment Complaint Procedure: BDP encourages the prompt reporting it, as well as the code of conduct. Violations can lead to disciplinary actions of complaints or concerns so that rapid and constructive action can be such as probation, suspension, and other penalties, up to termination. BDP taken. All allegations of harassment are investigated promptly and in as encourages all agents, customers and subcontractors to follow these policies confidential a manner as is consistent with effective investigation. BDP will as well. take appropriate corrective action when warranted. BDP encourages all employees to assist in maintaining a harassment-free workplace. Anonymous reporting is possible through BDP’s intranet site or hotline. 2014-2015 Communication on Progre ss | 10 ENVIRONMENT management. In addition, BDP’s Chief Executive Officer is fully supportive Principle 7 and influential in shaping our environmental endeavors. This policy is communicated to all employees and conveys our promise to operate in an environmentally conscious manner. Echoing this policy are several of BDP’s programs; BDP Sustainability Program, Responsible Care, and the BDP Green Team. BDP Sustainability Businesses should support a precautionary BDP’s Sustainability program encompasses all of our policies, programs, and approach to environmental challenges; practices for conducting operations in an environmentally, as well as fiscallyresponsible manner. The BDP Sustainability program focuses on internal and external initiatives; including an interactive training program for all employees, along with programs focused on energy conservation, paper reduction, recycling, reuse, and transit. To strengthen our external presence, BDP has BDP is committed to being an industry leader in corporate sustainability. BDP become a member of the Clean Cargo Working Group (CCWG). The CCWG is seeks to operate in an environmentally responsible manner through education a global business to business initiative comprised of carriers, shippers, and and compliance, with sustainability at the forefront of daily business logistic providers. This membership allows BDP to collaborate with peers practices. and business partners, calculate our customer’s carbon footprint, along with The global shipping industry is responsible for approximately three percent the ability to review ocean carrier environmental data. Each of these areas of the world’s greenhouse gas emissions1. These emissions will continue to further shape and define BDP’s commitment to society, the economy, and our rise unless action is taken. BDP realizes the impact that the industry has on responsibility to protect the environment. the environment and continually looks for new ways to reduce emissions. As BDP Green Program a non-asset based company, BDP works with suppliers, customers, and all The BDP Green Program is in its fifth year since inception and continually stakeholders to ensure its environmental, health, and safety standards are of spreads the mission of environmental awareness and responsibility. The BDP high priority. Green Program has made significant strides in the past year as an extension To support BDP’s environmental commitment, a structure has been of the BDP Sustainability Program. BDP Green is a vital component within the established to ensure all initiatives are completed effectively and successfully. sustainability program in continuing to support our corporate sustainability BDP’s Sustainability Manager is responsible for maintaining, improving, and goals. The BDP Green Team continues to motivate employees and work to communicating all of BDP’s sustainability initiatives. BDP’s Sustainability create initiatives to support all of BDP’s environmental goals. These goals program is comprised of internal, external, and global community initiatives. include increased environmental consciousness across the company and the The Sustainability Manager stays current on all industry developments to global community, in the areas of energy conservation, recycling, reduction of keep BDP and its stakeholders informed and prepared for any regulatory or waste, reusable items, and ecofriendly transit. industry changes that may occur. The BDP Green team has made several advances in establishing To further reinforce our environmental commitment, BDP has an environmental standards in the workplace. The Green team has appointed environmental policy that is approved by all board members and eco-leaders within each region of the United States. These eco-leaders 2014-2015 Communication on Progre ss | 11 ENVIRONMENT LABOR STANDARDS support all initiatives and facilitate these in the BDP offices within their region. Principle 8 Toward the end of 2013 and beginning of 2014, the BDP Green program expanded to include the Antwerp, Belgium office. There are plans for further global expansion of the BDP Green team in 2015. Currently, we are proud to report the following achievements and essential goals for 2015: – Increased communication and awareness in all US offices regarding recycling, paper Businesses should undertake initiatives to reduction, and energy conservation; promote greater environmental responsibility; Employee engagement via monthly internal newsletters, and social networking sites, and in person to enhance BDP’s goal of corporate-wide awareness of sustainability. Memberships and Supporting Partnerships: – Environmental events in 2015 included: Clean Cargo Working Group: Supporting BDP’s sustainability initiatives, BDP became a member of the Clean Cargo Working Group (CCWG) in 2013. Earth Day celebration with awareness events for all employees The CCWG is a global business to business initiative comprised of carriers, focusing on less waste and reusable items; shippers, and logistic providers. This membership provides BDP with several Composting event to share information with employees about the benefits: importance of composting, and local and organic foods; Contest engaging employees to share what they love about – The ability to calculate our customer’s carbon footprint using data and tools provided BDP, as it relates to environmental practices. by the CCWG; – The ability to review and compare ocean carriers’ environmental performance across – The BDP Sustainability training has continued to expand globally, after its first year. a broad range of data; By the end of 2014, twenty-eight percent of employees had taken the Sustainability training. This training highlights areas in the workplace and at home where – Collaboration with peers and business partners to improve BDP’s environmental employees can be environmentally conscious. BDP strives to have 50 percent of performance; and employees take and pass this training in 2015. – Help influence the development of tools, standards, and methodologies for improving – In 2014, over forty-five percent of BDP’s office and paper supply purchases were environmental performance across the intermodal value chain. environmentally friendly products. These products are either made from recyclable materials or can be recycled. – In 2014, BDP responsibly disposed of electronic waste through a third party contractor who ensured properly recycling of the e-waste. – Distributed reusable mugs to all employees in the US and European offices were supplied with reusable water bottles. http://ec.europa.eu/clima/policies/transport/shipping/index_en.htm 2014-2015 Communication on Progre ss | 12 BDP Responsible Care®: BDP has been a Partner of the American 1. BDP Responsible Care Global Charter Campaign: The Global Charter Chemistry Council’s (ACC) Responsible Care® initiative since 2003. was developed by the International Council of Chemical Associations (ICCA) Responsible Care is a global, voluntary initiative where Member companies in collaboration with select ACC Responsible Care Member companies. A that manufacture chemicals and supply chain Partner companies work revised Global Charter has been rolled out to the Responsible Care network together to continuously improve and support the overall health, safety, of North America-U.S. headquartered Members and Partners. BDP has environmental quality, and community awareness of chemicals throughout declared our support as a multinational company with global activities. Our their life cycle. As a Partner practitioner in the Logistics Management Sector, organization will embrace and uphold the six (6) key elements to the Global BDP pledges to operate business according to the ethics, values, and Charter within our local business cultures and practices. As such, BDP is principles set forth in these Responsible Care program elements: developing a campaign to: – Endorse the Guiding Principles of Responsible Care; – Voluntarily implement the Global Charter to employees outside the U.S.; – Measure and publicly report performance on annual basis; – Generate awareness of Responsible Care initiatives and what the supply chain value membership brings to our workforce and our customers; – Implement the Security Code within a specified time frame; – Demonstrate how and where BDP employees at every level are invested both in – Implement the Responsible Care Process Safety Code of Management Practices; practice and mindset: – Implement the Responsible Care Management System (RCMS®); and We work as One BDP, One Team Responsible Care is the right thing to do – Obtain independent certification that a management system is in place and functions according to professional specifications. Engage our customers and supply chain vendors BDP is pleased to report a robust agenda of Responsible Care activities in – Engage employees through a strategic communication plan including internal 2015. BDP employees at ALL levels and departments within each BDP region, webinars, training through BDP University, Town Hall meetings with local leadership, country, and office will be engaged in Responsible Care education. Social Networks, and idea sharing; and The Responsible Care journey is strategically built into the 5-Year BDP – Engage employees in a celebration signing of a BDP Global Charter poster to signify Strategic Plan. Chemical Brand Dominance is one out of five “Pillars” for their role as an integral component in the Responsible Care initiative worldwide. BDP growth and development. Progress and successes with Responsible Care initiatives in 2015 and beyond will be internally measured against our 2. Responsible Care Process Safety Code of Management Practices: Strategic Plan to support our company’s vision of Delivering the Best Global Beginning in 2014, BDP North America U.S. is implementing the Process Logistics Solutions. BDP Responsible Care communications, education, and Safety Code of Management Practices set forth by the requirements defined activities will be customized by region to ensure the highest level of employee in the Responsible Care Management System (RCMS®): engagement and content relevant in these focus areas: 2014-2015 Communication on Progre ss | 13 LABOR STANDARDS – RCMS implementation is required for supply chain Partner companies during a 3 – Includes designated members that attend annual conferences and expos hosted by Year certification cycle from 2014–2016; the U.S. ACC Responsible Care Team; – BDP’s Process Safety Code implementation focuses on U.S. operations and – Collaborates with the BDP U.S. Safety Committee and BDP Centers of Excellence to departments at this time; integrate Responsible Care education into BDP’s EHS initiatives and vice versa; and – The Process Safety Code includes seven Management Practices: Leadership and – In 2015 and beyond, the Committee will expand to include members from BDP Culture; Accountability; Knowledge, Expertise and Training; Understanding and locations in Asia Pacific, Canada, Europe, Middle East, and Latin America. Prioritization of Process Safety Risks; Comprehensive Process Safety Management System; Information sharing; and Monitoring and Improving Performance; REACH: BDP is also active in promoting compliance with REACH (Registration, Evaluation and Authorization of Chemicals) which is the – BDP U.S. operations and departments expect to have all seven Management European Union’s single regulatory system for chemical management. As Practices documented and implemented by December 31, 2015; an Only Representative, BDP is qualified to aid its customers, clients and – BDP practices and documentation will be sampled by an external auditing firm in suppliers. In this role BDP can: March 2016 to determine RCMS certification; – Evaluate risks and exposure associated with our ; – Many of the policies and processes documented under the Process Safety Code – Maintain all communications and negotiations with ECHA and all relevant Member are standard operating practices for BDP U.S. operations. Formal implementation State governmental bodies; provides excellent opportunities for our organization to: – Identify and communicate with all importers, distributors and downstream users; Evaluate and refine existing processes and operating systems, Identify and close process gaps for continuous improvement, – Prepare and submit the technical registration dossier; Create opportunities to identify, reduce, and manage process safety risk, – Make the filings, register the chemicals, and pay all attendant fees; Develop, customize, and roll out training to support, and Enhance teamwork and communications among BDP U.S. – Coordinate data exchange and testing strategies with SIEF group and Consortium departments and BDP Centers of Excellence. members; – Create and submit safety data sheets and chemical safety reports; 3. BDP Responsible Care Committee: The 18-member Committee – Audit and train internally as well as with our customer base where needed; represents BDP U.S. personnel and hosts four annual meetings, one meeting each Quarter, to introduce trending topics and discuss – Prepare notification of substances of very high concern; progress and challenges with BDP Responsible Care initiatives. The Committee strives to continuously improve BDP U.S. operating – Address classification and labeling; and practices and systems while seeking new opportunities and Perform any other obligations resulting from authorizations or restrictions education. The Committee has BDP CEO-level leadership and commitment along with engagement in internal / external events: – Participates on monthly conference calls and webinars hosted by the U.S. ACC Responsible Care Team; 2014-2015 Communication on Progre ss | 14 ANTI-CORRUPTION – An example that demonstrates our paper waste reduction goal is the efforts from Principle 9 BDP’s Rotterdam office. Through utilizing digital archiving, they have reduced significant waste of documents, file folders, and archive space within the office. Paper waste was reduced by over 50 percent by the end of 2013 and continued to reduce each year thereafter into 2015. Paperless Marketing Communications: All marketing communications are now distributed electronically. Customers can register to receive weekly Businesses should encourage the diffusion newsletters and business updates via email, rather than in paper form. and development of environmentally friendly Electronic marketing newsletters and BDP’s new paperless document application, DMS, enables BDP to move in the right direction in becoming a technologies. more environmentally conscious company. Green Conferences: In 2014, BDP hosted a conference utilizing a web based BDP’s IT Center of Excellence has a commitment, supported by a corporate application to decrease its carbon footprint. All conference information and policy, to ensure BDP’s technology purchases and endeavors to minimize presentations are housed on the web application. This significantly reduces environmental impact. BDP’s main environmentally friendly technology BDP’s paper waste, as over one hundred attendees were present at this initiatives include: conference and could access all presentations and conference information on the application instead of BDP printing this information. This year, BDP will be using this web based application for 8 conferences; increasing environmental “BDP continues its efforts to become consciousness. BDP has also procured environmentally conscious giveaways for all conference attendees; distributing recycled pens and notebooks. entirely paperless via its Document Video Conferencing / Webinars /Conference Calls: BDP has continued to increase the utilization of webinars and conference calls to cut down Management System (DMS).” on travel costs. BDP has installed video conferencing capabilities into the corporate office so that employees can have global meetings without having the environmental and economic effects of travel. BDP has also transitioned to Google email, allowing easier access to web conferencing via Google Electronic Document Management: BDP continues its efforts to become Hangout. entirely paperless via its Document Management System (DMS). DMS has been fully executed in all US offices. In 2015, all 29 European offices have either begun or are scheduled to transition to DMS. DMS will continue to be implemented in all other offices around the globe. 2014-2015 Communication on Progre ss | 15 ANTI-CORRUPTION Appointment of FCPA Compliance Officer: BDP maintains an Principle 10 FCPA Compliance Office who is responsible for the management and implementation of the FCPA Compliance Program. This includes the establishment, development and maintenance of the compliance program and the communication of these standards to all current and prospective business partners and employees. The FCPA Compliance Officer is also responsible for periodic reporting on the effectiveness of the program through Businesses should work against corruption in the implementation of a monitoring and auditing system to detect criminal conduct. all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Training: BDP’s Legal Team conducts ongoing global FCPA (Foreign Corrupt Practices Act) training through BDP University. The training consists of a webinar accompanied by a detailed Commitment BDP is committed to full compliance with both the letter and spirit of the PowerPoint presentation on the “We aim to insure that laws and regulations in all countries in which it operates. It is of the utmost importance to BDP to conduct its business with integrity in accordance with anti-bribery provisions of the FCPA and BDP’s compliance program. all principals and key the BDP Code of Conduct and all applicable laws and regulations. Employees are then tested on their knowledge of the FCPA and BDP’s employees involved Systems and Processes compliance program, and must in sales, marketing, Policy: BDP operates under a global Code of Business Conduct and Ethics (the “Code”). The Code applies to every officer, director and employee of score at least an 80% to pass the training. Certifications are then sent and procurement BDP. BDP also expects that those with whom we do business (including our agents, consultants, suppliers and customers) will also adhere to the Code. to employees to be signed, and state that they have completed the training, are certified in FCPA The Code prohibits bribery in any form, including: extortion, facilitating and will adhere to BDP’s compliance compliance globally.” program. All original certifications are payments, kickbacks, political contributions, and the offer or receipt of gifts, kept in our legal files. hospitality or entertainment. The Code also ensures that BDP maintains complete and accurate financial records and make annual anti-bribery We aim to insure that all principals training available for all principals, and key employees involved in sales, and key employees involved in sales, marketing, and procurement are marketing, and procurement. certified in FCPA compliance globally. In addition, all new employees are required to undergo anti-corruption training. BDP also maintains a stringent anti-corruption policy, which prohibits any form of corrupt practices, whether it is bribes or other forms of illicit payments. Anonymous complaint hotlines and web forms have been created to prevent any such activity, and hold perpetrators accountable. Those caught committing corrupt acts are subject to termination. 2014-2015 Communication on Progre ss | 16 ANTI-CORRUPTION BDP also conducts leadership and board training with reference to corruption Contract Provisions: The Code also holds a section detailing contract and ethical risks, and the need for FCPA compliance, so executive and board provisions and certification requirements for BDP’s consultants, level staff understand the intricacies of the law and practice involved in antiintermediaries and joint venture partners. The provisions require that corruption efforts. all parties involved are fully compliant with both the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (“FCPA”) and the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Due Diligence: Included in BDP’s Code of Business Conduct and Ethics Development (“OECD”) Convention, along with all other applicable laws and is a section on Due Diligence in Selecting International Consultants, compliance procedures. All contracts also set out accounting and financial Intermediaries and Joint Venture Partners. This section provides executives provisions, reporting requirements, disclosure information, and termination and employees with information on identifying proper business partners, provisions for non-compliance. required disclosures and the final approval process. BDP also maintains a vetting process for selecting subcontractors and agents. The certification terms require each consultant, intermediary and joint venture partner to periodically certify that he or she: All partners need to certify that they are FCPA compliant. – Understands the FCPA (and OECD Convention); TRACE Certified: In 2015 BDP has become a certified agent – Has not violated or caused the company to violate the FCPA (and/or OECD of TRACE International. TRACE Convention) since the date of the prior periodic certification; is a non-profit organization – Does not know or have reason to believe that any other person retained by the that provides all members company has violated the FCPA (and/or OECD Convention), or caused the company with anti-bribery compliance to violate them since the date of the prior certification; and support. TRACE members include thousands of enterprises – Will immediately advise a named official of the company if the certifying person throughout the world that work should learn of or have reason to believe there has been any violation of the FCPA together to increase transparency in international business transactions. (and/or OECD Convention) in connection with the company’s business. Through TRACE, BDP is provided customizable due diligence, training and advisory services along with one complete anti-bribery and third party compliance solution. “Through TRACE, BDP is provided customizable due diligence, training and advisory services along with one complete anti-bribery and third party compliance solution.” 2014-2015 Communication on Progre ss | 17
