Neste’s 2015 Global Compact Communication on Progress October 2014 – October 2015 Statement of continuing support for the UN Global Compact – September 2015 We are proud to celebrate our first year in the United Nations Global Compact. We are committed to respecting the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in our operations and strategy. We respect human rights, labour rights, environment and promote zero tolerance against corruption. In June 2015, we changed our name from Neste Oil to Neste, because we are much more than a conventional oil refining company. We are the world's largest producer of renewable diesel and we are also seeking growth outside traffic solutions in the global renewable product-based market. We see a future full of opportunities and sustainability is part of everything we do. Neste joined the UN Global Compact in order to strengthen our commitment to the implementation of human and labour rights. For the past year, we have made good progress in this area by making human and labor rights the key area of development in our sustainability work. We are also participating in the Global Compact Nordic Network to exchange good practices of implementing the Global Compact principles. We are pleased to present our first Communication on Progress in which we describe how we integrate the Ten Principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We are also committed to sharing this information with our stakeholders through our website, for example. Sincerely, Mr Matti Lievonen President and CEO Neste Corporation 2 Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Principle 2: Make sure that they are complicit in human rights abuses 3 Human Rights Policy • Respect for human rights is included in Read more: »» Neste’s Code of Conduct Implementation »» Sustainability Policy Our sustainability report »» Sustainability Principles for Biofuels 2014 on-line Outcomes »» HR Policy »» No-Deforestation and Responsible Sourcing Guidelines for Human Rights Renewable Feedstock • We operate in compliance with all applicable, national and international, laws and Human rights in supply regulations, international conventions and generally accepted practices for good chain corporate governance. • We are currently developing our human rights policy statement. Production • We act responsibly in society and respect human rights wherever we operate. • Every employee at Neste is entitled to fair treatment and equal opportunities, and Remuneration we are committed to respecting the human rights and dignity of all employees. We do not tolerate any form of harassment at Neste, and we respect our employees’ Collaboration with BSR privacy and the confidentiality of their personal data. • Neste requires its suppliers to act in accordance with good business ethics Cooperation with TFT • Human rights and labor rights are part of the due diligence and certification criteria included in our selection process of raw material suppliers. Support for • We are expanding and improving our suppliers’ due diligence system, to take into communities account our most current environmental and social risks assessment of our supply chain. Our aim is to make the due diligence process even more comprehensive and robust. 4 Human Rights Policy • Human and labour rights are key areas of development in Neste’s sustainability work. Implementation • In line with the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, we have incorporated into our human rights policy commitments that reflect on internationOutcomes al standards, including the International Bill of Human Rights (UDHR, ICCPR and ICESCR), the core principles of the ILO, as well as the ten principles of the UNGC. • In addition to compliance with the applicable laws and regulations in their country/ countries of operation(s), Neste expects suppliers to: • support sustainable development and commit to continuous improvement of Health, Safety, Environment and Quality (HSEQ) issues in their operations, and actively work towards employees’ safety • respect human rights, comply with relevant ILO labour standards and relevant international human rights conventions. • We are currently looking into ways and possibilities to support the 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). 5 Human Rights Policy • We require all our palm oil suppliers to be members of the Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO) and all our crude palm oil suppliers to be ISCC (International Implementation Sustainability and Carbon Certification) certified. • We also request our palm oil suppliers to have standards and criteria for human Outcomes rights. • Our No Deforestation pledge advocates that all suppliers adopt the Free Prior and Informed Consent (FPIC) process to their operations on community lands. • In spring 2015, we started a cooperation with a global nonprofit organization Business for Social Responsibility (BSR) to tackle human rights that we have identified in our palm oil supply chain. • We interact with a number of communities and support work for the public good. With our charity, we also support development in areas where society’s resources are not sufficient to guarantee wellbeing and fundamental rights of the local communities, such as the right to education and health. • Our sponsored parties among children and young people include for example: • Finnish Figure Skating Association: proactive support to help prevent young national team skaters aged between 10 and 15 from being injured • Borneo Child Aid: enabling 265 Malaysian children annually to attend school • Lastenklinikoiden Kummit (a Finnish based charity) and Espoo Blues: Neste donated EUR 100 for every goal scored by the Espoo Blues ice hockey team in a home game to the children’s wards at Jorvi Hospital in Espoo via Lastenklinikoiden kummit 6 Human Rights Policy • In 2014, we organized trainings and workshops together with a Swiss based NGO The Forest Trust (TFT) for our palm oil suppliers to help them incorporate noImplementation deforestation and FPIC principles into their policies. As a result, by 2015 all our palm oil suppliers have a no-deforestation and responsible sourcing policy. Outcomes • Neste organized a miniseminar on human right issues for our external and internal stakeholders in February 2015. The aim was to increase knowledge, hear NGOs’ views on human rights and discuss about Neste’s challenges in the supply chain. • We are conducting a human rights impact assessment that covers the risk countries in our supply chain to identify new and possible human rights risks, with a mitigation plan for the near future. • We attended the UN Global Compact Nordic Network Meetings in Stockholm and Copenhagen May 4th-5th 2015. • Our sustainability team has attended FIBS’, non-profit corporate responsibility network in Finland, training sessions on human rights in 2015. • We have planned internal human rights training in October 2015. • Human rights is a high priority in Neste’s executive team’s meeting agenda in November 2015. • In spring 2015, we started a cooperation with a global nonprofit organization Business for Social Responsibility (BSR) to tackle human rights issues that we have identified in our palm oil supply chain. 7 Labour Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. 8 Labour Policy • Respect for human and labour rights are included in Read more: »» Neste’s Code of Conduct Implementation »» Sustainability Policy Our sustainability report »» Sustainability Principles for Biofuels 2014 on-line Outcomes »» HR Policy »» No-Deforestation and Responsible Sourcing Guidelines for Renewable Human Rights Feedstock • Every employee at Neste is entitled to fair treatment and equal opportunities Human rights in supply • We take an unambiguous stand on harassment, discrimination, child labor, forced chain labor or any exploitation: it is neither compliant with our values nor acceptable. • We are committed to respecting human rights and workers’ rights, and we deProduction mand the same from all of our suppliers. • We act in compliance with laws and regulations, which we see as our minimum Remuneration standards, and we expect our business partners to act in accordance to our minimum standards. Equality and diversity • We apply and comply with the local labour legislation in all of our countries of operations, as well as any collective bargaining agreements that specify remunerCollaboration with BSR ation-related matters such as minimum wages, and separate supplements such as overtime pay. Cooperation with TFT • In accordance with ILO conventions and standards, all of Neste personnel have the right to organize themselves and to belong to union associations. However, not all personnel in all countries are covered by collective bargaining agreements. • We believe that personnel diversity is a competitive advantage both in business operations and in competing for the best talent. • We offer all our employees equal opportunities regardless of their gender, ethnic origin, age, creed, political convictions, or other corresponding matters. We are committed to respecting human rights and value all employees as individuals. • We subscribe to RSPO and ISCC social standards. • We ensure a fair working environment. 9 Labour Policy • Neste’s Code of Conduct guides all employees and our business partners in understanding the kind of activities that reflect our values and principles, not forImplementation getting legal requirements. Personnel has the opportunity to learn more about the Code through a number of channels, including an online game. All new employees Outcomes are familiarized with the Code during induction programs. • The importance of equality and diversity is highlighted in Neste’s Human Resource Policy and in the Group’s recruitment and remuneration principles. We guarantee all applicants equal opportunities and fair and equal treatment during the recruitment process. • All our manufacturing sites are managed and operated according to OHSAS 18001 requirements. • A comprehensive due diligence process is conducted to all potential suppliers. Suppliers’ practices related to human and labour rights are reviewed in the audits. • We only accept sustainability certified crude palm oil from traceable sources. To obtain certification, the supplier has to pass a thorough certification audit that includes matters related to human and labour rights, such as the use of child or forced labor. This certification audit is carried out by an external party. • We require all of our palm oil suppliers to be members of the RSPO (Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil) and all our crude palm oil suppliers to be ISCC (International Sustainability and Carbon Certification) certified. • In spring 2015, we started a cooperation with a global nonprofit organization Business for Social Responsibility (BSR) to tackle labor rights issues that we have identified in our palm oil supply chain. • Focusing on migrant workers in Malaysia we are currently working in partnership with BSR: • on assessing and improving the human and labour right practices in our supply chain. • developing a Migrant Workers Toolkit to evaluate challenges in human and labour rights concerning migrant workers, and • suppliers’ training and capacity building on human and labour rights, as well as best practices. 10 Labour Policy • No threats to the freedom of association were identified in any area of operations Implementation • during 2014. 70,8% of Neste’s employees are represented by an independent trade union or Outcomes • covered by collective bargaining agreements in 2014. Our equality work was recognized in Latvia in 2014, when Neste was awarded an official recognition of excellence as the company with the highest level of gender equality in the country’s sustainability index. • Neste’s sustainability team has attended Corporate Responsibility Network FIBS’ training on human rights in 2015. • In spring 2015, we started a cooperation with a global nonprofit organization Business for Social Responsibility (BSR) to tackle labor rights issues that we have identified in our palm oil supply chain. 11 Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies 12 Environment Policy • Our environmental policies are described in Neste’s sustainability policy, Read more: Sustainability Principles for Biofuels and in the guideline No-Deforestation and Implementation Responsible Sourcing Guidelines for Renewable Feedstock. Our sustainability report • In Neste’s sustainability policy, we indicate the following statements: 2014 on-line Outcomes • We are environmentally responsible • All our actions are safe for our neighbors and the environment Climate and resource • We are committed to the health, safety, and security of our people and others efficiency directly impacted by our activities, and to protecting the natural environment where we operate. Cooperation with TFT • We ensure sufficient risk treatment and control, especially in the areas of HSSE and sustainability. Finnish Climate • We live up to our responsibility for sustainability. Leadership Council • We are committed to engaging with our stakeholders and participating in multi-stakeholder initiatives to help develop more sustainable solutions. Innovative marine tech• Climate change is a global challenge, and responding to it calls for a number of nology helps to save the parallel approaches. The reduction in greenhouse gases achieved through the environment use of our NEXBTL renewable diesel is our most significant contribution. • We are continuously seeking ways to increase the material efficiency of our operOur impact on the ations. Our refineries operate efficiently and only a very small fraction of their raw climate materials end up as waste. Resource wisdom and circular economy Production Intensive environmental impact monitoring Societal engagement 13 Environment Policy • Our three most material environmental issues show our way of taking responsibility in environmental issues, responding to the environmental challenges and Implementation developing environmentally friendly technologies: • Environmental innovation and developing cleaner products Outcomes Cleaner solutions • We have increased production capacity to exceed 2.3 million t/a in 2015 and aim to reach 2.6 million tons by 2017 Aiming to increase NEXBTL production capacity. • Environmental permits and energy efficiency Efficient energy use • Neste has set an energy-saving target of 660 GWh to be achieved by 2016, and aim Efficient energy use. • Operational eco-efficiency and the use of wastes and residues Resource wisdom and circular economy • Our aim is to reach the capability to use only waste and residues in our renewable diesel production by 2017 Renewable products. 14 Environment Policy • We undertake open and proactive measurement and use of monthly in-house reporting. Implementation • We are running several environmental monitoring programs in Porvoo and Naantali, Finland. Outcomes • We have been running environmental programs for over 40 years in Porvoo on a voluntary basis. • The order of the programs reflect development of environmental awareness and concerns. Neste’s response has always been to proactively start voluntary response programs. • Neste will install smart software that reduces emissions and yields great savings in fuel costs in the ships used by us. • All manufacturing sites are managed and operated according to ISO-9001, ISO-14001 and OHSAS 18001. • We are currently finding our ways to support the 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). 15 Environment Policy • We are an active member of the Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO). • We are engaged in an active dialogue with local NGOs and officials on developing Implementation the palm oil industry towards a more sustainable direction with regard to deforestation and social aspects, for example. Outcomes • We have been collaborating with The Forest Trust TFT, an organization focusing on preventing deforestation, since 2013. • No-deforestation commitment with TFT includes no exploitation and Free prior and informed consent (FPIC) for supplier operations. • We are a member of the Finnish Climate Leadership Council where Finnish companies and organizations can advance cooperation to combat climate change and to develop new business opportunities. • We have significantly increased the share of waste and residues of the total consumption of renewable raw materials. In fact, our aim is to make it possible to use exclusively waste and residues in producing renewable diesel by 2017. • We are involved in international university-led algae research projects in Australia and the Netherlands that develop ways to produce algae oil cost-efficiently. Micro-algae can be used as a feedstock for our NEXBTL renewable diesel. 16 Environment Policy • Our environmental performance in 2014 is available on our website • Performance in our three most material environmental issues: Implementation • Environmental innovation and developing cleaner products: new cleaner solutions and premium quality products with a smaller impact on the environment Outcomes Results 2014 • Environmental permits and energy efficiency Results 2014 • Operational eco-efficiency and the use of wastes and residues Results 2014 • During 2014 we released notifications to control authorities regarding environmental incidents and we maintained a voluntary web-based information system to inform our refinery neighbors in Porvoo, Finland. • In May 2015, we organized an environmental seminar where we set a working group for developing our environment reporting and setting environmental targets. The working group will present a model according to which we will set environmental targets during 2016. • In 2014, we organized trainings and workshops with TFT to help our suppliers to incorporate no-deforestation and FIPC principles into their policies. • As a result, by 2015 all our suppliers have a no deforestation and responsible sourcing policy. 17 AntiCorruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery 18 Anti-Corruption Policy • Neste does not engage in bribery or corruption in any form, and we expect our suppliers, customers and other business partners to behave in the same way. Read more: This is stated in Neste Code of Conduct Our sustainability report 2014 on-line Implementation • Neste Code of Conduct categorically prohibits any forms of bribery and corruption. • Neste has been putting together a specific Supplier Code of Conduct document to ascertain that its suppliers (direct and in-direct ones) understand the importance of having integrity in their business. The Code takes a strict stance against bribery or corruption. • The Code is intended to be finalized by the end of 2015 and thereafter rolled out to Neste suppliers. • Neste has an internal Fraud Management Principle -instruction. Outcomes • During 2015, Neste has been developing detailed anti-corruption and anti-bribery instructions for its employees complemented with an e-learning tool. Objective is to have these finalized by the end of 2015 and thereafter rolled out to targeted Neste personnel. • The Supplier Code of Conduct is intended to be finalized by the end of 2015 and thereafter rolled out to Neste suppliers. • We have not been involved in any legal cases, investigations or proceedings relating to bribery or corruption. 19
