UN GLOBAL COMPACT Communication on Progress 2015 STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT I am pleased to confirm that JUAL reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit us to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. The Communication on Progress encompasses JUAL A/S & JUAL Metal Products (Suzhou) Co., Ltd. Kind regards, Martin Thomsen Director, JUAL JUAL manufactures high grade building products made from metals and injection moulded plastic parts and has always been a reliable supplier of roof accessories. We design the solution that matches the specific requirements for quality and ease of installation for any given roof construction. The UN Global Compact membership is a way of showing our customers, shareholders and other relevant stakeholder’s our devotion to uphold the principles of UN Global Compact mainly related to the daughter company in China, JUAL Metal Products (Suzhou) Co., Ltd. Where all standard products and components are manufactured and exported to the sister company in Denmark. HUMAN RIGHTS Aim JUAL supports the internationally proclaimed human rights, and we ensure that we are not complicit in human rights abuses. It is our policy, at all levels of processes and activities of the company that the defined rights are guaranteed for everyone. We want to keep our focus on diversity at JUAL and we are working to create an inclusive workplace with room for everyone. We want to promote a culture with respect for the law and good practice with our suppliers. Our vision for the future is that we only do business with suppliers who have the same high standard of human rights as we do. We believe that ongoing dialogue and close cooperation is one of the key elements in achieving the best results. Our aim is that our current and future suppliers not only respect international human rights, but also actively support them.  PRINCIPLE 1: Businesses should support and respect the Progress protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Compliance wih the principles of UN Global Compact is important to our organization. In 2014, we shaped our employee handbook, in which we require, as a minimum, is prepared in accordance with the  PRINCIPLE 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human UN Global Compact's principles regarding human rights. This handbook is available to all employees. rights abuses. Results There have been no reported incidents during the last 12 months, or over the company’s history. All company procedures are to be effective to protect internationally proclaimed Human Rights for all, with a zero tolerance of non-compliance. LABOUR RIGHTS Aim We are aware that many elements must be optimized when undertaking the processes needed to run a socially responsible company. This is and will continue to be an on-going process. We want to focus on the process of production of the goods we sell and motivate all our suppliers to promote social responsibility within areas of concern. We try to promote a strong sense of corporate responsibility with special regards to industrial safety. We are responsible in ensuring that production methods takes decent working conditions, respect to workers, trade unions and NGOs in producer countries into account. Moreover, JUAL not accept any kind of child labour, unreasonably long working hours or wages that do not meet appropriate industry standard in the country of production. Progress We want to take part in the improvement of labour conditions and promote a more ethical industry with a safer working environment. If we promote this, we are aware that we must take our own company in consideration and focus on our employee’s wellbeing. We believe in ensuring a healthy and safe working environment for all our employees is of great importance in the daily life of the individual and for the company in general. This is why we continuously try to improve work place environment with regards to our employee’s well-being and general satisfaction at the work place. Results  PRINCIPLE 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of JUAL has made investments in general safety equipment and personal protective equipment at our facassociation and the effective recognition of the right to tory and a separate warehouse for hazard materials. We have set up strict rules for safety management collective bargaining; and appointed a safety team. So far, no reports of violations, by either our own employees or suppliers, have come to our attention. Should it come to our attention that any violations take place, we claim the  PRINCIPLE 4: make sure that they are not complicit in right to terminate the relationship immediately. We investigate potential unsafe issues if this comes to human rights abuses. our attention and JUAL provides occupational fire training in an effort to ensure a safe working envi PRINCIPLE 5: the elimination of all forms of forced and ronment for all employees. compulsory labor;  PRINCIPLE 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. ENVIRONMENT  PRINCIPLE 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Aim At JUAL, we acknowledge that we have an impact on the environment – directly and indirectly. We  PRINCIPLE 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater continue to grow as an organization. It has encouraged us to strive for the vision of creating a balance environmental responsibility; and between the needs of customers, and a systematic approach to environmentally friendly solutions. We  PRINCIPLE 9: encourage the development and diffusion of believe that our focus on improving the environment will benefit our investors, customers, suppliers and environmentally friendly technologies. the environment in general. We are of cause obligated to comply with applicable Danish Environmental Laws and regulations, etc., and will impose on our suppliers to follow the environmental principles of the UN Global Compact. Responsibility towards the environment is considered important to how we conduct business. Progress JUAL operates under the ISO 14001, environmental management scheme, which offers a way for JUAL to implement and manage sound sustainable procedures, as well as constant improvement opportunities through its circular managerial structure. Results All new suppliers conduct a thorough stakeholder perception survey. The survey consist of a series of demands and questions in regards of environment, waste disposal, air pollution, hazardous materials and environment management. We continue to work with ISO14001 witch has proven to be a systematic and relevant scheme in regards of environmental management systems. Relevant local environmental legislation and policies have been implemented in our supply chain, and all hazardous waste management have been outsourced to a professional subcontractor. ANTI-CORRUPTION Aim  PRINCIPLE 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, JUAL follows a policy of zero tolerance for all forms of corruption, including bribery. We will not accept including extortion and bribery. any kind of corruption related to our business and we expect all our employees and partners in the supply chain to embrace this. It is the company policy to ensure that it will not associate, or accept commission from anybody, corporate, private or official, where their actions are questionable in regards to the UN Global Compact. Progress Through our international collaborations we constantly work to secure that no corruption or other illegal activities take place. An anti-corruption policy is included in the employee handbook, which is reviewed on an annual basis. The handbook also presents guidelines on presents and other gratitude’s. Results We have not registered or been made aware of any cases from our suppliers in relation to corruption. If this should happen, we will take it seriously and act immediately. If the violations is too comprehensive we will cease cooperation with the accused party.
