COMMUNIQUÉ on the Progress in the Field of the Corporate Social Responsibility Sector: Energy Reporting Period: January – December 2014 1 TABLE OF CONTENTS I. Human Rights 1. Internship Programme Youth with a Future 2. Cooperation with Universities 3. Supporting Students 4. The Hour of Ivy and Encho Initiative 5. The Christmas Present by EVN Bulgaria 6. Ecocalendar II. Labour standards 1. Flexible Working Hours 2. Education and Qualification – EVN Academy 3. Work Safety 4. Additional Health Insurance 5. The EVN Ombudsman Institution 6. Keeping the Employees Informed Regarding the Company‘s Internal Recruitment 7. Driving Values for Employees III. Environment 1. Biodiversity 2. Life for Safe Grid Project 3. Integrated Quality and Environment Management System 4. Investments in Modern and Environment-Friendly Production of Electricity and Heat IV. Anti-corruption 1. 12 Principles of Loyal Communication with Our Customers 2. Social Responsibility Clause of the Companies in the EVN Group 3. Compliance – It Is Good Energy 4. Alliance with the Loyal Customers 5. Reporting Contact EVN Bulgaria 0700 1 7777 37, Hristo G. Danov info@evn.bg 4000 Plovdiv, Bulgaria www.evn.bg 2 Statement on the support of the Global Contract by Robert Dick – Chairman of the Management Board and Kalina Trifonova Chairman of the Management Board of EVN Bulgaria EAD EVN Bulgaria EAD has been a member of the UN Global Compact since August 2010 and a co-founder of the Bulgarian Global Compact Network since August 2010. The Company is part of the large EVN AG family a leading Austrian company with headquarters in Lower Austria, the country’s largest federal province. EVN Bulgaria is a company with socially responsible behaviour to the society. Our long-term existence requires excellence, competence and reliability to ensure customers and partners’ satisfaction. That brings sustainable success guarantee and encourages us to keep being a leading company by promoting values and positive corporate culture. The Company completely agrees with and supports the 10 Global Compact principles with respect to human rights, labour standards, environmental affairs and anti-corruption principles. We are committed to making the Global Compact and its principles a part of our strategy, culture and daily corporate duties. EVN Bulgaria is making all the necessary efforts to involve and attract in the initiative all its employees, partners and suppliers. EVN Bulgaria‘s Corporate Social Responsibility aims to achieve social, economic and environmental practices that go beyond regulatory requirements and which are implemented in a dialogue with all stakeholders. The company‘s policy is aimed at taking care of employees and commitment to the problems associated with the environment and the community in which the company operates. We share the sustainable management concept and strive to observe simultaneously the technological, economic, environmental and social aspects. Our priority is to balance the interests of all stakeholders, transparency and openness to dialogue. In the spirit of high responsibility associated with our work, we set ambitious standards of conduct. Working with state-of-the-art and highly efficient technologies, environmental responsibility, commitment towards society and human resource development. Kalina Trifonova Robert Dick Member of the Management Board Chairman of the Management Board of EVN Bulgaria EAD of EVN Bulgaria EAD 3 Charter of the EVN Bulgaria Group Our vision As an energy and environment-friendly services provider we fulfil the daily needs of our customers through our reliable and high quality services we make a sustainable contribution to their quality of life. Our mission We create value through our responsibility and high profitability thus ensuring the long-term success of our Group. On this base we offer our customers quality service, our shareholders a sustainable enhancement of value and our employees attractive working conditions. Our values We have defined highly ambitious standards of behaviour that correspond with the assumption of a high level of responsibility in our daily tasks. For us adherence to fundamental ethical principles and all relevant legal regulations is a matter of course. We are committed to the principle of sustainable corporate governance and therefore endeavour to balance economic, ecological and social considerations. Our main priority is to ensure a fair and reasonable balance of the needs of all company stakeholders. The economic responsibility of securing the long-term existence of our Group demands outstanding performance on our part. A high level of competence and reliability ensure the satisfaction of our customers and business partners. In turn, they represent the underlying basis for our sustained corporate success. We fulfil our responsibility to the environment by endeavouring to optimally to spare the natural resources, minimise waste gas emissions and promote the use of renewable energy sources. Ongoing innovations and increased efficiency are crucial to us. Ongoing innovations and increased efficiency make a decisive contribution towards achieving these goals. The commitment we demonstrate to ensuring the well-being of our employees and fair and attractive salary levels, as well as our maintenance of a positive corporate culture featuring openness, loyalty and mutual respect are important to us. We also put our emphasis on serving people and achieving an appropriate positioning within the framework of a society shaped by a diverse range of influences. All these encompass a high level of transparency and the willingness to engage in an ongoing dialogue, both inand outside the company. 4 I. Human Rights Principle 1: Respecting and supporting the protection of human rights. Principle 2: Guaranteeing avoidance of actions, which violate human rights. 1. Internship Programme “Youth with a Future“ EVN Bulgaria’s internship programme “Youth with a Future“ Internship Meeting 2014 took place in the summer of 2014 for the ninth consecutive year. It enables young undergraduates in technical and Every year, EVN Bulgaria’s interns take part in an organized economic programmes at various universities to work at the visit to Company’s facilities and in a workshop for the company during the summer months and obtain experience, introduction of company’s organization. In 2014 the main which would be of great benefit for their future professional subject was “Environmental Activities at EVN Bulgaria“. career. The “Life for the Eastern Imperial Eagle“ Project was in the specific focus of the meeting. This is the first project There was a significant interest towards the programme in in Bulgaria, where EU’s LIFE+ Programme supports an 2014, as we received more than 400 applications. After the infrastructure company. The project activities included making selection procedure, 40 undergraduates were approved as safe a number of electricity poles. The interns learned how interns at the Company. it is done and how the work at heights is performed, during their visit to EVN Bulgaria’s training facility in Stara Zagora. The “Youth with a Future“ Programme covers three months – July, August and September. A total of 27 of the interns specialized in central departments of the companies in the EVN Bulgaria Group, while 13 had their internships in various service units of the Company in Southeast Bulgaria. Each one of them received personal guidance and advice by mentors, throughout their internships. The interns from “Youth with a Future“ 2014 visited EVN Bulgaria’s training facility in Stara Zagora, where they were shown and explained the activities, carried out by the Company to make the electricity grid safe, within the “Life In conclusion, each group presented in a creative manner, the for the Eastern Imperial Eagle“ Project. work of the respective organizational unit of its internship. 5 I. Human Rights 2. Cooperation with Universities In 2014 EVN Bulgaria continued its consistent policy of cooperation with universities, in order to improve the practical knowledge of students and exchange experience. The Company extended its cooperation with the Technical University Sofia through a memorandum of cooperation with the Power Engineering Department, signed on 11.03.2014. The document covers the cooperation for improving undergraduates’ practical knowledge in the area of power engineering, information technologies etc. This is the second memorandum, signed with a department TUSP undergraduates observing the system for cooling through of the Technical University Sofia. In 2013 the Company the central heating facility at the Town Hall of the Trakia signed a cooperation memorandum with the Department of residential district in Plovdiv. Mechanical Engineering in the Energy Sector of the University. The memorandums are the result of the active cooperation of EVN Bulgaria with universities, which commenced in 2011 with the signing of the memorandum of cooperation with the University of Food Technologies in Plovdiv. In 2012 another memorandum was signed – with the Technical University Sofia Plovdiv Branch (TUSP). Within its cooperation with universities, EVN Bulgaria initiated students’ visit to Company’s facilities, of interest for the future professionals, enhancing their knowledge with the technologies and innovations implemented and used by the Company. In 2014 almost 90 undergraduates from the TUSP in various engineering majors and 16 undergraduates and PhD students from the Department of Mechanical Engineering in the Energy Sector of the TU Sofia were able to visit the technical facilities of EVN Bulgaria and see the reallife operation of the hi-tech and complex systems, as well as EVN Bulgaria awarded undergraduates from the Technical to ask their questions to company‘s experts. University Sofia Plovdiv Branch for their excellent achievements at the National Olympics in “Theoretical Power Engineering 2014“, which was organized in the period April 24 – 26, 2014. 6 I. Human Rights 3. Supporting Students textbooks – the light-bug Ivy and the rabbit Encho, who In 2014 the practical training of the students from the will help them learn in an accessible manner, including Professional Secondary School of Power Engineering and interesting energy advise and fascinating ways to use energy Electronics (PSSPEE) – Plovdiv was completed successfully. It in a reasonable manner. was possible due to the cooperation between EVN Bulgaria and PSSPEE Plovdiv, which signed in 2013 an Agreement The entertainment lessons “The Hour of Ivy and Encho“ is for Production Practical Training for school year 2013/2014. conducted by the lecturers in 4 school classes through the Within this agreement six 12th grade students, specializing in year, in the Class Sessions. For the purposes of training, the “Electric Equipment of the Production Process“ at the PSSPEE Company develops and provides free of charge the materials, Plovdiv started their practical training at EVN Bulgaria in a approved by the Ministry of Education and Science (MES), as real-life working environment. well as useful and entertaining gifts to the students and the class. The curriculum was developed by Company’s experts, based on the specificities in the operations of EVN Bulgaria and EVN Bulgaria’s initiative is approved by the MES and the needs of the students. The students attended training in is implemented in close partnership with the Regional both the technical departments at the headquarters of the Education Inspectorates (REI). EVN Bulgaria stared energy Company, and in regional customer centres, where the grid efficiency education at schools in 2009, as by the end of maintenance takes place. Every student, successfully finishing school year 2014/15 a total of 15 700 students will have the practical training, received a certificate from the company. undergone training for the reasonable use of the nature resources. The agreement of EVN Bulgaria with PSSPEE Plovdiv is the result of Company’s efforts and commitment to work in partnership with educational institutions, training future Ivy and Encho’s Competition professionals. In order to diversify the energy lessons for the kids in Southeast Bulgaria, every year EVN Bulgaria organizes various competitions with awards for the participants. Depending on their age, the students recreate in various 4.“The Hour of Ivy and Encho“ Initiative ways their understanding of the reasonable use of energy. At the end of school year 2013/2014, the company conducted a competition for the making of a model of an Master your energy! Turn it into knowledge. Ecological City. The objective of this competition was the students to present a model of their concept of an ecological In school year 2014/15 EVN Bulgaria carried out its sixth city, where the electricity and water consumption would be annual training of students in the reasonable use of energy efficient, reasonable and environment-friendly. resources and environmental protection. The fourth-graders from the Primary School “St. Kliment EVN Bulgaria organized “energy lessons“ in all 9 Ohridski“, town of Kran, (Stara Zagora region) ranked first. administrative regions in Southeast Bulgaria, serviced by The second award went to the fourth-graders of the Primary EVN Bulgaria Burgas, Kardzhali, Pazardzhik, Plovdiv, Sliven, School “G. Karaslavov“, Parvomay, and the students from Smolyan, Stara Zagora, Haskovo and Yambol. Further 9 the Primary School “St. St. Kiril and Methodius“, village schools were included in the programme from school year of Sarnevo, Radnevo Municipality ranked the 3rd. All 2014/15. This expansion will make it possible for over 9800 participants received incentive awards. students in 420 classes of the 2nd, 3rd and 4th grade at a total of 53 schools in Southeast Bulgaria to be part of the The primary school at the town of Kran received the big training. award, provided by EVN Bulgaria: an open-air gym and playground in the schoolyard. All the prize-winners in the In order to make the programme even more accessible and competition were also awarded a visit to EVN’s modern easy to understand for the students, the company developed high-efficiency co-generation power plant in Plovdiv in June new entertaining games and lessons on various subjects. 2014. Since last year the name of this initiative is “The Hour of Ivy and Encho. Entertainment Training in Energy and Ecology“. Children will get to know the new characters in their 7 I. Human Rights The competition took place in the period April – May 2014 in 2 stages. The evaluation of the models was carried out by EVN Bulgaria’s experts together with the primary education experts from the Regional Education Inspectorates. The evaluation criteria included the technical parameters of the model, the implementation of energy efficiency ideas and measures, complex and detailed work, originality and creativity. The anonymity of the participating projects and the unbiased evaluation were ensured by the presence of a notary during the opening of the participating projects. The model of the fourth-graders from the Primary School “St. Kliment Ohridski“, town of Kran, (Stara Zagora region) ranked first. The open-air gym and playground in the yard of the Primary School “St. Kl. Ohridski“, Kran, with a total area of 50 square meters and covered by impactresorbing pavement. To “energy” swings and various types of sports devices were constructed. The second award went to the fourth-graders of the Primary School “G. Karaslavov“, Parvomay The winners in EVN Bulgaria’s children’s competition for models of an “Ecological City“ visited the modern co-generation power plant of EVN Bulgaria The students from the Primary School “St. St. Kiril and Toplofikatsia in Plovdiv on 3 June 2014. Methodius“ in Sarnevo, Radnevo Municipality ranked 3rd. 8 I. Human Rights 5. The Christmas present by EVN Bulgaria Christmas Donation 2014 For a third year in a row EVN Bulgaria supported a socially significant project, donating money, instead of buying corporate Christmas gifts. In 2014 the Company implemented a project for an overhaul of the surgical complex at the Children’s’ Surgery Clinic of one of the largest hospitals in Bulgaria – University Multi-Profile Active Treatment Hospital (UMPATH) “St. George“ in Plovdiv. The project was implemented in the summer months, taking into consideration the working cycles of the hospital, and it was officially opened on 10 November 2014. The renovation of the surgical complex significantly improved the working conditions and the quality of services, provided by one of the largest and most significant hospitals in Bulgaria. Apart from the construction and repair works, a new centralized oxygen, vacuum and compressed air supply system was supplied for the purposes of the manipulations, carried out in the clinic. before after before after The ribbon was cut by Mr. Ronald Brechelmacher, chairman of the Management Board of EVN EP, Mr. Rozalin Petkov, Regional Governor of the Plovdiv Region and Prof. Karen Dzhambazov, MD, Executive Manager of UMPATH “St. George“. 9 I. Human Rights 6. Ecocalendar As a part of the EVN Bulgaria’s consistent policy for developing a sustainable business and corporate social responsibility (CSR), since 2013 the company has been implementing the EVN Ecological Calendar initiative. The Ecocalendar includes several dates of the year. These have been chosen, with view of the international environmental initiative, on which these are focused. The objective of the initiative is to increase the awareness April 1: International Birds Day among EVN Bulgaria’s employees, of the environmental subjects, which are closely related to Company’s business. At the same time, the initiative encourages their proactivity in the application of easy conduct measures, sparing the environment and the natural resources, in line with Company’s efforts for the reasonable use of energy. Some of the dates in EVN’s Ecological calendar are celebrated more intensively, transforming them into EVN Days. In 2013 these were: • April 1: International birds day, when a competition of July 2: Flowers Day photographs by employees took place • July 2: Flowers Day, when a competition for employees’ children’s paintings took place • September 16 – 22: European Mobility Week. Another photographic competition was announced for the Mobility Week, dedicated to the subject of this international initiative in 2014 “Our Streets, Our Choice“. The awarded competitors, as well as other beautiful photos and paintings were published in the internal corporate magazine for employees – “Inside EVN“. September 16 – 22: Europian Mobility Week 10 II. Labour standards Principle 3: Upholding the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right of collective bargaining. Principle 4: Eliminating all forms of forced and compulsory labour Principle 5: Effective abolishment of child labour. Principle 6: Eliminating the discrimination in respect of the right to employment and occupation. 1. Flexible working hours 2. Education and qualification − EVN Academy In 2011 EVN Bulgaria introduced the model of a “floating“ (or “flexible“) working hours in the administrative EVN Academy is the specialized unit of EVN Bulgaria, which departments of the companies in Plovdiv. As a consequence coordinates all the in-house and external qualification events of the good results, a year later this model was also and activities of the Company. EVN Academy’s vision is introduced for employees, working in Company’s customer related to the targeted and long-term improvement of the service centres in the other cities and town in Southeast skills and knowledge of the employees. Bulgaria. A focus in the educational programme of EVN Academy in This model of organization of the working hours, is based 2014 were the leadership and HR development trainings, on the one, utilized by EVN AG, where the flexible working communication with customers, time management, efficient hours have been in operation for a number of years. teamwork, written communications, economy for nonAccording to that model, within the eight-hour working economists, technics for non-engineers etc. As a tradition the day, there is a certain period of mandatory presence of the “Working under Voltage“ workshop for employees, working employees on their workplace, as in the other part of the on the grid, also took place in 2014. The main objective of all day the respective employees are given the opportunity to the workshops and trainings is to develop management and arrange for themselves their working hours, in accordance specialized competences. with their specific assignments and projects. This enables the employees to manage their working and free time more flexibly, making the workplace even more attractive. The free A new training facility, unique in Bulgaria choice of the start and end of the workday is a premise for harmonic coordination between the corporate responsibilities Since 2014 EVN Bulgaria has been improving the qualification and the personal interests and for increased efficiency of the of its electricians by means of trainings in a training facility employees. for working on the electricity distribution grid in real-life conditions, which is unique in Bulgaria. The new training facility for working at actual heights on live and switched off overhead transmission lines was constructed in Stara Zagora, as its central location within Company’s licensed territory in Southeast Bulgaria will facilitate the training process. The training facility is an extended and upgraded version of the current training centre of the company. 11 II. Labour standards The training facility is a part of Company’s professional 3. Work Safety qualification team EVN Academy and it was constructed for just a few months, in coordination with EVN Bulgaria’s Centre for Occupational Safety and Fire Safety. New training: working at height on live lines, up to 1000 V The trainings, which started from the beginning of April 2014, are carried out by qualified trainers, part of EVN In 2014 the safety subject and the related measures Bulgaria’s team, having actual experience as electricians continued to be a top priority in EVN Bulgaria’s activities. An in Company’s emergency response groups. A real-life entirely new training, unique in Bulgaria, was introduced as a environment of the mediumand low-voltage grids, similar logical continuation of the in-house trainings in this respect – to those operated by the Company, have been established “Working at height on live lines, up to 1000 V“. It takes place in the training facility. Three metal-grid poles and 24 at the new training facility of the company in Stara Zagora in reinforced concrete poles with the respective overhead real-life conditions. transmission lines and equipment enable the conducting of specialized trainings at real height for the elimination of The training was organized for the first time, not only at damages and failures, which makes the facility unique for its EVN, but in Bulgaria in general. 12 practical trainers from the characteristics. Customer Service Centres were trained and qualified in the middle of the year with the help of experienced trainers from The specialized trainings include: the Austrian concern EVN AG. − working at height on live and switched off overhead transmission lines up to 1000 V More than 300 electricians from the Customer Service − working at height on switched-off 20 kV overhead Centres are planned to undergo the new training, as transmission lines just in 2014 almost 200 employees were included in the − simulation of emergency rescues of injured employees, at programme. The acquired skills and knowledge are priceless height for ensuring health and safety at work. − working on underground lines mediumand low voltage − making cable connections Internal Campaign “Work Safety“ − connections in cable distribution cabinets etc. Since September 2013 an in-house health and safety at The training facility site is supplemented by a new concrete work campaign was launched at the Customer Service transformer station, further expanding the scope of the Centres (CSC) and the technical central departments of EVN training process. An important aspect in the trainings is Bulgaria, under the motto “Work Safety“. The objective of increasing the safety level, when repairing damages. That this campaign is to improve the personal responsibility of includes various skills for using protective equipment, when each employee, with respect to the application of the safety working at heights and skills for the safe use of specialized measures. The focus of this campaign is on the employees technical equipment at the CSC and the technical central departments, because their activities are characterized by the most possible hazards for human health and life. Dedicated posters of the “Work Safety“ campaign were distributed in the premises of these organizational units. The posters remind the employees to protect human life and health in their everyday operations, because of the people that matter to them: − co-workers in the team, in which they work everyday − family − friends. The internal campaign “Work Safety“ aims at showing that most important for the company are the people and their safety – only through their everyday efforts EVN Bulgaria is A poster of the internal campaign “Work Safety“ able to offer quality products and services to its customers. 12 II. Labour standards conformity with the internationally recognized standard BS OHSAS 18001 contributed to the increased awareness and motivation of the employees in respect of the safety at the workplace. The standard for health and safety at work assessment BS OHSAS 18001 is the most popular professional safety management system. This certification is recognized in over 80 countries. The Certificate ensures that the health and safety of the employees, are a top priority of the employer. 4. Additional Health Insurance The Company provides its employees with an additional health insurance program, which offers annual routine examinations by various specialists, as well as a package of additional healthcare services, for the prevention and The “Protect Life“ Logo treatment of diseases. For visualization of the in-house campaign “Work Safety“ a safety logo was also introduced. It is included in all materials, trainings, information, related 5. The EVN Ombudsman Institution to the occupational safety. The logo contains the words „Protect Life“ and it is a symbol of the general efforts of the Company that the work is performed carefully and in Since the spring of 2011 the EVN Ombudsman operates at accordance with the safety rules. EVN Bulgaria, being responsible for the maintaining of open and transparent working relations between the company and Within the “Work Safety“ campaign, on 1 September 2013 its employees. All the employees of companies within the EVN the Days-without-accidents counter was implemented at Bulgaria Group may contact the EVN Ombudsman in case each CSC. The counter counts and displays each day, when of issues, which seem to be impossible to settle at a certain the caution and attention at the workplace have given the moment, and in demand of cooperation for the efficient desired result Work Free of Accidents. The counter is a solving of any inter-personal, ethical or work organizationboard, where three digits can be placed one next to the related issues. other. All the employees at a CSC, reaching the first goal of 500 and the next goal of 999 days without an accident, The EVN Ombudsman is a guarantor of the human rights and receive awards. freedoms, and his objective is to give voice to any hidden pending conflicts, contribute to their settlement and improve the working environment. This institution is a true expression Safety certificate BS OHSAS 18001 of the principles in the area of the human rights, included in UN’s Global Compact. In 2014 the companies in the EVN Bulgaria group continued the process of certification of the utilized management In 2014, 78 cases have been reported throughout the systems. As a result of these consistent activities, in company. The total number of signals submitted in the four November 2014 EVN Bulgaria Toplofikatsia received a health years amounts to 472 cases. and safety at work certificate in accordance with international standard BS OHSAS 18001. The certifications audit was carried out by TÜV Rheinland Bulgaria EOOD, which conducted the certification procedure, after being the winning participant in a competition, organized in accordance with the Public Procurement Act. Bringing the operations of EVN Bulgaria Toplofikatsia in 13 II. Labour standards 6. Keeping the Employees Informed 7. Driving Values for Employees Regarding the Company‘s Internal An important subject for the internal corporate life of the Recruitment Company are the driving values of EVN ensure, encourage and enable. In 2012 the communications to employees, regarding free The need of a common corporate culture for all 7600 positions and in-house competitions at the company, was employees resulted in the need of establishment of internal improved. The regular and timely in-house communication driving values for employees, to motivate everybody at the aims at informing the employees of any new positions company to feel a part of EVN’s community. throughout the company and possibilities for internal rotations. In this way EVN Bulgaria further extended its The values, developed by the EVN AG, were adopted by platform for personal and professional growth, and it takes EVN Bulgaria at the end of 2014. Specifically developed care of improving the motivation of its employees. workshops were organized in stages, for all the employees. Their objective is the employees to get to know the driving values, their meaning and application in the office, within discussions and teamwork. EVN Bulgaria’s Driving Values: Ensure quality and success. We aim at consistency and security. Our employees are competent, reliable and focused on high quality. Everybody gives their contribution for achieving the high quality for our customers, the security of supply of ensure осигурявам electricity and environment-friendly services in line with our strategy. With sichern our professionalism, we contribute to the growth of the company. обезбедува Encourage the personal development. We encourage the well-meaning attitude and help each other. The good conduct and positive atmosphere are equally important for both the success of our companies and the development of our employees. We encourage the development of skills, constant learning and constructive encourage discussions. насърчавам ermutigen охрабрува Enable innovations for a better future We not only talk, but act and thus we fulfill our objectives. We are always honest and choose the path that leads to concrete solutions. We commit ourselves to projects, which provide long-term benefits for people and nature. The sustainable development is an important objective for us. enable осъществявам ermöglichen овозможува 14 III. Environment III. Environment Principle 7: Supporting the preventive approaches to environment protection. Principle 8: Undertaking initiatives to stimulate the assumption of greater responsibility to the environment. Principle 9: Encouraging the development and distribution of environment-friendly technologies. 1. Biodiversity Protection of the environment − caring for the storks in Bulgaria As a company, managing energy infrastructure, EVN Bulgaria carries out its business activities with a clear awareness of its responsibility to the environment. In the construction and operation of the facilities EVN Bulgaria aims at using the most environment-friendly and modern technologies. With respect to the biodiversity on the territory of Southeast Bulgaria, the Company implements its projects and supports the activities of environmental organizations, related to the protection of endangered species and their habitats. Such an activity is the installation of platforms on the medium-voltage electricity poles, which secure storks nests. This initiative is also coordinated with the respective Regional Inspectorates of Environment and Waters (RIEW). Through standard metal platforms, the nest is lifted to a safe distance above the life parts of the line. This prevents the immediate proximity and any contact of the nest and the birds with the conductors. If a bird touches live overhead transmission lines and causes a short-circuit, this is both fatal for the bird and inflicting damages to the electricity distribution grid and the In the summer, EVN Bulgaria’s employees often turn into consumers of electricity. With the 293 platforms, installed in stork saviours. When the young birds learn to fly, they 2014 the total number of the pieces of equipment, installed sometimes fall from the nests. Fortunately, the locals call the by EVN Bulgaria to protect the life of storks in the last 6 competent institutions. They often call EVN Bulgaria, if the years, reached 1651. nests are situated on poles of the electricity distribution grid. This is what happened on 28.05.2014, when employees of CSC Dimitrovgrad saved a young stork at the Village of Dolno Balevo. Our colleagues returned the bird to its nest, using a cherry picker. This operation was carried out in coordination with RIEW Haskovo. 15 III. Environment Saving the world endangered Egyptian vulture Unique insulators protect the griffon vulture In its activities, related to the preservation of the bioIn October 2014 teams of EVN Bulgaria installed insulators, diversity EVN Bulgaria works together with the Bulgarian unique for Bulgaria, on a 20 kV overhead transmission line Society for the Protection of Birds (BSPB) based on a bilateral in the “Karakyu-tyuk“ area, near Sliven. These activities were Memorandum of Cooperation and Understanding. part of the “Bringing the Vultures back to Bulgaria“ (LIFE08 NAT/BG/278) project of the federation of environmental Within that partnership, the Company assists the BSPB in the organizations “Green Balkans“, under a EU programme. prevention of the extinction of the world endangered species Egyptian vulture (Neophron percnopterus). The respective “Green Balkans“ provided the insulators, necessary for activities are carried out under the „Aid for the Egyptian rendering safe 6 metal-grid electric poles. EVN Bulgaria Vulture“, financed by the LIFE+ programme of the European provided support under this project and purchased the Commission. additional insulators, necessary for equipping 8 more poles. In this way all 14 poles, identified as dangerous for the One of the project activities includes the installation of griffon vultures, were secured by EVN employees, using the protective insulators on the electricity poles, on a part of the new insulating equipment. 20 kV overhead transmission line, property of EVN Bulgaria. BSPB’s team provided information on the electricity poles, The installed insulators are of the “MST-spacers“. These are a classified as dangerous and situated within the territory of new technical solution to render safe the metal-grid electric CSC Harmanli. The poles, located near the 4 nesting areas of poles and are used for the first time in Bulgaria. the Egyptian vultures in the Eastern Rhodopes region were assigned top priority. Employees of CSC Harmanli secured a The secured electricity distribution line is situated within the total of 71 electricity poles in May and June, installing 213 “Blues Stones” natural park, near Sliven and passes near insulators and the respective 426 extenders. the aviary for the adaptation of griffon vultures, maintained under the “Bringing the vultures back to Bulgaria“. The terrain is difficult and demanding and it requires the use of special metal-grid poles. In the winter of 2013 EVN Bulgaria installed on these poles another type of spiked protective equipment, aimed at preventing the birds from landing on the poles. In order to ensure further measures to protect the birds, the new MST-spacers were installed as well. Considering the advantages of these insulators, EVN Bulgaria Elektrorazpredelenie will use such devise in its „Life for the Eastern Imperial Eagle“ (Life for safe grid) project, as well. Colleagues form CSC Sliven install the new MST spacers. The photograph shows the already installed spiked protectors. 16 III. Environment Activity in Strandzha 2. Life for Safe Grid Project EVN Bulgaria works in close cooperation with the Directorate EVN Bulgaria’s “Life for safe grid“ project is co-financed by of the Strandzha Natural Park (DNP Strandzha) based on a the LIFE+ programme of the European Commission and project, financed by Operational Programme Environment developed with the contribution by the Bulgarian Society for – “Sustainable Management and Development of the the Protection of Birds (BSPB). The complete name of the Strandzha Natural Park“. The joint work included rendering project is “Improvement of the protection of the globally safe 150 electric poles. In the beginning of 2014 DNP endangered Eastern Imperial Eagle in Bulgaria by reducing Strandzha identified the high-risk poles in the park, situated the death rate, resulting from electricity distribution lines“. within the territory of CSC Primorsko – in the area of the The project implementation went according to the plan in Towns of Malko Tarnovo and Ahtopol. 2014 EVN Bulgaria installed at its expense the insulation materials, In conformity with the requirements for the communication purchased for the purposes of the project, to render safe the of the project objectives and results, since the spring of poles, forming part of the 20 kV overhead transmission line. 2014 a special website with address www.lifeforsafegrid. In this way in 2014 employees of the company rendered safe bg has been in operation. The website, containing detailed 83 electric poles. information on the project activities is maintained by EVN Bulgaria. The purpose of this operation is to protect the populations of protected bird species of the orders Ciconiiformes and Falconiformes in the park. Website of the project: www.lifeforsafegrid.bg On 11 June 2014 in Stara Zagora, EVN Bulgaria organized the training seminar within the “Life for safe grid“ project. The event “Training Seminar for the Presentation of Equipment and Methods for Rendering Safe the Electricity Distribution Grid“ aimed at increasing the awareness among the participants of the practical activities within the project for EVN Bulgaria received a letter of gratitude from DNP the protection of the population of the endangered species – Strandzha, thanking the Company for its help. Eastern Imperial Eagle (Aquila heliaca) and reducing the bird deaths from contacts with the electricity distribution grid. The seminar took place at an expert-technical level in the presence of specialists of EVN Bulgaria, BSPB, “Green Balkans“, the Ministry of Environment and Waters (MEW), the RIEW directorates, natural and national parks etc. The presentation part included information on BSPB’s experience and EVN Bulgaria’s activities for the insulation of poles, installation of protective insulators, diverters, bird 17 III. Environment platforms etc. Company’s experts presented the equipment The good results of this first cooperation between EVN and technologies used to protect the birds and render safe Bulgaria and BSPB for the conservation of the Eastern certain elements of the technical infrastructure. The MEW Imperial Eagle were noticed and highly appraised on made a presentation of the current regulatory and technical international level. On May 21 2014, the project was requirements in this respect. The BSPB presented also the awarded the prestigious “NATURA 2000“ award, in the bird protection experience in Hungary, which was highly “Conservation“ category. The award was given for the first appraised by all participants. time by the European Commission in order to celebrate and promote the best nature conservation practices in Europe. A The practical part of the seminar included visits to the new total of 163 projects in 5 categories were nominated. training facility of EVN Bulgaria in Stara Zagora, where a practical demonstration for rendering safe the poles in the grid took place. The participants inspected also the technical innovations, used by the Company on the grid to make it safe and protect birds’ lives – transforming overhead transmission 3. Integrated Quality and Environment lines into underground lines, used of special poles, installation of stork nesting platforms. Management System The Life for safe grid project was approved by the Waste Management EC in July 2013 as the beneficiary was EVN Bulgaria Elektrorazpredelenie. Thus the Company became the first ever In compliance with its environmental policy and socially infrastructure company in Bulgaria, implementing a project responsible conduct EVN Bulgaria continued in 2014 with financing under EC’s LIFE+ programme. The total project its program for separate collection of production and value is almost EUR 4 million, as the activities shall be carried hazardous waste. These types of waste are collected out in a 5-year period – from 2013 to 2018. and handed over for utilization and decontamination by appropriately licensed companies. The project envisages comprehensive investment activities, related to the making of the electricity distribution grid safe. In 2014 the Company handed over for recycling over 33 Among EVN Bulgaria’s priorities are: t of paper, equal to approximately 600 trees, saved from • Cabling (moving underground) of the “Nadezhda” cutting. The proper waste management at the companies and “Oreshnik” transmission lines in the Topolovgrad in the group results in saving of natural resources through municipality, with a total length of 45 km. recycling and waste utilization, as at the same time it • Installation of a covered conductor line on the “Bulgarin” prevents the pollution of the environment by hazardous transmission line in the Harmanli municipality, with a total substances, by decontamination of the waste, which cannot length of 15 km. be used in any other manner. • Installation of bird-protection insulators on a total of 2740 poles. Environmental Management Certificate ISO 14001 The Eastern Imperial Eagle is an endangered species, included in the Red Book and the list of Endangered Species of the Four companies in the EVN Bulgaria Group have International Union for Conservation Nature and Natural certificates for the conformity of their respective Resources. environment management systems with the requirements of the international standard ISO 14001: EVN Bulgaria In Bulgaria the habitats of the Eastern Imperial Eagle Elektrorazpredelenie, EVN Bulgaria Elektrosnabdiavane, EVN are situated within the licensed territory of EVN Bulgaria Bulgaria Toplofikatsia and EVN Trading South East Europe. In Elektrorazpredelenie in the southeastern part of the country – 2014 all the companies successfully passed the supervisory in the areas of the Strandzha and Sakar mountains. audit, confirming their certification. EVN Bulgaria’s “Life for the Eastern Imperial Eagle“ project is a continuation of the long-term support, which the company The certification and supervisory audits are carried out by TÜV extended for BSPB’s project “Conservation of the Eastern Rheinland Bulgaria EOOD, which carried out the certification, Imperial Eagle and Saker Falcon in their key habitats in the after being awarded a contract. Bringing the operations Natura 2000 Network in Bulgaria“. BSPB’s project finished in of EVN Bulgaria in conformity with the internationally December 2013, as within that project EVN Bulgaria installed recognized standard ISO 14001 enhances the opportunities insulators on a total of 561 poles of the electricity distribution for the identification of measures for the protection of the grid. environment and prevention of the pollution. 18 III. Environment 4. Investments in Modern and Among the key investments in 2014 was the controlled demolition of an old 120-meter smoke-stack at the Heating Environment-Friendly Production of Plant “South“ in Plovdiv, at the place of which the Company Electricity and Heat plans to construct a substituting modern installation for the production of hot water with rated heating power up to Investment and repair programme 2014 of EVN 40 MW. The 120 meter smoke-stack which had not been Bulgaria Toplofikatsia in operation for three years was successfully demolished on 14.10.2014, as a part of EVN Bulgaria Toplofikatsia’s EVN invests in modern technologies for electric and thermal programme for upgrading the production facilities and power ranks among the top investors in Bulgaria. A new observing the contemporary environmental standards in co-generation power plant of EVN Bulgaria has been in Plovdiv. operation in Plovdiv since 2011. It is the most modern facility of this type on the Balkans. The co-generation for The demolition plan was coordinated with the institutions, the simultaneous production of electricity and heat has including the bodies of the Ministry of Interior and the an extremely high efficiency ratio, significantly reducing Plovdiv Municipality. It included the complete demolition the harmful emissions in the area during the generation of the decommissioned facility by using explosives at its of every MWh of electricity and heat, as compared to the base, followed by destruction and crushing of the concrete conventional energy production methods. EVN’s investment elements of the structure. The construction waste was in the construction of the co-generation power plant disposed of at a licensed landfill, and after that the area of amounted to BGN 100 million. the site was recovered, smoothed and cleaned. In 2013 EVN Bulgaria implemented an innovative project The smokestack was constructed in the period 1978 −1980 for cooling buildings during the summer months, using the and it was used to conduct the smoke from 3 water-heating resources of the central heating system. This innovative and 2 steam boilers. As a part of the preparation of the service transforms the heat from the cogeneration system of demolition, EVN Bulgaria Toplofikatsia cleaned 60 tons EVN Bulgaria Toplofikatsia EAD during the summer months, of ash, accumulated through the years in the cone of the into cooling energy, thus reducing the harmful emissions and stack, from burning oil. The new, modern facility, planned losses of energy. at the place of the stack and the boilers will significantly improve the technical and economic and the environmental indicators of the entire power plant, in accordance with the modern standards. The substitution facility will use natural gas as main fuel, and as a backup-fuel – industrial gasoil. In this way the combustion facilities at the heating plant will be substituted by modern equipment with much better technological parameters and higher efficiency rates. The objective is to achieve the modern energy efficiency indicators and cover the standards for permissible nitrogen oxide, carbon oxide, sulphur dioxide and dust emissions. The first building, included in the project, was the modern administration of the town-hall of the Trakia district in Plovdiv. In July 2014 EVN Bulgaria Toplofikatsia commissioned a second intelligent cooling installation in Plovdiv. Because of the large size of Trimontsium Ramada Hotel building, its installation capacity is four times greater than the capacity of the first one – 1.25 MW vs 0.33 MW of Trakia Regional Mayoralty. 19 V. Anti-corruption Principle 10: Supporting the anti-corruption initiatives and policy of transparency. As an international company which offers services in the field • high ethical standard, of energy and environment, we serve as a model for imitation • transparent business relations, in both domestic and foreign market. To establish the good • right to organize meetings and strikes. reputation and business success of EVN Bulgaria, we attached great importance to the honesty and observance of the law by all our employees. 3. Compliance – It Is Good Energy The honesty and lawful behaviour of the employees has a 1. 12 Principles of Loyal Communication central place in the corporate culture of The EVN Group. The with Our Customers ethical and upright behaviour is a precondition for good image, and thus – for company’s success. EVN Bulgaria has developed 12 Principles of Loyal Communication with our Customers. Every company’s In this respect the implementation of a Compliance employee is familiar with the principles and strictly observes management system (CMS) started in October 2013 at EVN, them in his/her relations with our customers. The purpose including at EVN Bulgaria. The main item in this system is EVN’s of the company is to conduct a policy of transparency and Code of Conduct. customer satisfaction through offering high-quality services. The Code has been prepared based on EVN’s Charter, The document, containing all 12 principles, was published formulating the vision, mission and the basic values of the in the internal network (Intranet) of EVN Bulgaria to be Company. Furthermore, the Code outlines the main principles available to the employees, while at the same time it is of conduct at EVN in various areas, such as fighting corruption, being distributed in each and every of the 34 offices of the labour safety and relations with business partners and company. customers. The implementation of the CMS aims at ensuring the observation of the lawful conduct within EVN. The three main pillars of the CMS are: 2. Social Responsibility Clause of the Companies in the EVN Group 1. Prevention through awareness. 2. Identification of the violations of the Code of Conduct and EVN Bulgaria has developed a social responsibility clause, Signaling. which is effective with respect to all the companies in 3. Reaction, through analysis and improvement. the EVN Group and bounds with the performance and compliance with the following basic principles and rules, all The project for the implementation of the CMS in EVN Bulgaria of EVN’s suppliers and sub-contractors: was successfully completed at the end of 2014. Within the explanatory in-house campaign about the Compliance, a total • respect of the human rights, of 89 trainings of all employees were conducted, attended by • prohibition of child or compulsory labour, 2372 people or 99% of the entire staff of the Company. • prohibition of discrimination or abuse at the workplace, The finalization of the project included the „How Well Do You • healthy and safe working conditions at the workplace, Know Compliance?“ test, which was programmed interactively • labour and social law provisions, in EVN Bulgaria’s Intranet. The summarized positive results • transparency of the working hours and remuneration, of the test evidence the good awareness of the Compliance • protection of the environment, principles. • reduction of the use of resources, the production of waste and emissions, 20 IV. Anti-corruption With respect to the Christmas and New Year’s holidays and number of power failures and interruptions in the supply for the existing tradition to exchange gifts and invitations for a large number of customers. In order to preserve the security celebrations and similar events, and based on the positive of the supply EVN Bulgaria applies all necessary measures to feedback, about the first Compliance test, another Christmas guarantee the fastest possible restoration of the grid. A part test was organized. Using real-life examples, it guided EVN of these measures include the joint initiative for increased Bulgaria’s employees on the proper conduct, in accordance cooperation with the police, for inspections and limitation with EVN’s Code of Conduct. of thefts. The efforts are focused on the implementation of measures for joint actions throughout the territory of the company in Southeast Bulgaria. 4. Alliance with the Loyal Customers 5. Reporting In 2014 EVN Bulgaria continued its campaign “Alliance with the loyal customers“. Its main objective was to protect the The companies in the EVN Bulgaria Group carry out their principles of equal attitude towards all customers of the operations in accordance with the requirements of the Company: supply of electricity to everybody, who regularly applicable Bulgarian legislation. Therefore they prepare pay for the electricity that they have consumed, and adequate annual financial statements, in accordance with the measures against non-performing customers. International Financial Reporting Standards. The statements are audited by independent auditors and published in with As a part of the activities for the protection of its loyal the business register of the Republic of Bulgaria, so that they customers, the company regularly carries out series of are available to the general public. inspections on the lawful use of electricity in Southeast Bulgaria. In 2014 EVN Bulgaria achieved a record rate of discovering unlawful use of electricity. In 39 000 on-site inspections of household and business customers (which is 7% lower than the previous year) 10 300 cases of violations of the Energy Act and the General Terms and Conditions of the Electricity Sale Contracts (approved by the State Energy and Water Regulatory Commission) were discovered. That is more than twice the level in 2013. The discovered electricity thefts in 2014 amounted to 14 Million kWh − 21 % more than the previous year. In 2014 the number of thefts of items from the equipment of the electricity distribution grid peaked, comparted the reduction trend in the preceding years. Throughout the territory of the Company in 2014 EVN Bulgaria registered almost 300 cases of thefts of electric equipment, which is two and a half times more than the preceding year. The stolen items include conductors (from overhead and underground transmission lines) with a total length of 38 800 m. Further thefts in Company’s territory, included electricity meters, transformers, fuses and other equipment in the transformer stations. The values of the reported material damages, suffered by the Company exceeded BGN 412 000 – money, which could be invested in the improvement of the power supply and customer services. EVN Bulgaria continues to point the attention of the general public to the risks, involved in the thefts from the electricity infrastructure. These cause not only significant financial damages to the company, but are also the main reason for a 21 Always here, always with you. EVN Bulgaria 2015 edition 22
