Yaşar 2014 Sustainability Report 2 Our Sustainability Journey 4 Our Reporting Approach 6 Chairperson’s Message 8 Deputy Chairperson’s Message 10 Chief Executive Officer’s Message 12 Yaşar Holding at a Glance 14 Our Mission and Corporate Values Corporate Profile Food and Beverage Group 16 Pınar Dairy 17 Pınar Meat Index 18 Pınar Water 19 YBP 20 Çamlı Feed and Fattening Coatings Group 21 Dyo Coating 22 Dyo Printing Inks Tissue Papers Group 23 Viking Tissue Trade and Service Group 24 Altın Yunus 25 Desa Energy 25 Astron Governance at Yaşar Group 26 Performance Appraisal Index 27 Top Management 28 Corporate Governance 30 Corporate Reputation Management 31 Our Strategic Planning Approach 32 Risk Management Anti-Corruption Practices 33 Business Ethics 34 Our Stakeholders and Communication Our Sustainability Approach 37 Our Environmental Concerns and Principles 39 Energy and Climate Change 46 Water and Waste Water 47 Used Materials and Waste 50 Product and Service Responsibility 51 Management Systems 52 The Value We Add to the Lives of Our Consumers Our Relations with Society 56 Our People 78 Our Employment Data 86 Cooperation with the Representatives of Non-Governmental Organizations and Industry 88 Support to Development of Sectors That We Operate In 90 Our Social Contribution 98 Education and Publications 106 Sponsorships and Recognitions 112 GRI G3.1 Index and UNGC Principles Our Sustainability Journey 2000 2008 2011 2012 2014 Our Sustainability Journey 2013 We separated the responsibilities We started applying Lean 6 We issued our first Sustainability We signed CEO Statement Pınar Institute, which has been We started our activities for of Yaşar Holding Chief Executive Sigma projects. Report. of Support for “Women established with the purpose of creating a greenhouse gas Office and Board of Directors Empowerment Principles” increasing public consciousness inventory system. We declared our carbon in line with OECD’s Corporate launched by the UN. and awareness on food, health footprints reduction target. We started our activities for Governance Principles. and nutrition issues and 2009 Pınar Süt started being treated We created a training platform supporting scientific studies, has water footprint calculation. for our employees using in Borsa Istanbul Corporate started its activities. Borsa Istanbul Corporate e-learning methodology with Governance Index. Governance Index scores of “Yaşar Akademi” trademark. We have applied a water 2003 We issued our first UNGC questionnaire to all our Pınar Dairy and Pınar Meat have We started organizing “Manager We participated in “Platform for been revised upwards. Communication on Progress. Development Seminars” for companies to determine Equality at Work”, which is led by our managers employed in the the water and waste water Pınar has been awarded with We prepared “Yaşar Group’s the Ministry of Family and Social Group companies. management requirements. the grand prix with “Pınar We adopted the Corporate Business Ethics Rules Manual”, Policies and which has been Governance Principles issued by Painting Contest for Children” in which is based on compliance of brought up to the agenda by the With the purpose of carrying the Capital Market Board. “Brand Voice” category, where all our employees. World Economic Forum. out the orientation process of successful projects in PR arena the employees of all companies Pınar Meat started being treated are awarded with Felis awards of the Group in the same way, in Borsa Istanbul Corporate by Mediacat. we issued the “Orientation 2005 2010 Governance Index. Procedure”. Pınar Dairy has been awarded as Dyo Coating has been awarded the winner in food and beverage We completed the construction with the environment prize in subsector in Energy Efficient of Yaşar Education and Culture big enterprise category in 18th Industrial Facility Category in We started the application of We started the Corporate Foundation Special Education Şehabettin Bilgisu Environment the Energy Efficiency in Industry Performance Management Reputation Project and Application Center and Job Award Competition of Kocaeli Project Contest, the 15th of which System in human resources. established the Corporate Application Center, where only Chamber of Industry. has been held by the Ministry of Reputation Committee, and the the autistic children will be Energy and Natural Resources. sub-committees of Corporate educated, and handed it over to Communication, Sustainability, the Provincial National Education Dyo Coating R&D Center has 2007 Social Responsibility, Corporate Directorate. become the most successful Governance and also Ethics and R&D center according to the Pınar Water started being Corporate Values under it. “R&D center performance index” treated in Borsa Istanbul results, which assessed among We calculated our carbon Corporate Governance Index. We have become a signatory of chemistry R&D centers. United Nations Global Compact footprint on corporate basis with In the research carried out by (UNGC). our 10 companies. Superbrands International, Pınar has been included among the superbrands of Turkey. 2 Yaşar 2014 Sustainability Report Yaşar 2014 Sustainability Report 3 Our Reporting Approach Sustainability and Reporting Yaşar Group is integrating Economies Coalition and Tellus • Sustainability Committee, report, however, are not related sustainability to all its business Institute in USA with the support to those entities. Their activities Sustainability leads the values • Sustainability Reporting Team processes with responsible of UN Environment Program. are included in the report only that will survive from today to Members, investment decisions, production GRI, which supports the for information sharing purposes. Our Reporting Approach tomorrow “for a better life”. All models based on resource sustainability reporting in order • Carbon and Water Leaders, phenomena filling this concept We are pleased to submit efficiency, the approach including to ensure better sustainability ensure the production and social • Carbon and Water Footprint our 2014 report to you. The the consumer and its corporate of organizations and to extend web that are necessary for Teams Turkish and English versions citizenship understanding the sustainability efforts, has human life, while ensuring the of our report are accessible centered on social development. issued the first Sustainability Determination of Report sustainability of the Earth for electronically in the following Our Group has accepted the Reporting Guide in 1997. Content human life. websites: “sustainability” concept, which It is accepted in the GRI “Sustainability Reporting Our report comprises the it has become familiar in Guide”, which is referred to by www.yasar.com.tr Sustainability, which is entire world that recent years, as an important projects and operations assessed within the frame of 3 many organizations today, has sustainability, which complementary to its corporate conducted by 11 domestic components, namely economic, obtained a wide acceptance in values since its foundation. companies, which are listed is assessed with environmental and social, the entire world. under the title “Corporate a multidisciplinary contributes to the carrying Yaşar Group has made an Yaşar Group takes this Guide Profile”, in Turkey between the resources into future and important cooperation for its 01.01.2014 and 31.12.2014. approach, is a “must” establishment of a responsibility as an important tool in www.unglobalcompact. works in sustainability area by sustainability reporting and, in both individual and relation from today to the future. signing the United Nations (UN) In addition, the content of org/participants/detail/ as is the case for the previous the report also comprises 10228-Yasar-Holding-Cosocial aspects, and It is accepted in the entire world Global Compact (GC) in 2007, Sustainability Reports, “Yaşar and by this way it has reached Yaşar University founded by importance is given that sustainability, which is 2014” Sustainability Report has Yaşar Education and Culture a sustainability approach that to the creation of all assessed with a multidisciplinary been prepared according to GRI Foundation and Selçuk Yaşar combines local elements with approach, is a “must” in both G3.1 criteria. Sports and Education Foundation systems and policies at global principles. individual and social aspects, and Pınar Institute. Data macro and micro level Our report, which follows the and importance is given to the This approach brings generally presented in the GRI 3.1 Guidelines, at application with a sustainability creation of all systems and transparency as well as the Level B, has been submitted to policies at macro and micro level responsibility to the stakeholders reference. and the society. Our Group you, our valuable stakeholders. Corporate Profile with a sustainability reference. reports its activities and Corporate Name: Yaşar Holding A.Ş. For these policies and systems, The data related with the report sustainability shows how efficient sustainability efforts within for 2014 has been gathered and Business Segments: Food-beverages, coating, agricultural we are using the resources the frame of the transparency the report has been prepared production, tissue paper, tradethat we have including the principle. Yaşar Group, which has under the management of services prevention of waste and how we published the Communications Corporate Affairs Coordinatorship Number of Employees: 7,500 can use them more efficiently. on Progress in 2009 and 2010 Department and with the Date of GC Membership: November 12th, 2007 Hence, today the business and thereafter “Yaşar 2011”, contribution of the relevant units Address: Şehit Fethi Bey Cad. No:120 “Yaşar 2012” and “Yaşar 2013” world is developing production of the companies acting within 35210 Izmir, Turkey Sustainability Reports, performs models based on resource Yaşar Group and included in the Authorized Person and its reporting works within the efficiency and is adopting reporting scope. Position: Dilek EMİL, Coordinator, frame of UNGC principles and a communication and work Corporate Affairs Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) The works carried out under the performance method intersecting Contact Details criteria. leadership of our Chairperson of at the point of sustainability with Board of Directors involved the Phone: +90 312 294 92 00 all stakeholders, especially the GRI has been established by following; E-mail: dilekemil@yasar.com.tr consumers. the Environmentally Responsible 4 Yaşar 2014 Sustainability Report Yaşar 2014 Sustainability Report 5 Our Sustainability Efforts Constitute The Most Important Component of Our Corporate Reputation Chairperson’s Message We know that every activity PINAR and DYO in the food future years, we will develop performed today has to be and coating sectors is the most those efforts and continue sustained without creating any important evidence of this sharing them with you. stress on the resources that we condition. While reporting our sustainability have. And we better understand The importance of R&D and activities within the frame of that every decision and action innovation in sustainability GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) is connected with each other is better understood every indicators since 2011 as one of at today’s level of globalization passing day. Especially against the most important indicators and we know that especially the the climate change risks, it is of our transparency, we are works and methods of work that targeted to develop methods submitting our report for 2014 take environmental sustainability that consume less natural being checked by GRI for the into consideration have become resources and products that are first time. indispensable. compliant with sustainability Another indicator is the fact that Therefore, sustainability has criteria and that can decrease Pınar Dairy will be included in gained an importance that dependence on import. In the Carbon Disclosure Project determines our life and life line with this awareness, our CDP and in the “Water Disclosure style. Even if it is defined in efforts for the establishment of Project”. Because we know that various ways, sustainability is a a R&D center for our Food and climate change, flood, water matter of balance; it means the Beverage Group are continuing insufficiency and deforestation balance of economic, social and besides our awarded Dyo R&D are the most important material environmental aspects in our Center. risks. The companies, which lives and the continuity of that We are aware that our measure those risks, are also balance in the long period. sustainability activities constitute the companies, which manage Sustainability in the traditions the most important component those risks in the best way. We and work performance of corporate reputation. With this want to continue growing, to culture of Yaşar Group is awareness, we have determined increase our investments and the most important factor new targets every year since to create a bigger value by in our achievement of rapid 2007 and tried to improve our managing those risks in the most developments especially after we sustainability performance. We accurate way and by determining voluntarily became a signatory have presented our sustainability our strategies on the axis of of UN Global Compact in 2007. efforts to our stakeholders in sustainability. The sustainability of the two their simplest and plainest form Selim Yaşar important trademarks, namely in a transparent way. In the Chairperson of Board of Directors 6 Yaşar 2014 Sustainability Report Yaşar 2014 Sustainability Report 7 We Continue Working “For a Better Life” Deputy Chairperson’s Message As Yaşar Group, with Dyo in the We understand sustainability costs in our new investments that, while we have met our coatings industry for more than as the development of new and we make our choices of consumers’ demand for smaller 60 years and Pınar in the food products and sustainable work investment location in line with packages we have used the and beverage industry for 42 processes that comply with this. Şanlıurfa Pınar Dairy Factory resources in a more efficient years, our mission is a better life the conditions of sustainability, will provide an important logistic way. for our consumers and the world ensuring operational excellence efficiency in this sense. we live in. and ensuring efficiency in Besides this, we have activities every aspect including energy We consider the prevention that have been carried out since The corporate governance of waste at every stage of long years in terms of social efficiency and transportation grades we have obtained show production and consumption as contribution such as Dyo Painting optimization. We target to that we have a recognisable the most important main title perform sustainable production Contest, Pınar Children Painting position in Turkey in terms of in terms of sustainability. The in this value chain that we have Contests and Pınar Theater for corporate sustainability with waste that may occur in the created with our customers Children and such contributions our companies, 6 of which stages of production, packaging, and suppliers until reaching to Turkish basketball. are publicly held, and which delivery to the consumer and our consumer. As Yaşar Group, we manage with transparency consumption of the product Since 2009, we have been we are applying Lean 6 Sigma, and corporate governance sharing all these efforts in Global operational cost improvement under appropriate conditions is understanding. Compact Communication on and efficiency projects in order the most important challange 1970’s were a period where to reach this target and we in front of the combat against Progress and Yaşar Sustainability there was only milk in glass measure the savings we had as starvation. Reports. bottles in a limited part of the the result of these efforts. Originating from this point, Through “Pınar Institute”, which country. During that period, our Transportation efficiency is we believe in zero return, and we have newly established founder decided to establish another important area for us. zero loss in our value chain and and which has no profit and Pınar Dairy with the idea of We are realizing very important to prevent the waste of our commercial purposes, we are children must be able to drink work process in terms of fuel natural resources in terms of performing training studies milk and hence the first long life consumption and hence in sustainability. for high quality, sustainable milk in Turkey was launched. terms of carbon emission. For raw milk production. Within The waste has been prevented We have established a “Waste “For a better life”, we, as Yaşar İdil Yiğitbaşı the correct Management of the scope of the project “The by packing the milk and by Prevention Committee” in order Group target to work hand Deputy Chairperson of the process, we make use of future of our milk is in conscious this way, the milk that couldn’t to manage these activities in a in hand with our customers, Board of Directors SAP system and we ensure hands”, approximately 4,700 milk access market, was able to consumers and suppliers for high efficiency in our logistics more systematical way. reach the consumers. In this producers will be reached with healthier products and for less operations. respect, the establishment of With this aim, we have singlethe completion of the project. waste. Pınar is a sustainability model by We pay importance to reducing use packages with the “Open itself. our transportation and energy & Finish” concept. By doing 8 Yaşar 2014 Sustainability Report Yaşar 2014 Sustainability Report 9 We Are Strengthening The Areas of Priority in Sustainability Chief Executive Officer’s Message After signing UN Global Compact sustainability of food security Water use and waste water employees. Furthermore, water in 2007, we, as Yaşar Group, and sustainability of resources. occupy the second rank among risk reports to be prepared for concentrated on two areas: Therefore, Yaşar Group has our five areas of priority. the geographical regions of our determining our areas of priority attached a special importance Although three fourths of the chosen facilities constitute a first on the sustainability axis and to energy management and earth is covered with water, the in our sectors and even in our making sustainability a part of carbon footprint on corporate amount of fresh water that can country. our work processes by ensuring basis. With the purpose be used by the human beings sustainability awareness of our Involvement of women in the of adapting to the global is only 1% of the existing water employees starting from the amount. Approximately 70% of work life is another area that temperature and climate individual level. the water resources of the world we pay special importance. change impacts, increasing is used for agricultural purposes. For increasing the ratio of While determining our areas of capacity and preparing the This is followed by industry with employment of women and priority, we determined a ranking necessary plans for this matter, 11% and domestic use with 9%. for seeing more women in taking into consideration our we have performed a carbon managerial positions, we both activities, the risks that we may footprint calculation study on Due to the fact that the most signed the “CEO Statement encounter while performing corporate basis with a study important part of water is used of UN Women Empowerment our activities, our indispensable involving our 10 companies. for agricultural purposes, Yaşar Principles” and became a principles and corporate values. In our Sustainability Report Group attach special importance member of “Platform for Equality We prioritized our sustainability for 2011, our carbon reduction to good agriculture applications. at Work” being led by the works within the frame of this target has been declared. Our Due to the industrial use, which Ministry of Family and Social ranking. target is to reduce our average ranks second, as a first step Policies. We are actively taking carbon emission per unit ton of to determine the requirements Our sustainability works are part in civil initiatives such as production with a ratio of 15% related with water management carried out within the frame of TÜSİAD and in semi-public until 2020. In line with this, our and the areas of improvement, five areas of priority consisting initiatives such as TOBB (Turkish carbon emission has decreased a water questionnaire has been of energy and climate change, Association of Chambers and with a ratio of 10,94% in 2014 applied to our companies. water use and waste water, used Stock Exchanges) in order to according to the base years. Following this questionnaire, materials and wastes, health and increase the employment of Furthermore, the works for the the facilities consuming the safety and social contribution. women. “Carbon Footprint Management greatest amount of water The reason that the first of our System”, which has been and the activities that should In spite of the important we are developing projects that Dr. Mehmet Aktaş five prioritized areas is “Energy produced by our Astron company be performed have been improvements in many issues will strengthen our areas of Chief Executive Officer and Climate Change” is the fact in order to better manage our determined. Water footprint that I have shared with you, priority in sustainability in order that this is the most important carbon footprint studies, have and reporting trainings have we know that our journey of to walk this way together with obstruction in front of the reached the completion stage. been provided to our chosen sustainability is a long one, and our stakeholders. 10 Yaşar 2014 Sustainability Report Yaşar 2014 Sustainability Report 11 Yaşar Holding at a Glance With its companies acting in continuously developing its work production capacity with Pınar acting in construction, industry, Yaşar Group, which provides agenda by the World Economic food and beverage, coating, processes for a more habitable Dairy Şanlıurfa Factory, which furniture, auto repair paints, contribution to the social Forum and that has been foreign trade, agricultural world. has been completed in 2014, marine paints, dust paint and development with its activities established under the leadership production, tissue papers, will provide an important printing ink areas. Dyo Coating, in the social area as well of the Ministry of Family and Yaşar Holding at a Glance Our Group, which carries out tourism and energy sectors, contribution to the development which is the only company as its economic activities, Social Policies and actively its activities in the food and each of which is a leading of the region with this new performing production in many complies with its corporate participates in their activities. beverage sector with the main corporate in its own sector, Yaşar investment. sub-sectors, is performing citizenship responsibilities with Again, within this scope, trademark Pınar, provides a wide Group produces sustainable its production in Turkey in its the organizations, in which “CEO Statement of Women product range to its consumers Pınar, which has the first values to be inherited to the factories of 67,000 m2 in İzmir it is involved and with the Empowerment Principles” in many sub-sectors such as Turkish milk trademark that is future generations and provides Çiğli, 65,000 m2 in Kocaeli collaborations it has developed. launched by the UN has been water, milk and milk products, supported within the scope of contribution to the economic Gebze Dilovası and 10,000 m2 in signed. meat and meat products and Turquality Program and that Yaşar Group, who accepts and social development of the aquaculture. Pınar, which ranks has been issued to sale in EU Manisa Turgutlu. It has factories “Women Empowerment Work the employment of women country as well. first in consumer preference, countries, also has an important in Egypt and Russia. With Dyo Group” that has been established as an important tool of social is the sector leader with a market share abroad. Pınar, trademark, 1,100 different with the resolution of Global Our Group, which has development and assesses it high market share in the milk, which is acting in Germany with products, 3,200 different Compact Turkey’s Board of launched its activities in 1945, within the scope of human spreadable cheese, charcuterie Pınar Foods GmbH company packages and 6,000 different Directors is another formation, is providing contribution to rights, supports the initiatives and frozen meat products areas. and in Dubai with HDF FZCO, color options are provided for in which Yaşar Group is included regional development with acting to increase the Pınar, continuously following is competing with the global the customers. and the activities of which are the employment it provides involvement of women in the the demands and tendencies of trademarks and strengthens its supported by Yaşar Group. directly and indirectly with its Yasar Group had consolidated working life. Our Group has the consumers, is widening its leadership among the global 21 companies, 23 factories, net sales of TL 3,1 billion, and become a member of “Gender product portfolio every passing trademarks of Turkey. 2 foundations and 7,500 operating profit of TL 237,6 Equality Duty Group of Turkey”, day with its R&D and Product employees, it supports Our Group has a deep rooted million for the year ended which has been renamed as Development studies. producers, increases the quality history in excess of 60 years 31 December 2014 in line with “Platform for Equality at Work”, of life of the producers and is Pınar, which increased its in the coating sector and is its IFRS results. that has been brought up to the Food and Beverage Group Coating Group Tissue Paper Group Trade and Service Foundations the most beloved flavors technological leadership environment friendly Group highly responsible the most wholesome products strong trademarks and production superior service approach corporate citizen the most advanced technology distribution network innovative products Altın Yunus Pınar Dairy Dyo Coating Yaşar Education and Culture Bintur Foundation Pınar Meat Dyo Printing Inks Viking Tissue Yaşar Dış Ticaret Selçuk Yaşar Sports and Pınar Water Kemipex Joint-stock Co. (Russia) YADEX International GmbH Education Foundation Çamlı Feed and Fattening (Germany) S.C. Dyo Balkan SRL YBP (Romania) Desa Energy Pınar Foods GmbH (Germany) Dyo Africa LLC (Egypt) Astron HDF FZCO (Dubai) www.yasar.com.tr/Markalar.aspx?CatID=14 12 Yaşar 2014 Sustainability Report Yaşar 2014 Sustainability Report 13 Our Mission and Our Consumers and Customers Come First Corporate Values Our all units rapidly and precisely identify the needs of our consumers and domestic and foreign customers and take a swift, proactive, and Our Mission and Corporate Values innovative approach to meeting their varying expectations of a better life. Our Mission Offering products and services of high quality under our trustworthy Our Operational Excellence brands, which add value to the lives of our consumers. The basis of our operational perfectionism understanding consists of the effective use of technology in all areas, simple business processes, defined work performance systematic and databased and rapid decision making systems systematic. Agility is one of our main competencies. Human Resources In light of our leading motto “Science, Unity, Success,” we believe that our well-trained, experienced, and highly dedicated and committed employees who are open to all scientific advances, attach importance to exchange of information and team spirit, and have adapted themselves to success-oriented work, is one of our primary assets. Our Ethical Stand We respect social, political, and cultural values and comply with laws and business ethics and act transparently in every country where we operate. We attach great importance to integrity, open communication, and fair management. Our Environmental and Social Responsibility For the environment and the nature and contribute to creation of a better future. We are maintaining our tradition to support contemporary education, sports, culture, and fine arts with a view to increasing the quality of social life, being aware of our social responsibility. 14 Yaşar 2014 Sustainability Report Yaşar 2014 Sustainability Report 15 Corporate Profile Food and Beverage Group Corporate Profile Food and Beverage Group Pınar Süt Mamulleri Sanayii A.Ş. (Pınar Dairy) Pınar Entegre Et ve Un Sanayii A.Ş. (Pınar Meat) A member of the Yaşar Group in Şanlıurfa under a decision Pınar Meat preserves and it is guided by these listed in the Borsa Istanbul, Pınar made in 2012. The company’s longstanding customer principles in all value chain and Dairy was formed in Izmir in milk processing capacity will confidence thanks to its healthy business processes. Pınar Meat is 1973 and launched its operations increased 180 million liters per and trustworthy products of subjected to internal inspections as the modern milk and dairy year with the completion of high quality and it is the first conducted annually by Turkish products plant in Turkey. Pınar Pınar Dairy’s Şanlıurfa plant in privately-owned integrated meat Standards Institute (TSE) for Dairy carries out its production in 2014. The investment will make plant in Turkey, which adheres to the certification of the validity İzmir and Eskişehir plants which a significant contribution to global and EU standards. of its certificates in addition to have 110,075 and 150,000 m2, development of South Eastern an external audit carried out Pınar Meat has been leading respectively. Anatolian Region by creating SAI Global, an independent food the industry thanks to its new employment and export inspection firm. Points allocated Pınar Dairy contributes to the products of high quality and its potential. as a result of those inspections economic development of innovative production concept vindicate consumer trust in Pınar geographical areas where it Offering a contribution to since its establishment. It has Meat. is conducting its operations. bringing up healthy generations also created brand trust and Aiming to increase value added and increasing society’s life increased its visibility abroad. www.pinar.com.tr created by its plants in Izmir quality, Pınar Dairy continues to In that context, Pınar Meat and Eskişehir, the company add value to consumers’ lives by has been carrying out product started preparations in order means of more than 300 healthy, diversification, R&D, and to build a Pınar Dairy plant delicious, and reliable products marketing efforts regarding on a total area of 100,000 m2 of high quality. targeted markets. Focused on consumer expectations and Meeting consumer expectations needs, Pınar Meat regards by taking advantage of its food safety and traceability as innovative and dynamic indispensable principles while organization, Pınar Dairy keeps renewing its product portfolio abreast of both industry-related and global developments and created trust lasting for generations as a result of its fast and effective steps. Supporting the economic and social development of society by means of its products, investments, and corporate Pınar Dairy Pınar Meat principles and values, the company continues to fulfill its commitments related to sustainability. www.pinar.com.tr 16 Yaşar 2014 Sustainability Report Yaşar 2014 Sustainability Report 17 Corporate Profile Food and Beverage Group Corporate Profile Food and Beverage Group Pınar Su Sanayi ve Ticaret A.Ş. (Pınar Water) Yaşar Birleşik Pazarlama Dağıtım Turizm ve Ticaret A.Ş. (YBP) It has laid the foundations of the under hygienic conditions in the The sale and distribution of YBP is developing its distribution first single direction use bottle filling room, the air of which is Pınar products, which is the strategy, which is based on packed spring water facilities continuously cleaned and where leading firm of the food sector, efficiency, every passing day of Turkey in 1984. Today, Pınar external air ingress is prevented. is performed by the specialized, with its customer-focused Water is a leading corporation The water is tested in physical, customer-focused, experienced personnel specialized in sale that has reached high standards chemical and microbiological and strong personnel of YPB at 3 and more than 100 experienced in all work processes from aspects in every phase from the directorates, in 9 regions, with a dealers. the points of production using spring until filling in the bottle. sale organization of 1,300 people www.ybp.com.tr the state of the art global Pınar Yaşam Pınarım is the first and with a large vehicle fleet of technologies to logistic activities TSE-certificated packed water more than 1,000 vehicles. supported with its strong brand of Turkey and is the first More than 600 product types infrastructure. Turkish beverage brand that in product groups and sub has registered its quality being Pınar Water offers the water categories bearing Pınar brand awarded with a certificate of obtained from Madran (Aydınare delivered to 150,000 points competence from the American Bozdoğan), Gökçeağaç (Sakaryaof sale by YBP. National Sanitation Foundation. Hendek) and Akçaağaç (Isparta) springs to consumers in Turkey It foresees the needs of the and in the countries of export consumers and continues adding under the brand Pınar Yaşam new packages to its portfolio. Pınarım. Furthermore, it has It offers a wide portfolio to the offered mineral water products consumer with glass, plastic, to the market with Pınar Denge policarbon package types and trademark. different volume options in water Pınar Yaşam Pınarım, which category. combines 30 years of experience Serving its customers through and expertise with customer its sale and distribution network satisfaction principle, is the consisting of 499 PC and 168 first packed water trademark PET dealers throughout Turkey, of Turkey. Pınar Yaşam Pınarım Pınar Water also offers different is packed at modern filling channels through which its plants without deteriorating its customers can place orders natural structure at the spring, through an order line (444 99 without changing the mineral 00), www.pinarsu.com.tr online balance. Pınar Water uses order system, and Pınar Water the latest global technologies application to be downloaded and continuously follows the Pınar Water YBP through a single touch by technological developments choosing the date and time of with its infrastructure and delivery of the order. applies them for its consumers. Filling operation is performed www.pinarsu.com.tr 18 Yaşar 2014 Sustainability Report Yaşar 2014 Sustainability Report 19 Corporate Profile Corporate Profile Food and Beverage Group Coatings Group Corporate Profile Food and Beverage Group Coatings Group Çamlı Yem Besicilik San. ve Tic. A.Ş. (Çamlı Feed and Fattening) Dyo Boya Fabrikaları Sanayi ve Ticaret A.Ş. (Dyo Coating) Çamlı Feed and Fattening, which competence about feed, has Dyo Coating has been an investment decision to has launched its activities with widened its product spectrum contributing to the Turkish produce construction paints and feed production in 1983 under with feeds special to farms and coatings industry through its completed the establishment of the integration philosophy of with functional products besides wide range of products for 60 Dyo Africa LLC company. Yaşar Group, has become a its standard products in 2014. years and is active in the fields KEMIPEX sale, marketing and productive, multidirectional and of building and heat insulation Çamlı Feed and Fattening production plant is located in strong player of the food value systems, manufacturing industry, has obtained a growth of Russia. chain with its new identity. furniture, auto repair, and marine approximately 30% in 2014 in coatings. Dyo Boya, the first Turkish The Company progresses with the export of fresh fish products coating company which has the target of contributing to the and has reached an export Dyo Coating, which acts in many been granted the first R&D development of livestock and amount of 21 million dollars. sub branches of the coating center certificate, also gives the agriculture sectors in the Aegean Çamlı Feed and Fattening, which sector performs its production opportunity to select among Region and in Turkey with its has reached Europe, USA and in Turkey at its plants in Izmir thousands of colors by using activities in mixed feed, culture Middle East, especially Italy and Çiğli, which has a total area of coloring system entitled “Color fishing, organic milk livestock, Spain with bass, sea bream and 67,000 m2, in Kocaeli Gebze Spring” to its customers, which turkey production and plant meager, has exported fresh fish Dilovası, which has a total area allows the production of any growing areas. to Israel from Turkey for the first of 65,000 m2 and in Manisa color selected by a customer at time. It is the market leader in Turgutlu, which has a total area The Company delivers its sales point. Saudi Arabia, Qatar and Israel. of 10,000 m2. qualified, reliable and highly Furthermore, it is the first nutritional products to its Building coatings and emulsifiers The Dairy and Fattening Plant company that applied EFQM customers with a high technical are produced at its Dilova plant, in Manisa Beydere, which excellence model in the sector service quality in fish feed and which has highly automated produces organic raw milk, and has been awarded with the cattle feed category with almost systems and upgraded based supports organic production with Agean Region Excellence great 300 SKUs. Çamlı Feed and on technological advances while contracted organic agriculture reward in 2014. Fattening, which has become Çiğli Plant produces furniture method and targets a reduction a trademark in the sector with coatings and varnishes, industrial www.dyo.com.tr in the use of chemical fertilizer its expertise and technical coatings, auto repair coatings, and agricultural pesticides. marine coatings, bobbin and Çamlı Feed and Fattening follows polyester for special purposes the principle of sustainable Çamlı Feed and Fattening Dyo Coating and Turgutlu Plant produces dust development of the agriculture paint. sector with the philosophy of Dyo Coating has also made “producing without exhausting” major investments abroad by protecting the natural and became an international resources of our country company exporting its goods and targets an efficiency to many countries in the world. and profitability-focused In addition to the furniture and development. automobile repair paints in www.camli.com.tr Egypt, Dyo Coating has taken 20 Yaşar 2014 Sustainability Report Yaşar 2014 Sustainability Report 21 Corporate Profile Corporate Profile Coatings Group Tissue Papers Group Corporate Profile Coatings Group Tissue Papers Group Dyo Matbaa Mürekkepleri San. ve Tic. A.Ş. (Dyo Printing Inks) Viking Kağıt ve Selüloz A.Ş. (Viking Tissue) As the first printing ink producer in Manisa Organized Industrial Built in Aliağa, Izmir in 1969 as primary strategies are aimed to of Turkey, it has been providing Region with an investment of Turkey’s first privately-owned grow and preserve its position service to the sector since 10 million Turkish Liras within paper plant, Viking Tissue joined within the industry while 1968. Our company targets a record period, has been the Yaşar Group in 1982. presenting hygienic and practical customers in printing-publishing constructed on a land of products facilitating daily life. and packaging industries. It 20,000 m2. It has 12,000 m2 Viking Tissue has been operating The company also intends to has a wide product spectrum closed area, 9,000 m2 of which is in the domestic and international increase its exports by focusing including any kind of products used as production area, markets in the fields of finished on the sale of final products in and auxiliary materials of 600 m2 of which is used as R&D and semi-finished cleaning international markets. the packaging and printing and quality control laboratories. paper tissues for domestic and sectors. Dyo Printing Inks, Most developed production industrial use since 1996. Its www.viking.com.tr with its integrated structure, technologies have been used offers products in five in the design and construction sub-sectors including newspaperof the factory. The new factory, magazine inks, layer offset inks, which is operated with an annual flexographic and rotogravure production capacity of 31 tons printing inks, serigraphy inks and ink, is the greatest production metal packaging systems. base of Turkey and our close neighborhood and it is among Production is performed at the the first five plants in Europe. factory in Manisa and at the Color Preparation Centers in Dyo Printing Inks is one of Istanbul and Ankara. With 42 the greatest producers in the dealers through Turkey and sales region and ranks 21st among the offices in 4 cities, it has a market “greatest ink producers of the share of 40%. world”. Manisa Factory, which has been Supporting the companies completed and commissioned acting in the printing world in complying with the global standards in production and quality and providing trainings to increase their efficiencies Dyo Printing Inks Viking Tissue and customer satisfactions are among our matters of priority. With the training programs prepared in line with the needs of the customers, contribution is provided for the development of all of their quality processes. www.dyoinks.com.tr 22 Yaşar 2014 Sustainability Report Yaşar 2014 Sustainability Report 23 Corporate Profile Trade and Service Group Corporate Profile Trade and Service Group Desa Enerji Elektrik Altın Yunus Çeşme Turistik Tesisler A.Ş. (Altın Yunus) Üretim A.Ş. (Desa Energy) Yaşar Bilgi İşlem ve Ticaret A.Ş. (Astron) Operating in Çeşme, Izmir health tourism through Thalasso Desa Energy, has been Yaşar Holding Bilgi Sistemleri Astron, which has been merged since 1974, Altın Yunus has therapy pool in its SPA unit. established as the autoproducer (Yabim)-Astron, which has been with the information systems an important place in Turkish group company of Yaşar Group established in 1983 in order of the companies of our Group Hosting conventions, seminars, tourism industry with its marina in 1996. Continuing providing to carry out and manage the in 2001, meets all information wedding parties, banquets, and services and Blue Flag beaches. service to the group as the information systems functions systems requirements while business events throughout the Altın Yunus is one of the largest electricity production company of Yaşar Group has acted in continuing its activities in year, the facility has contributed facilities in Turkey with a total of since 2011, Desa Energy compliance with the laws, to the development of Turkish hardware and software areas 423 rooms in the main building performs electricity and heat the expectations of internal tourism industry through many until 1996 and started carrying and marina with a total floor energy production using natural and external stakeholders , international events it hosted. out its activities within Astron as area of 100,000 m2 and 42 apart gas at Pınarbaşı Power Plant, regulations, resolutions and hotel rooms located separately. which has an installed power of of 1996. policies of all companies within www.altinyunus.com.tr It serves winter tourism with 9,8 mW. Astron organization, which Yaşar Group and is providing its thermal spring water, which performed the first extensive solutions that will strengthen the In line with its growth targets, has healing properties, and to work processes of the companies the company continues SAP project in Turkey, has been of our Group and that will its studies on investment a first in this sense for Turkey. increase their efficiency. opportunities based on The target of Astron is to provide renewable sources, and provides competition advantage to the www.astron.ws cost advantage for its partners, companies of our Group and to the energy needs of which it contribute to Yaşar Group in its meets. efforts for reaching its targets www.desaenerji.com.tr by using the technologies, processes and methods in information systems area. Altın Yunus Desa Energy Astron 24 Yaşar 2014 Sustainability Report Yaşar 2014 Sustainability Report 25 Governance at Yaşar Group Performance Appraisal Top Management Governance at Yaşar Group Premiums are paid to the top relevant companies are taken period at the Strategic Plan Yaşar Holding Board of Directors managers of Yaşar Holding into consideration for annual Meetings that are held every Name Surname Title depending on monthly wages raises. year. Sustainability targets and SELİM YAŞAR Chairperson of Board of Directors (*) and performance. Attendance strategies are handled under a Performance assessment in FEYHAN YAŞAR Deputy Chairperson of Board of Directors fee payment is made to the separate heading at the Strategic Yaşar Group is performed İDİL YİĞİTBAŞI Deputy Chairperson of Board of Directors (*) members of the Board of Plan Meetings of the Board of basing on “Balance Scorecard” CENGİZ EROL Member of Board of Directors (*) Directors and the attendance fee Directors, which are held with a system. In the system, which YILMAZ GÖKOĞLU Member of Board of Directors amounts are determined at the special agenda every year. For MEHMET AKTAŞ Member of Board of Directors Ordinary General Assembly every also includes top managers, example, a reduction of 15% in All of the members of the Board of Directors are members of Supervision Sub-Committee, Early Risk Detection Subyear with the resolution of the the company performance the carbon emission per ton of Committee and Human Resources and Governance Sub-Committee. General Board upon the proposal and individual performance production in 2020 is a strategic of the partners. are taken into consideration. Yaşar Holding Top Management target that is closely followed up In performance assessment, Name Surname Title The wage principles of the top by the Board of Directors. At the various performance indicators MEHMET AKTAŞ Chief Executive Officer managers are determined in line annual meetings of the Board of under customer-market, HİKMET ALTAN Chief Financial Officer with the long-period targets of Directors, first the performance operational processes and LEVENT DAĞHAN Financial Works and Budget Control President the company within the scope of of the past year is assessed in institutional learning sections as HASAN GİRENES Agriculture, Husbandry and Fishery Industry Group President the duties of Wage Committee accordance with the determined well as financial business results AHMET YİĞİTBAŞI Coating Group President of the Corporate Governance indicator and the targets and are taken into consideration. CÜNEYT BAŞBAKKAL Foreign Trade Vice President Committee acting under the strategies are set and investment Performance indicators such SİNAN GERÇEK Information Systems Vice President Board of Directors. The wage plans are prepared for the new as energy efficiency, carbon SENEM DEMİRKAN Capital Markets Coordinator determination is performed in period, taking into consideration emission, water consumption KAMİL DEVECİ Audit and Risk Management Coordinator accordance with the international the economic, technological, etc, which assess the social and DİLEK EMİL Corporate Affairs Coordinator position assessment system social, environmental and TURGUT SARIOĞLU Supply Chain and Logistic Coordinator environmental responsibilities, used in Yaşar Group, being industrial developments. Action SEÇKİN ŞENOL Budget Control and Analysis Coordinator are also included in the system independent from the individual plans are prepared in compliance in line with the sustainability Companies Top Management performance, in accordance with the targets and strategies efforts and targets. with the provided contribution, and economic, environmental Name Surname Title area of impact and managed In Yaşar Group, the targets and social performance SERDAR ORAN Vice President of Coating Group and complexity. Economic indicators and the strategies are reviewed throughout the year are followed General Manager of Dyo Coating AHMET ABDULLAH AKÇASIZ General Manager of Viking Tissue Performance Appraisal Top Management and specific needs of the and revised for a five year up through monthly meetings. ÖZDEMİR BAHAR General Manager of Desa Energy (**) YAKUP BENLİ General Manager of Dyo Printing Inks HASAN GİRENES General Manager of Çamlı Feed and Fattening GÜRKAN HEKİMOĞLU General Manager of Pınar Dairy HÜSEYİN KARAMEHMETOĞLU General Manager of Pınar Water SUAT ÖZYİĞİT General Manager of YBP ERHAN SAVCIGİL R&D and Technology Coordinator of Pınar Dairy TUNÇ TUNCER General Manager of Pınar Meat (*) As of 21.04.2015 (**) Until 13.10.2014 www.yasar.com.tr 26 Yaşar 2014 Sustainability Report Yaşar 2014 Sustainability Report 27 Corporate Governance Governance at Yaşar Group Corporate governance, which Guidelines. Those guidelines responsibilities related with the traded companies of Yaşar with applicable regulations. a Compensation Committee means the relations between were issued by the Capital management and organization Group. These independent Compensation and dividend have been set up as part of the company management, Market Board in 2003 and structure have been determined members comply with all polices of those companies are the Corporate Governance board of directors, stakeholders revised in 2005 and many with “Yaşar Group Corporate independence criteria mentioned posted on their own websites. Committee. and all parties that have a provisions of them have Governance Manual” and the in article 4.3.6 of the Corporate Yaşar Holding’s website Yaşar Holding, which has connection with the company, become mandatory for work ethics approach has been Governance Principles attached features detailed information taken important voluntary is carried out within the publicly-traded companies determined with Yaşar Group to the Corporate Governance about our Group companies steps about the application of frame of principles that are as a result of an amendment Business Ethics Rules Manual Communiqué of CMB numbered and their respective business best management approaches accepted by all parties such as done in 2011. The Corporate and the employees of our Group II-17.1. Furthermore, there segments and brands and it starting from the dates, transparency, responsibility to Governance Communiqué, have to comply with this Manual. are two female members of provides access to “Investment when corporate governance the stakeholders, fairness and which has been updated by Board of Directors in four of Relations” module containing “Yaşar Group Corporate principles were not on the accountability. CMB at the beginning of 2014 our publicly traded companies detailed information about Governance Manual” defines agenda in Turkey, manages the has re-regulated and finalized and one female member of our Group’s publicly-traded Corporate governance, which is the corporate management “Corporate Reputation”, which the Corporate Governance Board of Directors in the other companies. Progress made by regulated and whose scope is operation principles, and the has been created as the result Guidelines. two companies. This condition the Yaşar Group’s publicly-traded identified with laws, has allowed decision making processes of long years, and continues allows us comply with the companies in terms of corporate an increase in good governance In 2014, the corporate of the Board of Directors and creating sustainable values non-compulsory Corporate governance is provided to the applications in the entire world. governance scores of Pınar Süt execution and determines the for its stakeholders, and on Governance Principles numbered stakeholders and the public In our country, corporate authorities and responsibilities a wider sense for the society Mamulleri Sanayii A.Ş., Pınar 4.3.9. The committees required through reports on compliance governance applications are of the Board of Directors and with its effective and proactive Entegre Et ve Un Sanayii A.Ş. under the legislation have been with Corporate Governance carried out within the scope the sub-committees and their applications. and Pınar Su Sanayi ve Ticaret established within the Board of Guidelines, which are drawn of Law on Capital Market and roles. The principles of agenda A.Ş., which are included in Borsa Directors as well. up for being included in annual Communiqué on the Corporate determination and voting at Istanbul Corporate Governance operating reports in accordance Governance Principles of Capital the Board of Directors are also Investor relations units have Index, have been revised with Capital Market Legislations. Market Board (CMB). included in this Manual. been established in all publiclyupwards as 9,09, 9,11 and 9,28, The reports on compliance of our Yaşar Group regards corporate respectively. traded companies of our Various systems have been companies with the Corporate governance as a factor crucial Group in order to carry out the www.yasar.com.tr established to allow our Governance Principles can be The responsibilities of Chief communication between the to the sustainability of the employees submit proposals found at websites via 2d-code Executive Office and Board of investors and the partnership in companies and has reflected or recommendations to the below. Directors of Yaşar Group are a healthy and reliable way, within it to all of its areas of activity company top management. separate in compliance with the the scope of Capital Markets An Audit Sub-committee, from the past until today with its vision and prediction, rooted and OECD Corporate Governance Audit sub-committee, subLegislation. An information policy Sub-committee for the Early strong values and culture, ethics Principles. The Board of Directors committee for the Early based on transparency and Detection of Risks, and Subwww.pinar.com.tr www.dyo.com.tr understanding and compliance does not have any executive Detection of Risks and Corporate accuracy has been formulated committee for Corporate with the laws and the legislation. duty within the corporation and Governance sub-committee and made public so that Governance have been set up in Corporate Governance the Chief Executive Officer, who carry out their activities shareholders, public at large, the publicly traded companies Corporate governance structure, chairs the Executive Board, is under Yaşar Holding Board and other stakeholders are of the Yaşar Group in line with which is adopted by the Yaşar responsible for all executive of Directors, which consists fully and accurately informed the CMB’s Corporate Governance Group, is being constantly activities of Yaşar Holding of 6 members. There are two in a timely manner and under Guidelines and Capital Market reviewed in accordance with to the Board of Directors. independent members at the understandable and equal Legislations. In addition, a the Corporate Governance However, the entire process and board of directors of the publicly conditions in accordance Nomination Committee and 28 Yaşar 2014 Sustainability Report Yaşar 2014 Sustainability Report 29 Corporate Reputation Management Our Strategic Planning Approach Governance at Yaşar Group Existence of internet based Yaşar Holding has launched in all processes of corporate The Yaşar Group has been Our companies, as corporate media, citizen journalism, “Corporate Reputation Project” reputation through internal devising its 5 year strategic citizens, aim at contributing bloggers, the increase in the in 2010 in order to manage communication. plans since 1991. Strategic plans to the sustainability of the importance of NGOs and the corporate reputation, which are initially drawn up by the ecosystem and ensuring that Development of ownership and decrease in consumer confidence it adopts as one of the most business units of companies and operations and products do not belonging by the employees for in the advertisements make important parts of corporate developed at the level of head create pressure on resources the corporate reputation studies the management of corporate strategy, and has established the office and groups before they and creating less waste and increases their efforts in this reputation process more difficult. sub-committees of Corporate are submitted to the Holding for thus serving the five priority area. Therefore, the effective Communication, Sustainability, their perusal. areas that we have identified. The conventional public relations participation of the employees in Social Responsibility, Corporate Our business strategies are, instruments become increasingly the process is targeted through Investments are basically Governance and Ethics and therefore, intended to ensure insufficient in appropriately meetings with wide participation prioritized for attaining the Corporate Values. that our companies have a social responding to the areas of that are held by the Corporate strategic goals in addition to effect on communities in its combat related with corporate These sub-committees, Communication and Corporate growth and profitability goals area of interaction and that our reputation. increasing the awareness within Values Committees in the set forth in our strategic plans. employees, partners, suppliers, the corporation on reputation companies of Yaşar Group. Increasing the flexibility and In order to understand the customers, local communities, management, have performed predictability of production and needs of their stakeholders, the With our efforts to show the and the public at large benefit benchmark studies about market in line with consumer companies have to develop their relation of the potential threats, from welfare. the operation of corporate demands has always been one listening abilities and analyze the which our employees can more governance in different of the main goals. Another major Strategies are reviewed at information obtained by different easily see in the work units, with companies and ensured the goal is enhancing corporate periodic meetings in light of departments and take immediate corporate reputation, it is tried to development of projects suitable competences so that product possible developments and actions. prevent our actions from being for Yaşar Group by analyzing development and innovation necessary revisions are made. Corporate Reputation Management Our Strategic Planning Approach short-period and defense-based. Yaşar Group, being aware of different structures. will be furthered and efforts are Our annual budgets are also the areas of combat related made to ensure compatibility of based on strategic plans. Yaşar Group manages its with corporate reputation, is strategic priorities with existing corporate reputation together performing studies targeting organizations. This requires an with all its units and employees. correct integration of good effective and efficient use of Our Group which is aware that governance, business ethics, human resources. the opinions of the employees corporate values and social are very valuable, ensures the contribution to its business participation of its employees plans. Special care is paid to the communication of those studies with a correct method. 30 Yaşar 2014 Sustainability Report Yaşar 2014 Sustainability Report 31 Risk Management Anti-Corruption Practices Business Ethics Governance at Yaşar Group In the globalizing world of today, • To clearly define and maintain All companies within the Yaşar Business ethics draws a ethics. This manual is used for Yaşar Group Business the determination of risks and roles and responsibilities, Group fight against all forms boundary for operating in orientation training for newly Ethics Rules making preparations for those of corruption, including bribery accordance with principles recruited employees and training • To assess current controls in • To work in a safe work risks have become an approach and extortion and fulfill their all and the values of society. In on business ethics is provided order to avoid risks with known environment ensuring respect that handles the issue just in obligations to prevent corruption. societies evolving within multiple through Yaşar Academy, the causes and results, for the rights of others without one dimension. The connection In that context, our Group social and cultural dynamics Yaşar Group’s online learning permitting any discrimination, of risks with each other, the • To design new and effective supports the “United Nations ethical guidelines ensure that platform. effect of long-period trends on controls and putting a long-term Convention Against Corruption” universal values such as equality, • To make an efficient use of the The employees of our Group risk formation and remedying effective risk management and and the government’s “Strategy transparency, and impartiality company’s resources, companies are encouraged to are the important factors monitoring process into practice, to Increase Transparency and to are upheld by the business inform the Ethics Committee, • To avoid any conflict of determining risk management. Strengthen Fight on Corruption”. are among the objectives of risk community. made up of a total of five interest, The process of classification of management processes within The employees of the Yaşar members, including a risks have a specific feature for Respecting social values in the • To comply with competition our Group. Group are required to work chairperson who is a director the corporations acting within geographical area in which it rules set forth in laws and to in compliance with the “Yaşar of the Yaşar Holding, three the frame of different business This approach provides a operates, the Yaşar Group acts compete against rival companies Group’s Business Ethics Rules members from the Yaşar models in more than one sector. competitive advantage to in accordance with business without distorting market Manual.” Holding’s top management, and companies while assuring ethics and ensures transparency conditions, Our Risk Management a secretary-general, about any stakeholders that company 15 full scope and 30 limited within the framework of those Understanding non-compliance with or breach • To ascribe importance to assets are well preserved and scope analysis were realized at principles. “Business Ethics of business ethics by email, customer satisfaction and to Corporate risk management improved. 25 functions. Rules Manual”, which was drawn letter, or telephone. Any issue be always considerate and is regarded as a systematic up in 2009 and printed as a Internal audits are regularly There were no concluded legal reported to the Ethics Committee honest toward customers and process which identifies, manual and distributed to all conducted within our Group cases involving the company is resolved within one week in consumers, analyzes, controls, and monitors employees of the Group in 2010, companies in order to help our or its employees in corruption accordance with rules laid down risks in companies which are is a manifestation of the Yaşar • To pay maximum attention to Group companies achieve their during the report period. Only in the guide. members of the Yaşar Group. Risk Management Anti-Corruption Practices Business Ethics 5 employees who were either in Group’s approach to business ensure that the company’s data, This management concept targets by providing a systemic our or third parties’ payroll were assets, and records are kept ensures that unforeseen risks and disciplined approach faced with some penalties with accurately and to treat them as and negative effects on the intended to evaluate and regard to the business principles confidential and not to use them companies’ assets can be increase the efficiency of the and our business ethics rules. for obtaining a personal benefit, controlled. risk management and control processes. These audits enable • To ensure that all Yaşar • To identify existing risks by us to determine if the processes employees protect social benefits analyzing all operations, business function in a fashion conducive and respect the environment units, and profit centers of the to the attainment of our Group’s during their all activities, companies, goals and objectives. In addition, results related to performance • To adopt a life style that • To set up a risk management would not create a negative effectiveness and efficiency structure for ensuring a impression about the company provide information about systematic and continuous and not conflict with social rules potential improvements in those process, both within and outside of the areas. workplace. 32 Yaşar 2014 Sustainability Report Yaşar 2014 Sustainability Report 33 employees Our Stakeholders and Communication consumers suppliers Governance at Yaşar Group The stakeholders of the Yaşar relationship modules on our Group consist of our employees, web pages are the most consumers, business partners, important platforms on which we suppliers, shareholders, public demonstrate our efforts designed agencies and institutions, to encourage our shareholders to international organizations, make investments. sectoral associations, NGOs, Public agencies and institutions, universities, and print and electronic media who are directly associations of which we are a member, NGOs and universities public universities affected by our operations while agencies which cooperate with us, influencing them. international organizations of and They can be mainly prioritized which we are a member and/ institutions as our employees, customers, or whose activities we follow consumers, suppliers, and are among communication shareholders. channels used for monitoring developments in the industry, Various effective channels of to ensure full compliance with NGOs business communication are used for applicable laws and regulations, partners guiding our employees to our and to provide opinions about strategic goals while a variety new legislation being developed. of programs are developed shareholders Our relationship with print and with a view to increasing their visual media is handled through international competences and loyalty to their press conferences, bulletins, and organizations companies. interviews. Training programs for suppliers, meetings with dealers, visits to media factories, visits to customers, conventions, meetings, and panel discussions that we attend, satisfaction surveys, frequent Our Stakeholders and Communication telephone calls, requests received by the communication and call center as well as social media accounts are the main sectoral communication channels with associations our customers and consumers. The Board of Directors, annual meetings on budget and strategic plans, and investor 34 Yaşar 2014 Sustainability Report Yaşar 2014 Sustainability Report 35 Our Sustainability Approach Our Environmental Concerns and Principles Our Sustainability Approach The targets and undertakings principles, have supported its Yaşar Group adopts environment pesticides through organic responsibility projects will be of Yaşar Group are determined efforts with international criteria as one of the main factors agricultural production method commenced in accordance with being assessed on the axis becoming a signatory of UNGC in directing its activities and takes applied in Manisa Beydere Dairy the determined needs. of sustainability with their 2007. Our Group, which issued the protection of resources and Fattening enterprise, and to the The expectations of the economic, environmental and the Communication on Progress improvement of environment protection of natural resources stakeholders, the technological social aspects. Our target is Reports in 2009 and 2010 into consideration in every stage and bio-diversity in the long development and scientific to reach a structure, where and the Sustainability Reports from the design of products period. There is no important studies are an inspiration sustainability is handled as an between 2011-2014 without and processes to production leakage case reported by our for Yaşar Group about integrated part of our business interruption, is developing its planning, from stock control to companies. environmental management processes that determines our reporting works in parallel with distribution and to investment The companies of Yaşar and they are closely followed. way of performing business. the progress it has obtained in decisions. Group gives priority to the All companies of our Group sustainability activities. As Yaşar Group the basis of All companies of Yaşar Group act areas reserved for industrial provide training for increasing our sustainability approach Within the scope of sustainability within the frame of the principle: activities, especially the environmental awareness, the Yaşar Group’s consists of continuing our approach, our Group has “in cases where the danger of organized industrial regions, proposals of the employees on contributions to the society and determined 5 areas of priority damage to the environment in a for the selection of investment this matter are assessed and sustainability for this purpose, contributing to as follows: “Energy and Climate locations. Therefore, our the results obtained from those serious or irreversible way exists, approach involves all a better life through activities Change”, “Water Use and Waste absence of scientific certainty activities do not have any impact activities are reflected on the of its stakeholders related to the people, especially Water”, “Used Materials and on the protection areas and business processes. can not be used as a reason our employees and while Wastes”, “Health and Safety”, bio-diversity. With the social including its suppliers, performing all those activities, and “Social Contribution”. for delay in taking the cost impact analysis to be performed Our Group, which transparently effective measures to prevent shares its activities with its customers and reducing our environmental damage to the environment”. in relation with Şanlıurfa Energy and Climate Change, stakeholders and the public, Our Sustainability Approach Our Environmental Concerns and Principles consumers stress. Our approach involves Dairy Plant, which is our last Water Use and Waste Water, will continue paying attention all of our stakeholders including Development of products investment, the results of the Used Materials and Wastes, to increasing and improving its our suppliers, customers and and processes that use less investment will be measured which are included among our environmental performance. consumers. resources, efficient use of energy and the application of social 5 areas of priority, exhibit the and natural resources, reduction The efforts of Yaşar Group for priorities of our sustainability of use of toxic materials and the protection and sustainability approach about environment. chemicals and reduction of of resources as well as the value wastes, waste water and that it creates with its activities emissions, effective management are the indicators of the fact that of environmental risks, planning it adopts sustainability not as an the investment programs in alternative business model, but accordance with environmental as a main axis. Our Group shares impact assessments are included all those efforts both through among those undertakings. activity reports and sustainability Furthermore, our Group reports. contributes to the spread of Yaşar Group, performing good agriculture applications reporting within the frame of and reduction of use of chemical transparency and accountability fertilizers and agricultural 36 Yaşar 2014 Sustainability Report Yaşar 2014 Sustainability Report 37 Energy and Climate Change Our Sustainability Approach Examples of Practice system opened by the Ministry of Within the scope of “Energy accuracy have been assessed. A Handling the Environment and Urbanization as and Climate Change” carbon project has been launched with Pınar Dairy of 2015. footprint reduction has been Astron in order to periodically combat against Pınar Dairy continuously prioritized. Determining the hot follow up the carbon calculations climate change The possible impacts of the develops its environmental chemical substances used by points causing carbon emission and to form the Greenhouse Gas within the scope performance with the TS EN and then the carbon reduction Inventory Management System, Pınar Dairy on the environment strategy, Yaşar Group has been and the installation of the of its sustainability ISO 14001 Environmental and on the human beings have approach, Yaşar Group Management System certificate a first to calculate the carbon system, which will ensure central been assessed by the Ministry it has and within this scope, and the level of organization has footprint on corporate basis control of carbon emissions, has progresses strongly to environmental impact inventory for its 10 companies and has reached the stage of completion been determined through Seveso declared its reduction target. and its commissioning in 2015 the targeted results has been prepared in all units notification made to the Ministry with its activities in the plant and environment calculations has been targeted. of Environment and Urbanization Our Group takes the national logs have been formed by under the “Regulation on Big and international criteria into Our Group, which has performed in areas determining the impacts of Industrial Accidents”. consideration in its carbon determined a reduction target of such as reduction those units on the environment emission reporting studies. 15% until 2020, has decreased of carbon emissions and the intensity of such Dyo Printing Inks After the determination of hot its emission ratio with 10,94% in impacts. Furthermore, with the carbon points and completion 2014. This obtained figure has and ensuring energy The necessary notifications to supplier assessment systems prevent big industrial accidents of calculations for Altın Yunus, been encouraging in terms of efficiency. that have been established, the (Seveso II Regulation) have Çamlı Feed and Fattening, assessing new opportunities in environmental management been made to the Ministry of Desa Energy, Dyo Coating, the continuing studies. systems of the suppliers and the Environment and Urbanization. Dyo Printing Inks, Pınar Meat, operation of those systems are Our Environmental Concerns and Principles Energy and Climate Change Pınar Water, Pınar Dairy, Viking scored by Pınar Dairy. Altın Yunus Tissue and YBP companies, the 2.500.000 Environment permission on “Air • In order to ensure results have been reported in Emission” has been obtained consciousness and awareness of compliance with ISO “14064-1 2.000.000 for a period of 5 years at Pınar the guests on energy, water and Guide and Properties on the Dairy Eskişehir Plant within environment, information has Calculation and Reporting of 1.500.000 the scope of compliance with been provided in the rooms. Greenhouse Gas Emissions at legal legislations. Furthermore, Organization Level”. 1.000.000 within the frame of compliance • Training on environment has been provided for the child The results obtained from the 500.000 with the legislations, emission guests and saplings have been emission points of the plants measurements are performed by planed with the children. have been gathered at our Group 0 the accredited organization. level and then consolidated at 2012 2013 2014 The internal audits performed • On the general information the center and the compliance of by the environment personnel board, environment protection data with the standards and their are logged and continuous precautions, regional map and 2012 2013 2014 improvements are performed. access information have been Direct Energy Consumption 2.274.265 2.243.113 2.142.514 The entries of those inspections provided. Indirect Energy Consumption 376.248 385.450 382.247 will be performed on the online 38 Yaşar 2014 Sustainability Report Yaşar 2014 Sustainability Report 39 Our Sustainability Approach We have declared to reduce our average carbon emissions per unit production 15% until 2020 We reduced 10 ,94% by 2014 Energy and Climate Change 40 Yaşar 2014 Sustainability Report Yaşar 2014 Sustainability Report 41 Our Sustainability Approach Examples of Practice are periodically reviewed. While • By using the waste in 2014 has been 3,922,835 Sm3, year and has risen to 70,140 purchasing machinery and condensation heat, electrical and our electricity consumption ton/year from 49,850 ton/year. Pınar Dairy equipment, the predetermined energy saving has been obtained is 31,132,290 kWh. The energy The increase in consumption is “Greenhouse Gas Monitoring energy efficiency criteria are thanks to the yogurt incubation use values are followed up caused by the 60% increase in Plan” has been prepared within complied with. chamber. and assessed monthly, and demijohn production. In 2015, the frame of compliance with an important saving has been projects for increasing efficiency Automation system works At Pınar Dairy production the legislations and within the obtained per unit product as the will be applied and it is planned have been commenced at centers, daily production line scope of the Communiqué result of the investments and to execute Lean 6 Sigma green Pınar Dairy İzmir Plant for the efficiency measurements are on Monitoring and Reporting improvements made. belt project to increase demijohn automatic reporting of energy performed. Those measurements Greenhouse Gas Emissions, and line efficiency. consumptions. Furthermore; are consolidated and recorded A reduction of 6.5% per unit this plan has been submitted to on weekly, monthly and annual ton product has been obtained Isparta Eğirdir Filling Plant the Ministry of Environment and • With economizer investment, basis and are periodically in our natural gas consumptions Urbanization. energy saving has been ensured Our production capacity has assessed through tests and in 2014 as the result of the and carbon emission has been increased 19% in comparison Natural lighting has been started analysis. With the targets improvement of production reduced in the vapor boilers. with 2013. Energy consumption in the production sections of of elimination of factors processes at our factory with the has been reduced with 8%. Our Pınar Dairy Eskişehir Plant, and • Energy saving has been causing efficiency losses and realized projects. existing two compressors without the existing fixtures have been obtained in cold storage depots improvement of the existing Within the frame of the works driver have been replaced with replaced with efficient fixtures to by applying icy water system efficiency values, instantaneous performed on energy efficiency, one compressor of driver type to ensure electricity saving. instead of ammoniac system. and long-period action plans are the emission value per unit obtain a more efficient energy prepared. The conversion of the existing • By using lighting panels and product, which was 599 in draw. Furthermore, inflating lighting systems into LED lighting high-efficiency lighting fixtures For hot water needed in the 2013, has been reduced to pressures and heating tunnel in the production facilities and in the newly constructed units, units for occupational safety and 566 kgCO2/ton in 2014. perform keeping periods have external locations to ensure energy saving has been ensured. energy saving, central hot water been reduced to obtain energy Pınar Water electricity saving has been system has been installed and efficiency. • The use of EFF1 electricity hot water line has been laid. commenced in 2013. Conversion Aydın-Bozdoğan Madran motors with high energy The plastic inflation compressors into LED lighting has been Plant efficiency instead of motors with “Energy Operational Cost used at Isparta plant auxiliary continued in 2014. high electricity consumption has Improvement” recommendation The energy consumed per facilities consume approximately Pınar Dairy follows the energy been extended. weeks have been held to create unit product in 2014 has been 45% of the total installed power. sources used in production with awareness. reduced with 4,21 kWh/ton in In accordance with the literature, • Revisions have been made it is possible to decrease the counters. The follow ups are comparison with the previous in the boiler burner systems to Heat loss points have been documented with tables and year. The greatest factor in this power to be drawn by the ensure fuel saving. determined with thermal camera the amounts of energy used on reduction has been the increase electrical motor with 12% by and isolation works have been Energy and Climate Change production basis are compared. • In the new investment period, in line efficiencies. While the line decreasing the compressor performed to decrease heat With this comparison, the energy investments have been made efficiency was 80,08% in 2013, pressure with an amount of losses. dimensions are determined, to new generation UHT system it has reached 85,05% in 2014 approximately 30%. With the energy survey programs are and machinery, which have high Pınar Meat with an improvement of 6,2%. studies carried out within the prepared, targets related energy efficiency, which are scope of a series of improvement Our total natural gas LNG consumption has increased projects, a reduction from with energy dimensions are environment friendly and which consumption in the entire factory in comparison with the previous 32 bar to 29 bar in 5-10 lt determined and those targets have low carbon emission. 42 Yaşar 2014 Sustainability Report Yaşar 2014 Sustainability Report 43 Our Sustainability Approach plastic inflation machine and a Çamlı Feed and Fattening In the new factory established Altın Yunus coordination and in compliance enterprise in the Lean 6 reduction from 32 bar to 22 bar in Manisa Organized Industrial with the time schedule. In Sigma project cycle that is By using alternating rotation • Hotel heating and hot water in 0,5-1,5 lt plastic inflation lines Region, studies for reducing the the food group in general, the being applied in the Food control on the high-efficiency production with geothermal have provided a saving of about electricity and fuel energy used projects of 2014 have provided and Beverage Group of Yaşar electrical motors and cooling energy is continuing. 10% in electrical energy. in the production plants have an electricity use saving of Holding is planned in 2015 fans in the Feed Enterprise, a been designed and applied. It • Training on energy has been approximately 80,000 kWh/ with 10 projects. In the project Sakarya Hendek Filling Plant saving of 76,680 kWh has been is planned to obtain electrical provided for the child guests. year and a reduction of 2,500 preparation period of 2015, obtained. With the commissioning of the energy saving by using frequency tons has been ensured in vapor priority will be given to the new PET machinery, the energy By using LED projectors and controlled speed adjustment • In order to create awareness use in the projects targeting an projects targeting a reduction use has been reduced with high-efficiency fixtures in the systems on most of the big, with the Earth hour application, improvement in the electricity in energy consumptions and an 3 kW per ton. Since demijohn Sea Products Enterprise and strong electrical motors. With lights have been turned off and natural gas use amounts as efficiency increase in the work production has not changed, the Dairy Fattening Enterprise, an the purpose of making more between 21:00-22:00. well as financial gains. units. electricity consumption remained improvement of 44,200 kWh use of daylight in the plant and Lean 6 Sigma Practices Participation of our agriculture the same. has been obtained in electricity in the administrative building, a company Çamlı Feed and consumption. natural lighting system has been While choosing our projects in With studies for increasing the Fattening and its Pınar Sea planned. By this way, saving is our companies applying Lean total equipment efficiency after Coal consumption in the Poultry obtained in the electrical energy 6 Sigma about efficiency and installation of new lines, the Production Enterprise has been consumed for lighting purposes. resource use, priority has been efforts for reducing the energy reduced with 20% by using Project Numbers Viking Tissue given to headings such as use amounts are continuing. digitally controlled heaters in the 28 Black Belt Green Belt 30 energy saving, process design, heating systems. 24 24 Sakarya plant Sidel SBO10 and “Greenhouse Gas Monitoring loss-cost optimizations. Those Isparta plant Sidel SBO8 inflation Dyo Printing Inks Plan” has been prepared within projects are proposed by the machine furnaces have been the scope of the Communiqué managers in parallel with the 8 The project pool consisting of on Monitoring and Reporting 4 modernized so as to be similar company strategies, they are 2 simple operation measures, Greenhouse Gas Emissions, and 0 to the new generation Universal prioritized and project leaders process improvement and this plan has been submitted to 2012 2013 2014 2015* 2 series ecoven furnace used in are assigned. * Expected number of projects for 2015 substitution projects within the the Ministry of Environment and the plant in Sakarya. An energy Project type GB-Green Belt, BBBlack Belt scope of Energy Management Urbanization. Between 2013-2015, 4 Expert saving of approximately 30% Since our Pınar Water company has left the project application period to the second half of System has been formed Black Belts actively act as the year in 2014, the number of applied projects has been 7 projects more than the expected has been ensured for each with the contribution of all With the application of the a bridge between project number. machine in prefrom conditioning. employees. “Energy Efficiency automation system, which leaders and the expectations With this modernization project, Specific Operational Cost automatically adjusts the drying a reduction of almost 20 spare of the management during the Improvement Week” has been regime, to the drying system of Project Main Group Distributions as of Years items has been obtained and project period and ensure the held. the second tissue machine, a stock management has been realization of the methodology Energy and Climate Change saving of 20% has been obtained Process Design simplified. 18 proposals have been received by using appropriate tools and per ton. The abbreviation for this 2012 on energy efficiency in 2014. the execution of the works in Operational Excellence 2013 application is ABC (Advantage 40% of those proposals have Balance Control) and has been 2014 2015* been accepted and applied. applied for the first time in the Cost improvement world by Viking Tissue. 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 *2015 Expected 44 Yaşar 2014 Sustainability Report Yaşar 2014 Sustainability Report 45 Water and Waste Water Used Materials and Waste Our Sustainability Approach Although three fourths of the their reporting is envisaged Our water consumption per ton The reusability and recyclability and use. Yaşar Group adopts Foundation (ÇEVKO), to which earth is covered with water, the within 2015. Furthermore, these has been 21,3 m3/ton of the used materials are taken packaging waste as an economic Pınar Water of our Group is a amount of clean water resources studies include Water Efficiency in 2013, and it has been into consideration. Since the value. founder member, is the solution that can be used by the human and Risk Assessment Reports. reduced to 19,1 m3/ton in 2014 recycling of wastes that can partner of Yaşar Group in the Many companies of the beings is decreasing. Less In this respect, water risk corresponding to a reduction of be evaluated and the use of studies for the regaining and Group are working with than 1% of the known water assessment in the geography of 10,3%. recycled materials as secondary evaluation of packaging wastes. organizations licensed by the resources is suitable for human activity is a first in our industry. raw materials constitute one The target of this cooperation is Ministry of Environment and use. It is targeted to generalize of the most effective solutions not only to ensure the recovery Water Consumption m3 (Per Ton of Product) Urbanization for the recovery the water footprint studies to 2012 2013 2014 in the efficient use of the of packaging wastes, but also to Turkey is not a rich country in and collection of packaging other plants included within the decreasing natural resources, terms of clean water resources, 21,42 21,32 wastes. Those companies ensure the informed continuity scope of reporting in 2015 and innovative studies are being and the fresh water resources follow up the packaging waste of consumption habits in the thereafter. performed for the recycling do not have an even distribution. management plan that has been society. of especially the industrial 53,7% of the usable fresh Carbon Footprint Teams are reprepared and submitted to the 19,1 wastes. The enterprises are Our Group continues its studies water potential of the country identified as Carbon and Water Ministry within the frame of continuously updating their on the solutions that will ensure is provided by five of the 25 Footprint Teams. Carbon and contracts. waste management practices less resource use and more basins. Therefore, it is necessary Water Footprint Managers and and supporting the waste Environment Protection and recycling in the entire value to reduce the water use per Experts have been assigned for management process with Packaging Waste Evaluation chain. capita and per unit production each company. Altın Yunus trainings that will create and to increase of usable water awareness in their organizations. Examples of Practice amounts. The water obtained from waste Pınar Meat water treatment is used in Yaşar Group uses packaging Yaşar Group, which included materials in a way to produce garden irrigation. the “water footprint” studies All waste waters produced by the least amount of wastes in the work program of its the production processes and and to cause least amount of Sustainability Committee in social areas are treated at the damage to the environment Amounts of Recycling Over the Years (%) 2013, has taken its studies physical, chemical and biological starting from the design of the targeting the efficient use of waste water treatment plant Type of package 2012 2013 2014 2015* package up to its production Water and Waste Water Used Materials and Waste water one step further in 2014 within our factory. The quality Paper-cardboard 40 42 44 48 and has launched the trainings of waste water is periodically for the completion of water analyzed twice by independent Plastic 40 42 44 48 footprint calculations of its laboratories and by our own Glass 40 42 44 48 companies. Water questionnaire laboratory, and the conditions has been applied to all required in the regulation are Metal 40 42 44 48 companies before the training complied with. Wood 5 5 5 works. As the result of this questionnaire, very important (*) Planned data for water and waste water management has been obtained. With the completion of the water footprint calculations in 2014, 46 Yaşar 2014 Sustainability Report Yaşar 2014 Sustainability Report 47 Our Sustainability Approach Examples of Practice transportation, provisional and Dyo Printing Inks points. By this way, the interim storage, recovery, reuse distance of transportation Pınar Dairy Thanks to OMİ project, an and disposal of hazardous of the wastes to the storage improvement of 28,896 kg has Organic and domestic wastes wastes. has been shortened and the been obtained in our annual produced as the result of process possible risks have been Pınar Meat solvent consumption with the activities are kept in appropriate eliminated. recovery of the solvent used in storage areas within the plant The plastic waste loss ratio, the cleaning of boilers. In De-Inking Plant of our and are sent to the storage areas which has been 3% in 2013 in enterprise, the amount of of the metropolitan municipality the further processed products Viking Tissue recovered waste paper in 2014 to ensure their disposal. section has been reduced to Deposit application has been is 28,670 tons. A contribution 2,34% in 2014. to the economy has been In the same way, the wastes launched with 3 suppliers for produced as the result of the The amount of waste sent to the the reuse of auxiliary material obtained with the recovery production and utilization licensed recovery companies in packages included within the of this amount of paper. The activities are sent to waste scope of hazardous wastes. The paper pulp equivalent of the 2014 has been 60,05%. While disposal plants and the empty auxiliary material bins/ recovered waste papers is the amount of hazardous wastes recyclable wastes are sent to barrels are returned to the firm equal to pure cellulose obtained among all wastes was 0,50% the licensed recycling firms and for refill. from 306,000 trees. in 2013, it has been reduced to the recovery of those wastes 0,44% in 2014. The treatment Altın Yunus The place of non-hazardous for the economy is ensured. sludge sent for regular storage waste provisional storage area In relation with the annually Waste battery and recycling to Harmandalı Solid Waste has been changed to make it produced wastes and packaging boxes have been placed in the Center, have been started closer to the waste production wastes, notifications are made corridor areas of our hotel. being sent to a licensed waste to the Ministry of Environment conversion facility as of June. and Urbanization. Furthermore, under the “Regulation on the A campaign has been launched Hazardous and Evaluable Waste Amounts 2014 General Principles of Waste for collecting the waste batteries Management”, “Hazardous and it has been indicated that kg Hazardous Evaluable Waste Responsibility Insurance” 1 sapling would be planted in Pınar Meat 24,560 3,205,150 is provided to take precaution the name of each employee Çamlı Feed and Fattening 415 376,030 against any damage that can bringing 10 waste batteries. be caused on third parties and 130 saplings have been planted Viking Tissue 30,825 308,464 the environment due to an through Regional Directorate of Pınar Dairy 44,120 5,412,490 accident that may occur during Forests for 1,300 waste batteries Dyo Coating 5,520,626 1,124,610 Used Materials and Waste the activities of collection, collected until June. Dyo Printing Inks 707,500 201,420 48 Yaşar 2014 Sustainability Report Yaşar 2014 Sustainability Report 49 Product and Service Responsibility Management Systems Our Sustainability Approach We as Yaşar Group, handle Sharing the information on Management System System Pınar Pınar Pınar Dyo Dyo Printing Altın Viking Çamlı Desa YBP Certification Meat Dairy Water Coating Inks Yunus Tissue Feed and Energy the product and service our food products with our Fattening responsibility not only in terms of consumers through the label Quality Management System ISO 9001 compliance with the legislation, is subject to the provisions of Food Safety Management but also as a complementary Turkish Food Codex Labelling System Certificate ISO 22000 part of our business strategy. Regulation. The provisions of Environment Man. System ISO 14001 While increasing our business this regulation and the Labelling Occupational Health and OHSAS performance excellence with Guide issued by the Ministry of Safety Management 18001 the management systems, our Food, Agriculture and Livestock System Certificate ultimate target is maximizing the precisely indicate the information Test and Calibration ISO 17025 Laboratory Accreditation satisfaction of our consumers that must be included in the Customer Satisfaction Man. as well as adding value to their label of a food product. We ISO 10002 System Certificate lives. ensure complete compliance with Energy those rules on all of our product Management System ISO 50001 Activities are performed in labels. Conformity Assessmentcompliance with the relevant TS EN General Requirements legislation in the marketing While providing quality and for Bodies Operating ISO/IEC 17024 of our products and services. confidence for our consumers Certification of Persons While introducing our products and for all our stakeholders Automotive Sector and Subto our consumers through with our products and Industry Quality ISO 16949 Management System the advertisements and other services, we carry out our Organic Farming marketing communication activities in compliance with Entrepreneur Certificate instruments, our social the internationally recognized FSC FSC-CoC ( Forest responsibilities are kept in standards. In order to increase Stewardship CouncilChain 40-004 mind. Within the “Association efficiency, to develop an of Custody ) Management FSC of Advertisers”, to which we are effective management system System 40-007 Product and Service Responsibility Management Systems a member, Advertisement Self and to ensure the monitorability US National Sanitation NSF Foundation Control Principles in parallel of our activities and the British Retail Consortium BRC with the international practices necessary improvements, we International Food Standard IFS are complied with. By this are continuously developing our Global Gap CFM/COC way, with the participation of management systems works to National Britannia NB the advertiser-advertisement comply with the international Food Safety System agency-channel trilogy, our standards. FSSC 22000 Certificate proactive efforts to ensure that Halal Food Certificate TS OIC/SMIC 1 our advertisements are legal, Friend of the Sea FOS moral, correct and honest are ECOCERT EOS continuing. GLOBALG.A.P. Aquaculture Standard SAI Global 50 Yaşar 2014 Sustainability Report Yaşar 2014 Sustainability Report 51 The Value We Add to the Lives of Our Consumers Our Sustainability Approach Customer and Consumer complaints received at PCC that accessed the corporate EFQM award scoring. Within the Complaint System” that is Satisfaction through the number 444 76 account for giving opinions and scope of the project, which has among the menus included in 27, which can be called without recommendations. 95% confidence representation, the Dealer Portal, which has Yaşar Group produces values dialing a code from any point in the questionnaire has been been started being officially providing common benefit for YBP Turkey, are responded live by the applied to 2,830 YBP customers used as of June 2014 and which the society as well as fast and operators on seven days of the Customer satisfaction using sealed envelope system. ensures the communication of effective business solutions, week between 07:00-23:00 and questionnaire practices have The studies for receiving Yaşar Group with the dealers. qualified and reliable products. information is provided to the been launched in YBP within recommendations for increasing The requests received from Those values and the shared consumers as soon as possible the scope of management the customer satisfaction and for the dealers are communicated principles constitute the on the relevant matters. systems, being included in application are being continued to the relevant department by foundation of the loyalty to the European Foundation on Quality in accordance with the results of the operators, and within 48 trademarks of Yaşar Group. PCC call response success Management (EFQM) Excellence the questionnaire. hours, the assessments and Social integrity, customer ratio is 90% and 92% of Model studies, under the title necessary informing activities satisfaction, social and cultural the calls are responded to Dealer Portal – “results related with customers”. are completed by the relevant values, consumer rights are within 15 seconds. Through Recommendation and expert personnel and the dealers concepts that can not be PCC Twitter account, the YBP Customer Satisfaction Complaint System are called back. Information is considered separately from the requests and recommendations Questionnaire study, the fourth provided to the dealers through culture of our Group. communicated over social of which has been held this year, The requests received from automatic e-mail messages media are examined and the has been completed for the the dealers are gathered Pınar Communication Center within the process between consumers are answered. customer satisfaction criterion, on the system through (PCC) the entry of the request and Through the questionnaire on which has a weight of 20% in the “Recommendation and its completion. In 2014, 200 The principle “Our consumers satisfaction, which is applied requests have been received and customers come first” to the consumers, who made a Customer Satisfaction and assessed in total over the require Pınar to rapidly and communication, the service level Traditional Dealer Modern COH (*) system. correctly perceive the needs of PCC is regularly measured. of its consumes and domestic In accordance with the results 81 and foreign customers and to of the satisfaction questionnaire 2014 81 The Value We Add to the Lives of Our Consumers 78 be in an agile, proactive and applied on the consumers, 75 innovative approach in meeting who accessed PCC in 2014, the 82 their changing expectations for a customer satisfaction ratio is 81 2013 better life. 89%. 82 79 Pınar, which adopts a consumer Furthermore, the requests, 75 focused operation principle, needs and recommendations of 2012 76 81 carefully examines the requests the consumers are followed up 75 and recommendations obtained and solved by PCC through the from its consumers and takes official Twitter account (*) Consumption Outside Home them into consideration. twitter.com/InfoPinar, which has The customer requests and been opened for the consumers 52 Yaşar 2014 Sustainability Report Yaşar 2014 Sustainability Report 53 Our Sustainability Approach Dealer Channel Guide by and between YBP and its Çamlı Feed and Fattening Customer satisfaction is stakeholders, and a perception national chain customers on the continuously followed up of 80% satisfaction has been All work processes as the It is targeted to increase discounts and discount expenses through Industrialist Customers observed. operations, critical indicators, customer satisfaction with the planned at the beginning of the Satisfaction Questionnaires, used systems and procedures at animal health, feeding trainings The trainings provided by our year. Thanks to this reporting, Furniture Paint Users the stages of “Establishment”, and supports provided by the R&D and Technical Support the follow up of the activities Questionnaire and Car Repair “Life” and “Closure” of a technical field R&D employees. Departments for our customers planned and performed for the Paint Users Questionnaire. dealer are consolidated in a are continuing rapidly. relevant point within the year Dyo Coating As the result of analysis of manual called “YBP Dealer has been ensured and a more these questionnaires, the new There are no complaints Channel Guide”. The guide The new mobile application of effective budget management products have been presented on violations of personal has been prepared by a group Dyo, “Dream and Let It Be” is has become possible. This report to the market and the necessary confidentiality of customers and consisting of the representatives an entertaining application that provides a en estimated basis actions have been taken to loss of customer data. of YBP sale team, sale facilitates the lives of users. This for the provision figures to be continuously increase customer accounting, warehouse mobile application, which brings With Customer Information transferred to SAP. By this way, satisfaction. and business management three different applications on Automation, information is it is possible to perform the system departments. “Process coating and decoration together, Dyo, which has obtained the first provided through automatic follow up of the agreements Diagrams” summarizing the has been developed on IOS TS ISO 10002:2006 Customer e-mails at the moment of exit with the customers and process belonging to the main and Android basis. In Dyorum, Satisfaction Management System of the products sent to our customer profitability, efficiency titles are provided. The chiefs which is the first section, hints Certificate in the coating sector, customers from the factory. measurements in a healthier will be able to see the steps to on decoration and coating are is also the first company, which With this informing activity, way. be taken, to know the sequence provided. With the second applied EFQM Excellence Model information on the product, of all works to be performed Otonom section, Dyoskop, any color in the sector. amount, transportation firm and to provide solutions for is matched with the closest and transportation vehicle is It is planned to start the life The works carried out as a the obstructed processes by colors in Dyo’s color charts. instantaneously shared to ensure of the Android based Otonom part of the customer-focused following the relevant steps The third section, Dyo Studyo, a more efficient management for Project, which has been approach target continuous by using those diagrams. The makes it possible to share the the operational processes of the launched in the entire YBP in improvement in product and manual has been printed in photographs of your house or customer. 2013 with TÜBİTAK support, in The Value We Add to the Lives of Our Consumers September 2014 and has been any other place, on which you service quality. 2015. In YBP in general, 144 Altın Yunus delivered to approximately can paint the walls, through hot sale personnel and 178 Dyo Printing Inks 100 dealer chiefs in 9 regions, social media. Our guest satisfaction ratio in preliminary order personnel to the relevant functions and As the result of 2014 Customer 2014 has been 88,44%. perform sale or receive orders The 2014 results of the wide managers. Satisfaction, our satisfaction ratio with 3G-supported tablet research carried out on many has been 90%. Annual Agreements computers in the field. channels such as Dyo dealers and masters in the entire In 2014, Social Perception An administrative process has Starting as of May 2015, YBP Turkey, Consumer Hotline, Questionnaire has been applied been built and a report has dealers will start their sale www.birbilenesorun.com.tr web for the first time. Cooperation been prepared for entering activities with tablet computers site has shown that the customer has been made with Yaşar to the system, budgeting, within the scope of Otonom satisfaction ratio is 97%. University for the questionnaire, approving and ensuring the project. follow up through the year of which has been sent to our the agreements entered into 54 Yaşar 2014 Sustainability Report Yaşar 2014 Sustainability Report 55 Our Relations with Society Our People Our Relations with Society The correct establishment Our Human Resources Policy Recruitment The companies of our Group in 2014 for the 4th time with of the relation between the follow an approach compliant “Respect to People Reward” of Labor and Labor Force Yaşar Group creates the human economic lives of the companies with universal principles about “kariyer.net”, which is accepted resources with the knowledge, of Yaşar Group and the society Yaşar Group manages its human resources management as one of the indicators of the skill and experience criteria is necessary for success. The human resources policy with the as well as all of their activities. value given to human resources. required by the position in the relation that is correctly built target of employing innovative, The candidates, who want light of the “science, unity, The companies of Yaşar between the effective operations qualified labor with high to work in companies of success” principle. Yaşar Group, Group apply their recruitment and social factors allow the motivation and performance, Yaşar Group, can make their which adopts human-focused procedures in compliance with establishment and continuity of and ensuring the sustainability applications over the internet management understanding, the Labor Law numbered 4857 good long-period relations with of such labor and increasing its site of Yaşar Group, recruitment brings together the individuals, and Yaşar Group Personnel all shareholders, especially the loyalty. The human resources sites, directly or through who care for information Regulation. employees, suppliers, customers strategy, which is determined consulting companies. Yaşar sharing and unity spirit, who and consumers. on the axis of the principle Group issues apprenticeship When the recruitment process are open for all developments of “recruiting correct people announcements and job is completed, the employees based on science, who adopt for the correct work”, the fair postings over its internet site of the companies of our Group a participative and success – human resources policies and and the candidates can record are informed with the Company oriented work understanding, applications have carried the their curriculum vitae in the Personnel Regulations, which and who are educated and companies of Yaşar Group to application pool. regulate the working conditions, experienced. the upper ranks in the list of rights, duties and responsibilities Yaşar Group companies have “most favorable companies for During the assessments of the recruited personnel, and received applications from employment”. performed within the recruitment the current personnel policies 36,531 women and 52,834 men processes, it should be taken and principles. in 2014. into consideration how open the The new employees are candidate is for development The assessments performed provided with e-learning based as well as the requirements of by the human resources unit “Yaşar Group Orientation the position. Yaşar Group Basic continue with the reference Training” on the same day and Competencies and the Business check and jobs are offered to participate in the “Company Family Competencies that are the candidates found appropriate Orientation Program” that is separately defined for each level after those processes. The specifically designed for each ensure the assessment of the candidates, whose applications company. In 2013, “Orientation candidate on competence basis. are not accepted, are informed Procedure” has been issued through the career portal, e-mail No discrimination is applied in with the purpose of applying the or telephone. Yaşar Group about nationality, orientation process in the same religion, gender, age and marital Since all the applying candidates way in all companies of our status and equal opportunities are responded rapidly, Yaşar Group. are provided for each candidate. Holding has been awarded Our People 56 Yaşar 2014 Sustainability Report Yaşar 2014 Sustainability Report 57 Our Relations with Society Our Compensation development and education, ever been reported in companies Educational Background of Employees Percentage Management System for limited working hours. that are members of the Yaşar Although there is no statutory Group. Compensation is determined 0,1 3,3 requirement, the Yaşar Group 18,1 or adjusted based on various Employment of Disabled companies adheres to the criteria such as the category of People principle of not employing people 28,8 position; employee’s experience, younger than 18 years. Yaşar Group ascribes importance education, location, and language skills; evaluation of his Involuntary Servitude and to the social integration of the disabled and giving them 2012 or her position in comparison Forced Labor more roles in the public with his or her peers and higher Work days and hours as well as domain. Maintaining its efforts or lower positions; positions 40,7 public and general holidays and to employ disabled people as 9,1 reported by employees; weekly rest days are defined part of its management of performance scores/premiums and notified to employees in all human resources, the Group for previous years; and Doctorate Graduate Undergraduate Associate High School Secondary companies that are members of employs disabled individuals in Degree Graduate School compensation level in the labor the Yaşar Group. percentages envisioned by law. market. In addition, participation 0,1 3,8 Disabled employees make up in compensation enquiries is If the nature of the work 20 2,53% of the total number of encouraged in order to monitor requires or due to increase in employees within Yaşar Group. 26,3 the market. Employees are not production overtime maybe subjected to any discrimination required. Such work is arranged Legal Rights of Employees on grounds of nationality, faith, in accordance with the provisions Employees can exercise all their 2013 gender, age or marital status of the Law and compensation is legal rights, including rest days, in relation with compensation paid as stipulated in the Law. meals, paid annual leave, and levels. Compensation and other 8,4 Job descriptions are drawn severance pay. rights of in-scope employees 41,3 up for the employees of are determined under collective If an employee is transferred our Group companies and agreements signed. to another position within a Doctorate Graduate Undergraduate Associate High School Secondary they are informed of their Degree Graduate School company which is a member Child Labor job descriptions upon their of the Yaşar Group, related 0,2424,6 recruitment. Documents related 19,6 Employment of children in our formalities are completed within to job descriptions are shared country is subject to Labor periods defined in Labor Law within the company through a 26,2 Law No. 4857. Any person No. 4857 and the Personnel common system which is used younger than 15 years may not Regulation. Periods set forth in accordance with ISO 9001 be employed under applicable and accessible to all employees. in the Collective Bargaining 2014 provisions. As an exception, Agreement are applicable to All newly recruited employees however, any person who is 14 employees who are subject attend an inter-departmental years old and has graduated to the Collective Bargaining 8,6 orientation program. 40,8 Our People from a primary school may be Agreement. assigned to light work, which No incident involving forced Doctorate Graduate Undergraduate Associate High School Secondary will not hinder their physical labor or compulsory work has Degree Graduate School 58 Yaşar 2014 Sustainability Report Yaşar 2014 Sustainability Report 59 Employees’ Right to Development Our Relations with Society Employee Opinion Poll Social and Cultural Activities Training and Development different training programs are used by individuals in Organized for Our Employees Activities to each level and function. connection with their personal Yaşar Group conducts an 21 training programs and 99 development, career planning, “Employee Opinion Poll” based Companies which are members Yaşar Group attaches importance videos have been installed and recognition/compensation. on the motto “people first” in of the Yaşar Group grow hand to the professional development in the system and they are Based on balanced scorecard order to get their opinions about in hand with their employees of its employees as well as accessible to employees in technique, the evaluation employee expectations and and regard employee motivation their continued personal certain intervals. In addition to system uses key performance needs and evaluates employee’s as one of the leverages of that development. Thus, we aim ready-to-use content, training indicators (KPI) which are loyalty to the company. growth. Employees are entitled to provide training supporting programs outlining the policies, selected at the beginning of the to all fringe benefits within the individual development areas as Employee Opinion Poll permits procedures, and business models year and have targets agreed Yaşar Group and they also share well as opportunities allowing us to formulate policies intended of the Yaşar Group companies upon. Achievement of goals is their time outside of working them to achieve their goals to heighten motivation among are prepared and shared with monitored through counseling hours by attending events the Group companies and to employees and to take actions employees via Yaşar Academy and follow up interviews in reinforcing their communication enhance Yaşar Group Basic and for mediumand long-term learning platform. In 2014, the middle of the year and and motivation. In that context, Business Family Competencies. improvements. 16 trainings, the contents of necessary adjustments, if any, celebrations of special days, Orientation training, on-the-job which have been prepared by are done. At the end of the year, It has been decided to conduct company dinners, soccer, training, personal development Yaşar Group, has been provided the realizations are assessed the Employee Opinion Poll backgammon, table tennis, and training, management skills through Yaşar Academy. in comparison with targets. biannually in order to facilitate bowling tournaments, dinners, training, specialization training, Employees who are subjected the implementation of action picnics, weekend trips, and and workshops and conferences Performance Management to the Premium Regulation are plans. fishing trips are organized. are among the training and System excluded. “Pınara Gidiyorum” (I’m going to development opportunities In the Yaşar Group, the Pınar) activity, during which our offered to employees. 666 people were included Performance Management employees and their families visit in 2014 in the Performance Our Group companies have 99 System is regulated by the factory, where they work, is Management System which is internal instructors who continue premium regulations for held traditionally. being implemented in Pınar to provide training related to the employees of the sales Meat, Pınar Dairy, Pınar Water, different areas of specialization. function and by performance YBP, Viking Tissue, Çamlı Feed evaluation regulation in case and Fattening, Dyo Coating, The number of a training of other employees. Our Group Our People Employees’ Right to Development Dyo Printing Inks, Yaşar Foreign platform developed by using has adapted an integrated Trade, Yaşar Holding and the e-learning methodology under management system in order to companies acting abroad. the brand “Yaşar Academy” in attain its fundamental objectives 2012 increased in 2013 and and strategic goals. Launched Yaşar Group employees take all white collar employees and in 2005, the Performance advantage of Yaşar Group Basic blue collar employees managing Management System aim to Competencies and Business teams were included in the achieve corporate objectives Family Competencies for their system. Comprising a total and personal objectives personal and professional of 2,942 people in 2014, the in tandem. The results of development. Employees who learning program allocates performance evaluation identify competences that they 60 Yaşar 2014 Sustainability Report Yaşar 2014 Sustainability Report 61 Our Relations with Society can develop in collaboration Career Management System Leadership Development specialization provided as part with their supervisors can select Programs of training activities, seminars With the career planning model, some of those areas by using are organized in order to enable which we have launched in 2013 Manager Training Pool Personal Development Forms. members to have information by selecting a pilot company, Project (MTPP) An employee’s training and and ideas about different issues. which we target to extend, and development needs are identified Yaşar Group aims to obtain One-on-one interviews are which is based on performance, based on those forms and information about young held between Project members competence and development, training plans are drawn up after prospective managers, to and our Group managers, the qualifications expected from the completion of analyses. Year develop vision among its who are selected by them and the positions (education, foreign end evaluations are reflected members and to educate voluntarily assume this task, in language, experience) have been in performance cards subject them, to monitor their career the mentoring system. Members Manager Development defined and career paths have to pre-defined rates. Employee development, and to ensure that are also expected to draw up a Seminar (MDS) been formed (determination performance cards were they participate in projects and of recruitment, progress project in an area designated by integrated with SAP system in A program consisting of activities that would develop the senior management through assignment/promotion criteria). training in basic management 2012 and Personal Development their potential through the MTTP In line with those criteria, the teamwork under the MTTP Forms followed suit in 2013. skills, personal development, which it has been implementing and to carry out an individual employees are assessed every and specialization is being Thus, infrastructure for human since 1996. year. The objective of this completion project aiming implemented within the resources information systems application is to closely follow For this purpose, candidates, to achieve improvement in Yaşar Group since 2011 and was consolidated. up and ensure the development who have a high potential and business processes in their own “Manager Training Seminars” are Only white-collar employees of our existing employees and found eligible for investing in departments. organized for the development are included in the Performance by this way, to keep the labor the future, are selected in the of employees who are hired as A total of 326 people have Management System launched needed by our Group always our Group companies and they managers or later promoted to attended in the project so far in 2005. The system is planned available. The basic principle of are included in a 18-month become managers. to be extended in the coming and 100 of them continue to Yaşar Group is “to train its own development program. years. manager itself”. work for our Group. 80% of The project has three legs i.e. MTTP members, who are still training, mentoring, and project working in our Group, were efforts. Aside from training in promoted. 30% of the promoted Rate Of Internal Promotion Among Percentage of Employees Covered by management and leadership employees were female and the Managers And Senior Officers Performance Management System skills, personal development, and remaining 70% were male. Rate of internal 51 White Collar Employees’ Right to Development 51 promotion 63 2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 62 Yaşar 2014 Sustainability Report Yaşar 2014 Sustainability Report 63 Our Relations with Society Lean 6 Sigma Examples of Practice on the organization chart in Dyo Coating factories in order technical and managerial points to recognize employees who Yaşar Holding Food and and the effectiveness of which Pınar Meat and Pınar Dairy of view. make endeavors and proposals Beverage Group has decided has been proven about project Work Assessment for Blue “creating colors” about works to add a new discipline to management. The number Dyo Coating Dyo Printing Collar Employee Positions being performed by himself or its continuous improvement, of employees trained in Lean Inks herself or other employees in development efforts that it has 6 Sigma, which has been With the project, which has Work Evaluation System line with the corporate vision shown since the past about completed in 2007 and the been designed with the target (BlueCollar Personnel) and goals. Ideas and practices efficiency in 2007. This new first project wave of which has of ensuring efficiency increase, which are believed to facilitate business discipline is Lean been launched in 2008, and preparing the infrastructure Dyo Work Evaluation System, life and create color by rendering 6 Sigma, which has been the gender distribution of such necessary to provide objectivity which comprises blue-collar existing things more useful are recognized in the entire world personnel are given in below. for the human resources workers, has been initiated with at the root of this system. All functions, the job definitions a view to attracting, motivating, employees may submit proposals Number of Trained Employees and work definitions have been and keeping talents through a to the system irrespective of Title 2008-2014 2015 ** reviewed and work assessments fair human resources system their level and scope. Proposals have been made, thus a supporting the corporate are assessed by a committee set Expert Black Belt 5 0 contribution has been provided strategy and human resources up for this purpose and awards Black Belt 26 2 to the formation of career plans plans. The system ensured that are presented to those found Green Belt 111* 27 of the employees through clear comparative values of positions eligible after getting approval definition of the responsibility are demonstrated based on from the General Manager’s Yellow Belt 421 95 groups within the organization. various criteria such as working Office. * Since our Pınar Water company has left the project application period to the second half of the year in 2014, 6 new project leaders (YK) have been certified in addition to the expected Taking into consideration the conditions, responsibility, number. Red Seat System importance or contribution of the training, skills, efforts, and risk. ** New certification numbers expected for 2015. works in reaching the general It also permitted us to evaluate Red Seat System permits targets of the organization, employee performance and employees to come together Gender Ratios of Project Leaders (%) a systematic and rational competences, to recognize the in order to communicate their Female Male assessment has been performed targeted level of performance, opinions and suggestions directly 72 in order to determine their and to ensure the continuity to the General Manager. Opinions 64 62 62 relative internal values. of personal development. The expressed by employees at system has been jointly designed sessions attended by groups It has been targeted to by company managers, trade consisting of 8-10 employees 38 38 36 materialize the impact of the union representatives, and a are assessed by the General 28 Employees’ Right to Development responsibility groups, skills specialized consultant. Manager and actions taken are and business targets formed also monitored by the General within the production work flow Dyo Coating Manager. as the result of performance 2012 2013 2014 2015* Creators of Colors (Proposal assessment and work evaluation (*) Expected for 2015 System) on the career maps of the employees on the obtained result A “Proposal System for Creators and to develop the employees of Colors” has been launched at 64 Yaşar 2014 Sustainability Report Yaşar 2014 Sustainability Report 65 Our Relations with Society Environment Trainings Dyo Printing Inks • Preparation of periodic which employees may need responsible for some support maintenance repair procedure while performing their work is trainings, provide trainings Carbon Footprint Trainings on ISO 14001 with the target of water also organized. within the company and for the Environment Management Our Group continues its efforts reduction, shareholders of the company. System and ISO 50001 Energy A total of 111,804 hours of for reducing carbon emissions, Management System have been • Rain water recovery, training was provided throughout YBP Business Management which it handles in the first rank provided. the Yaşar Group in 2014 and Systems provides regional in the combat against climate • Unit based efficiency analysis the period of training per person trainings for our employees change, with the trainings Water Footprint in auxiliary enterprises. was 20 hours. Of this, external regularly every year on SAP provided for its employees. The trainings on water footprint Other Trainings training and internal training modules and business process These trainings have been have been completed in 2014. accounted for 37% and 63%, development projects. provided once more in 2014 for Yaşar Group companies also Trainings on the opportunities respectively. Blue collar workers our employees, who are trained organize training programs YBP Technical Training to increase water efficiency by made up for 45% of participants on the calculation methodologies tailored to their own needs in Directorate holds sales reducing water consumption in training programs organized in the first stage for decreasing addition to carbon footprint, techniques trainings for sales and waste water have been in 2014. Respective percentages the carbon emissions. water footprint, energy chiefs, consumption outside provided. Within the scope for non-key and key employees management system trainings. home teams, fresh teams and Pınar Dairy of those trainings, water were 50% and 5%, respectively. In that context, training in intrasale support staff. footprint calculation has been 40 hours of TS EN 50001 Energy family communication, body YBP handled and studies have been Management Systems training language, effective business performed under the expertise of YBP trainings include the has been provided for 766 management, leadership Water Footprint Network. Yaşar employee development, personnel of Pınar Dairy. workshop, guidelines for Group, which acts in more than occupational health and successful sales, leadership and Pınar Meat one sector, has determined 4 safety trainings of YBP Human motivation, management of pilot plants in the food, coating Resources Directorate, trainings Trainings on ISO 50001 Energy customer-focused relationship, and tissue papers group and has of COH marketing for informing Management System and ISO Lean 6 Sigma green belt prepared water consumption the sale teams, the trainings 14001 Environment Management and yellow belt, and stress maps for those plants. Our basic held by the departments System have been provided once management, competence-based target is to ensure that our such as quality and Lean 6 more in 2014. Furthermore, interview techniques, non-verbal employees have the necessary Sigma in accordance with in 2014, 2-hour detailed communication, effective speech, competence on the following needs and the plan. Besides environment trainings have been elocution, and persuasion matters and it is planned to those trainings, YBP Business provided for 351 blue collar and techniques are offered within continue the training works Management Systems and YBP white collar personnel. Bulletins the companies in addition to within this frame: Technical Training Directorate Employees’ Right to Development on environment have been technical training about issues departments, which are prepared twice a month and sent • Creation of water-waste water to all the employees through monitoring infrastructure, their e-mail addresses as an • Administrative measures and effort to increase awareness and consciousness raising, consciousness on environment. 66 Yaşar 2014 Sustainability Report Yaşar 2014 Sustainability Report 67 Occupational Health and Safety Our Relations with Society Dyo Printing Inks leadership and motivation Training Programs and Health service including training, chemical risks training, Health Controls workplace doctor and nurse is In 2014; all trainings defined problem solving and decision provided in our Group companies under the scope of Law on Yaşar Group aims employee making trainings have been 2 and/or 5 days a week. Occupational Health and Safety satisfaction and devises plans provided. numbered 6331, CRM Feedback in order to ensure development Occupational Safety training, IMDG Codes Training, Viking Tissue in their living environment as All requirements aiming to EFQM Model Application a whole. Paying attention to In 2014, trainings have been ensure health and safety at Trainings, Competence Based its employees’ life quality, the provided for the employees work are met in our companies Interview Techniques Training, Yaşar Group organizes training on; “Developments in the and an Occupational Health ADR trainings, Leadership programs focusing on waist Retail Sector”, “Impacts of Y and Safety Internal Regulation Workshop Training, non verbal diseases, diabetes and obesity, Generation on the Business is implemented with a view to communication training, stress hazards of smoking and quitting World”, “FSC Management preventing work accidents and management, problem solving methods, family planning, Informing Training”, “Bag Law occupational diseases that could techniques and decision making healthy nutrition and obesity in and What It Brings”, “Symposium occur. Occupational Health and trainings, labor legislation childhood in order to support its on the Search for Excellence”, Safety Board has been set up in training, effective speech oratory employees and their families. “KYS Internal Auditor Training”, accordance with the Regulation. and convincing techniques “Training on Cost Improvement Workplace health units monitor training, forklift trainings, Necessary notifications are in Package”, “Time Management health checks performed for advanced excel training, foreign communicated to the Ministry of Training”. employees who are subjected exchange legislation training, Environment and Urbanization to health checks for infectious Training Hours Per Person pursuant to Seveso II Regulation diseases and audiometry in order to prevent major 2012 2013 2014 examinations in addition to industrial accidents in the Employees’ Right to Development Occupational Health and Safety Yaşar Holding 18 9 6 taking their throat cultures and Coatings Group companies. stool culture screening and lung Coatings Group X-rays as part of eradication of Dyo Coating 19 18 33 tuberculosis. Dyo Printing Inks 29 36 47 Comprehensive examinations are Food and Beverage Group needed in some areas because Pınar Dairy 10 10 19 of the nature of work performed. Pınar Meat 10 10 18 In that context, Dyo Coating Pınar Water 24 13 10 employees undergo quarterly Çamlı Feed and Fattening 9 4 9 heavy metal and solvent tests, lung screening, respiratory YBP 17 21 19 function tests, and annual blood Tissue Paper Group tests. Viking Tissue 17 16 5 Trade and Services Group Altın Yunus 28 16 13 Desa Energy 10 5 3 68 Yaşar 2014 Sustainability Report Yaşar 2014 Sustainability Report 69 Our Relations with Society Examples of Practice • Use of H-13 industrial departments and the necessary • Hardhat application has been been held 12 times in 2014 hardhats by all forklift operators medical support has been launched for the personnel and has taken decisions and Pınar Dairy during work has been made provided for them. employed in the warehouse. performed the follow up of such OHS targets are determined compulsory. decisions in relation with the • Among the physically disabled • Steel-nose shoe application on annual basis within the safety of the employees and the • An audible, light and visual employees, person-specific has been commenced for the frame of OHSAS 18001 enterprise. warning system has been orthopedic shoes have been visitors. Occupational Health and Safety installed so as to ensure that provided for the ones, who have • The risk assessment method (OHS) Management System. • Application of emblem on the the pedestrians passing over orthopedic disabilities. has been changed as “Fine Following those targets, OHS clothing of emergency teams has the mayonnaise seat warehouse Kinney” and equipment risk works risk assessments, • The amount of travel for been commenced. notice the forklift before leaving assessment has been performed corrective/preventive activities, transporting 1 ton milk has been the warehouse. • The training on duties and and revised on process basis. internal examinations, periodic reduced with a ratio of 11% in responsibilities of employers’ checks performed in terms of • Rescue Team Training, First Aid 2014 in comparison with 2013. representative has been • Hardhat application has been compliance with legal conditions, Training and Occupational Health Eskişehir Plant provided. launched in the factory and use health checks and improvements and Safety Training have been of hardhats by all personnel has in line with the decisions taken provided. • The training of members of the • Periodic control and been ensured. By this way, head at the Occupational Health Occupational Health and Safety measurements have been and Safety Board meetings are • The periodical maintenance injuries have been prevented. Board have been completed. completely performed. performed. of pressurized vessels, • Emergency drills have been periodical maintenance of • Basic occupational health Pınar Meat İzmir Plant held 3 times and preparation lifting machinery, lighting and safety training has been • 12-hours occupational safety of employees against any measurements, thermal comfort provided for the newly recruited • In 2014, 8 Occupational Health training has been provided for emergency has been ensured. measurements, measurements personnel. and Safety Board meetings have 1,025 people as the hazardous The works necessary for the been held and the decisions of personal exposure to noise, • Fire training and drills have class in compliance with the completion of lacks identified in taken have been published. vibration measurements and been held twice and the lacks amended Occupational Health the drills have been commenced. dust measurements have been have been eliminated. and Safety Regulation. • Scenarios were written fire repeated again this year. • Due to the nature of the drills were performed, and the • Occupational Health and • The hygiene trainings that • The worksite physician has performed work, the oily and shortcomings identified during Safety Board meetings have have to be provided for the performed the inspections and wet grounds are replaced with drills were eliminated. been held and the decisions personnel under the hygiene examinations of the newly industrial ceramic to decrease taken have been published in regulation have been planned • Under the Regulation on recruited personnel. the risk. 2014. Furthermore, the decisions and the trainings have been the Protection of Buildings • Lung graphic scans, health taken by the sub-employers completed. • For the obligation of the Against Fire, the trainings of the Occupational Health and Safety checks, hearing scan tests Occupational Health and subcontractors to check their Emergency Team in our factory • Although the Occupational have been performed for the Safety Board, which has been works, Sub-contractor Work has been repeated again this Safety Board could be held once employees. established under the Law on Procedure has been prepared year. every 2 months in the hazardous Occupational Health and Safety and 12 different work permits • The employees having class, Pınar Meat Occupational numbered 6331 are checked and have been created. Health and Safety Board has problems in terms of personal applied by Pınar Dairy. health have been identified and sent to the relevant health 70 Yaşar 2014 Sustainability Report Yaşar 2014 Sustainability Report 71 Our Relations with Society • The work accidents have been movements in front of 19lt • 924 employees of YBP and 426 Dyo Printing Inks • A big part of the leakage assessed with their root causes PC production line has been employees of the sub-employer current relays have been No occupational disease and it has been targeted to find eliminated and the potential have been subjected to health installed at the locations of need. findings have been found in technical solutions so as not to accidents that could be caused check. The planning of the remaining the health checks performed parts has been performed. leave the risk to the initiative of by forklift movements have • Occupational health and safety on the employees in 2014 and the employees. been prevented and level of recruitment training has been a reduction has been obtained • Electrical grounding occupational safety has been • The periodic controls and launched over Yaşar Academy for in the frequency ratio of work measurement has been increased. performed. environment measurements are the newly recruited employees. accidents and lost day numbers. performed regularly for the work YBP • Emergency layout plans Viking Tissue • The file related with the OHS equipment within the scope of • 35 Occupational Health and have been drawn at 6 regions requirements has been handed the Work Equipment Regulation. • Occupational Health and Safety Safety Board meetings have (Ankara, Antalya, Bursa, over by the sub-employers to us. Pınar Water Bodrum, Trabzon, Adana). Board has held its periodical been held in total at 7 Regional • The health and safety signs Emergency plans have been meetings. Within the scope of the Directorates (Ankara, Antalya, and plates have been installed at Asia, Europe, Bursa, İzmir, completed for Asia, Europe and • Trainings have been provided project for reducing the forklift the necessary and appropriate Thrace). Thrace regional warehouses. on Occupational Safety, Electrical movements in Sakarya filling locations. plant, it is targeted to reduce • Risk assessment of all region Hazards and Precautions, Health • Environment checks have • Necessary precautions related the in-plant material/product warehouses and offices has been and Safety Signs, Safe work been performed for 5 times in with work accidents have been handling costs and to eliminate completed. in Indoor Areas, Document on the regions, where there is no increased. the factors threatening the Protection against Inflammation, Occupational Health and Safet • Matters that are incompliant occupational safety through the Explosion and Fire, Reasons • Periodic checks of fire Boards (Bodrum 1, Trabzon 2, with occupational health and reduction of non value-added of Occupational Diseases, extinguisher cylinders have been Adana 1, Eskişehir 1). safety have been determined material and forklift movements. Ergonomy, Manual Lifting and performed. • 75 sessions and 4,252 hours of and remedied in the regions. Handling, Early Diagnosis in • Material, personnel and forklift occupational health and safety • Non-ergonomic chairs of desk Breast Cancer. roads have been re-designed in training has been provided for employees have been replaced order to eliminate the problems Altın Yunus 887 employees. with ergonomic chairs. caused by movements and handling due to the insufficiency • The periodic controls of the • In 2014, 33 employees have • For the employees, whose of the roads in the plant area, elevators have been performed. been awarded with first aid monitor height is not appropriate especially during the busy training certificates. for their height, apparatuses • Noise, thermal comfort, season. have been provided to rise the lighting, dust and gas • Emergency (fire and rescue) Occupational Health and Safety • Thanks to the full automation monitor. environment measurements training has been provided for 6 palletized conveyor installed in have been performed. employees. • The second handrail has been the plant as the result of the • 8 hour compulsory OHS installed on the office stairs and project, saving of one forklift • 267 employees of the staff of non-slipping bands have been trainings of employees have has been obtained. Furthermore, YBP and 414 employees of the applied on the stair steps. been completed. as the result of moving the sub-employer personnel have warehouse to a far point, where been provided with hygiene there is no people, the busy training. 72 Yaşar 2014 Sustainability Report Yaşar 2014 Sustainability Report 73 Our Relations with Society Occupational Training of First Aid Trainings Number of First Aid Certified Personnel Number of Security Personnel Workers Performing Heavy First aid training is provided in 2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 and Hazardous Works our companies so that first aid Yaşar Holding 4 5 5 Yaşar Holding 15 15 15 The necessary trainings under can be provided after accidents Coatings Group Coatings Group the scope of “Communiqué under the First Aid Regulation Dyo Coating 86 93 102 Dyo Coating 24 24 29 on the Occupational Training issued by the Ministry of Health. of Workers to be Employed in Dyo Printing Inks 24 23 25 Dyo Printing Inks 8 8 8 The training is designed to Food and Beverage Group Food and Beverage Group Heavy and Hazardous Works” enable employees to learn prepared basing on the Labor Pınar Dairy 94 115 129 Pınar Dairy 35 30 27 information that could save his Law numbered 4857 have been Pınar Meat 86 113 108 Pınar Meat 24 24 28 or other people’s lives in case completed. Pınar Water 11 19 19 Pınar Water 22 22 21 of an emergency and how he or Other Work-Related she can respond calmly. Çamlı Feed and Fattening 16 45 30 Çamlı Feed and Fattening 23 20 20 Trainings Provided for our YBP 42 16 43 YBP 36 45 45 Security Services Employees Tissue Paper Group Tissue Paper Group Security services in the Yaşar Viking Tissue 50 40 20 Viking Tissue 15 15 9 Ensuring the technical Group companies are provided development of our employees Trade and Services Group Trade and Services Group by people who have received is among the priorities of Altın Yunus 16 13 9 Altın Yunus 9 8 12 special training in that field our human resources policy and hold a certificate. Security Desa Energy 0 0 12 Desa Energy 4 4 4 and technical, managerial, personnel assigned to companies and personal development is periodically attend training considered as a whole. Training programs. in health and safety at work, hygiene personal hygiene, 502 218 safe utilization of chemicals, 482 215 fire fighting, pest control, fire fighting and evaluation, and 429 215 HACCP (Hazard Analysis Critical Control Points) is provided. 380 400 420 440 460 480 500 520 213 214 215 216 217 218 219 2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 Occupational Health and Safety 74 Yaşar 2014 Sustainability Report Yaşar 2014 Sustainability Report 75 Right to Association Our Relations with Society Union and Collective • agrees to employ a nurse or a In the Workplace and Operation Occupational Health and 3. As per Article 5 of the Bargaining Agreement paramedic in order to perform Collective Bargaining Agreement Safety Board: Regulation, files, books, and dressing and to give injections between Selüloz İş Union and other documents comprising all Collective agreements with an 1. The provisions of the for workers in case of an illness the Employer, activities, including the Council’s unlimited term are concluded regulation about Councils on or injury when no physician is monthly meetings, resolutions with all employees of the • The employer ensures Health and Safety at Work are available at the workplace; passed, actions, maintenance, Yaşar Group companies under that personnel having the applied at the workplace. inspection, and training may the Labor Law No. 4857. It is • will ensure that a vehicle is qualifications to provide the 2. The trade union should notify be subjected to audits and also mandatory for our Group always available at the workplace necessary first aid and health the names of its principal and examination if considered companies and their contractors in order to transport sick and services is available when there alternative representative in necessary by branch or regional and sub-contractors to employ injured people to a hospital in is no physician at the workplace the council within (15) days branch managers. workers with social security. case of an emergency. • The law numbered 6331 and from the date of execution of 4. All activities of the trade Employees’ rights are As per a Workplace and the relevant regulations on the agreement pursuant to union’s representative assigned guaranteed under workplace and Enterprise Collective Bargaining Occupational Health and Safety paragraph (g) of Article 3 of to the Council are taken into enterprise collective agreements Agreement signed between the are applied with care. the regulation in question. The consideration as if he or she has signed between the Coating employer and Tek Gıda İş Trade employer informs the trade • The employer accepts to keep actually worked. Group companies and Petrol-İş Union: union about the names of its a car always available at the and between Pınar Dairy and principal and alternative member • Access to medical facilities: worksite for the needs to be Pınar Meat, both members of the in the Board within the same The Employer is required to used for transferring the patients Food and Beverage Group, and period. ensure that a vehicle to be and the injured to the hospital in Tek Gıda İş Trade Union. used for rapidly transforming an cases of emergency. As per a Workplace Collective injured worker to a health care Bargaining Agreement concluded unit and its driver are available Percentage of Employees Covered between Petrol-İş and the during work hours irrespective by Collective Bargaining Agreement Employer and in addition to the of the number of workers and 80 76 73 71 Labor law, the Employer: the distance to the units of 70 63 65 60 60 59 the Social Security Agency. 51 50 52 49 53 51 • agrees to strictly comply with 50 Otherwise, the employer will 40 the Regulation on Health and be held liable for any failure to 30 Safety at Work; 20 provide medical intervention for 10 the worker when required. 0 Dyo Coating Dyo Printing Pınar Dairy Pınar Meat Viking Tissue Inks 2012 2013 2014 Right to Association 76 Yaşar 2014 Sustainability Report Yaşar 2014 Sustainability Report 77 Our Employment Data Our Relations with Society Regional Percentages of the Total Workforce Personnel Turnover Rate by Age 2014 18 years and blow Region 2012 2013 2014 18-25 15,8 Aegean Region 68,22 66,14 66,84 26-30 10,2 Marmara Region 18,52 20,39 19,61 31-35 10,3 Central Anatolia Region 9,84 9,98 10,01 36-40 8,7 Mediterranean Region 2,35 2,51 2,51 41-45 6,9 Black Sea Region 0,54 0,53 0,56 46 years and above 17,2 South Eastern Anatolia Region 0,31 0,31 0,34 Across the Group 10,6 Eastern Anatolia Region 0,22 0,14 0,13 Personnel Turnover Rate by Region 2014 Percentages of the Total Workforce by Type of Employment Aegean Region 10,4 Type of Employment 2012 2013 2014 Marmara Region 13 Key 7 6 5,9 Central Anatolia Region 8,8 White Collar 44,5 44,2 43,3 Mediterranean Region 5 Blue Collar 45,9 46,8 47,1 Black Sea Region 12,5 Temporary 2,6 3 3,7 South Eastern Anatolia Region 4,2 Eastern Anatolia Region 50 Personnel Turnover Rate Across the Group 10,6 2012 2013 2014 Across the Group 7,6 7,9 10,6 Personnel Turnover Rate by Gender 2014 Female 12,0 Male 10,3 Across the Group 10,6 Our Employment Data 78 Yaşar 2014 Sustainability Report Yaşar 2014 Sustainability Report 79 Our Relations with Society Indicators of Gender Distribution of Employees Gender Distribution Percentage of All Employees Yaşar Group adopts increasing Work” activities that have been ratios of the female and male the participation of women in the launched by the World Economic employees, however, in the 2012 2013 2014 business life as one of its human Forum and that is led by the companies of our Group mostly Female Male Female Male Female Male resources policy principles Ministry of Family and Social due to the requirements of Yaşar Holding 49 51 50 50 50 50 and provides support for the Policies. Our Group believes the performed work the table Coatings Group efforts shown for increasing the that this formation and similar seems to be in favor of the male Dyo Coating 13 87 14 86 13 87 employment of women. formations will provide important employees. In order to overcome gains in Turkey in terms of both this situation, the necessary Dyo Printing Inks 18 82 18 82 20 80 Yaşar Group, who is a signatory employment of women and assessments are performed for Food and Beverage Group of “CEO Statement of Support gender equality. increasing the number of female Pınar Dairy 19 81 19 81 19 81 for Women Empowerment employees and human resources Pınar Meat 16 84 21 79 21 79 Principles” launched by the When the employees of Yaşar applications are being revised United Nations, has also actively Group are examined, a balanced Pınar Water 16 84 18 82 17 83 with the company managements. participated in the “Equality at distribution is observed for the Çamlı Feed and Fattening 13 87 12 88 12 88 YBP 16 84 13 87 14 86 Gender Distribution Percentage of White Collar Employees Tissue Paper Group 2012 2013 2014 Viking Tissue 10 90 8 92 7 93 Female Male Female Male Female Male Trade and Services Group Yaşar Holding 59 41 54 46 55 45 Altın Yunus 17 83 19 81 22 78 Coatings Group Desa Energy 13 87 15 85 13 87 Dyo Coating 26 74 27 73 28 72 Dyo Printing Inks 41 59 40 60 44 56 Food and Beverage Group Pınar Dairy 35 65 32 68 33 67 Pınar Meat 27 73 29 71 31 69 Pınar Water 20 80 23 77 24 76 Çamlı Feed and Fattening 31 69 27 73 28 72 YBP 17 83 13 87 14 86 Tissue Paper Group Viking Tissue 20 80 18 82 15 85 Trade and Services Group Our Employment Data Altın Yunus 21 79 23 77 25 75 Desa Energy 8 92 16 84 14 86 80 Yaşar 2014 Sustainability Report Yaşar 2014 Sustainability Report 81 Our Relations with Society Gender Distribution Percentage of Team Leaders and Age Average of All Employees Superior Management Staff 2012 2013 2014 Average Age of All Employees Female Male Female Male Female Male 2012 2013 2014 Yaşar Holding 57 43 57 43 59 41 Yaşar Holding 41 42 41 Coatings Group Coatings Group Dyo Coating 23 77 23 77 22 78 Dyo Coating 35 35 36 Dyo Printing Inks 33 67 32 68 31 69 Dyo Printing Inks 37 37 36 Food and Beverage Group Food and Beverage Group Pınar Dairy 32 68 34 66 33 67 Pınar Dairy 33 33 33 Pınar Meat 29 71 34 66 38 62 Pınar Meat 36 35 35 Pınar Water 17 83 18 82 18 82 Pınar Water 34 35 35 Çamlı Feed and Fattening 26 74 21 79 22 78 Çamlı Feed and Fattening 35 36 35 YBP 19 81 22 78 21 79 YBP 35 35 36 Tissue Paper Group Tissue Paper Group Viking Tissue 16 84 15 85 13 87 Viking Tissue 35 35 36 Trade and Services Group Trade and Services Group Altın Yunus 5 95 15 85 14 86 Altın Yunus 34 34 35 Desa Energy 17 83 20 80 14 86 Desa Energy 38 39 43 Our Employment Data 82 Yaşar 2014 Sustainability Report Yaşar 2014 Sustainability Report 83 Our Relations with Society Average Age of White Collar and Management Staff Age Distribution Percentage of All Employees 2014 White Collar Management Staff -18 18-25 26-30 31-35 36-40 41-45 +46 2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 Yaşar Holding 0 0 10 19 29 14 29 Yaşar Holding 38 42 42 44 45 44 Coatings Group Coatings Group Dyo Coating 0 7 23 22 21 19 8 Dyo Coating 35 36 36 40 40 41 Dyo Printing Inks 0 10 19 17 22 19 12 Dyo Printing Inks 35 37 36 40 41 41 Food and Beverage Group Food and Beverage Group Pınar Dairy 0 11 30 23 18 12 5 Pınar Dairy 32 33 34 36 36 37 Pınar Meat 0 12 21 17 22 17 10 Pınar Meat 35 36 37 39 40 40 Pınar Water 0 8 20 27 22 16 7 Pınar Water 34 36 36 38 39 39 Çamlı Feed and Fattening 0 10 19 26 20 16 8 Çamlı Feed and Fattening 33 35 35 42 41 41 YBP 0 3 18 32 23 17 7 YBP 34 35 36 39 40 41 Tissue Paper Group Tissue Paper Group Viking Tissue 0 5 20 27 23 19 6 Viking Tissue 34 36 36 39 40 41 Trade and Services Group Trade and Services Group Altın Yunus 0 21 16 15 19 18 12 Altın Yunus 35 36 38 43 41 43 Desa Energy 0 0 17 13 17 26 26 Desa Energy 33 39 43 48 47 54 Our Employment Data 84 Yaşar 2014 Sustainability Report Yaşar 2014 Sustainability Report 85 Cooperation with the Representatives of Non-Governmental Organizations and Industry Our Relations with Society Due to the global rise of the Yaşar Group believes that Association of Advertisers European Coil Coating Association National Milk Board Turkish American Business (ECCA) Association civil society understanding, stakeholder cooperation based Association of Cuisine Amicable National Red Meat Council the increasing spread of the on negotiations and conciliation Federation of Food and Drink Industry Turkish Middle Eastern Business Association of Family Owned Nazilli Chamber of Commerce and Associations of Turkey Councils Foreign Economic Relations conciliation culture and the adds value to economic and Businesses Industry Board social sustainability. Therefore, Foreign Economic Relations Board replacement of majoritarianism Association of Infant Food Organic Product Producers and Turkish Economic Association by pluralism have provided our Group, which is a founder Manufacturers Foundation of Economic Researches Industrialist Assosiation Turkish Egypt Businessmen important conversions and member of many associations, Association of Packaged Dairy Fruit Juice Industry Association Outward Investments Business Association comes side by side with the Industry of Turkey Council Foreign Economic Relations gains to the methods of work Gebze Chamber of Commerce Board Turkish Feed Manufacturers’ performance. relevant non-governmental Association of Quoted on the Stock General Secretariat of Istanbul Mineral Association Exchange Partnership Managers Packaged Water Manufacturers organizations and sector and Metals Exporters’ This understanding, which Association Turkish Food and Beverage Industry associations in all sectors, Association of Thermal Insulation, Global Compact Network Turkey and Employers Association takes the social dynamics Waterproofing, Sound Insulation Packaging Manufacturers Association where it acts, and provides and Fireproofing Material Producers, Global Relations Forum Turkish Food Safety Association into consideration and which contribution to the development Suppliers and Applicators Paint Research Association International Chamber of Commerce Turkish Industry and Business determines the principles of of cooperation with the People Management Association of Association of Turkish Construction Association collaborative work, has made Investor Relations Association Turkey organizations, of which it is a Material Producers Turkish Marine Environment Protection the decision making processes member. Association of Turkish Travel Agencies Isparta Chamber of Commerce and Poultry Meat Producers and Breeders Association Industry Association more transparent and open to Bornova Association of Farmer Assets Turkish Quality Association participation. Istanbul Chamber of Commerce Professional Association for Owners of Our Memberships Bornova Chamber Of Agriculture Musical Works Turkish Spas Thalasso and Health Cooperation with the Representatives of Non-Governmental Organizations and Industry Istanbul Chamber of Industry Adana Commodity Exchange Resorts Association Although there are organizations, Bursa Chamber of Commerce and Professional Association of Eligible Istanbul Commodity Exchange of which membership is Aegean Exporter Unions Industry Producers of Phonograms Related to Turkish Veterinary Medical Association Izmir Chamber of Agriculture MÜYAP compulsory under the relevant Aegean Industrialists’ and Carton Board Packaging TURKTRADE Businessmen’s Association Manufacturers Association Izmir Chamber of Commerce Professional Association of Musical legislation, the number of UN Global Comapct (UNGC) Expositor studies based on volunteering is Aegean Region Chamber of Industry Cattle Breeders’ Association of Turkey Izmir Commodity Exchange Union of Dairy, Beef, Food Pulp and Paper Industry Foundation increasing due to the effect of Aegean Region Chamber of Industry Central Anatolian Exporters Union Izmir Union of Aquaculture and Industrialists and Producers of Turkey Foundation Fishery Sakarya Chamber of Commerce and stakeholder cooperation on much Corporate Governance Association of World Economic Forum Industry more effective, fast and mutual Aegean Tourist Business and Turkey Izmir Beef and Lamb Producers Accommodation Association Association The Association of Paint Industry benefit-focused decision making. Çeşme Tourism Hoteliers Association Occupational Chamber Aliağa Chamber of Commerce Izmir Industrialists and Businessmen’s The Chemicals, Petroleum, Rubber While this situation is increasing Denmark Business Councils Foreign Memberships Association and Plastics Industry Employers’ the importance of the sector Aluminium Surface Treatment Economic Relations Board Association of Turkey Bar Association Association Kemalpaşa Organized Industrial Zone associations and foundations, Dubai Chamber of Commerce The European Food Information Chamber of Agricultural Engineers American Business Councils Foreign Kocaeli Chamber of Industry the companies are becoming Economic Relations Board Dubai Turkish Business Council Council Chamber of Certified Public actors providing contribution Learning and Development Environment Education Foundation of The Institute of Internal Auditing of Accountant American Turkish Council Association to sector development through Turkey Turkey Chamber of Chemical Engineers Ankara Chamber of Commerce Manisa Chamber of Commerce and formations such as business Environmental Protection and TOBB Global Standards Center Industry Chamber of Electrical Engineers councils. Ankara Commodity Exchange Packaging Waste Recovery And Turgutlu Chamber of Commerce and Recycling Trust Manisa Organized Industry Association Chamber of Food Engineers Antalya Chamber of Commerce and Industry Industry Eskişehir Chamber of Commerce Marine Chamber of Commerce Chamber of Independent Accountants Turkey GULF Business Councils and Financial Advisors Antalya Commodity Exchange Eskişehir Chamber of Industry Mersin Commodity Exchange Foreign Economic Relations Board Chamber of Mechanical Engineers Association Consumption Outside Ethics and Reputation Society National Food Technology Platform Turkish African Business Councils Home Foreign Economic Relations Board 86 Yaşar 2014 Sustainability Report Yaşar 2014 Sustainability Report 87 Support to Development of Sectors That We Operate in Promotion of Brand of Turkey Support to Development of Sectors That We Operate in With the action of national The program is distinguished The brand Pınar has been positive Turkish goods image brands to compete with the from other export subventions included in the TURQUALITY® and ensuring “brand loyalty” global brands in the international with the property of targeting Programme since 2007 and and the subventions used under arena, the requirement to not only an increase in export, the brands Dyo has been since the scope of TURQUALITY® create more added value and but also a contribution to the 2008. Exports are made in the will ensure the increase and to have more market share has brand-building efforts. “Food and Beverage” group to continuity of those contributions. occurred. With the objective the Gulf and EU countries and The Program, which has been of meeting this requirement, in the “coating” group to many applied since 2004, is carried out creating strong brands and countries including especially with the cooperation of Ministry ensure that Turkish brands find a Asian, European and Gulf of Economy, Turkish Exporters place for them among the global countries. Assembly and Exporter Unions. brands, Ministry of Economy TURQUALITY® has launched TURQUALITY® Yaşar Group has an important The increasing brand recognition in those regions and the Program targets Program, which is the only market share abroad with its Dyo subventions obtained within the state-supported brand-building not only to increase and Pınar brands and offers its scope of TURQUALITY® ensure program of the world. product and service quality to its export, but also to consumers in the international the enlargement of the export Support is provided for all web of the brands and increase provide contribution markets. These brands compete processes from production their competitiveness in case of to the brand-building to marketing, from sale to with the global brands with entry to new markets. the support of TURQUALITY® efforts. after-sale services of the firms program and are increasing their The brands of Yaşar Group having product groups with the market share continuously. provide important contributions potential of brand-building under for increasing the recognition the scope of TURQUALITY®. of Turkish brands, creating a Promotion of Brand of Turkey 88 Yaşar 2014 Sustainability Report Yaşar 2014 Sustainability Report 89 Our Social Contribution Pınar Institute Our Social Contribution Pınar Institute launched its Besides this, Pınar Institute Eskişehir and Muğla Milas. where raw milk is purchased, activities in 2013 with the aims to increase the health Trainings have been provided at especially to Şanlıurfa. aim of informing the public and nutrition awareness in the 8 different centers in Milas and Pınar Institute continues its on food, health and nutrition society with the developed 10 different centers in Eskişehir. support for academic studies. issues and to create awareness projects. In line with this A total of 6,075 hours of training In this context, Pınar Institute of quality living. The institute, aim, the Pınar Institute first has been provided for 937 milk implemented the project “Let’s supporting the project carried which targets to eliminate supplier for 19 cooling centers in Act and Have Fun and Let’s Have out under the title “Frequency the information insufficiency Eskişehir and 1,088 milk supplier Healthy Diets” and carried out of Sarcopeny in Individuals especially on the relation for 44 cooling centers in Milas. educational activities to create of 65 Years of Age and Older between health and nutrition, The target of the project is to awareness in children regarding and the Impact of Nutritional is putting new projects into reach 4,700 producers. food, health and nutrition Condition on Sarcopeny”, draws application with the orientation issues and to guide them and A total of 899 private raw attention to an important public of the Scientific Board members milk samples have been taken health problem. The objective of Pınar Institute, and makes use of national and make them gain the habit of physical activity with entertaining consisting of 207 samples in the Project is to determine the which has the target international cooperations in Eskişehir and 692 samples in frequency of sarcopeny, which is those efforts. activities to be held. of being a reliable Milas. The total living being a syndrome observed with the Raw milk quality, which is an number, somatic cell number, loss of skeleton muscle mass reference point in In this context, Pınar Institute, important factor in terms of continuing its studies with fat, ykm and protein in those and progressive and extended food and nutrition the National Food Technology public health, is among the samples have been examined in loss of power in individuals of area, has the aim of Platform (NFTP), which performs matters, which Pınar Institute a total of 4,495 analysis. 65 years of age and older and emphasizes. “Producer Training which is related with risks such increasing health and studies for R&D and innovation, Meetings” that have been held With the aim of developing also engages in joint studies as physical disability, bad life nutrition awareness in since the establishment of Pınar training materials and ensuring quality, death, and to assess the with the European Food that their presentation leaves the society. Information Council (EUFIC). Dairy, are being held within Pınar impact of nutritional condition on Institute and under the scope deeper traces in the visual The first cooperation study is sarcopeny. Within the scope of “The Future of our Milk is in memory of the producers, the translation of the manual the project, 3 different doctorate Conscious Hands Project”. The “Producer Training Films” of prepared for providing sufficient thesis with the following most important feature of the 4 minutes each have been and balanced nutrition and titles have been supported: Project is being a public, private prepared on the following topics healthy life recommendations “Frequency of Sarcopeny in the sector and university cooperation with the support of Pınar Dairy: to the children under the title Society and its Risk Factors”, project. Furthermore, with the “Correct Milking Applications”, “Ten Healthy Life Style Tips for “Determination of Frequency of raw milk analysis performed, “Birth and Calf Care” and “Nail Kids” into Turkish. The manual Falls and home accidents, which the success of the project in Care and Protection”. Those has been presented to the is a Result of Sarcopeny”, and reaching the targets is followed films are shown to the producers stakeholders and participants “Performing Detailed Analysis up. during the training meetings or on many platforms, especially of Individuals Determined to as standalone trainings. Under the scope of this project, Have Risk of Sarcopeny at the Istanbul Health and Nutrition Pınar Institute trainings have been held in It is planned to extend this Hospital and Searching the Ways Bienal. training to other provinces, of Solution”. www.pinarenstitusu.org.tr 90 Yaşar 2014 Sustainability Report Yaşar 2014 Sustainability Report 91 Yaşar Education and Culture Foundation Our Social Contribution Supporting activities and by the Yaşar Education and Dyo Painting Competition as the only private painting Selçuk Yaşar Art Gallery and achievements in the fields of Culture Foundation in the competition in Turkey and which Painting Museum Durmuş Yaşar, the founder of education, art and culture in Kahramandere Neighbourhood, has been organized by the Dyo Coating, which was founded Put into service in 1990, the Turkey, Yaşar Education and Güzelbahçe, Izmir, was Yaşar Education and Culture which is the first coating factory Selçuk Yaşar Art Gallery operates Culture Foundation has ever completed in 2013 and the Foundation since 1993, was in Turkey, started the work out within the Selçuk Yaşar Museum, since the day of its establishment buildings were handed over held for the 36th time and 1,574 of the conviction that it was which was opened in 1985 and assumed the construction of to the Directorate of National works by the 992 artists entering necessary to carry out artistic which is the first private painting many schools and of additional Education and the school has the competition were presented. and cultural activities as well as museum in Turkey. buildings, dining halls, and been opened for education and economic activities in Turkey, a The pieces, which were awarded sports and cultural facilities in training in 2014. In 2014, the Foundation country making efforts to grow, and found worth exhibiting, have line with needs. It has also met continued its activities of art The Foundation has published and in 1967, it was decided to been exhibited in Istanbul and the science, language, food through the mixed exhibition about 40 works so far consisting organize a painting competition Eskişehir and will be exhibited in technology requirements and consisting of the pieces of art of of cultural publications, Atatürk to encourage the arts and İzmir, Adana, Samsun, Şanlıurfa computer, laboratory needs of Yalçın Gökçebağ, Cuma Ocaklı, publications and in various artists. and Ankara, respectively, in the schools. Dilek Işıksel, Hayati Misman, areas, especially archeology 2015. Dyo Painting Competition, which Nejat Akkan, Semra Ay Çırpan, Yaşar Education and Culture and science. The Foundation started in 1967 by Yaşar Group İbrahim Örs, Fatih Mika sergileri Foundation, which acts in culture also organizes congresses, ve Kayıhan Keskinok, Yalçın and art areas, has provided symposiums and panels, where Gökçebağ, Zahit Büyükişliyen, non-refundable grants for 5,826 current problems in Turkey and Fevzi Karakoç and Fahri Sümer in students since its foundation in the world are assessed with the gallery of the museum. until today, and has given nona scientific approach and the refundable grants for 9 months results are made public. The Summer Exhibitions were to the children of 57 miners, held with the pieces of art of Yaşar Education and Culture who lost their lives in the mine Sema Boyancı, Vedat Hazneci, Foundation continued to extend accident in Soma in May, and Burhan Özer, İsmail Üner, Zuhal financial support to the Nysa for 123 skilled, hardworking, Baysar, Tamer Bilgiç, Orhan excavations in 2014 within the successful students, who are Gürel and Faden Kudsioğlu and frame of supporting the services in need of financial support Yaşar Education and Culture for introducing our culture and in 2014-2015 education and Foundation Collection anthology history and the archeological training year. exhibition in the Çeşme Altın excavations. Yaşar Education and Culture Foundation Yunus Art Gallery. In the framework of education Dyo Painting Competition, investments, the construction of which has been held since 1967 the Yaşar Education and Culture without interruption, is another Foundation Special Education important activity performed by Application Centre and Work the Foundation since 1993. Application Centre with 18 classrooms, a project specially designed for the education of autistic children, commissioned 92 Yaşar 2014 Sustainability Report Yaşar 2014 Sustainability Report 93 Pınar Our Social Contribution Assistance to Other Two desktop computers have Pınar generates value for the Pınar Painting Competition selected by the jury including Institutions and been donated to each of Saadet whole of society through the lecturers and specialists gained For 33 years now, the Pınar Organizations Onart Primary School and Hüsnü direct and indirect employment the right to participate in the Painting Competition has allowed Borovalı Secondary School opportunities it creates, its 1 week Art Camp in Istanbul With the book collection hundreds of thousands of students to be used in their investments, the goods and under the coordination of the campaign launched in Yaşar children to express themselves education. services it procures as well famous painter Ergin İnan. The Group, books have been sent by painting and aimed to support as its products. In addition to students who took part in Pınar to 4 schools in Anatolia in line Indoor and outdoor coating aid the painters of the future by these, the company regards Children’s Painting Competition, with their preferences and has been provided to the 3-floor ensuring the development of the permanent support and the 33rd of which has been requests, Atatürk Corner and and 16-clasroom Yaşar Education children’s painting skills. contribution it provides to the held in 2014, were given their Philanthropist Corner have been and Culture Foundation Primary arts, to education, to sports Pınar Painting Competition, netbooks and certificates in a prepared at Yaşar Education School in Diyarbakır Kayapınar, and to the protection of cultural which is opened with a different ceremony held on the last day of and Culture Foundation Special where 1,927 students are assets as an important and theme each year since 1981, the Art Camp. Education Application Center and educated and trained. essential means of the principle was organized in 2014 with Work Application Center. The awareness rate of the of sharing with society. the theme “I drink milk, I grow Pınar Painting Competition in healthily”. 2014 is 24,9% according to the The competition received a large awareness measurement carried number of entries, a total of out by GfK Turkey. 19,538 works from every region of Turkey, from the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus and from Germany. 23 little painters www.pinar.com.tr Yaşar Education and Culture Foundation Pınar 94 Yaşar 2014 Sustainability Report Yaşar 2014 Sustainability Report 95 Çamlı Feed and Fattening Dyo Printing Inks Our Social Contribution With Children Since 27 Years the Pınar Children’s Theatre put Activities have been held on April Within the scope of the Stars of on stage its new play “Love that 23rd National Sovereignty and the Future Project, a conference Having reached more than three Came with Milk” in the teaching Children’s Day with the theme hall with 150 people capacity million children across Turkey year of 2013-2014. The Theatre “I ate fish and I grew up”. In has been constructed for free of charge in 27 years, the met thousands of theatre-going the activities carried out under Zeytinburnu Printing Professional Pınar Children’s Theatre aims children during its Anatolia Tour Pınar Fish brand, the importance High School. The development to inculcate a love of theatre in in the provinces of Diyarbakır, of eating fish in growth and of the students is supported children and continues in every Şanlıurfa, Gaziantep, Konya, development has been explained and the bond with the brand play to contribute to the cultural, Karaman, Aksaray, Eskişehir and to children and their height has is strengthened through the psychological and mental İzmir. been measured with specially trainings held with certain development of children. It also prepared rulers and their periods. acts as a school that has been The awareness rate of the photographs have been taken. effective in gifting many famous Pınar Children’s Theatre in With Give Life to Water Project, Fish nights were organized with actors and actresses to the 2014 is 25,1% according to the all vegetable oils used in our Pınar Fish brand at Çeşme Altın Turkish theater. awareness measurement carried homes have been collected and Yunus Termal Otel, a member out by GfK. sent for recycling. By this way, Having staged dozens of plays of our Group. In the activity the pollution of 750,000,000 for children every year since that has been held with the liters of potable water has been 1987 with its professional staff, concept “Eat Fish, Stay Young” prevented and life has been emphasizing the importance given to a water reserve and www.pinar.com.tr of eating fish in health and ecosystem as big as Bafa Lake. balanced nutrition, the bass and bream produced by Pınar Fish With “I Have a Planted Tree plants have been served to the with Dyo Project”, saplings have guests of the hotel. been planted in the sapling land created in Manisa in the name of Dyo Printing Inks, on behalf of the industrialist customers and Pınar Çamlı Feed and Fattening Dyo Printing Inks dealers. By delivering the certificates of such planting operations to the customers, an increase in the social perception within our area of impact has been ensured. 96 Yaşar 2014 Sustainability Report Yaşar 2014 Sustainability Report 97 Education and Publications Yaşar University Education and Publications Yaşar University, aiming to raise Yaşar University, which is one Many foreign students prefer The University, which assesses individuals, who can easily use of the 5 foundation universities Yaşar University, which is an the sports and art-related Due to both its their mental potential, who have in İzmir, aims to strengthen the urban University, due to both activities as an important factor academic success high design and project skills, science culture with the slogan its academic success and the for the social and cultural “Science, Unity, Success”, to conditions it provides in line development of its students, and the conditions it who are analytic, systematic and capable of thinking with perform high-quality education with international standards. has obtained important degrees provides in line with the and research activities providing In 2014-2015 Academic Year, with many sportsmen of it in the rules, who is curious and is international standards, not satisfied with what (s) contribution to the development 87 students have been sent inter-universities competitions of society in the local and global abroad within the scope of held within 2014-2015 academic many foreign students he finds, who researches and sense. Erasmus Program and 119 year. Furthermore, classical prefer Yaşar University, questions, who are sensitive to Erasmus students have come to music concerts, exhibitions, The University, which the environment and his/her The basic philosophy of the which is an urban own life and who act with social University is to open a new and Yaşar University for education, conferences and panels take assesses the sports who has been awarded with place in the campus and the university. responsibility awareness, has wide door to the mental, cultural and art activities as “2010 Erasmus Story of Success social and cultural activities of started its activities in 2002-2003 and social developments of the Reward” by the European the students are supported with important factors for academic year. individuals as well as ensuring Commission. 47 student societies that are the social and cultural their academic development Yaşar University has 7,279 active. with universal values and a point At Yaşar University, which development of the students, 424 academic and of view based on questioning. provides an international Yaşar University supports the 251 administrative personnel. students, supports Yaşar University supports this education experience due to the achievements of students and philosophy with the opportunities diversity of student profiles at contributes to their education the social and cultural In Yaşar University, there are 7 faculties with 25 departments, it provides for its students to the campus, students coming with different scholarship activities of the students know different cultures and from 48 different countries opportunities including the 2 Vocational School for Higher with 47 student disciplines. In this framework, including USA, England, Amman, Education Scholarship, the Learning with 12 pre-graduate the Yaşar University offers fiveAzerbaijan, Pakistan, Nigeria and Academic Achievement societies working programmes, one Foreign star accommodation service Australia are educated fulltime. Scholarship, the Talent actively. Languages School for Higher at the Student Hostel with a Scholarship, the War Veterans Leraning, one Social Sciences The English Preparatory Class of capacity for 400 persons to Scholarship, the Accommodation Institute with 17 post-graduate the University has obtained CEA Erasmus Exchange Programme Scholarship and the International and 5 doctorate programme and accreditation and has been the students as well as its own Student Scholarship. 45% of the first Turkish program that has one Institute of Science with students and guest members of students at the Yaşar University been accredited in education on 8 post-graduate and 4 doctorate teaching staff in order to provide benefit from scholarships English and has been the ninth programmes. opportunity for interaction granted at different rates. accredited program except USA. between cultures. www.yasar.edu.tr Yaşar University 98 Yaşar 2014 Sustainability Report Yaşar 2014 Sustainability Report 99 Training, Meetings and Activities for Stakeholders Education and Publications Pınar Meat Occupational basic education, entered into students were provided “Yaşam Pınarım” Magazine information about technological processes. The trainings, which Training Unit working life and wish to learn by master instructors with innovations concerning the are provided dynamically, and Containing useful information trade receive their theoretical occupational skills in meat and sector as well as ongoing or the mutual demands received Established as part of Pınar Meat especially for parents and having and practical occupational meat products processing and completed projects concerning from regions on the systems and due to the lack of an institution been published since 2004, training under a programme and 14 students were entitled to systems implemented by all processes have been assessed. providing training in meat and the “Yaşam Pınarım” magazine thereby including them in the receive Experienced Apprentice project teams included in the meat products processing, the is an important instrument In the regional trainings, the skilled intermediate manpower Certificates. Food Group and to provide a Pınar Meat Occupational Training of the link established with compared questionnaire results needed by the country. Such vision to the employees on the Unit was opened for training in As of the year end, 59 students Pınar’s consumers and business for 2011-2012-2013 of customer training also makes it possible technological innovations related 1998 to eliminate the shortage partners and with academic satisfaction questionnaires, to achieve the goals of ensuring are continuing their training with the sector. of trained personnel in the and bureaucratic circles. The which allow increase the product professional discipline in working at the occupational training magazine is published quarterly Thematic Publications and service quality satisfaction sector. life, reaching occupational unit, from which a total of and distributed freely. Starting perception on the customer side, standards at national level, 339 persons were graduated Prepared by the Technical This training activity, which to be sent to consumers as an have been emphasized on the improving the quality standard in between 1998 and 2014. 31% of Training Directorship, “Thematic” set a first example in Turkey, e-bulletin in 2013, the magazine basis of entire Turkey channels production and raising efficiency. the graduates are employed by (Bulletin of the Technical Training is aimed at ensuring that reaches 115,000 people every and regions and brainstorming Pınar Meat. Directorship) is published on young people aged 15 to 19 In 2014, at the occupational month as a result. has been performed with the the first day of every month, who have completed their training unit, 16 apprentice sale teams and managers of all Pınar Newspaper describing the activities of regions attending the training. training conducted, sharing Being an important source of Comparisons between regions developments, examining issues information on issues such as have been made and efforts of human and social psychology, fattening, dairy technologies, have been shown to take covering particular cases, and and fatstock health for dairy actions and recommendations offering book summaries. and meat farmers and published for increasing satisfaction and The bulletin, published for 25 quarterly, the Pınar Newspaper is awareness has been created. months now, is sent to the prepared for the 25,000 farmers YBP sales staff and to the high Being different this year, level who supply milk to Pınar, for level managers of the Group determination test that has veterinary surgeons and for the companies. been prepared by the Business Trainings, Meetings and Activities for Stakeholders farmers with whom the Pınar Management Systems has been Meat purchasing department Regional Training applied to the participants at the works. YBP Business Management end of the training in all regions. YBP Systems Directorate holds YBP The results of the test are kept Regional Trainings every year. in the individual files of the System Projects Bulletin people by the Human Resources Training has been provided to a Prepared by the YBP Business total of 263 people in 9 regions. department as a certificate of Management Systems The trainings provided important competence in relation with the Directorship under the heading information on SAP easy use programs and processes. of “News from the System”, the techniques, applied uses of SAP bulletin is published quarterly modules, importance of critical since 2010. Its aim is to provide indicators on company business 100 Yaşar 2014 Sustainability Report Yaşar 2014 Sustainability Report 101 Education and Publications Dealer SAP and Business Sale Techniques Training for Dyo Coating monthly and sent to all users in For the organizations Process Trainings Dealers the e-mail list, new products, performing TS EN ISO IEC color information, hints on paint, 17024 Compliance Assessment, The Dealer Sap and Business As of 2014, the application decoration hints and news from sustainability of General Processes Training provided by of training provided by YBP Dyo are included. The bulletin Conditions Standard with a the YBP Business Management Technical Training Directorate from Dyo World reaches more fair, equalitarian and impartial Systems Directorship to newly for the Sale Representative, than 25,000 users. structure is the main element. established dealers of the Fresh Sale Officer and SDE is Dyo Academy Certification YBP, Dyo Coating and Pınar continuing for the development Dyo Academy Department has successfully Water companies includes of the sale personnel of our Dyo Academy Department completed 2014 within the scope SAP installation training and dealers. has actively commenced of Occupational Competence additional training needed. One A total of 17 training sessions its testing and certification Test and Certification Regulation, to one training is provided for have been organized for our services accredited by Turkish with MYK 11UY0023-3 Building 10 days under the name of “SAP dealer personnel for the sales Accreditation Institution Painter Level 3 National Transition” about all processes, representatives, the fresh teams (TÜRKAK) and Occupational Competence requirements. and additional training is and the consumption outside Dyorum Magazine Competence Institution (MYK) organized for 4 to 6 days Regional Master Seminars home channel. and has performed a test for under the name of personnel “Dyorum” magazine is published 145 masters. By this way, The master seminars, which changes, additional staff, and Çamlı Feed and Fattening as 3 issues a year and includes Dyo Coating-Dyo Academy are annually held across Turkey updates. Training activities are interviews as well as decoration Çamlı Feed and Fattening Department has become the and have become traditional, planned at the beginning of the recommendations, color organized “Factors Affecting first and only private sector were held in 2014 with the year and on a monthly basis information and information on Profitability Seminars” in Milas, organization that can issue participation of 1,933 masters. by the dealer managers of the health topics. Dyorum magazine, Selimiye and Burdur and “Silage certificates with TÜRKAK and Furthermore, 239 people have relevant company and the YBP which consists of 64 pages, Production Techniques” in MYK. This applied system has been accessed through various Business Management Systems is sent to 10,000 persons. Its Eskişehir for the producers. drawn attention of the private product seminars provided for Directorship. 6th issue has been published in sector in many areas, and we export dealers and customers. September 2014. Furthermore, Distinctly this year, the have been consulted and asked new issues are added regularly In the hotel screening works training on globally recognized to provide opinions on the Trainings, Meetings and Activities for Stakeholders in PDF format to www.dyo. performed by Antalya Region effective storage stock model method to be followed. com.tr site. The consumers technical teams, 435 facilities drawing system (kanban) has can access the issue they want Since Dyo Coating-Dyo Academy have been visited. been extended to dealers. through our web address. Department is an organization Furthermore, the transition accredited by TÜRKAK and to tablet applications for the E-bulletin from DyoWorld authorized by MYK, it has business processes called E-bulletin application has obtained the right of use of autonomous has been planned been launched in June 2014 TÜRKAK and MYK brands and and their infrastructure and with the aim of accessing the as the first and only coating firm preparations have been target population, which has having the authority to perform completed for the transition of been communicated for years tests and certification, it has all dealers to tablet in 2015. through different channels. In carried out test and certification the bulletin, which is published services actively in 2014. 102 Yaşar 2014 Sustainability Report Yaşar 2014 Sustainability Report 103 Education and Publications Road to Victory Training • A total of 1,404 hours of Dyo Printing Inks ADR Training Under the long-term training training in furniture coatings was programme “Stepping into Yaşar/ In order to measure the Beside the training provided Training has been provided to provided for 468 varnish workers into Life (SYL)” introduced in contribution of Road-to-Victory in Dyo Printing Inks, training dealers for the application of the in 9 provinces. Questionnaires 2012, 2 students worked on a Training Program, which has seminars are provided for Regulation on the Transportation filled out during those trainings project basis at our companies been put into application in 2013 Marmara University and of Hazardous Materials through were analyzed and action areas Yaşar Holding, Pınar Dairy and with the target of development were identified, customers were Istanbul University Printing Highway (ADR). With this YBP for 6 months in 2014. of wholesale dealer staff on sale visited, and efforts were made to Departments with the technical training, it is aimed to ensure and customer relations matters, increase customer satisfaction. service cooperation of R&D and the adaptation of all dealers to Cooperation with to the business results, and with technical service with the aim of the Regulation that entered into Universities the target of encouraging them • Regional dealer meeting transferring technical information force in 2014. were held in order to provide University students form and ensuring the continuity to the dealers, industrialist information, opinions were Practical Training a unique labor pool for of the training, a new reward customers and printing masters exchanged, and possible ways Opportunities for High the business community. system named “Victory Stars” and sharing the developments of increasing market share were School and University Participating in career days, has been launched in 2014. in the sector. Collective discussed. Students which make it possible to meet organizations for training Other Technical Services the need for skilled labor and • Existing products were purposes are held and special The Yaşar Group offers practical allow students to get acquainted • A total of 2,201 hours of improved in line with requests training seminars arranged in the training opportunities to high with the business community, training in industrial coatings gathered through interviews with printing structure are carried out school and university students the Yaşar Group considers this was provided for 243 persons foremen and new products were as well. in order to contribute to channel one of the most effective employed by a total of 22 put on the market. raising skilled, innovative and One of the activities means of communication with customers. Contributions were responsible generations moving • Dyolog Project, a customer implemented to enhance students. In this framework, we made to the promotion of Dyo forward in the light of science loyalty system applied to total quality in the sector is participated in the career days of brand. and to enable them to acquaint construction coatings, was the FOGRA certification. In 9 universities in 2014. themselves more closely with • A total of 800 hours of training also put into effect for OTB all processes of the FOGRA working life and to develop was provided for users and customers under OTO Dyolog PSO (Offset Printing Process themselves. As a result, students foremen from different parts of and 1,300 registered members Standard), which is the quality find the opportunity of practical, Turkey at Dyo OTB (Auto Repair were contacted as at the end indicator of the printing sector, Trainings, Meetings and Activities for Stakeholders on-the-job training and are Coatings) Training Center. of 2014. In 2015 our goal firms are supported and included in a database of skilled is to reach more than 2,000 consulting services are offered • A total of 495 hours of training candidates who can occupy the registered members consisting of through the FOGRA partners in product use was provided relevant positions in the future. users and suppliers. at the company. One FOGRA by regional technical service certification was carried out in Vocational high school students staff as part of field training in • Students from Selçuk Yaşar 2014. and university students receive order to ensure that car coating Industrial Vocational High School practical training at our foremen make maximum use of were offered the opportunity companies, respectively, for our products and a total of 2,800 to apply practical knowledge three days a week and in June hours of training will be provided they acquired at the school and to September. 497 university in 2015. practical training in products students had practical training at were provided on Mondays. our companies in 2014. 104 Yaşar 2014 Sustainability Report Yaşar 2014 Sustainability Report 105 Sponsorships and Recognitions Main Sponsorships Other Sponsorships Sponsorships and Recognitions Pınar KSK basketball team for the second Pınar • Ege University International Day” activity, November 22nd Canary Project, Central Bank time in its history after 1987. Food Congress, May 26th -29th Derince Anatolian High School Pınar Karşıyaka Basketball Team The main organizations • 3rd International Izmir Theater Directorate, Karadeniz Provinces (Pınar KSK), who have continued • Has successfully represented supported by Pınar as a sponsor • Bornova Anatolian High School Festival held by TAKSAV, Women’s Platform Association, their struggle in the Turkish our country in ULEB Eurocup in in 2014 are as follows: Ayran Day, June 1st December 5th 15th Samsun ABS Art Theater, Kızılay Basketball Premier League under 2013-2014 season. • INDOOR CUP held by Fanatik • 15th Symposium on Search for • Ege University Brand City Izmir Northern Marmara Disaster the name of “Pınar Karşıyaka” Pınar also supported the newspaper, January 12th Excellence, June 3rd -5th Symposium, December 15th -16th directorate, Ödemiş Vocational since 1998 strengthens the Women and Men Turkish Cup High School for the Mentally sports love of children with • Yaşar University 7th Logistic • RSX Surf Championship, Dyo Coating and Presidency of Republic Cup Disabled) basketball. As a sponsor, Pınar Days, March 6th -7th June 28th July 5th organizations held by Turkish • 4th Nature Activity, also provides nearly 1,000 • Activity sponsorship Basketball Federation in 2014. • Harran University 1 Art Days st • Turkish Women Men National May 22nd -25th children every year with the (15th Search for Excellence opportunity of doing sports at Painter Meeting, A Teams Preparation Matches, Symposium, Toy Library, Pınar has been the official • Colour SKY5K Color Run -İzmir the Çiğli Selçuk Yaşar Facilities. March 10th-20th August 22nd 5th Highways Traffic Safety beverage supplier of FIBA Run, October 19th Women World Basketball • Marketing Power Conference, Symposium, Fethiye Tennis and Pınar Karşıyaka • TEDx Alsancak, August 30th Championship, which has been March 20th • Sponsorship of the theater play Mountaineering Club, Bursa • Won the Spor Toto Turkish Cup held in Ankara and Istanbul and • Panel on “Dairy Economy “Welcome Painter”, Automobile Sports Association, against Anadolu Efes team in which our National A Women • Ege University 3rd Media Days, Existing Condition, Opportunities, December 13th -... Kayseri Architecture Week the final, for the first time in its Team has completed as the 4th. April 1st -2nd Potentials” held by EGİAD, Activity) • Dyo-Alsancak Stadium royalty history. “FIBA Women World Basketball • Ege University Industry September 22nd sponsorship Championship”, which is held Summit, April 7th • Won the 30th Presidency of the • Uludağ University Bursa 3rd once every four years, has been • 23rd Quality Congress Republic Cup in men category • 3rd Innovative Brands Summit, International Food Congress, held in Ankara and Istanbul Sponsorship, by defeating Fenerbahçe Ülker April 10th September 26th -27th between September 27th November 18th 19th October 5th. In the tournament, • World Food Day activity • 3rd Children Celebration held in which the best 16 teams from • ARKİMEET’14 Architects by Ege Contemporary Education held by TÜGİS (Turkish Food five continents participated, Congress, November 19th 20th Foundation, April 19th Industry Employers’ Union) Pınar has provided the beverages and FAO (United Nations Food • 6th International Quality of all teams participating in the • Istanbul City Theaters 30th and Agriculture Organization), in Construction Summit tournament. Children’s Celebration, April 26th October 16th Sponsorship, December 4th Main Sponsorships Other Sponsorships • Dokuz Eylül University Career • 11th Aegean Human • Free product sponsorships Adventures, April 30th Management Summit held by (Kütahya Chamber of Trade • Ege University Engineering Per-Yön Ege, October 24th -25th and Industry Technical and Faculty Career Days, April 30th Industrial Occupational High • 2nd International Food School, İdil/ Şırnak Akdağ • Sev Bazaar Day arranged by Technology Congress held by Primary Secondary school American College, May 3rd Food Technology Association Directorate, Bolu LÖSEV with the support of Ankara • Quality in Life Project Opinion Province Representation Office, University, November 5th -7th Competition held by KalDer, Dilovası Public Health Center, May 8th -9th • Boğaziçi University “A Magic Society Volunteers Foundation 106 Yaşar 2014 Sustainability Report Yaşar 2014 Sustainability Report 107 Fairs and Congresses Recognitions Sponsorships and Recognitions Pınar Pınar, participating in Non• Colour SKY5K Color Run -İzmir Pınar by MixxAwards, and where Brand Management and Best Domestic Consumption EDT run, October 19th 596 projects from 84 agencies Social Media use. Pınar participates in and also • According to the “Best Liked EXPO Fair at Istanbul CNR are assessed in 27 different extends support to many • 6th International Summit on Companies in Turkey” research • In the Package Crescent between March 28th 31st 2014 categories, Pınar Gurme Sucuk congresses organized every Quality in Construction with the organized by GfK and the Capital and Stars Competition held and introduced its products in has been awarded with Silver year in areas such as quality, theme “Cooperation and Power”, Magazine, Pınar Meat is the best by Package Industrialists the consumption outside home Mixx in “Mobil Rich Display Ads” food, R&D and marketing December 4th liked Turkish company in the Association (ASD), Pınar Gurme sector. category, with Bronze Mixx in for the development of the Packed Meat Products sector Sliced Salami has been awarded • Rebuild Libya Benghazi: “Tablet marketing” and Silver sector. Meeting with different Pınar, which is one of the three with the bronze reward in Food Benghazi/Libya • According to the “Best Liked Mixx in “Mobile Campaigns” marketing and consumer bands approved by Russia Category and Pınar Frozen Borek March 16th-19th 2014 Companies in Turkey” research category. channels at the fairs in which for export from Turkey, has has been awarded with the organized by GfK and the Capital it participates within and participated in World Food • Basrah International Buildexpo: • In 2014 Effie Turkey bronze reward in graphic design magazine, Pınar Dairy is the best outside the country, Pınar with Moscow Fair in Russia between Basra/Iraq, April 12th-15th 2014 Advertisement Activity category. liked Turkish company in the its more than 600 products September 15th 18th 2014. Competition held by the • Turkish Arabian Construction dairy sector • Pınar has been awarded is one of the participants in Association of Advertising Çamlı Feed and Fattening Fair, TURAB/İzmir, with the grand prix with the most prestigious fairs of • According to ÇEVKO Green Agencies and Association of April 30th-May 1st “Pınar Painting Competition the region and the world. • Future Fish Eurasia İzmir Point Industry Rewards and the Advertisers, Pınar has been for Children” in “Brand Voice” Refusing to compromise on • Erbil Building: Erbil/Iraq, Traditional 3rd Green Point Press awarded with golden Effice • Seafood Expo Global 2014 Fair category, where successful the principleof sustainability in May 14th-17th 2014 Rewards, which are awarded with “Aç Bitir Tam Gelir (open projects in PR arena are awarded terms of contributing to sectoral • Indirect participation in Saudi to the publications giving and finish, it is just sufficient)” • Batum Build: Batum/Georgia, with Felis awards by Mediacat. development, Pınar more closely Horeca 2014 fair priority to the news reflecting ad and with bronze Effice with promotes its products on the November 2014 “Pınar’la Büyüdüm (I grew up • According to Customer an environmentalist news • Sponsor of 3rd Fish Feeding and with Pınar) ad. Satisfaction Index of Turkey international markets and puts • Tunnel Expo Fair, understanding, Pınar Meat has Feed Technology Workshop (TMME) 2014 2nd quarter results, its signature to distinguished August 28th-31st been awarded an appreciation • Pınar Dairy Activity Report events that contribute to • Turkey Producers Seminar, Altın plaque in “Large Scale Enterprise Pınar has scored 82 over 100 in • INTERMOB Fair, has been found worth for Silver the food sector on different Yunus Category”. packed water sector and 79 over September 27th-October 1st award in Global Food, Beverage, dimensions. Sponsoring events 100 in fruit juices sector, and has Dyo Coating • RepMan Reputation Researches Tobacco Consumption Sector by aimed at the development obtained the first rank. Center has announced the LACP Awards; and for the reward of gastronomic and culinary • 37th International Construction most reputable sectors and for the first 80 Activity Reports • At the Customer Satisfaction culture in Turkey, Pınar creates Fair, May 6th-10th companies of Turkey. According in Turkish Industries in Europe, Index of Turkey (TMME) reward opportunities to meet with sector to the research performed on Middle East and Northern Africa ceremony held by Turkish leaders and scientists. • 4th Nature Activity, Fairs and Congresses Recognitions 12,299 people in 15 provinces and for the reward for the Quality Association (KalDer), May 22nd-25th Pınar, participating in GULFOOD in 7 geographical regions by Activity Report exhibiting the as the result of the satisfaction 2014 fair in Dubai, which • 2nd Eastern Marmara Industry GfK Turkey, Pınar ranked 8th Best Development in Europe, research performed in 25 sectors is the most prestigious and and Technology Fair among the most reputable 10 Middle East and Northern Africa. among approximately 40,000 highly participated fair of the companies of Turkey with a consumers, Pınar has been • SANTEK’14, • Pınar has been awarded Middle East between February performance of 74,8. awarded with 2 rewards: September 25th-28th as the winner in “Business 23rd 27th, has exhibited its • Fruit Juice Sector: TMME 2013 • In the reward ceremony, Rewards” held by Ege University products to the participants from • Paint Istanbul 2014, October where the most effective ads Administration Club in Best Liked Sector Winner-Silver Statue, international markets. 23rd-25th of the sector are determined 108 Yaşar 2014 Sustainability Report Yaşar 2014 Sustainability Report 109 Social Media Sponsorships and Recognitions • Fruit Juice Sector: TMME 2013 two categories as EnvironmentPınar • www.facebook.com/ Çamlı Feed and Fattening Dyo Coating Sustained Success Reward– Friendly Industrial Plant and anneningunlugu: Beneficial • twitter.com/PinarKurumsal: Digital marketing, which has On Facebook-Twitter-LinkedinGolden Statute. Environment-Friendly Project, information for the mothers From the corporate Twitter been commenced with the YouTube Dyo corporate pages, Pınar Meat has ranked among and their children and detailed • According to Brand Reputation account, recipes specific to modernization of the web which has started publication the first six firms in Environmentinformation on the products are and Brand Value Performance consumers, press bulletins, site and orporate blog page, in April 2012 regular sharing Friendly Project category and shared over “Annenin Günlüğü” Measurement “The One Awards” special announcements and has been continued with the is performed on; decoration among the first three firms in (Diary of the Mother) Facebook competition, which is held in celebration messages for special social media accounts created recommendations, information Environment-Friendly Industrial page. 2014 for Marketing Türkiye by days and weeks are shared. with the names “Kültürlü on paint and painting Plant category. Akademetre, Pınar has been • www.facebook.com/PinarKido: Balık” (Cultured Fish) and techniques, news from Dyo, among the brands, which Dyo Coating • www.facebook.com/ Information on the campaigns of “Çamlı Yem” (Çamlı Feed). On benefits of our products. increased its reputation in the LightYasaminSirlari: The Kido and activities performed for the corporate page of Çamlı 6 different Facebook campaigns At Private Sector R&D Centers consumers are encouraged for highest amount. children are shared over Pınar Feed and Fattening, company have been launched in 2014 in Summit, Dyo Coating has been a healthier life with the light life Kido Facebook page. and activity news, contents order to strengthen our bond • Pınar Dairy, which reduced its awarded as the most successful contents shared everyday on supporting the campaigns, most with our target populations. energy density with a ratio of R&D Center of not only the Secrets of Light Life Facebook updated information related Those campaigns are listed 65,3% in the last three years coating sector, but also the page, which has been opened with the sector and contents hereunder. (2011-2013) in average, has chemistry sector. for the people, who adopted that will create interaction with been awarded as the winner “Yılın Enleri” (“Most”s of the An appreciation plaque has light life as a life style. the users are published. On in Energy-Efficient Industrial Year) Campaign: December 16th been awarded by Nezahat the pages located as “Kültürlü Plant (EVET) category, food • www.facebook.com/ 2013-January 6th 2014 Gökyiğit Botanic Garden and Balık” (Cultured Fish) for fresh and beverage sub-sector in the PinarLabne: Pınar Labne ANG Foundation due to its fish products bearing Pınar “Hayatıma Renk Kattın” (You Project Competition on Energy Facebook page has accessed participation and sponsorship in Fish brand, contents creating Added Color to My Life) Efficiency in Industry, which its consumers with interesting the 4th Nature Festivals. awareness on culture fish Campaign: February 3rd-17th has been held for the 15th time contents and recipes. production and culture fish 2014 by the Ministry of Energy and Aegean Region Excellence Grand consumption, importance of Natural Resources. Prix has been awarded in “Large • www.facebook.com/ “Annemle Dyo Selfiesi” (Dyo fish in healthy and balanced Scale Enterprise Category” by PinarSutleBuyuyorum: Pınar Selfie with Mom) Campaign: • In the competition, which has nutrition, recipes with Pınar balık KalDer. Süt’le Büyüyorum (I grow up April 28th 2014-May 12th 2014 been held by Aegean Region and activity news are published. with Pınar Milk) Facebook fan Chamber of Industry (ARCI) in Dyo Printing Inks As of June 2014, an e-bulletin, “Babam Dyo ki” (Dad Says) page has reached a high fan where company news, sector Campaign: June 13th-23rd 2014 Dyo Printing Inks has been number in parallel with its information and blog articles are awarded with a certificate continuous and measurable shared, is being prepared and “Renkli Bayramlaşmalar” of success in “Innovation communication with the target sent to the business partners. (Colorful Merry Holiday Wishes) Organization and Culture” population consisting of women Campaign: July 25th-31st 2014 Recognitions Social Media Category by the Turkish between the ages 2545. Beside “Renkli Dilekler” (Colorful Exporters Assembly in Inovalig, this, social media communication Wishes) Campaign: December the first of which has been held is continued on Twitter and 15th-25th 2014 in 2014, with its R&D activities. Instagram accounts. 110 Yaşar 2014 Sustainability Report Yaşar 2014 Sustainability Report 111 GRI G3.1 Index & UNGC Principles GRI G3.1 Index GRI G3.1 Index and UNGC Principles Related Scope Page Related Scope Page Code GRI Indicators UNGC of Reported Part of the Code GRI Indicators UNGC of Reported Part of the Indıcators Report Report Indıcators Report Report Profile 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period. Fully Recognitions 109-110 1. Strategy and Analysis 3. Report Parameters UNGC Report Profile Chairperson's Message 6-7 Statement from the most senior decisionContinued Reporting period (e.g., fiscal/calendar 1.1 Fully Deputy Chairperson's Message 8-9 3.1 Fully Our Reporting Approach 5 maker of the organization. Support year) for information provided. Chief Executive Officer's Message 10-11 Statement Date of most recent previous report (if Deputy Chairperson's Message 8-9 3.2 Fully 04 July 2014 any). Chief Executive Officer's Message 10-11 Our Strategic Planning Approach 31 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.) Fully Annual Description of key impacts, risks, and Risk Management 32 Contact point for questions regarding the E-mail Addresses for Stakeholder 1.2 Fully 3.4 Fully 120 opportunities. Our Sustainability Approach 36-37, report or its contents. Feedbacks 39, Report Scope and Boundary 46-47, 50 Our Reporting Approach 5 3.5 Process for defining report content. Partially Our Stakeholders and Communication 34-35 2. Organizational Profile * Our Sustainability Approach 36-55 2.1 Name of the organization. Fully Our Reporting Approach 4-5 Boundary of the report (e.g., countries, Yaşar Holding at a Glance 12-13 divisions, subsidiaries, leased facilities, 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services. Fully 3.6 Fully Our Reporting Approach 4-5 Corporate Profile 16-25 joint ventures, suppliers). See GRI Yaşar Holding at a Glance 12-13 Boundary Protocol for further guidance. Operational structure of the organization, Corporate Profile 16-25 State any specific limitations on the including main divisions, operating 2.3 Fully Pınar Institute 90-91 scope or boundary of the report (see companies, subsidiaries, and joint 3.7 Fully Our Reporting Approach 5 Yaşar Education and Culture 92 completeness principle for explanation of ventures. Foundation scope). Our Reporting Approach 5 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, Corporate Profile 16-25 subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced 2.4 Location of organization's headquarters. Fully Back Page Back operations, and other entities that Page 3.8 Fully Our Reporting Approach 4-5 can significantly affect comparability Number of countries where the from period to period and/or between Yaşar Holding at a Glance 12-13 organizations. organization operates, and names of Corporate Profile 16-25 2.5 countries with either major operations Fully Data measurement techniques and Support to Development of Sectors 88-89 or that are specifically relevant to the the bases of calculations, including That We Operate In sustainability issues covered in the report. assumptions and techniques underlying Our Reporting Approach 4-5 Our Reporting Approach 5 estimations applied to the compilation of Energy and Climate Change 39-41, 3.9 Fully Corporate Profile 16-25 the Indicators and other information in 45 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. Fully the report. Explain any decisions not to Water and Waste Water 46 Top Management 27 Corporate Governance 28-29 apply, or to substantially diverge from, the GRI Indicator Protocols. Yaşar Holding at a Glance 12-13 Markets served (including geographic Corporate Profile 16-25 Explanation of the effect of any re2.7 breakdown, sectors served, and types of Fully Our Stakeholders and Communication 34-35 statements of information provided in customers/beneficiaries). Support to Development of Sectors 88-89 earlier reports, and the reasons for such 3.10 Fully Our Reporting Approach 4-5 That We Operate In re-statement (e.g.,mergers/acquisitions, change of base years/periods, nature of Our Reporting Approach 5 business, measurement methods). 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization. Fully Yaşar Holding at a Glance 12-13 GRI G3.1 Index Our Employment Data 78-79 Significant changes during the reporting Corporate Profile 16 2.9 period regarding size, structure, or Fully Top Management 27 (*) We are currently working on making our process more robust, especially about prioritizing key topics. We will adopt a more systematic ownership. approach in our next report. 112 Yaşar 2014 Sustainability Report Yaşar 2014 Sustainability Report 113 Related Scope Page Related Scope Page Code GRI Indicators UNGC of Reported Part of the Code GRI Indicators UNGC of Reported Part of the Indıcators Report Report Indıcators Report Report Significant changes from previous Procedures of the highest governance Our Reporting Approach 4-5 GRI G3.1 Index and UNGC Principles reporting periods in the scope, boundary, body for overseeing the organization's 3.11 Fully Corporate Profile 16 or measurement methods applied in the identification and management of Risk Management 32 Top Management 27 report. economic, environmental, and social Corporate Governance 28-29 GRI Content Index 4.9 performance, including relevant risks Fully Corporate Reputation Management 30 and opportunities, and adherence or Business Ethics 33 Table identifying the location of the compliance with internationally agreed Recruitment 56-57 3.12 Fully GRI G3.1 Index and UNGC Principles 112-118 Standard Disclosures in the report. standards, codes of conduct, and Assurance principles. Policy and current practice with regard to This report has not been externally Processes for evaluating the highest 3.13 Fully governance body's own performance, seeking external assurance for the report. assured 4.10 Fully Performance Appraisal 26 particularly with respect to economic, 4. Governance, Commitments and Engagement environmental, and social performance. Governance Risk Management 32 Governance structure of the organization, Our Environmental Concerns and 37-38 including committees under the highest Explanation of whether and how the Governance at Yaşar Group 26-29 Principles 4.1 governance body responsible for specific Fully 4.11 precautionary approach or principle is Fully Our Employment Data 81-84 Product and Service Responsibility 50 tasks, such as setting strategy or addressed by the organization. Occupational Health and 69-75 organizational oversight. Safety Indicate whether the Chair of the highest Chief Executive Officer's Message 10-11 4.2 governance body is also an executive Fully Corporate Governance 28-29 Yaşar Holding at a Glance 12-13 officer. Externally developed economic, Our Sustainability Approach 40-41 environmental, and social charters, For organizations that have a unitary 4.12 Fully Management Systems 51 principles, or other initiatives to which the board structure, state the number and Cooperation with the Representatives 86-87 organization subscribes or endorses. 4.3 gender of members of the highest Fully Corporate Governance 28-29 of Non-Governmental Organizations governance body that are independent and Industry and/or non-executive members. Memberships in associations (such as Mechanisms for shareholders and industry associations) and/or national/ Corporate Governance 28-29 international advocacy organizations in employees to provide recommendations 4.4 Fully Our Stakeholders and Communication 34-35 which the organization: * Has positions Cooperation with the Representatives or direction to the highest governance Red Seat System 65 4.13 in governance bodies; * Participates Fully of Non-Governmental Organizations 86-87 body. in projects or committees; * Provides and Industry Linkage between compensation for substantive funding beyond routine members of the highest governance membership dues; or * Views body, senior managers, and executives membership as strategic. 4.5 Fully Performance Appraisal 26 (including departure arrangements), and the organization's performance (including Our Stakeholders and Communication 34-35 social and environmental performance). List of stakeholder groups engaged by the Cooperation with the Representatives 86-87 4.14 Fully organization. of Non-Governmental Organizations Processes in place for the highest Our Risk Management 32 and Industry 4.6 governance body to ensure conflicts of Fully Understanding interest are avoided. Business Ethics 33 Our Stakeholders and Communication 34-35 Basis for identification and selection of Cooperation with the Representatives 86-87 Process for determining the composition, 4.15 Fully stakeholders with whom to engage. of Non-Governmental Organizations qualifications, and expertise of the and Industry members of the highest governance Corporate Governance 28-29 4.7 Fully Our Stakeholders and Communication 34-35 body and its committees, including Recruitment 56-57 any consideration of gender and other The Value We Add to the Lives of Our 52-55 indicators of diversity. Approaches to stakeholder engagement, Consumers 4.16 including frequency of engagement by Fully Pınar Institute 90-91 Our Mission and Corporate Values 14-15 type and by stakeholder group. Training, Meetings and Activities for 100-105 Corporate Reputation Management 30 Stakeholders Internally developed statements of Business Ethics 33 Sponsorships 106-108 mission or values, codes of conduct, Our Sustainability Approach 36-37, GRI G3.1 Index 4.8 and principles relevant to economic, Fully 39, environmental, and social performance 46-47, and the status of their implementation. 50-51, 52-53 114 Yaşar 2014 Sustainability Report Yaşar 2014 Sustainability Report 115 Related Scope Page Related Scope Page Code GRI Indicators UNGC of Reported Part of the Code GRI Indicators UNGC of Reported Part of the Indıcators Report Report Indıcators Report Report Our Environmental Concerns and 37-38 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy UNGC 8 EN7 Fully Energy and Climate Change 39-45 GRI G3.1 Index and UNGC Principles Principles consumption and reductions achieved. UNGC 9 Key topics and concerns that have been Our Relations with Society 56, 64, Strategies, current actions, and Corporate Profile 20 raised through stakeholder engagement, 69, EN14 future plans for managing impacts on UNGC 8 Fully Our Environmental Concerns and 37 4.17 and how the organization has responded Fully 74-77, biodiversity. Principles to those key topics and concerns, 86-87 including through its reporting. UNGC 7 Support to Development of Sectors 88-89 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas That We Operate In EN18 UNGC 8 Fully Energy and Climate Change 39-45 emissions and reductions achieved. UNGC 9 Economic Total weight of waste by type and Our Mission and Corporate Values 14-15 EN22 UNGC 8 Fully Used Materials and Waste 47-49 disposal method. Corporate Governance 28-29 Management Approach Our Strategic Planning Approach 31 Total number and volume of significant Our Environmental Concerns and EN23 UNGC 8 Fully 37 Risk Management 32 spills. Principles Our Sustainability Approach 36-37 Initiatives to mitigate environmental UNGC 7 Energy and Climate Change 39-45 Direct economic value generated and EN26 impacts of products and services, and UNGC 8 Fully Used Materials and Waste 47-49 distributed, including revenues, operating extent of impact mitigation. UNGC 9 costs, employee compensation, donations Percentage of products sold and their EC1 Partially Yaşar Holding at a Glance 13 UNGC 8 and other community investments, EN27 packaging materials that are reclaimed by Fully Used Materials and Waste 47 UNGC 9 retained earnings, and payments to category. capital providers and governments. Labor Practices and Decent Work Chairperson’s Message 6-7 Management Approach Our Relations with Society 56-81 Deputy Chairperson’s Message 8-9 Financial implications and other risks Chief Executive Officer’s Message 10-11 Total workforce by employment type, EC2 and opportunities for the organization's UNGC 7 Fully Our Sustainability Approach 36-37, LA1 employment contract, and region, broken Fully Our Employment Data 78-85 activities due to climate change. 39, down by gender. 46-47, Total number and rate of new employee 50 Recruitment 56-57 LA2 hires and employee turnover by age UNGC 6 Partially Our Employment Data 78-79 Range of ratios of standard entry level group, gender, and region. wage by gender compared to local Our Compensation Percentage of employees covered by UNGC 1 EC5 UNGC 1 Partially 58 LA4 Fully Right to Association 76-77 minimum wage at significant locations of Management System collective bargaining agreements. UNGC 3 operation. Minimum notice period(s) regarding Procedures for local hiring and proportion significant operational changes, including of senior management hired from the LA5 UNGC 3 Fully Legal Rights of Employees 59 EC7 UNGC 6 Partially Our Employment Data 78 whether it is specified in collective local community at significant locations of agreements. operation. Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost Environmental days, and absenteeism, and number of Occupational Health and LA7 UNGC 1 Partially 69-73 Our Sustainability 36-37, work-related fatalities by region and by Safety Approach 39, gender. Management Approach 46-47, Education, training, counseling, 50-51 prevention, and risk-control programs Occupational Health and Percentage of materials used that are UNGC 8 LA8 in place to assist workforce members, UNGC 1 Fully 69-75 EN2 Partially Used Materials and Waste 49 Safety recycled input materials. UNGC 9 their families, or community members regarding serious diseases. Direct energy consumption by primary EN3 UNGC 8 Partially Energy and Climate Change 39 Health and safety topics covered in formal energy source. LA9 UNGC 1 Fully Right to Association 76-77 agreements with trade unions. Indirect energy consumption by primary EN4 UNGC 8 Fully Energy and Climate Change 39 Average hours of training per year per source. LA10 employee by gender, and by employee Fully Employees’ Right to Development 61-68 Energy saved due to conservation and UNGC 8, EN5 Fully Energy and Climate Change 39-45 category. efficiency improvements. UNGC 9 Programs for skills management and GRI G3.1 Index Initiatives to provide energy-efficient lifelong learning that support the or renewable energy based products LA11 Fully Employees’ Right to Development 61-74 UNGC 8 continued employability of employees and EN6 and services, and reductions in energy Fully Energy and Climate Change 39-45 UNGC 9 assist them in managing career endings. requirements as a result of these initiatives. 116 Yaşar 2014 Sustainability Report Yaşar 2014 Sustainability Report 117 Related Scope Page Code GRI Indicators UNGC of Reported Part of the Indıcators Report Report Percentage of employees receiving regular LA12 performance and career development Fully Leadership Development Programs 63-64 reviews, by gender. Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee UNGC 1 UNGC Principles LA13 category according to gender, age group, Fully Our Employment Data 78-85 UNGC 6 GRI G3.1 Index and UNGC Principles minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity. Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of UNGC 1 Our Compensation Management LA14 women to men by employee category, by Fully 58 UNGC 6 Systems significant locations of operation. Human Rights 56-59 Management Approach Our Relations with Society 74-77 Operations and significant suppliers identified as having significant risk for UNGC 1 HR6 incidents of child labor, and measures UNGC 2 Partially Child Labor 58 taken to contribute to the effective UNGC 5 abolition of child labor. Operations and significant suppliers Subjects UNGC Principles identified as having significant risk UNGC 1 Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. for incidents of forced or compulsory Involuntary Servitude and Forced HR7 UNGC 2 Fully 58-59 labor, and measures to contribute to Labor Principle 2: Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. UNGC 4 the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor. Labor Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization's policies or UNGC 1 Principle 4: Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor. HR8 Fully Security Services 74-75 procedures concerning aspects of human UNGC 2 Principle 5: Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labor. rights that are relevant to operations. Principle 6: Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and Society occupation. Governance at Yaşar Group 28-33 Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Our Environmental Concerns and 37 Management Approach Principles Principle 8: Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Our Social Contribution 90-97 Principle 9: Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly Percentage and total number of business Risk Management 32 technologies. SO2 units analyzed for risks related to UNGC 10 Partially Anti-Corruption Practices 32 corruption. Business Ethics 33 Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Risk Management 32 Actions taken in response to incidents of SO4 UNGC 10 Fully Anti-Corruption Practices 32 corruption. Business Ethics 33 Prevention and mitigation measures implemented in operations with significant Our Environmental Concerns and SO10 Partially 37 potential or actual negative impacts on Principles local communities. Product Responsibility Management Approach Product and Service Responsibility 50-55 GRI G3.1 Index UNGC Principles Type of product and service information required by procedures, and percentage PR3 UNGC 8 Partially Product and Service Responsibility 50 of significant products and services subject to such information requirements. Practices related to customer satisfaction, The Value We Add to the Lives of Our PR5 including results of surveys measuring Fully 52-55 Consumers customer satisfaction. Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary codes related PR6 Fully Product and Service Responsibility 50 to marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship. 118 Yaşar 2014 Sustainability Report Yaşar 2014 Sustainability Report 119 Report Name Period Publication Date Scope Yaşar 2009 UNGC COP Report 01.01.2008 31.12.2009 30.03.2010 The companies indicated on pages 5-8 Yaşar 2010 UNGC COP Report 01.01.2010 31.12.2010 08.04.2011 The companies indicated on pages 9-13 Yaşar 2011 Sustainability Report 01.01.2011 31.12.2011 06.07.2012 The companies indicated on pages 12-33 Yaşar 2012 Sustainability Report 01.01.2012 31.12.2012 06.07.2013 The companies indicated on pages 14-27 Yaşar 2013 Sustainability Report 01.01.2013 31.12.2013 04.07.2014 The companies indicated on pages 12-21 Yaşar 2014 Sustainability Report 01.01.2014 31.12.2014 04.07.2015 The companies indicated on pages 16-25 E-mail Addresses for Stakeholder Feedbacks: You may transmit us all your opinions, suggestions, and questions concerning the Sustainability Report printed by the Yaşar Group to the e-mail address specified below: Yaşar Holding A.Ş forabetterlife@yasar.com.tr Izmir Head Office “Yaşar 2014 Sustainability Report” is prepared exclusively for informing Şehit Fethi Bey Cad. No: 120 35210 purposes. Sources and information believed to be true and reliable Izmir Turkey pertaining to the period covered by the report were used. The Phone: +90 232 495 00 00 (Pbx) content appearing in the present report may not be interpreted as Fax: +90 232 484 17 89 483 46 59 a statement, guarantee or commitment, and the completeness and E-mail: info@yasar.com.tr unchangeableness of the relevant content is not guaranteed. Web: www.yasar.com.tr All rights pertaining to the present report belong to Yaşar Holding A.Ş. We express our thanks to Sustainability Reporting Team Istanbul Representative Office Members Setüstü No: 23 Kabataş 34427 Istanbul Turkey Due to their contribution to the preparation of Yaşar 2014 Sustainability Report, we extend our sincere thanks to; Phone: +90 212 251 46 40 (Pbx) Fax: +90 212 244 42 00 the Sustainability Committee, E-mail: info@yasar.com.tr Sustainability Reporting Team members, Carbon and Water Footprint Team Members, Ankara Representative Office Gazi Mustafa Kemal Bulvarı And to our Carbon and Water Leaders... Ali Suavi Sokak No: 11 Maltepe 06570 Ankara Turkey Phone: +90 312 294 92 00 (Pbx) Fax: +90 312 232 01 82 232 16 73 FSC C021878 E-mail: info@yasar.com.tr ® 120 Yaşar 2014 Sustainability Report Yaşar 2014 Sustainability Report
