annual report 2014 LANXESS Group Key Data € million Q4 2013 Q4 2014 Change % 2013 2014 Change % Sales 2,014 1,904 (5.5) 8,300 8,006 (3.5) EBITDA pre exceptionals 176 154 (12.5) 735 808 9.9 EBITDA margin pre exceptionals 8.7% 8.1% 8.9% 10.1% EBITDA 123 62 (49.6) 624 644 3.2 Operating result (EBIT) pre exceptionals 55 49 (10.9) 288 402 39.6 Operating result (EBIT) (262) (62) 76.3 (93) 218 > 100 EBIT margin (13.0)% (3.3)% (1.1)% 2.7% Net income (loss) (204) (68) 66.7 (159) 47 > 100 Earnings per share (€) (2.45) (0.74) 69.8 (1.91) 0.53 > 100 Dividend per share (€) 0.50 0.50 1) 0.0 ROCE 5.8% 7.9% Cash flow from operating activities 330 374 13.3 641 797 24.3 Depreciation and amortization 385 124 (67.8) 717 426 (40.6) Cash outflows for capital expenditures 226 240 6.2 624 614 (1.6) Total assets 6,811 7,250 6.4 Equity (including non-controlling interests) 1,900 2,161 13.7 Equity ratio 27.9% 29.8% Net financial liabilities 1,731 1,336 (22.8) Employees (as of December 31) 17,343 16,584 (4.4) Personnel expenses (€ million) 1,339 1,457 8.8 Work-related injuries resulting in at least 1 day’s absence (per million hours worked) 3.2 2.3 Energy consumption (petajoules) 53 53 0.0 Total water consumption (in million cubic meters) 296 289.5 (2.2) Emissions of greenhouse gases (CO2 equivalents in thousand tons) 1,775 1,751 (1.4) Emissions of volatile organic compounds (in thousand tons) 6.6 5.7 (13.6) Total waste (in thousand tons) 273 292 7.0 Production wastewater (in million cubic meters) 32 31.5 (1.6) 1) Dividend proposal to the Annual Stockholders' Meeting on May 13, 2015 Sales by Region Employees by Region (as of December 31) % % 25.9 28.7 16.5 19.7 Asia-Pacific EMEA (excluding Germany) Asia-Pacific EMEA (excluding Germany) 8.8 Latin America 10.7 8.3 Latin America North America 16.7 18.0 46.7 North America Germany Germany This annual report contains forward-looking statements based on current assumptions and forecasts made by LANXESS AG management. Various known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors could lead to material differences between the actual future results, financial situation, development or performance of the company and the estimates given here. The company assumes no liability whatsoever to update these forward-looking statements or to conform them to future events or developments. CO NT EN 2 3 4 12 Letter to Stockholders Management Strategy Corporate Responsibility T 44 Investor Information 52 Corporate Governance 62 Report of the Supervisory Board 66 Financial Information 67 Combined Management Report 126 Consolidated Financial Statements 186 Responsibility Statement 187 Auditor’s Report 188 About this Report 189 HSEQ: Independent Assurance Report 191 GRI Content Index 198 Glossary 200 Index 201 Graphics and Tables 202 Financial Calendar/Contact 2 LANXESS Annual Report 2014 Letter to Stockholders 2014 was a year of realignment for LANXESS. Thorough analysis of our situation showed that overcapacities for rubber products, limited cost structure competitiveness and high investment commitments require us to make courageous changes if we want to restore our business to its former strength. Although LANXESS finished fiscal 2014 with higher earnings than in the prior year, this increase did nothing to alter the fundamental challenges we face. To be successful in the future, LANXESS must become more competitive and profitable again. In the third quarter of 2014, therefore, we initiated a three-phase realignment program named “Let’s LANXESS again.” This followed the capital increase undertaken in May to give ourselves the necessary financial headroom and, at the same time, reduce our debt. In the first phase of the program, we improved the efficiency of our corporate structure and reduced the number of our business units from 14 to 10. Additionally, we are currently reducing our workforce by some 1,000 positions worldwide – particularly in our administrative functions. Having to say farewell to the employees affected is painful for us all, which is why I am especially pleased we have been able to achieve the workforce reductions in Germany by the end of fiscal 2014 without the need for business-related dismissals. We have also already started the second phase of the realignment program aimed at achieving improvements along our entire value chain. We expect the first results of these activities to take effect in the current fiscal year. And we have initiated the first steps of the program’s third phase as well. Here, the focus is on improving access to raw materials and customer markets. As you can see, we are rapidly driving forward our realignment. We have already made good progress but have gone only part of the way toward restoring LANXESS to its former strength and returning the company to a path of sustainable growth. Continuing on this course, we – as a global specialty chemicals company – will not lose sight of our responsibility for people and the environment. We demonstrated our awareness of this by reaffirming our commitment to the principles of the Global Compact in 2014. The past fiscal year was one of the most difficult in our company’s history to date. However, it reminded us of LANXESS’s early years and how substantial commitment, an effective strategy and broad solidarity­ enabled us to steer our company to success once before. On behalf of my colleagues on the Board of Management,­I would therefore like to express my particular gratitude to our employees for their outstanding performance under difficult circumstances during 2014. I would also like to thank our customers, business partners and not least you, our stockholders, for the confidence you have shown in us. We will continue to do everything we can to ensure the future success of our company. Matthias Zachert (Chairman of the Board of Management) Letter to Stockholders | Management 3 Management Matthias Zachert Chairman of the Board of Management Matthias Zachert was born in Bonn in 1967. After completing a commercial apprenticeship, he studied business administration, majoring in finance and international management. Matthias Zachert served as Chief Financial Officer of LANXESS AG from 2004 to 2011, where he had a key role in realigning the company. From June 2011, he was a member of the Executive Board and Chief Financial Officer at Merck KGaA. Matthias Zachert was appointed Chairman of the Board of Management of LANXESS AG effective April 1, 2014. Dr. Bernhard Düttmann Chief Financial Officer Bernhard Düttmann was born in Düsseldorf in 1959. He studied business administration at the University of Cologne, where he also obtained his doctorate. In 1989 he joined Beiersdorf AG, where he was latterly the Executive Board Member responsible for Finance/Human Resources and held regional responsibility for the Middle East, Africa and Turkey. Bernhard Düttmann was appointed by the Supervisory Board of LANXESS AG on April 1, 2011, to become the company’s Chief Financial Officer. Dr. Rainier van Roessel Member of the Board of Management (Industrial Relations Director) Rainier van Roessel was born in 1957 in Oisterwijk in the Netherlands. He studied business administration at the University of Cologne, where he also obtained his doctorate, and joined Bayer AG in 1988. When the LANXESS organization was set up in 2004, he became Head of the Rubber Chemicals business unit, and in June 2006 he was additionally appointed Managing Director of LANXESS N.V., Antwerp, Belgium. Rainier van Roessel was ­appointed to the LANXESS AG Board of Management on January 1, 2007. 4 LANXESS Annual Report 2014 Strategy Strategy 5 Let’s LANXESS Mobility With economic growth and rising prosperity, particularly in emerging nations and developing countries, our world is becoming again increasingly mobile. Market research company LMC Automotive forecasts that the number of cars in use worldwide will increase by some 3% each year through 2020. However, this growth goes hand in hand with increasing emissions and higher consumption of resources. Making mobility more environmentally friendly is therefore one of the greatest technical challenges of our time. The business units in our Performance Polymers segment can use their technologies and A changed market environment for the products to significantly contribute toward mastering this challenge. ­rubber business, limited cost structure Since around one quarter of a car’s fuel consumption is accounted competitiveness and high cash outflows for for by its tires’ rolling resistance, improving the energy efficiency of tires is the primary strategy. As the market leader in high-performance major investments hampered LANXESS’s rubbers, we make it possible to combine low rolling resistance, good economic development last year. Through wet grip and durability in modern tires. Regulations mandating the labeling of new tires to show their fuel efficiency, wet grip and noise our Group-wide realignment program emissions – like those introduced in the European Union at the end “Let’s LANXESS again,” we are therefore of 2012 – are a sustainable growth driver for our business. In both the medium and long term, they will translate into an increase in working to make our company significantly demand for green tires, which can only be produced using high-tech more competitive and profitable again. synthetic rubber. However, the European Union is not alone in its efforts. Japanese tire manufacturers voluntarily introduced a comparable labeling system at the start of 2010. In December 2012, South Korea introduced mandatory tire labeling based on the E.U. model; the As expected, fiscal 2014 was a challenging year for LANXESS. China Rubber Industry Association did likewise at the start of 2014 Although we increased our key financial indicator – EBITDA pre exwith its Green Tire Technology Specification. From November 2016, ceptionals – compared with 2013, our earning power is still a long all tires imported to Brazil or manufactured there for the local market way from the level we achieved in previous years. Since April 2014, will have to be labeled in this way, too. Similar legislation is also being under the leadership of our new CEO Matthias Zachert, we have been discussed in the United States. carefully and self-critically analyzing the situation of our company. The second approach for achieving environmentally friendly mobility is the substitution of traditional materials, such as steel or aluminum, with Key trends offering further growth innovative plastics and intelligent composites. In 2014, new vehicles contained an average of around 18 kilograms of high-tech plastics. Although the consolidation measures taken in response to the soverBy 2019, this is likely to have increased to around 25 kilograms. eign debt crisis remain a significant brake on economic momentum These materials are easier to process than metal components. They in our European markets, the alignment of our product portfolio to have outstanding mechanical properties and weigh up to 50% less the four most important global megatrends is proving to be correct in than their metal counterparts. By using our high-tech plastics, the principle because continuous and above-average growth is forecasted automotive industry can therefore lower production costs, increase for these four areas in the coming years as well. design freedom and improve vehicle safety in one single step. Other advantages include significant environmental benefits, because lighter cars consume less fuel, which also results in lower emissions. 6 LANXESS Annual Report 2014 Agriculture The steadily growing global population is probably the key Structural challenges on the supply side driver of this megatrend. According to current United Nations forecasts, it will rise to around 9.6 billion in 2050. The Consultative Group on Three significant changes have come together on the supply side. International Agricultural Research (CGIAR) estimates that global food production must expand by 60% by 2050 to meet the needs of this 1. The European chemical industry – and thus also LANXESS – rapid population growth. The situation is compounded by changing is increasingly experiencing cost disadvantages in the global eating habits worldwide and the growing use of crops as alternative competitive arena. While labor costs in the European Union energy sources. The product portfolios of the business units in our have always been higher than in the emerging economies Advanced Intermediates segment include many key intermediates for or the United States, now the costs of raw materials and synthesizing agrochemicals that can help farmers protect their crops energy supply are also increasing disproportionately. German and increase their yields. companies are being particularly hard hit by the development of domestic energy prices. Urbanization The United Nations forecasts that the proportion of citydwellers in the world population will increase from slightly more than 2. New technologies and competitors are having a sustained 50% at present to just under 70% by 2050. The urbanization trend impact on market conditions. Our established markets are is most evident in emerging and developing countries. It is believed being penetrated by companies from the emerging countries that 11 new cities with more than ten million inhabitants will develop that are state-owned or at least supported by state subsidies. in China and India before the end of this decade. Our products are Their objectives are not always just business-related. The used in a large number of customer industries that are benefiting from growing availability of shale gas in the United States and the increasing urbanization. resulting investments in energy-intensive production facilities are expected to further intensify import pressure on the EuroWater Usable water is one of the most valuable of all raw materials. pean markets. Even in areas where it is available in sufficient quantities, water often cannot be used due to high levels of contamination. State-of-the-art 3. In particular, our competitors in the emerging economies industrial processes cannot be implemented safely and economically of Asia – here especially China – have steadily reduced their without ultra pure water. Studies suggest that the demand for clean dependence on imports by building their own production cawater in 2030 will exceed current supply levels by around 40%. We pacities. As a result, export opportunities to the world’s growth aim to contribute to closing that gap. Products and processes marketed regions are successively declining. In addition, suppliers from by our business units, especially Liquid Purification Technologies, the Middle East and China are increasingly producing highhave an increasingly important role in the treatment of drinking water, quality products. wastewater and process water. Although raw material and energy prices declined during the second half of 2014, the structural developments are impacting our business with synthetic rubbers especially. Production overcapacities of some 20% already exist for the main rubber grades. Additional capacity start-ups, especially for EPDM and butyl rubbers, could make it even more difficult to correct this imbalance in the coming years. Our realignment aims to address this challenge as well. ­LANXESS Acts Sustainably Good for Business Good for Society • Strengthening the reputation and positive image • Protection of climate/environment of the company • Social responsibility • Transparency, trust and good partnership Corporate • Training and education with stakeholder groups Responsibility • Culture • Satisfied employees and stakeholders • Safety and security • Increasing awareness among customers and public • Neighborhood Strategy 7 Four main success factors identified •S trategy & Employees Although the chemical industry’s traditional strategy models (e. g. commodities versus specialties, This change process, which is being additionally accelerated by global versus local presence) are still fundamentally intact, the globalization, is characterized above all by the following four success ability to quickly adapt to even temporary changes in market factors, which will be crucial to the future competitiveness of European conditions is gaining relevance. In this connection, the demands chemical companies. made on the company’s employees in terms of their leadership ability, adaptability and flexibility are also continually increasing. • Innovation Ongoing process optimization and high innovative strength in respect of both technologies and products will remain As far as innovation is concerned, we believe our company is well key differentiation factors for the European chemical industry in positioned because we not only reliably deliver premium-quality prodthe future as well. ucts to our customers, we actively support their innovation processes and thus add measurable value. In this way, we are able to strengthen • Standards Quality and service are the main characteristics which customer loyalty and achieve clear differentiation from our competitors. set established suppliers apart from new competitors from the Our research and development activities are closely allied to the needs emerging economies. In addition, the growing awareness of enviof the market and our customers. Each business unit therefore has ronmental and sustainability issues is increasing the significance its own development capacities which are primarily used in product of resource-friendly production and the need for chemical proddevelopment and optimization. These are supplemented by a central ucts which enhance the sustainability in use of the end products organizational unit dedicated to process innovation. Further informathey are used to manufacture. tion about our research and development activities can be found in the combined management report on page 77 of this Annual Report. •P  roductivity Especially in the synthetic rubbers business, a critical mass – i. e. an adequately large market share – is essential to achieving economies of scale in production. At the same time, cost structures must be kept lean. Around 60% of LANXESS’s Businesses Are Well Positioned While Some 40% Face a Challenging Situation Sales breakdown 2014, % ~40 ~60 Tire & Specialty Rubbers (TSR) High Performance Materials (HPM) High Performance Elastomers (HPE) Advanced Industrial Intermediates (AII) Saltigo (SGO) Material Protection Products (MPP) Inorganic Pigments (IPG) Rhein Chemie Additives (ADD) Leather (LEA) Liquid Purification Technologies (LPT) Good portfolio Challenging situation structure Size & market position Asset base & end-market diversification Cost structure & processes Supply/demand Backward integration not needed Well positioned Solid, but operational improvements targeted Strategic focus to address weaknesses 8 LANXESS Annual Report 2014 LANXESS also holds leadership positions in its markets in respect of However, our analysis has also shown a need for action relating to standards. Some years ago already, we began aligning our organization the Productivity and Strategy & Employees success factors. We must and product portfolio to reflect the continually growing importance tangibly improve the efficiency of our business and administration of sustainability and we have made steady progress in this regard. In processes and reposition all LANXESS’s business units at all stages 2014, we reaffirmed our commitment to the Responsible Care® Global of the value-added chain so we can clearly substantiate a claim to Charter. The energy management system to ISO 50001 introduced excellence. at our international sites in recent years is to be certification-ready in the first quarter of 2015. Many of our production processes, like those used by our Inorganic Pigments business unit, set global standards Extensive realignment program progressing rapidly in ecology. It is not only in the area of mobility, as described above, in which we are responding to the growing significance of sustainability In the third quarter of 2014, against the background described here, by steadily expanding our sustainable product offering. Our Leather we initiated the three-phase “Let’s LANXESS again” program aimed business unit, for example, successfully markets an entire portfolio at the global realignment of the company. We have been working of products for sustainable leather manufacture. All these activities since then to consistently implement this program. In order to fund and measures demonstrate our commitment to making safety, envithe realignment and directly strengthen our financial position, we sucronmental protection, social responsibility, quality and cost-efficiency cessfully increased our capital at the beginning of May, thus expanding integral aspects of our business operations. “Good for business, good our equity base by around €430 million. for ­society.” ­This short sentence perfectly sums up our principle and ­reflects our conviction that our products and activities make a significant contribution to strengthening our customers’ businesses and imPhase I: Competitiveness of the business and proving the quality of life of people everywhere. The greatest benefits of administrative structure our corporate responsibility activities are achieved if they are balanced with entrepreneurial and, especially, economic objectives. They must In the first phase of the program, we consolidated the number of our therefore be linked to our core business or to our available expertise. business units from 14 to 10 with effect from January 1, 2015. The Further information about our commitment to sustainability can be Butyl Rubber and Performance Butadiene Rubbers business units found in the “Corporate Responsibility” section starting on page 12. were merged to form the Tire & Specialty Rubbers business unit. This decision was based on overlapping customer structures, regional commonalities in the established markets and changed conditions in the emerging economies. Furthermore, LANXESS consolidated the High Performance Elastomers and Keltan Elastomers business units in “Let’s LANXESS Again” – A Three-Phase Realignment Program Is Being Implemented III. C  ompetitiveness of the Competitiveness business portfolio II. Operational competitiveness • E  valuate portfolio options to better balance the company’s structure I. C  ompetitiveness of the business and administrative structure • Manufacturing  excellence: • C  onsider partnerships to improve – Analyze and adjust asset base access to raw materials, e.g. for the rubber – Evaluate temporary and permanent businesses • C  onsolidate business units and group site closures • Improve market access, e.g. through functions with similar business models – Implement operational best practices marketing alliances • Improve customer and market • Commercial and supply chain excellence focus and leverage synergies • D  evelop leaner administrative structures by restructuring and adjusting business models Leadership excellence and performance culture Strategy 9 Leaner and More Effective – The New Alignment of Our Business Units • Butyl Rubber • Performance Butadiene Rubbers • Tire & Specialty Rubbers Performance Polymers • Keltan Elastomers Performance Polymers • High Performance Elastomers • High Performance Elastomers • High Performance Materials • High Performance Materials • Advanced Industrial Intermediates • Advanced Industrial Intermediates Advanced Intermediates Advanced Intermediates • Saltigo • Saltigo • Material Protection Products • Inorganic Pigments • Material Protection Products • Functional Chemicals • Inorganic Pigments Performance Chemicals • Leather Performance Chemicals • Rhein Chemie Additives • Rhein Chemie • Leather • Rubber Chemicals • Liquid Purification Technologies • Liquid Purification Technologies Sales: > €500 million Sales: €200 million – €500 million Sales: < €200 million the High Performance Elastomers business unit. Here, too, there were Phase II: Operational competitiveness substantial overlaps in customer structures. The specialty chemicals product line of the Rubber Chemicals business unit, the Functional As part of the second phase of the “Let’s LANXESS again” program, Chemicals business unit and the Rhein Chemie business unit now we started two excellence initiatives focusing on our operational comcomprise the new Rhein Chemie Additives business unit. Consolidatpetitiveness. A manufacturing excellence initiative is examining the ing our additives business operations will enable us to access new possibility of temporary or permanent plant closures and analyzing all markets and customers. The antioxidants and accelerators product production processes and facilities with respect to market requirements lines of the Rubber Chemicals business unit are being integrated into and potential synergies. The primary objective through 2016 is to the portfolio of the Advanced Industrial Intermediates business unit. establish a distinct improvement culture in our production operations and implement best practices as far as possible across the board. In We have also streamlined the administration of our company through the second instance, we aim to identify production facilities which are cross-functional workforce reductions worldwide and the consolidation not sufficiently competitive as things stand at present. On conclusion of group functions. The Aliseca, Industrial & Environmental Affairs and of our analysis, we cannot rule out the possibility that entire sites may Innovation & Technology group functions have been merged to form be shut down either temporarily or permanently. At the same time, a the new Production, Technology, Safety & Environment Group Funcfurther initiative is focusing on commercial and supply chain exceltion. Legal & Compliance integrates the former Internal Auditing and lence. Important objectives in this respect are the critical analysis of Law and Intellectual Property group functions with Corporate Security. our current marketing strategies, the greatest possible harmonization and automation of processes, leaner legal structures and the identiA more efficient organizational structure is intended not only to foster fication of potential synergies between our business units and within market and customer proximity but also to sustainably improve our cost individual regions. We are seeking to develop an implementation-ready position. From the end of 2016, we aim to achieve annual savings of concept by mid-2015. around €150 million through the key measures described here and a large number of additional optimizations in our business units and group functions. By that time, the first phase of the realignment should Phase III: Competitiveness of the business portfolio result in a reduction of about 1,000 positions worldwide – roughly half of them in Germany. The responsible employee representatives We have already initiated the first steps of the program’s third phase as have been involved in the process. In connection with these job well, which must be considered in close conjunction with the second reductions, we anticipate exceptional charges totaling around phase. Here, the focus is on examining portfolio options with a view €150 million through 2016 – some €110 million of which were to improving access to raw materials and customer markets – also already posted in fiscal 2014. through strategic partnerships. One possible option could be vertical 10 LANXESS Annual Report 2014 “Let’s LANXESS Again” – Phase I Focused on Reducing Administrative Costs ~ €15 million ~ €150 million BU/GF 1) Region ~ €60 million Asia-Pacific Latin America BU North America EMEA ~ €25 million ~ €50 million GF Germany TSR, HPE, ADD & PTSE Other Other Total savings AII business units Group Function group functions business units 1) BU business unit GF group function cooperation with a petrochemical company to secure our supply of key tive approach to investments in the future. As a result, cash outflows raw materials in the long term and thus strengthen our cost position. for investment activity in 2016 are to be as much as €200 million Especially in the rubber business, horizontal cooperation could also below the current level. In this way, we aim to create the financial be envisaged. For example, we could work with a strategic partner headroom we need in order to redirect our strategic focus beyond to optimize the joint asset base for a certain type of rubber. During 2016 toward growth. fiscal 2015, we aim to develop and announce concrete steps for the third phase. Beyond 2016: moderate growth, a balanced portfolio, reduced cyclicality Sustainable improvement of our financial position One important pillar of our future growth strategy will be the expansion Clear Capital Allocation Priorities of our position in less cyclical businesses. We are therefore strengthening our focus more than before on the Advanced Intermediates and Until 2016 Beyond 2016 Performance Chemicals segments. 1. Debt repayment 1. Portfolio management 2. Restructuring 2. Dividends As far as Advanced Intermediates is concerned, we are aiming to con3. Growth 3. Organic growth 4. Dividends 4. Debt repayment tinually expand in line with global GDP growth. This is to be achieved 5. Share buybacks by, in particular, debottlenecking production, efficiency enhancements and investments in existing facilities. We will examine any options for acquisitions that arise. Moderate growth is also the objective for PerWith our “Let’s LANXESS again” program, we are not only seeking formance Chemicals. We aim to achieve this by expanding our global to strengthen our operational competitiveness but also to sustainpresence through both organic growth and acquisitions. We plan to ably improve our financial position. In doing so, the aim is always to continue expanding our asset base in Asia especially. We also intend safeguard our investment-grade rating. Alongside the cost savings to improve our profitability by consolidating businesses with similar already described, this is to be achieved above all by a far more seleccustomer industries in our portfolio. Strategy 11 Against the backdrop of intact demand development and our strong market positions, we are confident that the Performance Polymers segment will successively benefit in the future from our investment activities to date. We will concentrate here on selective organic growth accompanied by ongoing efficiency enhancements and an investment policy aligned to maintenance. Outlook We anticipate that our earnings in fiscal 2015 will be influenced by the persistently challenging competitive environment, especially for our synthetic rubber businesses. Additional effects will likely come from the ramp-up costs for our new rubber plants and the associated idle capacity costs. We do not expect any significant momentum for our business development from the slight growth forecast for the global economy. 2015 for us will be very largely shaped by the implementation of our “Let’s LANXESS again” realignment program, with the focus especially on the ongoing measures comprising its second and third phases. We predict EBITDA pre exceptionals for the full year 2015 to be just about on a comparable level to 2014. This takes account of the anticipated cost savings from the realignment initiated in the reporting year. With around €2 billion in cash and undrawn credit lines, we have a very good liquidity and financing position which will enable us to safeguard our entrepreneurial flexibility and implement our ongoing realignment program. LANXESS remains well positioned with its product portfolio in the ­relevant customer industries and key global markets. We are convinced that we can restore our business to its former strength in the medium term by making our organizational structure more efficient, improving competitiveness at all stages of the value-added chain and adjusting our portfolio to reflect structural market changes. 12 LANXESS Annual Report 2014 Corporate Responsibility Corporate Responsibility 13 Corporate The HSEQ Committee, comprising LANXESS’s senior executives under the direction of Board of Management member Dr. Rainier van Responsibility Roessel, is tasked with ensuring worldwide compliance with uniformly high quality management, safety, environmental and climate protection standards. The committee has responsibility for initiating and monitoring the global implementation of all necessary HSEQ guidelines, strategies and programs, as well as for defining our HSEQ objectives and monitoring their achievement. It also defines the global strategy for our integrated quality and environmental management system in As an international specialty chemicals accordance with ISO 9001 and ISO 14001. group, we bear a major responsibility The Compliance Committee, which is made up of representatives from toward people and the environment. Our a range of specialist backgrounds, handles all referrals concerning compliance violations, with the goal of countering illegal or unethical entrepreneurial activities reflect this sense conduct by LANXESS employees at an early stage and introducing of responsibility, which is also a key composuitable measures to prevent improprieties. nent of our strategy. Safety, environmental protection, social responsibility, quality and Integrated management system drives success commercial efficiency are all key corporate At LANXESS, a central management system provides the necessary goals at LANXESS. global structures to ensure responsible commercial practices. With this toolbox, we have created a transparent framework of values and rules that unites management and employees across national borders. Worldwide, we are guided by internal directives and operating Good for business, good for society procedures and by the international quality and environmental standards ISO 9001 and ISO 14001. In the firm conviction that economic success and social values and benefits may be mutually profitable, LANXESS’s approach can be External, independent experts regularly audit the progress of system summed up by the sentence: “Good for business, good for society.” Our integration at new sites and the performance of our management Corporate Responsibility (CR) activities focus on climate protection, system worldwide. Confirmation of our compliance with ISO 9001 water, education and cultural involvement. All measures are linked to and ISO 14001 takes the form of a global matrix certificate. We sucour core business and should benefit it in the long term. cessfully completed a follow-up audit in 2014. As of December 31, 2014, our matrix certificate covered 46 comClearly defined responsibilities panies with 76 sites in 23 countries. In 2014, the new butyl rubber production facility in Singapore was included in the certificate for the We have established various committees to ensure compliance with first time as planned. Our sites in the United States have also received and the ongoing development of our CR strategy and the rules and confirmation of certification to RC 14001 (RC = Responsible Care®). standards defined in our management system. In 2015, we plan to integrate the sites at Epierre, France, and Lipetsk, Russia, into the matrix certificate. The CR Committee, which is made up of representatives from selected group functions, is responsible for developing our CR strategy and HSEQ (health, safety, environmental protection and quality) manageensures that all LANXESS’s CR activities are in line with this strategy. ment is an important part of our integrated management system. In its capacity as an interdisciplinary competence center, it advises We have aligned our HSEQ management system toward ensuring both the Board of Management and the business units on all matuniform standards and reference bases for all our sites worldwide. ters relating to sustainability. It is also responsible for collecting and The key performance indicators (KPIs) required for this purpose are maintaining reliable data that comply with current market standards recorded electronically, thus enabling us to systematically determine for use in our external CR communications. and analyze performance in each business unit and at each site and to develop this sustainably in the future. 14 LANXESS Annual Report 2014 Comprehensive values system established instance, we define applicable law as any applicable international or national legislation in the jurisdictions in which LANXESS operates. All management systems are based on values and guidelines that Moreover, human rights and ethical principles are considered to take provide a clear framework for a company’s management and employprecedence in all cases, even if they are not stipulated in the appliees. Our system is based on established global standards and on our cable legislation. In this context, we have also signed the U.N. Global company’s own basic rules, which are subject to ongoing amendment. Compact, and recognize the principles it sets forth as inalienable rights. In the Annual Report 2013, we reaffirmed our commitment to these Compliance LANXESS considers compliance with laws and ethical principles for the year under review. You can find more information principles to be the basis of sustainable corporate governance. Our about the Global Compact at www.unglobalcompact.org. We consider employees’ integrity and awareness of their responsibilities are key the stated principle of legality and ethical behavior to be more than factors in the success of our company. The Code for Legal Complijust compliance issues. Instead, we see them as inextricable aspects ance and Corporate Responsibility at LANXESS, which is applicable of our corporate responsibility and sustainability culture. throughout the Group, specifies minimum standards and gives our employees advice and guidance on complying with these standards. We have established a Compliance Management System to implement our clear commitment to compliance in our daily business activities. As a global enterprise, we are committed in all our markets to proThis system supports and guides decision-makers and other company moting respect for human rights at all times and preventing child and employees in their actions. In this way, we eliminate any potential forced labor. Our code also covers issues such as anti-competitive uncertainties relating to our compliance principles. These range from behavior, anti-corruption, data protection, occupational, product and basic questions such as the extent to which all laws must be obeyed plant safety and environmental protection. To take sufficient account of in countries where the rule of law is limited, to specific questions such the individual circumstances – particularly with regard to legislation – in as whether issuing invitations to business partners can be considered certain countries or business areas, there are also many specific guideto be corruption. lines on the aforementioned issues. All globally applicable LANXESS directives and guidelines are contained in a system that is accessible Compliance Management System The LANXESS Compliance to every employee. Our Compliance Code can also be found on our Management System (CMS) is described in our CMS statutes and is website at http://www.lanxess.com under Corporate Responsibility/ externally audited at regular intervals. These global audits cover the Corporate Governance/Compliance at LANXESS. largest possible scope (design, suitability and effectiveness). They are not limited to defined risks but focus on the ten main compliance “The company respects applicable law and requires its employees risks identified in the course of our analysis. The last audit by Deloitte and business partners to do likewise.” This is the key statement of our & Touche GmbH in 2012 was completed without observation – i.e. Compliance Code and expresses our basic guiding principle – that no significant weakness was identified – and with an unqualified audit each of our decisions and activities must satisfy this premise, irrespecopinion. tive of the aims we are pursuing or the conditions we face. In the first The Ten Principles of the Global Compact Area Principle Human rights 1) Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. 2) Businesses should make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labor 3) Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. 4) Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor. 5) Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labor. 6) Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment 7) Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. 8) Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. 9) Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-corruption 10) Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Corporate Responsibility 15 The CMS principles we apply are based on a comprehensive frameThe compliance organization includes a global Compliance Comwork for company-wide risk management (COSO II). The basic mittee, a global Compliance Officer drawn from this body and elements of our CMS include: local compliance officers and/or committees in every country where • Compliance culture a LANXESS company operates. Various group functions also assume • Compliance objectives support and/or monitoring roles in the compliance system, for example • Compliance risks (identification, evaluation and measures) Legal, HSE and Internal Auditing in particular. The responsibility for • Compliance program ensuring legally compliant behavior, however, always rests with the • Compliance organization respective decision-maker. We therefore view compliance primarily • Compliance communication as a key leadership task within the company. • Compliance monitoring and improvement Our compliance communication involves both top-down and bottom-up At the top, our compliance culture is shaped by the commitment of our processes in equal measure. Information events and training courses Board of Management and Supervisory Board. If it is to permeate the enable our employees to fulfill their tasks correctly and in compliance entire company, the process of living and communicating our compliwith the law. Our communication activities include the “Compliance” ance culture must also be an essential aspect of the leadership role at section on the LANXESS intranet, coupled with e-learning programs. every subsequent decision-making level. At LANXESS, responsibility Compliance issues and problems are reported from the bottom up to for compliance and business activities goes hand in hand. local compliance officers and on to the central Compliance Committee. The global Compliance Officer reports significant developments, Our compliance objective is to avoid any violations. It is based on the findings and measures to the Board of Management and the Audit principle outlined above that compliance represents the fundamental Committee of the Supervisory Board on a regular basis. There is an condition for every decision and action taken by our company. obligation to report ad hoc to the Board of Management and the ­Supervisory Board in the event of wide-reaching compliance violations. Compliance risks are regularly analyzed by the Compliance ComHowever, there has been no need to do so as yet. mittee and presented to the Board of Management for discussion. They are evaluated according to the likelihood of occurrence and Compliance monitoring is performed by means of general audits damage potential. Risk exposure is analyzed both for business areas and dedicated audit programs conducted by Internal Auditing and a and countries, and Risk Officers are appointed accordingly. Wherever central HSE department. Since Internal Auditing is itself part of the possible, early-warning indicators and monitoring instruments are CMS framework, we have this organizational unit regularly audited defined and countermeasures initiated to reduce the risks identified. by independent third parties. The status of compliance at LANXESS The principal risk exposures we have identified relate to antitrust law is also subject to regular review by the auditor of the annual financial (horizontal), competition law (vertical), anti-corruption, export control, statements. environmental and safety regulations, data protection, product liability, insider trading, discrimination, accounting law and – being closely Responsible Care® Transparency and improved public dialogue are related to compliance – fraud (against the company). among the stated objectives of the Responsible Care® Global Charter launched by the International Council of Chemical Associations (ICCA). Our compliance program includes all of the “classical” CMS elements, This is the only way to build confidence and trust in an industry that such as issuing a compliance code and specific guidelines and work has a crucial role in improving people’s living standards and quality instructions, and establishing guidance systems, information and trainof life. We have supported this initiative since 2006, when we also ing. We ensure compliance in the broader sense by clearly assigning became one of the signatories to the ICCA charter. By signing the responsibilities within our structural and process organizations, and revised Responsible Care® Global Charter in 2014, we reaffirmed our by implementing a functioning internal control system and suitable commitment to the visions and ethical principles of the initiative. For auditing and monitoring activities. us, applying the Responsible Care® Global Charter to our business means consistently working to improve our processes and services in terms of environmental and climate protection, health, safety and quality. Our corporate directives ensure that the principles of the charter are integrated into our management principles and corporate strategy. 16 LANXESS Annual Report 2014 We also expect our suppliers to commit to our values and rules, espeActive stakeholder dialogue cially the Global Compact, and establish adequate systems to ensure legally compliant behavior and carry ethical behavior throughout their The stakeholders of relevance to LANXESS are the groups, institutions organizations. The LANXESS Supplier Code of Conduct is part of and people with whom we are linked directly or indirectly through our communication with suppliers. Reviewing compliance with these our business units and who therefore have a justified interest in our requirements is a key aspect of our collaboration in the Together for activities. Our most important stakeholder groups are customers, Sustainability initiative we operate jointly with 11 other international employees, suppliers, capital market participants, the media, neighchemical companies (see page 75). Additionally, in the course of bors of our sites and representatives of politics, public authorities and acquisitions, we make it a principle of our due diligence processes to NGOs. We conduct an intensive dialogue with all these groups with the ensure that human rights are also respected by the target company. aim of identifying topics that they consider to be significant in terms of corporate responsibility. At the same time, we seek to encourage mutual understanding and build trust through an open and constructive exchange of views. LANXESS Materiality Matrix (as of June 18, 2014) very high Product safety information Human rights Transparency Responsible handling Plant & process safety of chemicals Quality Compliance Level of interest to stakeholders Fair remuneration Occupational safety Risk management Water management Environmental standards Environmental management Climate Research & development protection Stakeholder relations Toxicity Energy efficiency Education & training Emissions reduction Work-life balance Demographic change Anti-corruption Occupational health Responsible resource use Ressource efficiency Globalization Business ethics Sustainable procurement Talent management Transportation high high very high Importance for LANXESS Corporate Responsibility 17 First materiality analysis performed The customer surveys we conduct every two years use recognized opinion research methods and also provide us with vital information In order to optimize our sustainability strategy and utilize resources about the loyalty of our customers, their expectations and how they in the most effective way possible, it is essential to systematically perceive our services compared to those of our competitors. In line prioritize the various areas of activity. In this regard, we consider the with our aim, we increased the number of customers contacted in materiality analysis as defined by the Global Reporting Initiative to be 2013 by 40% compared with the previous survey. The next customer an important tool. survey is planned for 2015. We performed an analysis of this kind for the first time in May 2014, Our daily commitment to high product quality and customer satisfacquestioning sustainability experts in our group functions and business tion is regularly recognized and honored with awards and prizes. For units. The issues identified were evaluated from our internal viewpoint example, LANXESS’s Leather business unit was named one of the and an estimate was made of their importance to external stakeholders. best nine Launch Nordic Innovators 2014 for the Green Leather Crust This was additionally compared with external analyses, including those concept. Launch Nordic is a platform that helps promising innovations involving the supply chain. The resulting materiality matrix shows the gain access to investors, customers and multiplicators. Among the central sustainability issues for LANXESS. partners in the global Launch initiative are government bodies and well-known companies such as Nike and Ikea. For the third time after As a chemical company, we are focusing particularly on high-priority 2009 and 2011, our Inorganic Pigments business unit received the issues such as plant and process safety and occupational health and Certified Supplier of the Year Award for outstanding service, inventory safety. With “Xact,” the Board of Management’s global initiative (see management and quality from Sherwin-Williams, a well-known U.S. page 28), we are striving to achieve continuous improvements in producer of coatings and building materials. occupational, plant and process safety and thus systematically and sustainably improve environmental and health protection worldwide. Compliance (see page 14) and other related aspects are particularly Maintaining efficient networks important. We are very aware that no single organization alone – company, govWe meet the request for a transparent portrayal of sustainability in our ernment, research institute or NGO – will be able to master the major supply chain through the Together for Sustainability initiative mentioned societal challenges of our time. Alongside our own CR activities, we above. This is described in detail in the combined management report are therefore participating in establishing powerful global networks on page 75 of this Annual Report. Our Diversity & Inclusion initiative where we combine our competence in sustainable development with (see page 24) also incorporates suggestions received in our stakethe expertise of other partners. As well as state institutions, NGOs in holder surveys. In our combined annual and sustainability report, we particular – with their extensive expert knowledge of specific issues – regularly provide comprehensive information about progress in the have a crucial role here. aforementioned areas as well as in other areas our stakeholders view as important. Since 2013, for example, we have been supporting “Chemie³,” the joint sustainability initiative of the German Chemical Industry AssociaIn the future, we will utilize the materiality matrix as an important tion (VCI), the German Mining, Chemical and Energy Industrial Union framework in prioritizing our sustainability activities. To this end, we (IG BCE) and the German Chemical Industry Employers’ Association are planning further surveys as a means of externally validating the (BAVC). The initiative focuses on the Guidelines for Sustainability in the results of our internal analyses. Chemical Industry in Germany, which encompass a total of 12 areas of activity and were formulated with input from internal and external stakeholders. They are a mission statement for the industry, supportCustomer satisfaction as a success factor ing companies and their employees in expanding their contributions to sustainability. Customer satisfaction and customer loyalty are among the most important success factors to us. Our central inquiry management sysIn addition to trade shows, high-level congresses provide us with an tem provides customers with information about our products, their important forum for discussion with potential and existing business applications and potential risks and with product certificates. Critical partners, competitors, scientists and opinion leaders on current defeedback from customers gives us valuable pointers for improving velopments and future challenges in our business areas. In 2014, our products and processes. We have established a global customer for example, a member of our Board of Management participated in complaint management system backed by a Group-wide guideline. the main discussion panel at the “auto motor und sport” Congress, The aim is to quickly and competently address customer issues so as to establish a sustained bond between the customer and us. 18 LANXESS Annual Report 2014 which addressed issues such as how modern materials can help the Employees German automotive industry to satisfy increasingly stringent emission guidelines and thus make mobility more environmentally compatible. Our entrepreneurial success is fundamentally based on our employees’ professionalism, implementation skills and sense of r­esponsibility. We also conduct an open dialogue with government representatives Only through their ongoing training and development – especially­­ and with authorities on local, European and international level. The aimed at strengthening their willingness to learn and change – focus is on an active exchange of ideas on strategic corporate issues can we safeguard our company's ability to continuously adapt to such as environmentally friendly product and process innovations, complex market challenges and sustainably improve LANXESS’s developments on raw material and energy markets, and issues relating competitiveness. to the labor market and education policy. Our own offices in Berlin and Brussels place us close to the center of political decision-making. Amended HR strategy in support of realignment Another important element of our stakeholder communication is structured dialogue with residents in the immediate vicinity of our Our HR strategy remains focused on four central areas of activity, within sites. Since fall 2013, for example, our affiliate Currenta has been which we provide a range of innovative tools that are constantly being operating­Chempunkt neighborship offices in Leverkusen, Dormagen adapted to meet new requirements. and Krefeld-Uerdingen to serve as a point of contact for local residents interested in discussing issues concerning the Chempark sites, where The strategic development of the HR function initiated in 2013 was LANXESS has many production facilities. The response has been integrated into the “Let’s LANXESS again” program in 2014. Within consistently positive and many people have already taken the opporthe context of our realignment, leadership, dialogue, organizational tunity to ask questions, attend events or acquire information material. consulting and change management were special areas of focus for the HR organization. Alongside the operational implementation of global job reduction measures, HR also developed a change leadership concept in support of the personnel adjustment process at all levels of the company. In addition, the HR Business Partners especially are cooperating with the HR country functions to advise all business units and central functions on the design and implementation of the new organizational structure worldwide. Innovative and Stringently Applied HR Strategies Support our Sustainable Growth • Global leadership concept emphasizes behavioral change Leadership & Qualification • Extensive investment in qualification, special focus on global sales force • Comprehensive demography programs to enhance productivity Demographic Management • Workforce planning aligned with demographic data and succession plan • Employee turnover in volatile BRICS countries below sector average Employee & Labor Relations • Reliable and stable labor relations in countries with strong union traditions • Performance-based and flexible compensation schemes Compensation • Employee stock plan in Germany with over 70% participation over years Corporate Responsibility 19 New Employees by Age Group, Gender and Region EMEA Germany North America Latin America Asia-Pacific (excluding Germany) Age group Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Male < 20 2 2 6 1 5 20 – 29 5 19 5 37 3 12 9 26 31 191 30 – 39 2 14 1 13 4 13 5 22 20 95 40 – 49 4 8 8 1 9 7 6 27 50 – 59 3 1 3 2 6 1 3 3 ≥ 60 2 1 Total 14 44 8 67 10 42 15 61 60 317 The realignment of the LANXESS Group is reflected in our global headRecruiting talents worldwide count. A total of 638 new employees joined the company worldwide in fiscal 2014. 75 new employees were hired in Germany, where our As part of our sustainable corporate policy and against the backdrop focus was on the recruitment of specialists from various disciplines. of demographic change, LANXESS is continuing to invest in wellAt the same time, some 1,000 positions in administration and service qualified young talents – both apprentices and university graduates – units, marketing, and research and development worldwide were identiand experienced specialists. fied for elimination by 2016 as part of the first phase of our realignment (competitiveness of the business and administrative structure). By means of various activities, we aim to attract, integrate and retain those talents who are the best fit for our company. Through our diaAgainst the backdrop of this headcount adjustment program, we logue-based programs, we have succeeded in conveying an authentic recorded an increase in turnover during the reporting period. In image of LANXESS as an employer. In 2014, we consistently optimized Germany, the turnover resulting from voluntary resignations was 0.69% our market presence aimed at attracting apprentices and specialists in the reporting period. Globally, it was around 3.29%. and aligned this for the long term to our future needs. Turnover % Resulting from Voluntary Resignations (Excluding Reduction Programs) EMEA Germany North America Latin America Asia-Pacific (excluding Germany) Age group Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Male < 20 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 88.9 0.0 0.0 20 – 29 4.4 5.0 4.9 3.1 11.7 5.9 11.1 5.1 20.8 18.0 30 – 39 4.4 2.2 0.4 1.4 4.9 9.1 7.4 5.2 9.6 7.5 40 – 49 1.4 1.7 1.4 0.4 9.9 5.0 0.0 1.3 9.8 5.0 50 – 59 1.1 1.5 0.0 0.1 2.3 4.2 0.0 0.7 10.4 2.7 ≥ 60 0.0 8.0 0.0 0.0 17.3 20.7 0.0 0.0 36.4 12.9 Total 2.9 2.2 1.0 0.6 7.1 7.0 6.2 3.3 12.6 9.0 Turnover % by Region EMEA Germany North America Latin America Asia-Pacific (excluding Germany) Turnover resulting from voluntary resignations 2.3 0.7 7.0 3.8 9.7 Turnover including restructuring programs 8.8 5.3 14.0 11.3 12.4 20 LANXESS Annual Report 2014 Our corporate culture is characterized by trust and the opportunity to At our French production site in Port-Jérôme, we are developing a work independently in an international environment. In order to achieve number of activities aimed at recruiting young people. These range our corporate goals, it is essential that we remain flexible and open from regular site visits by teachers and students to internships in mainto change in the areas of recruiting and talent management as well tenance shops, laboratories and HSE units. and that we adjust our concepts and structures accordingly. When faced with challenging markets and operating conditions, we expect In Brazil, we are continuing to offer an internship program with a our employees to display a high degree of professionalism, flexibility special part-time contract to students in the concluding stages of their and willingness to change. In return, we offer a wide range of develdegree programs. They are given responsibility for a project of their opment opportunities, including foreign assignments, collaboration own, the results of which will later be presented to top management. in interdisciplinary projects and transfer between business units and This attractive offering targets the best of a year group, enabling us to central functions. attract local young talents who bring new expertise to the company. In addition, we maintain close ties with the Universidade Federal do Rio In fiscal 2014, we continued to seek direct contact with talented unide Janeiro (UFRJ), providing scholarships to master’s students that versity and school students through dialogue with universities and our enable their participation in special studies to develop new processes presence at scientific conferences and by organizing our own events. in rubber technology. We also offer more than 50 positions at our sites, At the forefront of all these activities was personal dialogue with each both in vocational training and, for students, in operations. target group. During the reporting period, we motivated more than 200 students to venture out of the classroom and gain work experiIn China, we have further expanded our collaboration with the Changence with LANXESS in Germany. As a result, around 30 bachelor’s zhou Institute of Engineering (CZIE) and entered a new partnership and master’s theses were produced in collaboration with our company. with Ningbo Polytechnic (NBP). We share practical and scientific expertise with the students by means of a “LANXESS class,” give Interns who display above-average qualities have the opportunity to them the opportunity to visit our production facilities and provide early receive further support through our “eXclusive” talent program. This insights into the working world through internships – thus arousing their includes personal coaching and preferential access to further training interest in working for LANXESS. We also continued our collaboration opportunities. The long-term goal is to give preference to candidates with Qingdao University of Science and Technology and our careers who have completed the “eXclusive” program when filling vacant program with high schools partnered by the Goethe Institute. positions within the company. In view of our major investment projects in Singapore, we also We are especially committed to fostering young talents during their expanded our contacts with renowned universities there. We are now undergraduate or PhD study programs and facilitating their successful cooperating with the Singapore University of Technology and Design career start. To enable the smartest minds to realize their full potential, (SUTD), the National University of Singapore (NUS) and Temasek we specifically sponsor outstanding master’s and PhD students in Polytechnic. In this context, we offer selected students customized scientific and engineering subjects through the LANXESS support internships in the fields of HSE, engineering and quality. program. Here we value personal contact as much as the provision of financial support. Other features of the program include an active In Pittsburgh, United States, we continue to support the Carnegie exchange of information on specialist and career-related issues, the Science Center in a variety of ways – for example, as a founding sponopportunity to gain practical insights into the working day of a specialist sor of the Center for STEM (Science, Technology, Engineering and and interesting get-together events. Mathematics) Education and Career Development. We initiated a new partnership with the Community College of Beaver County (CCBC) In 2014, LANXESS continued to support more than 50 students close to Pittsburgh. This college started a two-year program for proat eight renowned universities as part of the German government’s cess technicians in January 2015 and LANXESS is one of several “Germany Scholarship” program. The scholarship holders receive a industry partners. monthly payment of €300. The company pays €150 of this amount and the remaining half is shared equally by the German government In fall 2014, we also entered into a new partnership with the Schey and the state of North-Rhine Westphalia. In addition, we offer our scholSales Centre at Ohio University, one of the first and highest ranked arship holders individual guidance. We expanded our collaboration academic programs for sales training in the United States. We offer with many universities, for example supporting the Cologne University students on this program internships in sales at LANXESS or entryof Applied Sciences in introducing and developing a master's degree level positions in sales and marketing on completion of their degree. program in technical chemistry. This partnership with Ohio University is a cornerstone of our efforts to build a regional sales and marketing talent pool. Corporate Responsibility 21 In Canada, we maintain close contacts with Western University, ofStructured development of young managers fering post-doctoral internships at our research center in London, Ontario. We provide the Polymer Research Institute at the University In recent years, our international trainee programs have proved very of Waterloo with financial and intellectual support in the form of, for successful. Particularly highly qualified university graduates are preexample, the transfer of know-how. pared for challenging specialist and management roles within the company, already gaining international experience during the program. Establishing early contact with schools close to our sites in Germany Latterly, the focus was on controlling, finance and engineering. Since and around the world, for example as part of specialist project weeks, the initiative started, we have offered a wide range of trainee positions and promoting science education at local high schools are two of to more than 70 university graduates with an interest in embarking the other focal points of LANXESS’s extensive education initiative on an international career. On account of LANXESS’s realignment As a company, we consider this initiative to be part of our social and activities, no new international trainee programs were started in 2014. corporate responsibility. However, we continued those programs that were already ongoing. International partnership with Teach First Our special commitment We also continue to offer local trainee and student programs in a to education is also reflected in our partnership with Teach First in number of regions. In the United States, we cooperate with establishGermany and Teach for India in India. We have been one of the main ments such as the University of Pittsburgh to provide trainee and intern sponsors of these not-for-profit organizations since 2010. Teach First, programs in the fields of finance and engineering. We also organize which is already established in a number of countries, has set itself the a special Summer Internship Program. goal of helping school students who have had a difficult start in life, fostering their individual talents and supporting them in developing As well as offering internships, partnering universities and attending career prospects. Particularly highly qualified university graduates from career fairs, we are piloting a rotation program for engineers aimed at all disciplines, who also have the requisite soft skills, act as fellows for arousing their interest in LANXESS and binding them to our company a period of two years, helping schools in socially disadvantaged areas in the long term. Two young female engineers have already completed with education and schooling tasks. In Germany, we focus particularly their half-year rotation in Industrial and Environmental Affairs and will on supporting fellows specializing in mathematics and science. The soon end their respective one-year placements in two business units. most recent intake of fellows started a two-year deployment in schools The next stage of the program is scheduled to be an international in North Rhine-Westphalia in February 2013. In addition to providing assignment. financial support, we are also making a practical contribution through activities such as career guidance for school students and personal LANXESS in India has established three “XTrainee” programs strucdialogue with fellows. tured individually for students, graduates and prospective managers. Participants in these programs are given a specific project to work on We started working with Teach First in India in December 2010 and and are supported by a mentor. In 2014, 36 students, graduates and extended this commitment in 2014 for a further five years. The first prospective managers received training and guidance in one of these fellows assigned to the Indian partner schools in Mumbai and Delhi programs. LANXESS in India continued its cooperation with the Indowere given the opportunity to complete internships at our sites in German Training Centre (IGTC) in Mumbai and Chennai, acting as a India as part of the program. The school students they support are training partner for a postgraduate business administration program. also given career guidance and an insight into working life through The company is also running a further one-year structured training visits to our facilities. In addition, LANXESS employees provide direct program for 14 young people in collaboration with the Industrial Trainsupport for projects in the schools in their free time. ing Institute (ITI) which allows them to continue their training after completing an apprenticeship as a production specialist or technician. 22 LANXESS Annual Report 2014 Vocational training – an integral part of our We do not impose a uniform leadership style on our managers. recruiting strategy Instead, we expect them to find a personal balance between strategic vision (Head), empathy (Heart) and the courage to make decisions Vocational training is an integral part of our recruiting strategy aimed (Guts). Our management philosophy thus focuses on a holistic apat developing our own skilled workers for our German sites. In 2014, proach. The associated skills serve as guidance, with our managers’ 147 young people (118 men and 29 women) joined our core compaindividual leadership strategies taking the forefront. Within the context nies in Germany to start a vocational training or combined vocational of our realignment activities, we continued to offer the Performance training and study program at LANXESS. Management Workshop developed in 2013, which consolidates the principal elements of the leadership seminars for our managers at With a total of 496 trainees in 19 different career paths and seven various levels and focuses on practical leadership skills and motivation combined vocational training and study programs (as of December 31, for teams undergoing change processes. Feedback remained positive 2014), LANXESS continues to train more young people than it needs and confirmed that the concept successfully fosters dialogue between to meet its own requirements. In 2014, despite our restructuring promanagers and employees during periods of transition. gram, we hired around 75% of those who completed their vocational training with us in Germany. We also support our managerial staff through a wide range of individual development opportunities that include personal coaching. LANXESS has always given priority to training young people as a We regularly revise our internal coaching processes to maximize the means of safeguarding the company’s future and as an element of our sustainability of development measures. social responsibility. As in previous years, the focus of marketing activities for our vocational training programs in 2014 was on a personal Training and development are significant aspects of personnel develpresence achieved by means of visits to schools and our own events opment at all levels. Alongside formal training sessions and seminars, such as “NeXt Azubi” (NeXt Apprentice) through which we specifically which amount to 13,838 hours a year in France, for example, there are address young people with an interest in our company and give them many informal measures such as mentoring and peer-to-peer coaching valuable guidance for their career choices. In the reporting year, we which foster continuous knowledge sharing between employees across offered almost 200 two-week placements to high-school students the company. Peer-to-peer coaching is the approach also taken in our to give them an insight into working life. We also attended all major change leadership program, which uses multipliers and supports the regional career fairs and took part in Germany’s Girls’ Day, providing realignment process in all areas of the company. girls with a deeper insight into technical areas of activity in our company. For the first time, we took part in Germany’s Boys’ Day, giving In 2014, the existing Summer Academy in Germany was expanded boys an impression of management assistant roles at LANXESS’s with a new concept. Throughout the summer months, some 130 headquarters in Cologne. In addition, our one-year orientation program employees (62% men and 38% women) from various business units “XOnce” provides young people with useful guidance on their way to took part in the LANXESS Summer Campus. In a total of 11 training subsequent vocational training if they are not ready to take this route sessions, they were able to improve their hard and soft skills and parat the current time. ticipated in an intensive interdisciplinary exchange of experiences. The program was available for the first time to all specialist and managerial employees at LANXESS’s sites in Germany. During the rest of the year, Encouraging and supporting individual development it was complemented with in-house training events that specifically addressed the employees’ needs at the time. In a multitiered process of global HR development conferences, we annually review the performance, potential, development needs and Under the umbrella of the LANXESS Academy, we continued offerfuture career planning of all our managerial employees around the ing functional training for our global sales employees in 2014. The world. During 2014, we piloted the Executive Database as a new tool International LANXESS Sales Academy (ILSA) is a one-year modular to facilitate the matching of candidate profiles with the results of the program designed to develop both the specialist knowledge and soft conferences. In this connection, we are also revising our talent manageskills of our sales employees. We consistently implemented the proment and succession planning processes. The results of these reviews gram following its reworking in 2013. Each module now addresses form the basis for detailed feedback discussions between managerial one overarching topic and the modules are highly integrated. Module 1­­ staff and their supervisors. We have also established individual assesscovers negotiation preparation while Module 2 focuses on negotiation ment centers aimed at identifying the potential of midand high-level management. In Module 3, participants are confronted with challengmanagers and diagnosing the suitability of external applicants for key ing negotiation scenarios. ILSA now gives participants numerous positions. The results of this multidimensional approach are an integral opportunities for self-reflection so they can identify and manage their part of our HR development and recruiting strategy. individual strengths and weaknesses. Continuous feedback sessions with the participants’ direct supervisors and personal reviews with the ILSA trainers are aimed at ensuring that the program contributes to optimizing sales activities and thus adds value for LANXESS. Corporate Responsibility 23 ILSA perfectly complements the programs already in place in the In 2014, we implemented regional programs in other areas of perbusiness units and countries by facilitating communication and the sonnel development as well. With 14 participants each, two special sharing of best practices across business units and national borders. development programs in North America – the LANXESS Business We consider the targeted qualification of our global sales employees Academy (LBA) and the Personalized Development Process (PDP) – to be a significant success factor in the further improvement of our entered their final phases in the first two quarters of the year. Both customer relationships. It also gives us a competitive edge in today’s programs were designed to accelerate the development of young global markets. To date, around 250 sales employees from all levels managers and high performers. worldwide have taken part in the program. On completion of the envisaged organizational and personnel meaWe are presently working to develop a regional version of the ILSA sures that comprise the first phase of the “Let’s LANXESS again” program which, from 2015, will give more of our sales employees program, we will also be realigning our HR development strategy to worldwide access to this training content while reducing the amount the newly created structures within the context of our overall corporate of travel and time involved. The program is being streamlined and strategy. focused to reflect regional specifics. LANXESS Employee Structure by Segment, Gender and Region EMEA Germany North America Latin America Asia-Pacific (excluding Germany) Segment Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Performance Polymers 155 1,673 168 1,023 100 656 61 511 127 707 Advanced Intermediates 12 9 186 2,171 16 33 5 2 28 349 Performance Chemicals 276 997 435 1,848 87 286 134 613 192 766 Reconciliation1) 70 74 532 1,384 121 72 96 78 218 345 Total 513 2,754 1,321 6,426 324 1,047 296 1,204 565 2,167 1) Includes group functions and LANXESS Distribution LANXESS Employee Structure by Functional Area, Gender and Region EMEA Germany North America Latin America Asia-Pacific (excluding Germany) Functional area Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Marketing 100 148 319 487 86 109 71 91 178 355 Production 264 2,448 469 5,039 142 867 108 1,027 166 1,571 Research and development 6 61 113 415 7 14 5 10 21 56 Administration 143 96 421 484 89 57 80 76 200 185 Total 513 2,754 1,321 6,426 324 1,047 263 1,204 565 2,167 LANXESS Employee Structure by Employment Type, Gender and Region EMEA Germany North America Latin America Asia-Pacific (excluding Germany) Employment type Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Permanent contract, full-time 425 2,571 924 6,259 308 1,046 263 1,204 556 2,165 Permanent contract, part-time 88 183 398 167 16 1 9 2 Temporary contract, full-time 30 81 151 494 1 16 53 23 50 Temporary contract, part-time 6 3 3 4 2 12 25 3 Total 549 2,838 1,475 6,924 324 1,050 291 1,282 591 2,217 24 LANXESS Annual Report 2014 Development opportunities and diversity for The global Diversity & Inclusion initiative With the goal of achievinternational markets ing structured development of diversity at LANXESS and utilizing its positive effects for our company and its employees, we established Our global alignment is a key strategic advantage. LANXESS currently the Diversity & Inclusion (D&I) initiative in 2011 under the patronage employs people from 77 countries across the world. Our successful of Board of Management member and Industrial Relations Director focus on the BRICS countries is a deliberate strategy to increase proxDr. Rainier van Roessel. This initiative reflects the great importance imity to local customers and markets. However, training, the transfer of a diverse workforce for our competitiveness on global markets, for of know-how and international experience are not one-way streets, increasing our innovative strength and performance capabilities and which is why LANXESS is increasingly offering employees from the for attracting and retaining promising talents – especially in light of BRICS countries development opportunities at its sites in Western the demographic challenges in various countries. Europe and North America. Given the many different dimensions of diversity (e.g. age, gender, International assignments are a key component of our systematic HR nationality, ethnicity, disability, social origin and experience), we decided development process. All expatriate positions at LANXESS have been at an early stage to establish a clear focus by concentrating on the advertised globally since mid-2012. This gives all our employees the dimensions of age, gender and nationality. The criteria for this decision same opportunity to pursue an international career. We also feel it is included the expected leverage effect for a diverse corporate culture at important to give the best-possible consideration to an employee’s LANXESS and the importance of different dimensions in key country family circumstances in the event of international assignment. That organizations and target markets. The D&I Dashboard completed in is why we support the accompanying partner’s professional develop2013 facilitates the detailed analysis of data pertaining to the three ment, for example. dimensions in our focus. Each business unit and group function can view its D&I indicators on national, regional and global level, enabling Short-term assignments, which are often necessary for project work, the development of appropriate strategic measures. are becoming increasingly important at LANXESS. They also enable employees with limited international mobility to work abroad. We have At the same time, the path to greater diversity at LANXESS requires therefore enhanced the framework conditions for these short-term asa cultural change process above all else. We must also create the signments. To this end, our International Assignment Policy includes structural framework (e.g. organization, processes, guidelines) so that an attractive mix of fringe benefits and special training for both longdiversity generates added value for our employees and the company. term and short-term assignments. In this way, we are making it easier During the reporting year, we continued to develop and implement a for new and experienced managers as well as skilled non-managerial range of measures as part of our Diversity & Inclusion initiative. employees to acquire international work experience. The D&I focus in the NAFTA region in 2014 was on knowledge transIn the course of implementing our “Let’s LANXESS again” program, we fer and succession planning and was tailored especially to one of have tangibly reduced the number of employees on long-term assignour core dimensions: the aging of our employees in this region. The ments. At year end, 136 employees – around 4% of our managers – central question was how to fill our talent pool and further develop were working as expatriates outside their home countries, mainly potential managers. Singapore, China and the United States. In China, where the proportion of women in management positions is In addition to achieving a global transfer of knowledge by sending already above the average for the LANXESS Group at around 26%, experts and managers abroad, our goal is still to develop local manpromoting qualified women to management functions is of particular agement with the necessary expertise and international competencies interest in terms of corporate strategy – also because it fosters our in each country and to transfer challenging tasks to suitable local perception by specialists as an attractive employer. In September 2014, employees. Outside Germany, 80.9% of our management functions we therefore held an in-house “Female Forum” in Shanghai where we are currently filled by local employees. debated career paths for women within the LANXESS Group. The HR organization in India implemented an experiential learning program specifically for women with the aim of strengthening their confidence to pursue their own career paths. Corporate Responsibility 25 Our global mentoring program developed as part of the D&I initiative On account of the challenging economic situation LANXESS faced in was successfully implemented at the start of the year and is now being the reporting year, the elements of the various areas of activity in the continued outside this initiative. 2014 saw the entry into force of a “XCare” program were critically reviewed in terms of their effectiveness number of new recommendations such as a recruiting guideline that and cost. We concentrated on and systematically evolved a selecanchors diversity aspects and a guideline for managers about parental tion of particularly relevant activities so as not to weaken LANXESS's leave. We also added detail to workplace flexibilization concepts with competitiveness when confronting demographic challenges in the an innovative job-sharing model for shift workers. coming years. The Senior Trainee Program – the Diversity & Inclusion lighthouse Demographic management Balancing career and family life remains project launched in 2012 – was successfully concluded in 2014. an important focus of the “XCare” program. It is evident that this is The 18-month program offered a qualified full-time position to 14 an important issue for a growing number of LANXESS employees. employees with an academic background who wanted to return to 6.7% of our employees in Germany aged between 20 and 40 made working life after a period of time spent raising a family. Alongside use of the option to take parental leave. Of this figure, almost 42% their actual work, the participants received personal support from a were fathers. Of the employees who ended a parental leave period in mentor, individual coaching and tailor-made training. On conclusion of 2014, 82% rejoined the LANXESS workforce. In 2011, in support the program in April 2014, 12 senior trainees took over responsible of parents looking for care for their children, we started offering our positions within the LANXESS Group. employees reserved places at childcare facilities in Cologne ahead of the relocation of our company headquarters to that city that took Through all these measures, our D&I initiative is making a key contribuplace in 2013. Our “Xkids” company daycare center in Leverkusen is tion to reaching the goal we have set ourselves of raising the proportion now in its second year of operation and all places are full. The facility of women in middle and upper management to 20% by 2020. The offers around 50 places for children aged between six months and six figure currently stands at around 15.3%. years in two preschool groups and one crèche group. “Xkids” is open to all parents but LANXESS Group employees have preferential rights. Taking action on demographic change Providing care is an important aspect of career and family life. We aim to support employees in the care of dependents, either financially or in In view of the challenges posed by demographic change, LANXESS terms of time. In line with the German government’s draft legislation cooperated closely with the employee representatives in 2009 to deon family caregiver leave, which came into force in 2012, we were velop “XCare,” a comprehensive demographic program for our German one of the first companies to conclude a comprehensive agreement companies based on the collective agreement on lifelong worktime with employee representatives on a multistage caregiving program and demography in the chemical industry. This program aims to find that includes advice from an external service provider, paid short-term answers to the challenges posed by a steady rise in the average age release from duties, and individually agreed part-time working for of our workforce coupled with a shortage of skilled young people. caregivers. We added two further modules to this program in 2012 – a care loan at favorable terms and the support of an external service The “XCare” program was initially based on an extensive demographic provider in arranging care placements throughout Germany. analysis of the entire LANXESS organization, which resulted in five areas of activity – people and health; work and training; time and organization; career and family life; and savings and retirement provision. LANXESS Employee Structure by Age Group, Gender and Region EMEA Germany North America Latin America Asia-Pacific (excluding Germany) Age group Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Male < 20 1 1 2 1 20 – 29 59 221 116 442 23 112 64 217 132 506 30 – 39 209 726 271 1,040 60 170 120 385 267 928 40 – 49 139 876 491 2,180 75 275 46 308 132 535 50 – 59 93 840 411 2,450 123 390 32 270 31 190 ≥ 60 13 90 33 316 43 100 22 3 7 Total 513 2,754 1,321 6,426 324 1,047 263 1,204 565 2,167 26 LANXESS Annual Report 2014 Caregiver leave remains at the heart of the program. This allows emA growing number of employee health promotion initiatives are also ployees to reduce their working time to a greater extent than their salary being offered at our sites outside Germany. For example, there is a during the care phase and to make up the shortfall when they return fitness center at our site in Pittsburgh in the United States. Throughout to work. 22 employees have already taken advantage of caregiver the year, it organizes a range of competitions and incentive programs leave and other job release options. to attract new members and freshen the motivation of those employees who have been in training for some time. In addition, a Wellness Health and preventive action Health policy issues and measures Committee organizes events promoting a healthier diet and regular remain an important area of activity for LANXESS, especially in chalexercise. In Canada, our employees can take advantage of financial lenging economic times. During the reporting year, communication support to pay for membership at a gym or other health-promoting in this area focused on awareness. establishment. Support is also available for smoking cessation courses offered by local health care services and all employees are offered Our primary goal is to raise awareness of health issues among eminfluenza vaccinations during the winter season. ployees and managers at all our sites worldwide and encourage them to adopt healthy behaviors at work and in their free time. We take In the area of savings and retirement provision, we made no changes seriously our responsibility of involving the employees and managers to the long-term account for non-managerial employees as regulated concerned in making workplaces as healthy as possible, but at the by the agreement with the employee representatives and the collective same time rely on the individual responsibility of our workforce. In bargaining agreement. In 2014, a new campaign to promote the longGermany, our reintegration and occupational health management term account further increased the already very good participation rate. programs are based on corresponding agreements with our employee representatives. All benefits with respect to work and family, health and retirement provision apply to the core workforce. Individual benefits may vary As part of our reintegration management program, we give individual, regionally and be adjusted locally to our employees’ needs. Variable case-by-case support to employees who are suffering illness or have remuneration systems have been implemented for 88% (2013: 78%) had long periods of absence from work due to ill health in the past of our employees worldwide, while 65% benefit from unfunded comtwelve months. To this end, workplace integration teams comprising pany pension plans. integration officers and employee representatives have been in place at all our German sites since 2011. In 2014, as in the previous years, many employees accepted the offer of an individual consultation with Rewarding performance the workplace reintegration team. LANXESS has established a fair remuneration policy that is linked to One focus of occupational health management during the reporting the long-term success of the company and offers employees worldyear was to position this issue as a significant factor in the success of wide a transparent, market-rate compensation system. Collective the company, despite the difficult framework conditions. As a rule, the bargaining agreements provide the main basis for the compensation projects are steered by working groups made up equally of employee of non-managerial staff in Germany and numerous other countries. and employer representatives who analyze the existing health situation and develop a participatory action model. They again encompassed In the participating countries, the fixed salaries of managerial staff – and management workshops and prevention concepts. In addition, we of some non-managerial staff – are supplemented by a performanceestablished a cooperative medical specialist service in Germany alongbased short-term variable compensation component known as the side the annual influenza vaccination program. Annual Performance Payment (APP). This is linked to the attainment of the Group’s defined EBITDA targets and, in the case of top manExperience from the pilot projects in Germany shows that our emagement, to additional individual performance targets. In 2014, our ployees are particularly keen to obtain personal advice about their employees around the world shared in the company’s success in health and the possible need for preventive action. Building on this 2013 with a payout totaling €21.9 million. awareness and knowledge about their own health, employees are also responding well to follow-up offers. In addition, special medical check-ups are offered specifically for top management. Around 500 eligible managers were invited to regular appointments in 2014. Corporate Responsibility 27 During the course of the year, supervisors are also able to reward outActing in partnership standing employee performance quickly and unbureaucratically with an Individual Performance Payment (IPP). All employees worldwide are A key pillar of our HR policy that we practice worldwide is close coopentitled to such rewards on the basis of a prompt assessment of their eration between employee representatives and management, including performance. In fiscal 2014, this resulted in payments of €9.6 million trade unions and employers’ associations, in line with the principle worldwide for outstanding individual performance. of active codetermination. This means that we also comply with the ILO convention in respecting our employees’ freedom of association For some time now, we have also offered a long-term incentive program and valid collective agreements, as confirmed by our membership of for managers in Germany and similar programs in the United States, the Global Compact. Worldwide, more than 67% of our employees Canada, India, China and the Netherlands. The Stock Performance are covered by the terms of collective agreements; in Germany, this Plan 2008–2010 and the Long-Term Stock Performance Plan (LTSP) figure is nearly 90%. 2010–2013 compared the performance of LANXESS stock against the Dow Jones STOXX 600 ChemicalsSM over a period of three and We maintain a close dialogue with employee representative bodies four years, respectively. in Germany, Europe and around the world to regularly discuss our corporate goals and involve these bodies in organizational change For the period 2014 to 2017, the Board of Management introduced processes at an early stage. This was the case especially in 2014 in a comparable long-term program to replace the LTSP 2010–2013: light of the global restructuring program. In addition, the European the Long-Term Stock Performance Plan 2014–2017. Like its preForum in particular serves as a platform for codetermination and diadecessor, this plan comprises four tranches, one commencing each logue in Europe. It brings together members of the LANXESS works year. However, in order to reflect LANXESS’s internationality in this councils from across the continent and the company’s management in long-term compensation component, it compares the performance an annual meeting lasting several days. The meeting in August 2014 of LANXESS stock against the MSCI World Chemicals Index over was dominated by the realignment of the LANXESS Group. Additionthe four-year period, starting with the first tranche for 2014. Since ally, the Executive Committee of the European Forum met twice with participants make a personal investment and there is the chance company representatives to discuss current issues. that the stock will increase in value, these programs are an attractive long-term incentive and a means of enhancing employee loyalty. The In accordance with the German Works Constitution Act, LANXESS participation rate is 91%. is obliged to inform the Works Council fully and in good time of any planned operational changes which could result in material disadvantage to all or substantial parts of the workforce. In light of the Recognizing and rewarding good ideas realignment activities, this close dialogue was a cornerstone of our HR policy in the reporting year especially. We also regularly provided When LANXESS employees have good ideas for improving work proceinformation about the company’s economic affairs to the Economics dures, plants and processes, these ideas pay off. Our idea management Committee. We fully comply with our legal obligations with respect system fosters the development, processing and implementation of to the responsible bodies. In Germany, the notification period is four suggestions for improvements to ensure that we continually receive weeks. proposals for enhancing cost-effectiveness, occupational safety and environmental protection. In 2014, employees at LANXESS’s German companies submitted a total of 2,807 new suggestions, a rate of 373 per thousand employees. In the same period, 1,312 ideas were implemented, yielding total savings of €2.52 million. As well as cutting costs, 887 of these ideas led to improvements in occupational safety and environmental protection. More than €1.0 million was paid out to employees whose ideas were put into practice. 28 LANXESS Annual Report 2014 Health, safety, environment and climate protection in global management system. These govern our procedures for all safetythe value creation chain critical processes in our production facilities and cover aspects such as the definition and implementation of technical and organizational LANXESS is responsible for its actions across the entire supply and protective measures and the environmentally friendly handling of raw value creation chain – from the global procurement of raw materials materials and waste. and product development, through production, storage and transport, to use and disposal. The health and safety of our stakeholders – Experts conduct targeted spot checks as part of on-site audits to asemployees, contractors, immediate neighbors of our production sites, sess implementation of the relevant LANXESS guidelines and local customers and end users – is of central importance at each of these regulations for safe plant operation. At each facility, compliance with stages. the safety standards must be certified regularly, at least at the intervals required by local legislation. In 2014, a total of 38 facilities (2013: Through our safety standards, we aim to ensure the responsible 36), 19 of them in Germany (2013: 14), were audited in the course application of chemistry in health and environmental protection, in the of HSE compliance checks. handling of chemicals, in plant safety and in workplace safety precautions. Company-wide standards are in place to define the associated It goes without saying that safety and environmental aspects also requirements and responsibilities. Through the ongoing training of our have an important role in our acquisition projects. Before making any employees and regular auditing of our health, safety and environmental acquisition, we carry out technical due diligence tests alongside the management, we ensure that the requirements are systematically and economic appraisals. Gap analyses are performed by LANXESS soon sustainably implemented in our processes. after the takeover of a production site. These are used to identify any differences between the management system already in place at the Our commitment was again recognized with various awards in 2014. site and LANXESS’s own system. The results serve as the basis for For example, the Indian Chemical Council recognized the particularly drawing up action plans to implement LANXESS’s binding global HSE sustainable water management concept in place at our Nagda prostandards at these locations. In 2014, we performed one gap analysis. duction site. The honors we received in China included the Golden Rubber Award for our contribution to the sustainable development of the Chinese rubber industry and recognition from the China Finance “Xact”: Board of Management’s global safety initiative Summit as the Best Green Company for our sustained commitment along the value chain. In addition, the China Petroleum Chemical InLANXESS attaches the highest priority to the safety of all its work produstry Federation ranked LANXESS among the top ten in its Corporate cesses. Our “Xact” global safety program, launched in 2011, is aimed Citizen Model List. Our sites in Changzhou and Qingdao received at encouraging our employees to work together to improve safety local recognition for their occupational and product safety records. throughout the company and at raising their awareness of this issue. Also, our country company in Mexico was honored for its outstanding performance in implementing the principles of Responsible Care. Making a company safer is a complex task in which each and every employee has the most crucial role. That is why we developed six “Xact” safety regulations as the central principles of safe working at Uniform standards in production LANXESS. These address the main areas in which every employee – whether they are employed in production or administration and irAcross the globe, LANXESS operates at 50 production sites in which respective of their function or position in the hierarchy – can actively it holds more than 50% (as of December 31, 2014). The diversity of contribute to their own safety and that of their colleagues. the company’s product portfolio necessitates the use of many different chemical and technical processes. Uniform standards for planning, In 2014, we familiarized our employees around the world with the engineering and operating facilities are applied to ensure a high level of cultural elements of our occupational safety program. For five of the process, plant and occupational safety. Handling chemical substances new global HSE standards developed in the context of “Xact,” we and working with technical equipment fundamentally involve health prepared training documents in our various corporate languages and safety risks. We systematically identify these risks and the hazand adapted these to the cultural requirements of different countries. ard potential and minimize these by taking them into account when After receiving extensive training from the “Xact” regional managers, planning facilities and by defining and implementing the necessary our managerial staff communicated these standards throughout the preventive and protective measures. To help us achieve this, we have entire organization during the reporting year. established LANXESS-specific guidelines within the context of our Corporate Responsibility 29 X Recording accidents and incidents A Striving for Safety Thanks to our global electronic Incident Reporting System (IRS), we are able to record accidents and incidents using standardized proce• I always take time for safety. dures. The incidents that are documented include accidents involving C • I always pay attention to my own people, transport accidents, near accidents, environmental incidents safety and that of my coworkers. and downtime caused by, for example, bad weather or strike action. • I decline to do work I cannot do safely. We communicate significant incidents worldwide via our intranet or • I openly address unsafe situations. by newsletter. Each incident is carefully analyzed to identify measures T • I take action when safety rules are that can be taken to avoid similar accidents, disruptions or near acbreached. cidents in the future. • I do not give instructions for unsafe actions to be carried out. The lost time injury frequency rate (LTIFR), known as MAQ (injuries for every million hours worked) in Germany, is one of the indicators used to assess occupational safety. In 2014, the LTIFR was 2.3, compared with 3.2 in 2013 and 3.4 in 2012. This substantial improvement is proof that the joint efforts undertaken in the past three years to improve occupational safety at LANXESS are now bearing fruit. For example, One measure has been the introduction of a safety dialogue worldwide. we have seen a significant decrease in the number of work-related Positive and critical behaviors are discussed and possible improveaccidents at our chrome oxide mine in South Africa. ment measures devised. These discussion sessions regularly take place between supervisors and their staff as well as among groups Our analyses have shown that the number of lost days per accident of colleagues. has also decreased significantly since 2013, which indicates a decline in the severity of accidents. This can be attributed to our employees’ We are also seeking to achieve an improved mutual understanding of raised awareness for occupational safety, which has been enhanced occupational safety with our partner companies and are increasingly by our stronger focus on this issue. integrating them into our safety culture. Here, we apply the principle of “select, train, support and evaluate.” For example, our partners must Work-Related Injuries to LANXESS Employees Resulting in Absence from Work (LTIFR) 1) provide verification of their own safety management system and that their employees who work for us have received certain safety training. 2014 2.3 Independent of this, we additionally give individual safety briefings to the employees of our partner companies, the success of which is 2013 3.2 measured by a test. 2012 3.4 Another new tool introduced as part of the “Xact” program is the “Pulse Check” survey, which was conducted among all LANXESS 2011 2.7 employees for the first time in 2014. This gave them the opportunity to describe their personal experience of key safety aspects at LANXESS. 2010 2.3 Among other things, the anonymous survey seeks to establish the 0 1 2 3 4 5 importance that individuals attach to safe working, whether they feel 1) LTIFR: accident rate per million hours worked resulting in one workday or more lost following involved in safety activities and whether they receive positive feedback the day of the accident, calculated for all employees (including temporary workers) at all sites for working safely. 30 LANXESS Annual Report 2014 Global product stewardship Before manufacturing, importing or selling our products in a given country, we examine their marketability in accordance with the chemiLANXESS is committed to the Responsible Care® Global Charter, cals legislation in force there. We register our substances and products an initiative for product stewardship by the world’s chemical industry in line with local requirements and we participate in the substance launched in 2006 by the International Council of Chemical Associaanalysis programs of the relevant authorities by supplying all available tions (ICCA) that was the key factor in the development of the Global information and producing new data if necessary. During the reportProduct Strategy (GPS). This aims to provide basic information and risk ing year, changes were made to chemicals legislation – especially in assessment data about substances so that the impact of chemicals on Taiwan and South Korea – in respect of registration requirements for human health and the environment can be minimized and products both new and previously listed substances. Benefiting from REACH can be manufactured and marketed in such a way as to prevent injury implementation in the European Union, we will be working to comply to people and damage to the environment. with these requirements over the coming years. In line with the aforementioned commitment, our product stewardWe expressly support the protection goals of the E.U. REACH regulaship covers the safe handling of chemical substances and products tion, which aims to achieve a high level of safety for human health and throughout their life cycle – from procurement and research and develthe environment in the manufacture and use of chemicals. We met opment, through production, storage, transportation and downstream the December 1, 2008, deadline for preregistering all substances of processing to marketing and disposal. relevance to LANXESS with the European Chemicals Agency (ECHA) in Helsinki, Finland. We then registered 360 substances that we proThe Product Safety Management at LANXESS Directive steers the duce in or import to the European Union in volumes exceeding 100 Group-wide observance of product stewardship and secures the necand 1,000 tons annually by the respective deadlines in 2010 and essary participation of everyone involved. This applies in particular 2013. Lastly, all substances with volumes exceeding one ton must to those substances in our product portfolio that are classified as be registered in Europe by the third deadline on May 31, 2018. Reghazardous. istration involves the systematic evaluation of information concerning our substances and their uses. In doing this, we consider the entire Management of chemical control regulations The safe handling, marproduct life cycle. ketability and safe transportation of our chemicals and products are conditional on compliance with global chemical control regulations. Within the context of a voluntary commitment made by the German Chemical Industry Association (VCI) in 1997 to record and assess LANXESS has a global organization supported by an electronic safety substances, we go beyond the legal requirements to determine a data system to ensure compliance with both mandatory and voluntary basic data set for our intermediates as well, in line with Appendix VII control requirements. Safety data sheets in more than 30 languages of the REACH regulation. inform our customers worldwide about substance data and the safety measures that are necessary when using LANXESS products. We In the case of consumer applications in particular, such as those in the aim to raise marketability and the provision of hazardous goods data areas of food and drinking water contact, toys, cosmetics, pharmaceuto a globally uniform safety and technical standard by successively ticals and medical products, we ensure the availability of information integrating this safety data system into our SAP system worldwide. In regarding the conformity of our products with national and international 2014, as planned, we finished connecting our organization in China laws and standards, religious dietary laws and quality hallmarks. In to this system, which was also rolled out to our country organizations this way, we actively support our customers in the certification of their in Central and Eastern Europe, Turkey and the United Kingdom. materials for drinking water contact applications, for example. We regularly adapt our electronic safety data system to reflect changes The exchange of information with our customers is an important aspect to the GHS (Globally Harmonized System of Classification and Labelof our product stewardship activities. We therefore provide them with ing of Chemicals) in various countries. The GHS is a system under extensive information about our products via the IMDS (International the umbrella of the United Nations that aims to harmonize existing Material Data System), an automotive industry database for archiving, classification and labeling systems used in various sectors such as exchanging and managing information, or via LANXESS’s producttransportation and consumer, employee and environmental protection. specific database, which has a public area and a restricted area for Of course, we observe regional variations in the implementation of the registered business partners. GHS such as the European Union’s CLP (Classification, Labelling and Packaging of Substances and Mixtures) regulation. Corporate Responsibility 31 REACH Implementation Schedule Creation of the European Pre-registration of all substances Chemicals Agency Preparation for REACH Registration of substances Substances ≥≥ 1,000 1,000 tons tpa3)per annum CMR substances1) ≥ 1 ton tpa per annum Substances with hazardous Environmentally R50/532) ≥ substances 100 tpa ≥ 100 tons per annum Substances ≥≥ 100 Registration of substances 100 tons tpa per annum Substances ≥≥ 11 ton Registration of substances tpa per annum June 1, 2007 June 1, 2008 Nov. 30, 2008 Nov. 30, 2010 May 31, 2013 May 31, 2018 Other obligations: evaluation procedures, authorization 1) CMR: carcinogenic, mutagenic and reprotoxic Product monitoring LANXESS’s Central Product Surveillance DirecREACH requirements must be satisfied in the case of raw materials tive systematically governs worldwide tracking of our products and from non-European suppliers. In order to minimize our procurement their applications in respect of potential health and environmental risks and enhance supply chain transparency, we and five other interimpacts. The information acquired is used by our product developers national chemicals companies founded the Together for Sustainability and product safety experts in their evaluations. initiative in 2012. Further detailed information is contained in the “Procurement and production” section in the combined management A good example of how we use the information gained from product report on page 74. monitoring to develop our own measures is the No Pellet Emission project launched in 2013. This focuses on plastic pellets which may Global dangerous goods and transport safety management Through be released into the marine environment due to inattentiveness at our global dangerous goods and transport safety management sysvarious stages of the value chain – in production, distribution, storage tem, we ensure the avoidance of hazardous situations in the relevant and transportation. Plastic pellets themselves do not react chemically processes. We centrally coordinate, supervise and review the implebut may have an undesired impact on account of their small size mentation of international, regional and local dangerous goods and and volume. Therefore, under the umbrella of the Responsible Care® transport safety regulations and internal company guidelines. The Initiative, we and PlasticsEurope Deutschland together launched the central classification of our products ensures uniform interpretation of No Pellet Loss initiative aimed at motivating all stakeholders to handle international, regional and local dangerous goods regulations – at the plastic pellets in a responsible way. In LANXESS’s No Pellet Emission same time respecting regional and local specifics. The classification project, the units that handle pellets have set themselves the goal for determines the wrapping (packaging and tanks), marking and labeling, 2015 of preventing the emission of pellets in the long term. the permitted modes of transport and transport routes. The necessary classification database is filed in LANXESS’s chemicals safety data Procurement in the supply chain Responsible action begins in prosystem. The restructuring of the dangerous goods and transport safety curement. At LANXESS, all the raw and other materials, plant and officer organization at our logistics sites worldwide, implemented in services needed for our operations must satisfy uniform global safety 2013, was continued with further process optimizations in 2014. and environmental protection requirements. Raw materials in parImprovements were made to the communication processes between ticular are subject to stringent monitoring to ensure safe processing the dangerous goods and transport safety officers, the local and global in our production facilities. For example, the procurement of any raw reporting processes, the procedure for exchanging best practices material is dependent on the submission by the supplier of a current (e.g. securing loads in freight containers) and the harmonization of safety data sheet. Our procurement department clarifies which of the training standards. 32 LANXESS Annual Report 2014 Storage management We operate our own warehouses, but also We equip all new production sites in line with state-of-the-art environcommission external warehousing service providers on the basis mental standards, taking into account local requirements. This often of a specified process that considers relevant aspects of logistics, sets us apart from local competitors. safety and security, environmental protection and cost-effectiveness. In line with a corresponding chemical industry concept, we apply a Environmental protection in proximity to our production sites Close globally standardized warehouse concept that takes into account the to some of our European sites are protected areas that fall under the substances stored and meets fire protection and occupational health European Habitats Directive. Our industrial sites themselves do not and safety requirements. contain any protected or restored natural habitat since, as a rule, these areas continue to be used for industrial purposes. Some unused areas outside the sites are near-natural, for example at La Wantzenau, France, Ecological responsibility or – outside Europe – at Duque de Caxias, Brazil. As LANXESS sees it, conserving natural resources – for example, We are responsible for landfill sites which are still in use and others through the most efficient possible use of raw materials and enerwhich have already been closed. The latter are recultivated in line gies – and identifying further potential for reducing emissions and with legal requirements and we have established provisions for this waste are an ongoing mission and an inherent part of our ecological purpose. However, the sites do not necessarily revert to natural habitat. responsibility to which we must apply our expertise. Direct and Indirect Energy Consumption by Region petajoules/% 15% 16% 85% Germany 19 P J 84% 37% North America 11 P J 63% 26% 27% EMEA (excluding Germany) 12 P J 57% 52% 17% 21% Latin America 5 PJ Asia-Pacific 6 PJ n Direct energy sources n Direct energy sources (biomass) Our energy consumption reflects the global distribution of our production operations, n Indirect energy sources slightly more than one third of which are located in Germany. Corporate Responsibility 33 Progress in climate protection Our aim is to reduce each segment’s As the volumes produced and our product mix have a significant specific energy consumption and specific emissions of CO2 equivarole alongside efficiency, the savings cannot be directly represented lents by 10% by year end 2015 (base year: 2010). Our measures in our absolute energy and emissions data. For this reason, global are applied in all value creation processes – from energy generation energy consumption appears largely unchanged compared with the through manufacturing processes and transportation to waste disposal. previous year. Systematic energy management Resource and energy efficiency are Energy Consumption significant factors in our company’s economic efficiency and in climate and environmental protection. In this connection, we have established million gigajoules gigajoules per ton of product a global procedure for an energy management system in line with 100 10 ISO 50001. The centrally managed global implementation project 8.43 8.30 8.31 was completed in 2014. The further implementation and preparation 80 8.37 8 for local certification are taking place decentrally at our sites outside 8.16 Germany. Our certification in Germany was reconfirmed in 2014. 60 54.5 55.0 53.0 53.0 6 52.0 On account of our realignment activities, we have revised our strategy of global certification of the energy management system in favor of 40 4 a regional certification strategy. In future, certification decisions will be taken locally on the basis of regulatory requirements. In line with 20 2 this new strategy, we are preparing for certification at sites in Belgium and China in 2015. 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Since 2012, our measures to increase energy efficiency have been ll In relation to volumes sold nn Absolute combined in the LANXESS Energy Efficiency Program (LEEP) which facilitates a Group-wide overview of potential savings, the cost of their implementation and their impact on our energy goals. A team of Energy Consumption by Segment LANXESS energy experts supports the business units in identifying new gigajoules per ton of product measures. Most of the measures concern especially the optimization of Performance Polymers our production capacities, the use of residual heat and improvements 8.68 8.38 to refrigeration. A future focus is to be found in fine-tuning our plant 8.42 operations to reduce energy consumption. Advanced Intermediates 8.40 8.44 By the end of 2015, we aim to cut our specific energy consumption 9.36 and with it our specific energy costs by 10% compared with 2010. We Performance Chemicals 7.39 continued our pursuit of this target in 2014, systematically implement7.94 7.13 ing it as part of our LEEP project. Some 250 individual measures will be completed and undergo final evaluation in 2015. 0 2 4 6 8 10 2014 2013 2012 34 LANXESS Annual Report 2014 Reduction of climate gas emissions In 2014, we pursued our goal 18 LANXESS facilities in Europe are subject to the European Emisof reducing specific emissions of CO2 equivalents in each of our segsions Trading System (EU-ETS). Trading in CO2 emission rights – or ments by 10% compared with the base year (2010) by year end 2015. allowances – is a cost-effective way of reducing harmful CO2 emissions. Three trading periods were defined for emissions trading in the In the reporting period, we were able to slightly reduce Scope 1 emisEuropean Union. The second trading period that ran from 2008 to sions in absolute terms. However, our specific Scope 1 emissions 2012 was concluded without us having to purchase additional allowremained on the same level as the previous year. Scope 1 emissions ances. The German Emissions Trading Authority (DEHSt) has not yet cover direct emissions from production and our own energy generaallocated the allowances for 2013 and 2014 to German companies. tion operations. Scope 2 emissions are indirect emissions associated Since all of our facilities that are eligible for emissions trading are at the with the procurement of energies. The graphic on the following page cutting edge of technology and participate in international competition, shows the development of LANXESS’s specific Scope 1 and Scope 2 we expect to receive an adequate number of free allowances for the emissions. coming years to cover our anticipated CO2 emissions. Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Scope 1 and Scope 2) Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Scope 1) by Segment thousand tons of CO2 equivalents CO2 equivalents, tons per ton of product CO2 equivalents, tons per ton of product 7,000 0.56 Performance Polymers 0.33 0.47 0.31 0.46 0.35 6,000 0.45 0.45 0.48 0.42 Advanced Intermediates 0.23 5,000 0.40 0.23 0.25 0.30 0.30 Performance Chemicals 4,000 0.29 0.28 0.28 0.32 0.23 0.251) 3,068 2,867 2,899 2,886 0.20 3,000 2,708 0.24 0 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.4 0.5 1,906 1,937 1,913 2,000 1,7751) 1,762 0.16 1)2014 F  igure restated 2013 2012 2014 2013 2012 1,000 0.08 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Sustainable logistics We select our transport solutions worldwide on 1) F  igure restated a case-by-case basis, applying the principles of safety, punctuality and cost-effectiveness. We also take into account the CO2 emissions resulting ll Scope 1 in relation to volumes sold nn Scope 1 (absolute) ll Scope 2 in relation to volumes sold nn Scope 2 (absolute) from our transports. A CO2 monitoring dashboard introduced in 2012 enables us to compare the costs and potential CO2 savings of a transport solution, and thus develop an effective strategy for reducing emissions In 2014, we participated for the ninth time consecutively in the Carbon in our supply chain. The emission factors used in this dashboard were Disclosure Project (CDP), sharing data and information on climate determined by a working group set up by the German Chemical Industry protection and the reduction of emissions. The CDP is an organization Association (VCI). The dashboard also visualizes our transport-related representing international institutional investors who have joined forces CO2 emissions for our employees responsible for logistics procurement in order to improve transparency for the financial market on questions and planning, thus raising their awareness of the issue. In 2014, we linked to climate change and the requisite corporate guidelines. We recorded some 90% of global transports in our database. The volumes were not among the top10% and therefore not listed in the Climate were carried by ship, rail, truck and aircraft. Disclosure Leadership Index (CDLI) in 2014, as we had been in the prior two years. Corporate Responsibility 35 Today we already select ships as the means of transport with the lowest Other atmospheric emissions In the year under review, our emissions emissions for around 90% of all ton-kilometers (tonnage transported of volatile organic compounds (VOC) decreased further – both in multiplied by the distance transported in kilometers). In Germany, we absolute terms and in relation to the volumes sold. This was due to, continue to use the TÜV SÜD-approved Eco Plus solution offered by among other things, various measures taken to achieve our environlogistics provider DB Schenker Rail for transporting our products by rail. mental protection target of cutting VOC emissions by 30% by year The electricity required for transport is obtained from renewable energy end 2015 (base year: 2010). sources. In this way, we can reduce the CO2 emissions from our German rail transport operations by almost 75%. Overall, transport operations VOC Emissions caused around 330,000 tons of CO2 emissions worldwide in 2014. tons VOC, kilograms per ton of product We use the emission factors determined by the German Chemical In14,000 1.26 1.4 dustry Association (VCI) in 2010 to calculate our global CO2 emissions. 1.22 1.15 International emission factors were not used. On account of extensive 12,000 1.04 1.2 restructuring as of the reporting date, these emissions data are based 0.90 10,000 1.0 on extrapolations of half-year figures. 8,000 7,800 7,600 8,000 0.8 6,600 In 2013, we collaborated with TÜV Rheinland as our testing partner 5,700 6,000 0.6 in conducting a large-scale trial of green tires for trucks at one of our logistics service providers. During meetings with our other logistics 4,000 0.4 service providers, we presented the positive results of these trials with the aim of demonstrating the benefits of green tires. The trial found that, 2,000 0.2 under normal operating conditions, high-quality tires with low rolling 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 resistance reduce fuel consumption by more than 8% and CO2 emissions by 700 kilograms for every 10,000 kilometers driven compared ll In relation to volumes sold nn Absolute with conventional tires. Packaging is an often critical aspect in sustainable logistics processes. Responsible use of water resources All wastewater and surface water However, it is of only limited significance to a chemical company like discharges at our sites are subject to legal and permitting requirements. LANXESS because 60% of our products are transported in reusable We use both technical (wastewater treatment) and organizational containers. (monitoring) measures to comply with these requirements. Before issuing an operating permit, the authorities assess the possible economic, social and environmental impacts of water extraction on the surrounding area. At all LANXESS sites, this takes place under approved conditions. The issue of water extraction is also addressed by our environmental protection compliance program. 36 LANXESS Annual Report 2014 In the year under review, we again achieved a slight reduction in our Sustainable waste management The company aims to employ a total water consumption in relation to volumes sold. Viewed over the consistent material flow management process – from the use of raw longer term, we have thus kept consumption at a stable level. materials to the manufacture of the final product – so as to use resources as efficiently as possible and minimize the amount of waste Water Consumption we produce. Some forms of waste can be used as secondary raw million cubic meters cubic meters per ton of product materials and are thus a valuable resource. Sustainable waste management therefore involves systematically avoiding waste and, if this 800 80 is not possible, using waste as a raw material or energy source. In order to minimize the amount of waste requiring disposal, we seek to 600 60 continuously improve our production processes. 45.6 45.4 46.9 46.4 45.6 400 40 The total amount of waste generated worldwide in relation to volumes 239 257 244 236.5 sold increased by around 7% on the prior year. At the same time, 235 200 20 the amount of waste classified as hazardous increased by some ten percentage points to 65%. Both increases are primarily due to the 57 53 52 52 53 expansion of production at two waste-intensive sites. All forms of waste 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 are disposed of or reused in compliance with statutory requirements. l In relation to volumes sold (total water consumption) Some 46% of our waste is used in material or energy recovery. nn Cooling water (absolute) nn Process water (absolute) Total Waste With respect to the amount of wastewater requiring treatment, we thousand tons kilograms of waste per ton of product have achieved a relatively stable level over the past years in relation to volumes sold. 800 80 Wastewater 600 60 46.0 41.6 42.9 42.9 million cubic meters cubic meters per ton of product 40.5 400 40 80 8 267 283 273 292 259 200 20 60 5.1 5.1 5.1 5.0 6 4.7 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 40 33 34 32 4 31 31.5 ll In relation to volumes sold nn Absolute 20 2 Waste for Disposal 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 % ll In relation to volumes sold nn Absolute 6.5 38 Waste disposal by other means Landfilled waste 19.5 Material recovery 26 10 Incinerated waste with Incinerated waste without energy recovery energy recovery Corporate Responsibility 37 The graphic below describes the relationship between the key indicators. Input-Output Balance Sheet 2014 LANXESS reporting ceiling Indirect greenhouse gas emissions Greenhouse gas emissions from biomass Direct greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 2) 2,886 (climate-neutral) 217 (Scope 1) 1,762 thousand tons thousand tons thousand tons Employees LTIFR Electricity, steam 38 16,584 1) 2.3 2) petajoules Coal, gas, oil 13 Total energy consumption petajoules Volume Sales approx. €550 million sold 6,343 €8.0 billion thousand tons Biomass 2 petajoules Strategic Material raw materials ~ 8,000 Total waste 292 consumption thousand tons thousand tons €4.0 billion LANXESS site boundary Production wastewater 31.5 million cubic meters Total water consumption 289.5 million cubic meters Cooling water 236.5 million cubic meters 1) Permanent workforce at the core companies (excluding temporary workers) as of December 31, 2014 2) LTIFR: accident rate per million hours worked resulting in one workday or more lost following the day of the accident, calculated for all employees (including temporary workers) at all sites 38 LANXESS Annual Report 2014 Systematic recording of key performance indicators We use an elecEnvironmental and Safety Performance Data* tronic system for the systematic global recording of key performance 2012 2013 2014 indicators (KPIs) in the areas of safety and environmental protection. This system enables us to capture a broad range of HSE performance Safety data for each business unit and location worldwide. These provide a Occupational injuries to LANXESS employees resulting in at least one day’s valid database for internal and external reporting and map the progress absence (per million hours worked)1) 3.4 3.2 2.3 we are making toward achieving our globally applicable HSEQ objectives (see table on page 40). Data for all indicators except the LTIFR Volume sold 2) in thousand tons/year 6,596 6,371 6,343 are gathered only at those production sites in which the company has Energy in petajoules (1015 joules) 3) 55 53 53 a holding of more than 50%. We are working systematically to improve Direct energy sources (EN3) our data recording processes and data quality. Non-renewable 14 13 13 Renewable 0 0 0 In the year under review, as in 2012 and 2013, Pricewaterhouse­ Indirect energy sources (EN4) Coopers AG Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft assessed our HSE inNon-renewable 40 38 38 dicators and the necessary data recording processes in the course of Other direct energy sources a business audit with a view to achieving a “limited assurance” rating. From biomass 2 2 2 The audit certificate is on page 189 of this Annual Report. Water in million cubic meters/year Total water consumption (EN8) 309 296 289.5 Surface water 135 138 120.5 Groundwater 7 7 6 Rainwater 0.0 0.5 0.5 Wastewater 2.0 1.5 1.0 Other water sources 165 149 161.5 Cooling water in total water consumption 4) 257 244 236.5 Process water in total water consumption 52 52 53 Atmospheric emissions in thousand tons CO2e/year Total greenhouse gas emissions CO 2 e (EN16) 4,981 4,674a) 4,648 Direct (Scope 1) 5) 1,913 1,775a) 1,762 Indirect (Scope 2)6) 3,068 2,899 2,886 Ozone-depleting substances (EN19) 0.00231 0.00115 0.00132 NO X , SO X and other emissions (EN20) NOX7) 2.4 2.5 2.8 SO28) 1.2 1.1 1.1 CO 2.1 2.1 2.1 NH3 0.1 0.1 0.1 NMVOC9) 7.6 6.6 5.7 Wastewater in million cubic meters/year Total wastewater discharge (EN21) 291 276 268 Cooling water (uncontaminated, without treatment)4) 257 244 236.5 Production wastewater (with treatment) 34 32 31.5 Emissions in wastewater (after treatment) Total nitrogen 0.53 0.48 0.52 Total organic carbon (TOC) 2.2 2.0 2.2 Heavy metals10) 0.0060 0.0045 0.0065 Corporate Responsibility 39 Environmental and Safety Performance Data* 2012 2013 2014 Waste in thousand tons/year Total weight of waste (EN22) 283 273 292 Incineration with energy recovery 68 63 76.5 Incineration without energy recovery 22 22 29 Landfilling 111 99 111 Material recovery 64 64 56.5 Other forms of disposal 18 25 19 Type of waste Hazardous 153 160 190 Non-hazardous 130 113 102 Explanations concerning our environmental and safety performance data * T he aggregate data refer to all LANXESS production sites in which the company holds an interest of more than 50%. On account of their recent acquisition by LANXESS, the ­following production sites are not yet included: Epierre, France, and Lipetsk, Russia. • 2012: The data are based on actual values for the period January through October. Appropriate estimates were used for November and December. • 2013/2014: Some of the data are based on estimates and projections. The indicators were assessed (limited assurance) by PwC AG Wirtschafts­ prüfungsgesellschaft in the course of a business audit. 1) LTIFR: accident rate per million hours worked resulting in one workday or more lost ­ following the day of the accident, calculated for all employees (including temporary ­workers) at all sites 2) Volume sold of goods manufactured by LANXESS and sold internally to another LANXESS company or externally (excluding commercial products) 3) T he energy volumes given were calculated on the basis of simplified assumptions and typical substance values. They do not include other forms of imported energy (e.g. the energy contained in raw materials). 4) Equivalent to circulating cooling water 5) T he emission factors used for fossil fuels are based on calculations by the U.S. EPA (AP-42 from 1998) and on the IPCC Guidelines for National Greenhouse Gas Inventories (2006). In accordance with the GHG Protocol (2004), the factors for calculating CO 2e are based on the global warming potential (time horizon: 100 years) defined in the IPCC Second Assessment Report (SAR 1995). All Scope 1 greenhouse gases are calculated as CO2e. In accordance with the GHG Protocol, the CO2 emissions from the combustion of biomass are shown separately and are not included in the Scope 1 emissions. The following emissions were produced during the reporting period: 2012: 225 kt CO2, 2013: 223 kt CO2, 2014: 217 kt CO2. 6) A ll Scope 2 greenhouse gases are calculated as CO 2e. The conversion factors used were provided by the energy producers for 2008 or 2009. Where these were not available, factors from the IEA (International Energy Agency) for 2010 were used for fiscal year 2012, factors from 2011 were used for fiscal year 2013 and factors from 2012 were used for fiscal year 2014. 7) Nitrogen oxide (NO X) calculated as NO 2 (excluding N 2O – nitrous oxide) 8) Sulfur dioxide (SO2) + SO3 calculated as SO 2 9) Total VOC (volatile organic compounds) excluding methane and acetone 10) Heavy metals (arsenic, cadmium, chromium, copper, mercury, nickel, lead, tin, zinc) a) Value for 2013 corrected for additional data 40 LANXESS Annual Report 2014 HSEQ Targets for 2014 Target Target Program/Action Date Target Attainment 1. Improvement in ocImplementation of the “Xact” safety program Ongoing In 2014, the “Xact” team developed measures to implement the cupational and plant program LANXESS safety culture and began their global rollout. At 2.3, safety – no injuries or the LTIFR was substantially lower than in previous years. environmental incidents 2. Consolidation of Increased efficiency of corporate audits through 2014 The audit consolidation concept was successfully concluded, corporate audits harmonization/consolidation increasing efficiency by approx. 30%. It will be implemented in 2015. 3. Climate protection Reduction of specific CO2e emissions by 10% 2015 Ongoing measure per business segment (base year: 2010) Reduction in specific energy consumption by 10% 2015 Ongoing measure per business segment (base year 2010) Increase in resource efficiency and performance 2014 On account of the ongoing portfolio review, it has not been of environmental footprint and life cycle analyses possible to define the substances for analysis. for relevant products 4. Environmental Reduction in absolute emissions of volatile organic 2015 Ongoing measure protection compounds (VOC) by 30% (base year: 2010) 5. Energy management Global implementation of the energy management 2014 The centrally managed global project to implement the EnMS system and certification readiness through to certification readiness was completed at the end of 2014. Further implementation and preparation for local certification are taking place decentrally at our sites outside Germany. HSEQ Targets for 2015 Target Program/Action Target Date 1. Management of HSEQ risks Development and introduction of a global HSEQ risk identification and evaluation process with the 2020 following objectives: • S trengthen awareness of occupational safety and foster continuous improvements in support of LANXESS’s “Xact” global safety program • R eduction and prevention of • incidents relating to plant and process safety • e nvironmental incidents and their impact • transport incidents 2. Sustainable supplier management Development and establishment of a new sustainability standard for our suppliers: 2020 • T he sustainability standard for our suppliers to be advanced in tandem with relevant industry initiatives • S upport for the Together for Sustainability initiative, which aims to standardize and share sustainability assessments of suppliers in the same industry 3. Climate protection and Consolidation of existing efficiency measures in a global resource efficiency program with the 2016 resource management following goals: Improved energy efficiency within the LANXESS Group: • R eduction of specific greenhouse gas emissions • E stablishment of a water management system at all sites in water-scarce areas Continued from prior years: • R eduction in specific CO2 emissions by 10% per business segment (base year: 2010) 2015 • Reduction in specific energy consumption by 10% per business segment (base year: 2010) • R eduction in emissions of volatile organic compounds (VOC) by 30% (base year: 2010) 4. Product stewardship Compilation of life-cycle analyses for the most important key products (e.g. for all “green” products) 2016 Corporate Responsibility 41 Society LANXESS collaborates with elementary schools as well as with middle and high schools. Working with educational experts, we developed an As a company, we draw numerous benefits from the society in which experiment kit for this level of education containing special teaching we operate – well-trained employees, satisfied customers, legal and materials related to mobility, globalization, urbanization and water. In political stability and an excellent infrastructure. We believe it is only 2014, we distributed kits worth a total of €360,000 to elementary right that, in line with the concept of corporate citizenship, we assume schools close to our sites in Germany and elsewhere in the world – from responsibility and thus also contribute to the evolution of society. Our Canada and South Africa to Japan. Wherever they are in use, our kits social commitment is based on the same fundamental principle as convey the fascination of science and technology and are intended our entrepreneurial activities – a consistent focus on a limited number to wake the inventive spirit of both girls and boys as early as possible. of projects that promise long-term success. It is not just in Germany that education is a valuable asset, which Our not-for-profit activities focus on providing support for science is why our initiative has been extended to other countries in recent education in schools. After all, skilled employees are a crucial prereqyears. Today, projects focusing particularly on the promotion of sciuisite for the sustainable success of our company, no matter where ence education are in place at many LANXESS sites across the globe. in the world it operates. We endeavor to encourage young people to develop a passion for chemistry at a young age, awaken their inventive Since 2010, for example, we have been fostering scientific knowledge spirit and make them aware of the diverse career opportunities that and environmental awareness at our sites in Brazil with our Green Cycle the LANXESS Group offers. competition. The winners receive recognition for the environmental protection projects they develop for the competition and LANXESS Consequently, some 71% of the 92 projects we implemented in 2014 fully finances implementation of these projects. Participants additionally were dedicated to education. A second major pillar of our social comreceive assistance from an agency that specializes in implementing mitment is promoting culture, which in 2014 comprised around 11% environmental projects. In 2014, a total of 65 projects were submitof our projects. Europe was the geographical focus of our activities in ted for consideration at our six sites in Brazil. Since the competition the reporting year and we implemented almost one third of all projbegan, we have successfully initiated 30 projects that have benefited ects in that region. Overall, more than 218,000 (2013: more than more than 6,000 people. In addition, our employees in Brazil have 237,000) mainly young people benefited from our projects, which we participated in Community Day since 2011 and spend the day providfunded with some €0.9 million in 2014 (2013: some €1.5 million). ing practical assistance to facilities such as kindergartens, hospitals, schools and social centers. More than 20% of our employees around the country took part in 2014. The LANXESS education initiative – a global success story The “Educar para Crecer” (Educate to Grow) initiative in Argentina aims to promote development in the Zárate region by supporting In 2008, we launched the LANXESS education initiative to underscore schools and not-for-profit organizations engaged in educational, social our clear commitment to Germany as a business location and as a base and environmental protection activities there. As part of this initiative, for the chemical industry. We have since provided support to more we provide funding for sustainable education projects and help those than 30 schools close to our sites in Germany. Our funding enabled wishing to launch such projects by delivering the fundamental knowthe provision of new laboratory facilities, technical equipment and how they need. Some 10,000 people have already benefited directly teaching materials for chemistry, biology, physics and IT classes. We or indirectly from the more than 40 projects implemented since the also cooperate with the schools when it comes to teaching content. program was launched in 2007. At the end of 2014, our experiment kits were also provided through the initiative which, from 2015, will We offer interested and talented students the chance to take part be targeting technical colleges. in project weeks and workshops. In 2014, middleand high-school students in cities including Krefeld and Cologne explored the issues The “La Basura Sirve” (Waste is Useful) initiative launched in Zárate in of water and mobility. We supported one of these projects with water 2012 also seeks to promote responsible environmental practices. The treatment products which, owing to their properties, can be used program, which we conduct in collaboration with a group of schools, repeatedly for further experiments. In order to intensify cooperation encourages the collection and sorting of inorganic household waste. with our schools, we designed a new website as a platform where they The income from the sale of reusable materials to recycling compacan submit their MINT projects (mathematics, information technology, nies is used by the participating schools to purchase essential items. natural sciences and technology) and apply directly for support. By the Since the launch of the initiative, thousands of students have already end of 2014, the website had been used by various partner schools collected more than 20 tons of PET waste. in Cologne, Leverkusen, Dormagen, Krefeld, Marl and Brunsbüttel to agree MINT projects for 2015. 42 LANXESS Annual Report 2014 Social Activities by Topic1) Social Activities by Region 1) % % 13 71 7 35 Other Education Latin America EMEA 5 Climate protection 11 29 Culture Asia-Pacific 29 North America 1) Basis: 92 projects undertaken in 2014 1) Basis: 92 projects undertaken in 2014 One of our most important CR projects in India is the long-term Teach In Japan, we expanded the cooperation we initiated some years ago for India program initiated in 2010. The program recruits top graduates with aid organization Save the Children Japan in the area of educafrom Indian universities as fellows who, after completing their studies, tion. With the aim of teaching children more about chemistry and spend an initial period of two years teaching full-time at schools with Germany, employees of our Japanese company held workshops at insufficient funding. Through to the end of 2018, we will be supporttwo elementary schools in Ishinomaki in August 2014. The program ing Teach for India with €75,000 each year. includes small experiments and a film depicting what our world would be like without chemistry. The workshops are intended as the first in a As part of our commitment in Nagda, where we have a production facilrange of educational activities in the region which is still suffering the ity, we made a substantial contribution toward establishing the city’s first effects of the devastating earthquake in March 2011. computer training center. Opened in August 2014, the center teaches primary computer skills to students and working professionals, enabling Since 2011, we have been the main sponsor of the Rally to Read initiathem to greatly enhance their proficiency profiles. LANXESS procured tive in South Africa, which aims to reduce the significant difference in and installed the necessary hardware and funded the renovation of reading and writing skills between students in rural regions and their the premises provided by the Madhya Pradesh Labour Welfare Board. urban counterparts. Each year, we provide schools in remote areas with items such as teacher training guides, container libraries, writing In China, we collaborate with the Goethe Institute to offer the materials, sports equipment, educational toys and school shoes. More LANXESS-PASCH Dream Career Program. Each year, two students than 8,000 children benefited from the campaign in 2014. Their from the Goethe Institute’s partner schools are given the opportunity progress is regularly monitored by the local education authorities and to complete a four-week internship with LANXESS. In Liyang, we the READ Trust, partner of the Rally to Read initiative. have been providing support to particularly gifted or very committed students since 2012. Each year, students from the three renowned Our partnership with Junior Achievement in the United States, initiated universities we partner in Qingdao, Shaanxi and Changzhou can apply in 2013, also fully reflects our commitment to corporate volunteering. to LANXESS for a scholarship and internship. LANXESS employees regularly visit schools in the Pittsburgh area to teach firsttothird-grade classes basic aspects of economics and entrepreneurship. Since the launch of the LANXESS education initiative, we have invested more than €6 million worldwide in activities which have reached tens of thousands of children, adolescents and young adults. Feedback from teachers, principals and school authorities shows that the initiative has significantly enhanced the importance of the MINT subjects in school timetables. Corporate Responsibility 43 Promoting art and culture We are convinced that successful scientific work and, ultimately, social progress can only flourish in a culture of thought, research and critical evaluation. As part of our cultural commitment, we therefore sponsor both literary and musical talents. We have been the main partner to lit.COLOGNE, Europe’s biggest literature festival in Cologne, since 2010. Since 2013, we have also been supporting its sister event phil.COLOGNE, a top-class international philosophy festival. In addition, we foster our employees’ interest in literature. As part of “fliX,” the Festa Literária LANXESS, several libraries were established at our Brazilian sites with books donated by our employees, who also operate the libraries. The second mainstay of our cultural commitment is support for musical training, especially for young people. The Young Euro Classic initiative brings together the greatest talents from Germany and LANXESS’s main markets around the world. Until 2015, LANXESS SNYO Classic is sponsoring an exchange and mentoring program for the Singapore National Youth Orchestra. Also until 2015, we will be supporting the Ozawa International Chamber Music Academy (OICMA) in Japan, enabling talented young musicians from across Asia to receive a topquality musical education. Since 2012, we have been a partner to the “Kölner Philharmonie,” one of Europe’s premier cultural institutions. In addition to the “Acht Brücken” (Eight Bridges) contemporary music festival, we support many other activities at this venue, including a discounted concert subscription for students. 44 LANXESS Annual Report 2014 Investor Information Investor Information 45 Investor Information for the second quarter. The third quarter was marked by some substantial losses. In July, as the situation in Ukraine worsened, the DAX declined by 4.3% to post its largest monthly loss for 2014. Performance remained volatile for a decrease of 3.6% at the end of the third quarter. This was followed by a very turbulent fourth quarter in which the DAX fell below 8,400 points in mid-October before again climbing above the 10,000-point threshold to a new all-time The price of LANXESS stock saw substanhigh of 10,087 points. These extreme fluctuations were caused by news ranging from fears of recession in the eurozone to speculatial declines in fiscal 2014. The way our tion about bond purchases by the ECB and the reduction of the key stock performed was affected especially interest rates in China. At the end of the reporting period, the stock index was influenced by further events such as the strongly declining by the challenging situation the company oil price and the devaluation of the ruble. At the close of trading on faced, as well as by the turbulent market December 30, 2014, the DAX stood at 9,806 points. environment. Our share price closed at The LANXESS benchmark indices Dow Jones STOXX 600 Chemi€38.46 on December 30, 2014. calsSM and MSCI World Chemicals Index also registered growth last year. After starting the year at 758 points, the Dow Jones STOXX 600 ChemicalsSM ranged between 720 and 780 points in the subsequent months before also fluctuating very widely in the fourth quarter. In October, it fell to a low for the year of 677 points and then jumped to 806 points in early December. At year end, this benchmark index stood at 786 points for a gain of 3.8%. The MSCI World Chemicals 2014 was an eventful year for Europe’s stock markets. The German Index, which we adopted in 2014 as a new benchmark index for lead index, the DAX, which includes our stock, turned in a very volatile our share because it is more comprehensive and has a more interperformance ranging from new record highs above 10,000 points national composition, closed the year up 2.6% following a volatile to a low of less than 8,400 points. Throughout the fiscal year, the performance. After reaching lows around 230 points in both the European stock markets experienced the negative effects of geofirst and fourth quarters, this index posted a clear increase in value political risks, especially the crisis in Ukraine. Other restraining factors to end the year at 256 points. were disappointing economic data in the eurozone, weaker growth in China and South America, and a less expansive U.S. monetary policy. The development of our share price in 2014 was greatly influenced The substantial drop in the oil price at year end also had a negative by LANXESS’s business performance. It opened the year at €48.90 impact on the markets. Factors which buoyed the markets in 2014 and initially increased in value in the first few months. During this time, were especially further reductions of the key interest rate made by positive momentum came from news of the change of leadership on the European Central Bank (ECB) and positive economic data from the Board of Management. At the end of January, we announced that the United States. The U.S. stock markets in particular benefited from Matthias Zachert, former CFO of LANXESS AG, had been appointed that country’s gratifying economic development and posted a much as the new Chairman of the Board of Management effective April 1. more positive performance than their European counterparts. The In the first quarter, our share price remained above €50 and closed leading U.S. index, the Dow Jones Industrial Average, topped the the quarter at €54.75. 18,000-point threshold for the first time, gaining 10.7% in 2014. The DAX closed at 9,806 points on December 30, 2014, delivering In the subsequent months, the focus was on communication of growth of 2.7%. LANXESS’s realignment. At the start of May, we announced that we would be developing an extensive realignment program. The ten-perAt the start of fiscal 2014, stock market performance was still very cent increase in the capital stock of LANXESS AG to €91,522,936, restrained and was impacted by the crisis in Ukraine. A significant also at the start of May, represented an important step in financing the recovery prevailed in the second quarter, especially as the result of planned measures and strengthening our financial position. However, the ECB’s continuing low interest rate policy. As a result, the DAX despite the measures we had initiated, our share took losses in the climbed above 10,000 points in June to deliver growth of 2.9% second quarter, falling below the €50 threshold at the end of June. The uncertainty surrounding the current competitive environment for our rubber businesses, our future positioning in that arena and the 46 LANXESS Annual Report 2014 LANXESS Stock Performance since Listing % 500 400 300 200 100 0 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 l ­L ANXESS l DJ STOXX 600 Chemicals SM l DAX l MSCI World Chemicals Index LANXESS Stock Performance 2014 % 120 110 100 90 80 70 Dec. 30, 2013 March 31, 2014 June 30, 2014 Sep. 30, 2014 Dec. 30, 2014 l ­L ANXESS l DJ STOXX 600 Chemicals SM l DAX l MSCI World Chemicals Index Investor Information 47 Performance Data 2014 Q1 2014 Q2 2014 Q3 2014 Q4 2014 Year 2014 Capital stock/no. of shares1) €/no. of shares 83,202,670 91,522,936 91,522,936 91,522,936 91,522,936 Market capitalization 1) € billion 4.56 4.51 4.00 3.51 3.51 High/low for the period € 55.13/44.64 56.75/48.07 51.16/43.37 43.79/36.24 56.75/36.24 Closing price1) € 54.75 49.30 43.71 38.46 38.46 Volatility2) % – – – – 25.01 Trading volume million shares 70.901 38.903 41.129 60.900 211.833 Average daily trading volume shares 1,125,413 627,472 623,171 998,367 893,385 Earnings per share € 0.30 0.63 0.38 (0.74) 0.53 Price/cash flow ratio1) 3) 4) – – – – 4.65 1) End of quarter: Q1: March 31, 2014, Q2: June 30, 2014, Q3: September 30, 2014, Q4 and full year: December 31, 2014 2) Source: Bloomberg 3) D ata, especially cash flow, are influenced by exceptionals, which restricts the significance accordingly 4) Reference value: operating cash flow further development of our business in 2014 impacted our share Capital Market Information price too strongly. At the end of July, the Board of Management Share class No-par shares announced the launch of our Group-wide realignment program Listing code LXS “Let’s LANXESS again,” providing first details of this already in early WKN (German securities ­identification number) 547040 August. The three-phase program is focused on increasing the comISIN DE0005470405 petitiveness of the business and administrative structure, operational Reuters/Bloomberg codes LXSG.DE/LXS:GR competitiveness and the competitiveness of the business portfolio Market segment Prime Standard (see also “Strategy” on page 8). We also reported on the implemenTrading venues XETRA, Frankfurt, Munich, Stuttgart, tation of the first measures: the consolidation of business units and Düsseldorf, Hamburg, Hannover, Berlin administrative functions. The realignment program received a posiSelective indices DAX, Dow Jones STOXX 600 ChemicalsSM, DAXsupersector Basic Materials, tive response from the capital market but was unable to provide any MSCI Germany Standard, MSCI Germany momentum for our share price. At this time, news from the general Mid Cap, Dow Jones Sustainability Index World, Dow Jones Sustainability Index market environment was negative and clearly dominated the devel­Europe, FTSE4Good opment of share prices, including the price of the LANXESS share Investment-grade ratings (outlook) Standard & Poor’s: BBB– (stable) which stood at €43.71 at the end of the third quarter. Moody’s: Baa3 (stable) Fitch: BBB– (stable) During our Capital Markets Day and Media Day in early November, we announced further details of our realignment and the expected cost reductions we intend to achieve from the end of 2016 after Sustainability implementation of the first phase of the program. We also provided information about future negative effects in fiscal 2015 and 2016 Exercising responsibility in our entrepreneurial activities is a key elearising from, for example, the start-up of our new rubber plants. The ment of our corporate strategy. We therefore continued to view suscapital market responded positively to the high degree of transpartainable development as a high priority in 2014 and underscored our ency of this information and the details of the financial impact anticiclaim that LANXESS is a sustainable investment. pated from the first phase of the realignment program. Nevertheless, the development of our share price remained under the influence of Last year, our sustainable development was rewarded by our renewed our challenging business situation and, toward the end of the fourth inclusion in the respected Dow Jones Sustainability™ Indices (DJSI). quarter, was additionally impacted by the negative stock market enviWe were listed for the fourth year consecutively in the DJSI World and ronment. The LANXESS share closed at €38.46 on December 30, for the second year in the DJSI Europe following our debut in that index 2014, for a decrease of 20.7% over the year. in 2013. We were given very good ratings especially in the areas of environmental policy/management system, climate strategy, corporate citizenship, risk and crisis management and antitrust guidelines. The DJSI World is compiled by assessing the world's 2,500 largest corporations across 59 different industries. 48 LANXESS Annual Report 2014 Our listing in the FTSE4Good Index, in which we were first included In 2014, as in the past, many of our institutional investors were based in 2011, was also confirmed. In addition, oekom research – one of in the United States, the United Kingdom and Germany. The proportion the leading sustainability rating agencies – has put our corporate of our stockholders in the United States increased year on year and at responsibility rating at C+ since 2011. January 31, 2015, was around 31% (2013: 27%). At the same date, some 18% (2013: 17%) of LANXESS shares were held in the United Climate protection and transparent reporting about our achievements Kingdom. In Germany, institutional investors represented about 14% in this area have a key role in our sustainability activities, which we (2013: 12%) of our shares. Taking private and institutional investors again demonstrated through our participation in the Carbon Disclosure together, ownership of our shares in Germany increased to around Project (CDP). Although we no longer ranked in the top 10% of the 25% (2013: 24%). 350 largest companies surveyed in Germany, Austria and Switzerland in the reporting year, we continue to systematically pursue our climate In other regions, LANXESS is represented in France, the Scandinavian protection objectives and will be ensuring the greatest possible transcountries and Switzerland, in particular. Overall, institutional investors parency of the environmental data we report to the CDP in the future, in the rest of Europe owned about 18% of our stock (2013: 24%), too. In addition, environmental data remain an important component while other regions again accounted for some 8% (2013: 8%). of our sustainability reporting in this Annual Report. An overview of the institutional investors which have issued mandatory We made a further major commitment by signing the United Nations notices reporting ownership of at least 3% of LANXESS’s outstanding Global Compact, the world’s largest and fastest-growing corporate shares is published on our website. All voting rights announcements social responsibility (CSR) initiative, in 2011 and have annually recan be found under Investor Relations/Shares. affirmed our commitment since then. Our commitment in the area of sustainability goes beyond the aforeStockholder Profile as of January 31, 2015 mentioned listings and initiatives. For example, we support the Re% sponsible Care® Global Charter initiated by the International Council of ~ 11 ~ 89 Chemical Associations (ICCA) and we are a cofounder of the Together Private investors Institutional investors for Sustainability (TfS) initiative, which has the goal of assessing and improving sustainability in the chemical industry supply chain. Detailed information about sustainability is available from page 13 and on our corporate website. Strengthening our sustainability profile will remain a priority for LANXESS in 2015. Ownership structure The majority of LANXESS’s stockholders are institutional investors whose strategy is oriented toward growth or value. At January 31, Geographical Breakdown as of January 31, 2015 1) 2015, these investors held around 89% of the stock. % 8 31 In addition to the stakes held by institutional investors, a holding of Other regions United States around 11% of our shares is in the hands of private investors, including LANXESS employees who collectively own some 1%. Since LANXESS 18 was first listed on the stock market, our private investors have been Other Europe primarily located in Germany. 18 25 United Kingdom Germany 1) Based on the stockholders identified Investor Information 49 Analysts Annual Stockholders’ Meeting LANXESS’s performance is monitored by a large number of analysts. At our Annual Stockholders’ Meeting on May 22, 2014, LANXESS In fiscal 2014, around 30 sell-side analysts again issued reports detailshareholders showed their clear support and passed all the agenda ing their estimates of our company’s current and future development. items by solid majorities. 42,284,197 shares and the same number In light of the challenges in the 2014 fiscal year, focal points of the of votes – equivalent to 51.10% of the voting capital – were repredialogue with analysts were the market situation for our businesses sented at the meeting. Detailed voting results and additional informaand the realignment of LANXESS. Alongside our dialogue with the tion about LANXESS's Annual Stockholders’ Meeting are available sell side, we intensified our interaction with fixed-income analysts on our website under Investor Relations/Events & Presentations. during the reporting year. We will continue to accord high priority to the regular and detailed exchange of information with analysts within The next Annual Stockholders’ Meeting takes place on May 13, the context of our IR activities. 2015, in the LANXESS arena at Willy-Brandt-Platz 1, Cologne. As of January 31, 2015, 37% of analysts (2013: 50%) recommended buying LANXESS shares. A further 42% (2013: 32%) said to hold Dividend our shares, while 21% (2013: 18%) gave a sell recommendation. LANXESS follows a consistent dividend policy. We aim for our stockOn the basis of the most recent analysts’ appraisals, an independent holders to share in our business performance in an appropriate and service provider regularly compiles consensus estimates, which we sustainable way. With a view to maintaining continuity, we therefore make available on our website under Investor Relations/Shares. also intend to propose a dividend for the very challenging fiscal year 2014. The Board of Management and Supervisory Board of LANXESS AG will therefore propose to the Annual Stockholders’ Recommendations as of January 31, 2015 Meeting on May 13, 2015, that a dividend of €0.50 per share be % declared for fiscal 2014 (2013: €0.50 per share). This reflects the company’s difficult business performance in the past year and the 21 37 Sell Buy present realignment phase. Relative to the price of €38.46 at which LANXESS shares ended 2014, this equates to a dividend yield of 1.3%. Subject to approval of the corresponding resolution by the Annual Stockholders’ Meeting, the dividend will be paid on May 14, 2015. 42 Hold Bonds LANXESS placed no new Eurobonds on the capital market in ­fiscal 2014. The €500 million Eurobond with a term of five years and an annual­ interest coupon of 7.750% that we issued in April 2009 matured­in April 2014 and was repaid. The following table provides an overview of our presently outstanding bonds. Overview of LANXESS’s Main Bonds ISIN/WKN Volume Term Coupon XS0452802175 €200 ­million September 21, 2009 – 5.500 % September 21, 2016 XS0629645531 €500 ­million May 23, 2011 – 4.125 % May 23, 2018 XS0746637296 CNH 500 ­million February 16, 2012 – 3.950 % (around €60 million) February 16, 2015 XS0855167523 €500 ­million November 21, 2012 – 2.625 % November 21, 2022 50 LANXESS Annual Report 2014 All LANXESS’s existing Eurobonds were issued by LANXESS Finance Investor relations activities B.V. and are listed on the Luxembourg Stock Exchange. The term sheets are available on our website under Investor Relations/Bond. Maintaining an active, broad and uninterrupted dialogue with investors and analysts is a top priority for LANXESS. Our declared objective is Further information about our bonds can be found on page 95 ff. of to provide a continuous and sustained flow of information about our this Annual Report. company. For this reason, roadshows, capital market conferences and individual dialogue meetings at LANXESS headquarters have been features of our central investor relations (IR) activities right from the Capital increase start. We also use events such as our LANXESS Capital Markets Day to explain and discuss important current corporate topics. In the second quarter of 2014, we increased the capital stock of LANXESS by 10%, in part by utilizing our existing authorized capital. In fiscal 2014, the Chairman of the Board of Management, the Chief FiThe capital stock was increased by a nominal €8,320,266 against nancial Officer and the Investor Relations team represented LANXESS issuance of 8,320,266 new no-par bearer shares which are entitled at roadshows and capital market conferences on a total of 72 days. to a dividend as of fiscal 2013. Especially in this difficult year, we felt it was very important to sustain the high frequency of our IR activities so that we could provide timely The additional shares were offered at a price of €52.00 per share information about LANXESS’s performance and realignment. We to international institutional investors in a private placement using continue to focus on our stockholders and foster an intensive dialogue an accelerated bookbuilding process, resulting in gross proceeds with fixed income investors and with investors who are focused on of around €430 million. These will be used above all to finance the sustainability. ongoing realignment of LANXESS and reduce the company’s debt. Since May 9, 2014, the capital stock has amounted to €91,522,936, Roadshows and conferences for active and personal with 91,522,936 shares in circulation. dialogue worldwide We consider roadshows and conferences to be highly relevant beRatings cause they enable us to engage in a broad and personal dialogue with institutional investors. International capital market centers like The rating agencies Standard & Poor’s, Moody’s Investors Service and Boston, New York, London, Paris, Frankfurt and Zurich are important Fitch Ratings adjusted their investment-grade ratings for LANXESS in roadshow destinations for LANXESS management and the Investor fiscal 2014 in light of the persistently challenging business environRelations team. Elsewhere in Europe, the Benelux and Scandinavian ment. Standard & Poor’s and Fitch both reduced their ratings from countries have also become destinations for regular roadshows. Other BBB to BBB–, while Moody’s adjusted its rating from Baa2 to Baa3. regions where there is an interest in our shares include especially Asia However, all three rating agencies raised their outlook from negative (Singapore and Japan) and North America. to stable. We utilize international cross-industry conferences organized by globLANXESS’s weaker financial indicators resulting from the persistently al banks as important platforms for communicating with our target difficult market environment for the company’s synthetic rubber busigroups. We also participate at conferences specifically for mid caps nesses were cited by the three agencies as the main reason for their or the chemical industry. In addition, we attend forums for private changed ratings. Against this background, they are assuming that it will investors in order to present our company’s business performance. be some time before LANXESS can again sustainably strengthen its financial profile. All three rating agencies justified raising their outlook In 2015, we intend to maintain a strong presence at international to stable by their assumption that the measures initiated by LANXESS conferences. We will also continue our participation at events for will improve profitability and strengthen key financial indicators in the private investors. coming two years. They also noted as positive LANXESS’s continuing sound liquidity. Standard & Poor’s and Moody’s have had LANXESS at an investmentgrade rating since 2007, Fitch since 2006. Investor Information 51 LANXESS Capital Markets Day and Media Day provide In the ranking of European companies performed by the U.K.’s redetails of realignment spected IR Magazine, based on a survey of some 500 European portfolio managers and analysts, LANXESS was placed first for investor The realignment of LANXESS was the central focus of our Capital relations work by a mid-cap company. Markets Day and Media Day on November 6, 2014. As well as describing the current challenges resulting from the changed market The investors and sell-side analysts surveyed by U.S. magazine environment, we presented details of our three-phase program to Institutional Investor also rated our performance very highly, ranking increase competitiveness and reported on the current status of its LANXESS second among European chemical companies. In the Best implementation. Already at the end of 2014, we had almost completed IR Professional category, sell side and buy side placed LANXESS first the first phase of the program aimed at improving the competitiveness and second, respectively. In compiling its rankings, Institutional Investor of the business and administrative structure. We expect these measures again asked more than 850 fund managers and 1,500 analysts to to generate annual savings of around €150 million from the end of rate the investor relations work of European companies. 2016. We have also initiated the first measures in the next phase of the program, which seeks to increase operational competitiveness. Here, the focus is on optimizing production, marketing and the supInvestor Relations contacts: ply chain. In 2015, we aim to develop and announce specific steps that will comprise the third phase of the program, which is directed at Head of Investor Relations improving the competitiveness of the business portfolio. Repositioning Oliver Stratmann our rubber businesses is of key importance here. Tel. +49 221 8885 9611 E-mail: oliver.stratmann@lanxess.com The presentations made at both the Capital Markets Day and Media Day are available on our website under Investor Relations/Events & Private Investors, Annual Stockholders’ Meeting, Events Presentations. Tanja Satzer Tel. +49 221 8885 3801 E-mail: tanja.satzer@lanxess.com Further IR activities provide timely information Institutional Investors, Analysts Conference calls are a further important means of providing capital Ulrike Rockel market participants with timely and extensive information updates. In Tel. +49 221 8885 5458 these calls, the Board of Management comments on our published E-mail: ulrike.rockel@lanxess.com results and reports on current measures taken by LANXESS. Conference calls are streamed live in the Investor Relations section of the Dirk Winkels LANXESS website, and recorded versions are available for download Tel. +49 221 8885 8007 for one year. E-mail: dirk.winkels@lanxess.com The Investor Relations section of our website also contains the preMatthias Arnold sentations from our roadshows and Capital Market Days and from the Tel. +49 221 8885 1287 external conferences at which we participate. The offering is rounded E-mail: matthias.arnold@lanxess.com out by our financial reports, publications like the LANXESS Fact Book, investor news and details about our shares and bonds. LANXESS honored for its capital market communications Maintaining a broad, timely and transparent dialogue with the capital markets has always been a high priority for us. That is why we are pleased that, despite the difficulties we faced in fiscal 2014, our IR activities were recognized by portfolio managers and analysts in prestigious rankings. The main criteria for these were again the credibility and transparency of our communications, the focus on target groups and access to top management. 52 LANXESS Annual Report 2014 Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Report 53 Corporate Federal Gazette with the exceptions described in the declaration of 11 December 2013 in Section 4.2.3, Paragraph 2, Sentence 6, Governance Report Paragraph 4, Sentence 1, 5.1.2 Paragraph 2 Sentence 3, 5.4.5 Paragraph 2 Sentence 1 and Section 5.4.5, Sentence 2. LANXESS AG has and will henceforth comply with the recommendations of the Government Commission as amended on 24 June 2014, which was published on 30 September 2014, with the following exceptions: 1. Section 4.2.3, Paragraph 2, Sentence 6 The Board of Management and Supervisory Board herein report on  The amount of compensation shall be capped, both overall and corporate governance at LANXESS pursuant to Section 3.10 of the for variable compensation components. German Corporate Governance Code. The Board of Management also issues its corporate governance statement pursuant to Section  The current employment contracts for Board of Management mem289a of the German Commercial Code. bers are besides the fixed compensation capped regarding the variable compensation components and the fringe benefits. They The Board of Management and Supervisory Board of LANXESS are do not provide in addition a separate overall cap of the compensacommitted to the principles of transparent and responsible corporate tion also including a possible discretionary bonus. However, the governance and control. They place high value on the standards of Supervisory Board will rightfully exercise its discretion regarding a good corporate governance with a view to strengthening the trust of discretionary bonus as shown in the past. investors, customers, employees and the public in LANXESS. 2. Section 4.2.3, Paragraph 2, Sentence 8 Changing such performance targets or the comparison parameters Implementation of the German Corporate retroactively shall be excluded. Governance Code  In light of the company’s current realignment program the Board As LANXESS is a stock corporation listed on the German stock exof Management and the Supervisory Board agreed to reduce change, corporate governance at the company is aligned with Gerthe potential maximum amount of payment of the variable salary many’s securities and capital market legislation and the German component Annual Performance Payment (APP) for the members Corporate Governance Code. The latter makes recommendations of the Board of Management for fiscal year 2014. Moreover, the and suggestions concerning corporate governance. There is no obSupervisory Board reserves its right to retroactively adapt the comligation to comply with this code. However, pursuant to Section 161 parison parameters of the APP for the members of the Board of of the German Stock Corporation Act, the Board of Management Management for fiscal year 2015 in consideration of the general and Supervisory Board of LANXESS are required to issue an annual conditions. declaration of compliance in line with the recommendations of the German Corporate Governance Code, providing information about 3. Section 4.2.3, Paragraph 4, Sentence 1 and stating the reasons for any deviations from these recommenda In concluding Management Board contracts, care shall be taken tions. Shareholders can view the declaration of compliance on the to ensure that payments made to a Management Board member company’s website at any time. There they will also find the now invalid on premature termination of his contract, including fringe benefits, declarations made in the previous five years. do not exceed the value of two years’ compensation (severance pay cap) and compensate no more than the remaining term of the On December 10, 2014, the Board of Management and Supervisory contract. Board issued the following joint declaration pursuant to Section 161 of the German Stock Corporation Act:  The employment contracts for Board of Management members limit payments to a Board of Management member on premature “I. Recommendations termination of his contract, including fringe benefits, to two years’ Since the issuance of the last declaration of compliance on 11 December compensation, except in the event of a change of control. However, 2013, LANXESS AG has complied with the recommendations of they do not contain the additional limitation that no more than the the Government Commission on the German Corporate Goverremaining term of the contract shall be compensated. The Supernance Code (“Government Commission”) as amended on 13 May visory Board does not consider it appropriate to base the absolute 2013, which was published on 10 June 2013 by the Federal Minamount of any severance payment on the date of termination. istry of Justice in the official portion of the electronic version of the 54 LANXESS Annual Report 2014 4. Section 5.1.2, Paragraph 2, Sentence 3  The representatives appointed by LANXESS AG to exercise An age limit for the members of the Board of Management shall stockholders’ voting rights in accordance with instructions can be specified. be reached at the Stockholders’ Meeting until the voting is held. Stockholders not attending the meeting can reach the representa The Supervisory Board does not consider an age limit to the tives up to the previous evening. members of the Board of Management as appropriate. The ability to successfully manage a company does not necessarily cease 2. Section 2.3.3 when a specific age is reached. It rather may be in the interest of  The company should make it possible for stockholders to follow the company to appoint a member of the Board of Management the General Meeting using modern communication media (e.g. beyond a defined age limit. Internet). 5. Section 5.4.1, Paragraph 2, Sentence 1  The speech by the Chairman of the Board of Management to the  The Supervisory Board shall specify concrete objectives regardStockholders’ Meeting is broadcast on the Internet. Continued ing its composition which, whilst considering the specifics of the broadcasting of the proceedings thereafter, particularly of contricompany, take into account the international activities of the combutions made by stockholders, could be seen as a violation of the pany, potential conflicts of interest, the number of independent stockholders’ rights to privacy. For this reason, LANXESS does not Supervisory Board members within the meaning of section 5.4.2, plan to broadcast the further proceedings.” an age limit to be specified for the members of the Supervisory Board and diversity. Other key principles of the management practices  The Supervisory Board does not adhere to the rigid age limit for applied by LANXESS the Supervisory Board members. The age of Supervisory Board members is not a criteria for their qualification and competence. Prominent among the other relevant management practices applied The company does not want to waive longtime experiences. Morethroughout the company are the principles of business conduct. over, the company would restrict itself regarding the appointment LANXESS views compliance with laws and ethical principles as the of adequate members to the Supervisory Board. basis of sustainable corporate governance. Our employees’ integrity and awareness of their responsibilities are key factors in the success II. Suggestions of our company. Compliance with laws, social responsibility, sustainIn addition to its recommendations, the Corporate Governance Code able environmental protection, and occupational, plant and product also contains a number of suggestions for efficient, responsible corsafety are an essential part of our corporate culture. The Code for porate governance compliance which is not required to be disclosed Legal Compliance and Corporate Responsibility at LANXESS, which under the statutory provisions. LANXESS currently complies with these is applicable throughout the Group, specifies minimum standards suggestions as well, with only a few exceptions. and gives employees advice and guidance on complying with these standards. This code can be viewed on our website at http://www. In accordance with Section 3.10 Sentence 2 of the German Corporate lanxess.com under Corporate Responsibility/Corporate Governance/ Governance Code, the Board of Management and the Supervisory Compliance at LANXESS. Board therefore voluntarily issue the following declaration: An effective compliance management system has been established Since the issuance of the last declaration of compliance on 11 Decemto implement the compliance code. This system was globally audited ber 2013, LANXESS AG has complied with the suggestions of the in 2012 by Deloitte & Touche GmbH, which applied the AuS 980 Government Commission as amended on 13 May 2013, which was standard promulgated by the Institut der Wirtschaftsprüfer (IDW – Inpublished on 10 June 2013 by the Federal Ministry of Justice in the stitute of Public Auditors in Germany). The system was rated favorably, official portion of the electronic version of the Federal Gazette, with the and there were no objections. Components of this system include a following exceptions and will continue to comply the suggestions of compliance organization that is integrated into the overall LANXESS the Government Commission as amended on 24 June 2014, which Group organization, risk identification and assessment, a compliance was published on 30 September 2014, with the following exceptions: program (comprising directives, hotlines, training, knowledge sharing, compliance reporting and guidance on responding to observed 1. Section 2.3.2, Sentence 2, 2nd Half-Sentence breaches of compliance), and measures for monitoring the overall The Management Board shall arrange for the appointment of a compliance situation within the LANXESS Group. The objective is representative to exercise shareholders’ voting rights in accordance to prevent breaches of compliance and to create and foster a culture with instructions; this representative should also be reachable durof compliance. LANXESS does not tolerate breaches of compliance ing the General Meeting. and enforces observance of the provisions of its compliance code. Corporate Governance Report 55 As an international specialty chemicals enterprise, LANXESS bears Board of Management a large degree of responsibility toward people and the environment. Our entrepreneurial activities reflect this sense of responsibility. Safety, The Board of Management of LANXESS AG currently comprises environmental protection, social responsibility, quality and economic three members: Matthias Zachert (Chairman), Dr. Bernhard Düttmann efficiency are all key corporate goals at LANXESS. The company’s and Dr. Rainier van Roessel. Information about the members of the objective is sustainable, forward-looking development which meets Board of Management is available on our website at http://www. the demands of economics, ecology and society in equal measure. lanxess.com/ under Investor Relations/Corporate Governance/Board The greatest benefits of our corporate responsibility activities are of Management. achieved if they are balanced with entrepreneurial and, especially, economic objectives. They must therefore be linked to our core busiThe Board of Management is appointed to manage and represent the ness or to our available expertise. An overview of the implementation company. It is responsible for conducting business in the company’s of corporate responsibility at LANXESS can be downloaded from interests with the goal of creating sustainable value. The principal the Corporate Responsibility section of our website at http://www. tasks of the Board of Management include defining the company’s lanxess.com/. Additionally, LANXESS joined the United Nations Global goals and strategic alignment, managing and overseeing the operatCompact initiative in July 2011 and has supported the Responsible ing units, setting human resources policy, arranging the company’s Care® Global Charter adopted by the International Council of Chemifinancing, and establishing an effective risk management system. It cal Associations (ICCA) since 2006, a commitment the company is also responsible for preparing the quarterly and half-year financial reconfirmed by signature in August 2014. statements, the financial statements of LANXESS AG, the consolidated financial statements of the LANXESS Group and the management LANXESS has supplemented German legislation prohibiting insider report for LANXESS AG and the LANXESS Group. trading with a Group-wide insider directive. This defines rules of conduct for trading in the company’s securities so that insider trading The Chairman coordinates the work of the Board of Management. violations can be avoided. The names of persons with authorized As a rule, Board of Management decisions are adopted with a simple access to insider information required for the performance of their majority. In the event of a tie, the Chairman has the casting vote. Resoprofessional duties are included in an insider register that is regularly lutions of the Board of Management are generally passed at regularly updated. The directive also stipulates the reporting and disclosure held meetings. The rules of procedure for the Board of Management obligations for transactions with LANXESS shares (directors’ dealings). that are enacted by the Supervisory Board contain further regulations concerning the form of cooperation within the Board of Management, Corporate policies on other important issues such as occupational the allocation of duties and the matters requiring resolution by the full safety and diversity are implemented throughout the Group on the Board of Management. In deciding the composition of the Board of basis of Board of Management initiatives. With its Diversity & Inclusion Management, the Supervisory Board gives consideration to profesinitiative, LANXESS aims to promote equal opportunity for employees sional suitability, leadership qualities and diversity. and facilitate work/life balance. Additional information is available on our website at http://www.lanxess.com/ under About LANXESS/Who we are/Diversity & Inclusion. Supervisory Board The Supervisory Board of LANXESS AG is composed of twelve memComposition and work of the Board of Management bers, with equal numbers of stockholder representatives and employee and of the Supervisory Board and its committees representatives in accordance with the provisions of the German Codetermination Act of 1976. The stockholder representatives are LANXESS AG is a company established under the laws of Germany. elected by the Annual Stockholders’ Meeting, whereas the employee One of the fundamental principles of German stock corporation law representatives are elected in accordance with the provisions of the is the two-tier management system with the governing bodies of manCodetermination Act and its electoral regulations. Supervisory Board agement board and supervisory board. This system is characterized members normally serve for a five-year term. by a clear separation between the management board as the body that manages a company and the supervisory board as the body that Gisela Seidel, Axel Berndt, Ulrich Freese, Dr. Hans-Dieter Gerriets, advises and oversees management. Concurrent membership on both Thomas Meiers and Hans-Jürgen Schicker serve as the employee boards is strictly prohibited. The management board and the superrepresentatives on the Supervisory Board. Effective July 1, 2014, visory board work closely together in a relationship of mutual trust for Dr. Gerriets, as the elected substitute, became the representative of the benefit of the company. the LANXESS managerial employees, succeeding Dr. Rudolf Fauss 56 LANXESS Annual Report 2014 on his retirement. Claudia Nemat, Dr. Friedrich Janssen, Robert J. Goals for the composition of the Supervisory Board Koehler, Rainer Laufs, Dr. Rolf Stomberg and Theo H. Walthie serve as the stockholder representatives. The Chairman of the Supervisory Section 5.4.1, Sentence 5 of the German Corporate Governance Board is Dr. Rolf Stomberg. The Vice Chairman is Ulrich Freese. InCode states that the concrete objectives of the Supervisory Board formation about the members of the Supervisory Board is available regarding its composition and the status of the implementation of these on our website at http://www.lanxess.com/ under Investor Relations/ objectives are to be published in the Corporate Governance Report. Corporate Governance/Supervisory Board. The members of the Supervisory Board of LANXESS AG are expected The Supervisory Board’s role is to advise the Board of Management to possess the necessary expertise, skills and professional experiin its management of the company and to monitor its conduct of the ence to perform their duties. The members of the Supervisory Board business. The Supervisory Board discusses business performance, autonomously undertake the necessary training required for their planning and strategy at regular intervals. Its responsibilities also intasks and are supported in their efforts by the company. In making clude appointing the members of the Board of Management as well nominations, the Supervisory Board applies only legally permissible as reviewing the financial statements of LANXESS AG and the consoliand fair selection criteria, acts in the company’s best interests, and dated financial statements of the LANXESS Group. The Supervisory gives consideration to the nominated candidates’ integrity, commitBoard reaches its decisions with a majority of the votes cast unless a ment and independence. different majority is stipulated by law. In the event of a tie, the Chairman of the Supervisory Board has two votes in a second ballot on The Supervisory Board of LANXESS AG should ensure the provision the resolution, even if this also results in a tie. The German Codeterof impartial advice and supervision to the Board of Management. All mination Act contains special requirements concerning resolutions. current stockholder representatives on the Supervisory Board are The Chairman of the Supervisory Board coordinates the work in the independent. The Supervisory Board also assumes the independence Supervisory Board, chairs its meetings and represents the concerns of of the employee representatives on the Supervisory Board and that the body externally. Supervisory Board resolutions are usually adopted their ability to act independently is not affected by their status as emat regularly held meetings. ployees of the company or members of labor unions. No member of the Supervisory Board has a personal or business relationship with The Supervisory Board has issued its own rules of procedure, which, the company, its executive bodies, a controlling shareholder or any in addition to defining the tasks and responsibilities of the Supervisory enterprise affiliated with a controlling shareholder that may cause Board and the personal qualifications of its members, establishes the a material and not merely temporary conflict of interest. No former processes for convening, preparing and chairing meetings as well as member of the Board of Management of LANXESS AG is a member the procedures for voting. of the Supervisory Board. The Supervisory Board also aims for all future members of the Supervisory Board to be independent within The Board of Management reports to the Supervisory Board on a the meaning of Section 5.4.2 of the German Corporate Governance timely and comprehensive basis about the progress of business and Code and free of conflicts of interest. the situation of the Group, including potential risks and relevant issues relating to corporate planning. The Supervisory Board has laid The Supervisory Board does not apply a rigid age limit for its members down the Board of Management’s notification and reporting requireas it does not consider age alone to be a measure of their qualification ments in detail in its rules of procedure. The Chairman of the Board and competence. The company should not have to forgo extensive of Management regularly exchanges information with the Chairman experience. of the Supervisory Board in order to discuss matters of strategy, planning, business performance, risks, risk management and compliance. In general, the Supervisory Board should be guided by the principles Certain transactions and measures of major or long-term importance of diversity in its composition. On the basis of their various personal require the Supervisory Board’s approval. Measures requiring approval and professional backgrounds, the members of the Supervisory Board include, but are not limited to: adoption of the corporate planning; contribute a broad spectrum of experience and skills. The global reach the acquisition, sale or encumbrance of real property, shareholdings of LANXESS AG has been reflected in the composition of the Superor other assets; borrowings and certain other types of financial transvisory Board thus far and will remain a factor in selecting candidates actions. Thresholds have been set for some of these transactions. to be proposed to the Annual Stockholders’ Meeting for election to the Supervisory Board. In many cases, the experience and skills of the members of the Supervisory Board have been acquired while working abroad for a long period or in an international field. One member of the Supervisory Board is not a German citizen. The members of the Supervisory Board have professional knowledge of the chemical industry and other sectors that are important for the company’s business. Corporate Governance Report 57 Two of the twelve members currently serving on the LANXESS AG The Audit Committee supports the Supervisory Board in overseeing Supervisory Board are women. Elections of both stockholder and the conduct of the business and deals with matters relating to the employee representatives on the Supervisory Board will take place supervision of accounting, the effectiveness of the internal control in 2015. Only Ms. Nemat’s term of office continues until the Annual system, the risk management system and the internal auditing system, Stockholders’ Meeting in 2019. One of the candidates for election as as well as auditing, including the independence of the auditor and the an employee representative is a woman. No other women have come work additionally performed by the auditor, and compliance. It prepares forward as candidates for election. As a result, it will not be possible the Supervisory Board’s resolutions concerning the annual financial to achieve the aim of having at least three women members on the statements of LANXESS AG and the consolidated financial stateLANXESS AG Supervisory Board from the beginning of its new term. ments of the LANXESS Group and recommends an auditor whom the With a view to ensuring the appropriate representation of women, Supervisory Board then proposes to the Annual Stockholders’ Meeting the Supervisory Board remains committed to the aim of increasing for appointment. The Chairman of the Audit Committee is an indepenthe number of its women members to at least three. For this reason, dent financial expert and has specialist knowledge and experience women candidates are to be proposed if possible should any seats in the field of accounting acquired through his professional activities. on the Supervisory Board become vacant during the course of its new The members of the Audit Committee are Dr. Janssen (Chairman), term. Should legislation be enacted to mandate a higher proportion Mr. Berndt, Dr. Gerriets, Mr. Meiers, Mr. Laufs and Mr. Walthie. of women members on supervisory boards, the Supervisory Board will implement these legal requirements. Stockholder and employee The Committee pursuant to Section 27, Paragraph 3 of the German representatives to the Supervisory Board view it as their joint responCodetermination Act performs the tasks described in Section 31, sibility to ensure the appropriate representation of women. They aim Paragraph 3 of the German Codetermination Act. The members of to work together in fulfilling this responsibility. this committee are Dr. Stomberg (Chairman), Mr. Freese, Ms. Nemat and Mr. Schicker. Composition and work of the Supervisory Board The Nominations Committee solely comprises stockholder representacommittees tives and proposes candidates for the Supervisory Board to nominate for election as new members of the Supervisory Board by the The Supervisory Board has a Presidial Committee, an Audit CommitAnnual Stockholders’ Meeting. The members of this committee are tee, a Committee pursuant to Section 27, Paragraph 3 of the German Dr. Stomberg (Chairman), Dr. Janssen and Mr. Walthie. Codetermination Act and a Nominations Committee formed from among its members. Other Supervisory Board committees established for a particular purpose perform the duties assigned to them by Supervisory Board The Presidial Committee discusses key issues and prepares the meetresolution. ings and resolutions of the Supervisory Board. It makes decisions on transactions requiring approval that are already included in the The respective committee chairmen report regularly to the Supervisory company’s annual planning. The Presidial Committee may also reBoard on the work of the committees. solve on the exercise of participation rights pursuant to Section 32 of the German Codetermination Act and on transactions requiring approval that cannot be deferred. It consults regularly about long-term Stockholders and stockholders’ meetings succession planning for the Board of Management. Furthermore, the Committee also prepares the personnel decisions to be made by the The stockholders of LANXESS AG exercise their rights at the Annual Supervisory Board and resolutions of the full Supervisory Board regardStockholders’ Meeting, where they can vote on the resolutions submiting the compensation of the members of the Board of Management. In ted. The Annual Stockholders’ Meeting resolves on all matters reserved place of the full Supervisory Board, the Presidial Committee resolves for its decision by law, with binding effect on the stockholders and the on the conclusion and amendment of employment contracts with company. Each share confers one vote. the members of the Board of Management and all other contractual matters not pertaining to compensation. The members of the Presidial The items resolved on by the Annual Stockholders’ Meeting include Committee are Dr. Stomberg (Chairman), Mr. Freese, Ms. Seidel, appropriation of the balance sheet profit, ratification of the actions taken Mr. Schicker, Mr. Koehler and Dr. Janssen. by the members of the Board of Management and the Supervisory Board, appointment of the auditors and election of the stockholder representatives to the Supervisory Board. The Annual Stockholders’ 58 LANXESS Annual Report 2014 Meeting also resolves on amendments to the articles of association, Reportable securities transactions measures affecting the company’s capital and the approval of intercompany agreements. Each year there is an Annual Stockholders’ Pursuant to Section 15a, Paragraph 1 of the German Securities TradMeeting at which the Board of Management and Supervisory Board ing Act (WpHG), the trading of securities by certain parties, including give an account of the last fiscal year. The German Stock Corporation members of a management board or supervisory board, must be Act requires the convening of an Extraordinary Stockholders’ Meeting reported if the total sum of the transactions undertaken in any given in certain situations. calendar year equals or exceeds €5,000. Individuals who are closely related to these parties (e.g. spouses, registered partners and firstAll stockholders who register in time and prove their eligibility to attend degree relatives) are also subject to this reporting requirement. Reportthe Annual Stockholders’ Meeting and exercise their voting rights shall able securities transactions are published on the LANXESS website. be allowed to participate in the Annual Stockholders’ Meeting. Stockholders may exercise their voting rights at the Annual Stockholders’ The total number of shares of LANXESS AG held by members of the Meeting in person, through a proxy of their own choosing or through Board of Management and Supervisory Board as of December 31, a company-nominated proxy who acts according to their instructions. 2014 was less than 1% of all shares issued by the company. Compensation report Accounting and auditing The compensation report, which describes the compensation system LANXESS AG prepares its consolidated financial statements and and the amount of compensation paid to the members of the Board of interim financial statements in accordance with the International FiManagement and Supervisory Board for their service in fiscal 2014, nancial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as endorsed by the European is part of the combined management report for LANXESS AG and Union. The separate financial statements of LANXESS AG for any the LANXESS Group. given fiscal year (“financial statements”) are prepared in accordance with the German Commercial Code (HGB). The financial statements, consolidated financial statements and combined management report Risk management are published, once adopted and approved by the Supervisory Board, within 90 days of the end of the fiscal year. The company’s accountCorporate governance also includes the responsible handling of busiing for the 2014 fiscal year was audited by PricewaterhouseCoopers ness risks. Therefore, a systematic and effective risk management Aktiengesellschaft Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft (“PwC”), the ausystem is the basis for professional corporate governance. Our risk ditors chosen at the Annual Stockholders’ Meeting held in 2014. management system aims to identify risks and opportunities at an PwC also reviewed the 2014 half-year financial report. The audits early stage and to steer and minimize the risks that materialize. It is are conducted in accordance with German auditing regulations and subject to ongoing optimization and adaptation to changing condithe generally accepted standards for auditing promulgated by the tions. The Board of Management informs the Supervisory Board about Institut der Wirtschaftsprüfer (IDW – Institute of Public Auditors in the existence and development of potential risks on a regular basis. Germany). It was agreed with the auditors that they would report to The Audit Committee regularly reviews the effectiveness of the risk the Supervisory Board without delay concerning any possible grounds management, internal control and auditing systems. for their disqualification or bias as well as any significant findings or incidents that came to light during the audit. Liability insurance Corporate governance statement The company maintains a directors’ and officers’ (D&O) liability insurance policy for members of the Board of Management and Supervisory On February 27, 2015, the Board of Management of LANXESS AG Board. The suitable deductible required by Section 93, Paragraph 2 of iss­ued its declaration for fiscal 2014 pursuant to Section 289a of the German Stock Corporation Act has been agreed for members of the German Commercial Code, which is published together with the the Board of Management, and the recommended deductible within Corporate Governance Report on our website at http://www.lanxess. the meaning of Section 3.8 of the German Corporate Governance com/ under Investor Relations/Corporate Governance. Code has been agreed for the members of the Supervisory Board. Corporate Governance Report 59 Offices held by serving Board of Management members (as of December 31, 2014) Member of External offices Offices within the LANXESS Group the Board of Management Matthias Zachert • Member of the Presidium of the German Chemical Industry •C hairman of the Executive Board of LANXESS Deutschland GmbH Chairman of Association (VCI) the Board of • Member of the Asia-Pacific Committee of German Business (APA) Management • Member of the Presidium of stiftung neue verantwortung e.V. Dr. Bernhard • Member of the Supervisory Board of GfK SE, Nuremberg • Member of the Executive Board of LANXESS Deutschland GmbH Düttmann • Member of the Board of Directors of Deutsches Aktieninstitut (DAI) • Member of the Board of Directors of LANXESS Corp. Chief Financial • Member of Gesellschaft für Finanzwirtschaft in der Unternehmens­ Officer führung e.V. (GEFIU) Dr. Rainier • Member of the Supervisory Board of Currenta • Member of the Executive Board of LANXESS Deutschland GmbH van Roessel Geschäftsführungs-GmbH, Leverkusen • Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Aliseca GmbH Member of • Member of the Board of the VCI Regional Association in North • Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Rhein Chemie Rheinau GmbH the Board of Rhine-Westphalia • Chairman of the Board of Directors of LANXESS S.A. de C.V. ­Management • Member of the VCI Trade Policy Committee • Executive member of the Board of Administration of LANXESS N.V. and ­Industrial • Member of the 1 b Experience-Exchange Group of the German • Chairman of the Board of Directors of LANXESS Hong Kong Ltd. ­Relations ­Association for Personnel Management (DGFP) • Chairman of the Board of Directors of Holding Hispania S.L. ­Director • Member of the Board of the German Chemical Industry Federation • Chairman of the Board of Directors of LANXESS Chemicals S.L. (BAVC) • Chairman of the Board of Directors of LANXESS Corp. • Chairman of the Governing Board of LANXESS Srl. • Member of the Board of Directors of LANXESS Chemical (China) Co. Ltd. • Chairman of the Board of Directors of LANXESS India Private Ltd. • Chairman of the Board of Directors of LANXESS K.K. • Chairman of the Board of Directors of LANXESS Butyl Pte. Ltd. • Chairman of the Board of Directors of LANXESS International S.A. 60 LANXESS Annual Report 2014 LANXESS AG Supervisory Board Serving members (as of December 31, 2014) Dr. Rolf Stomberg (Chairman) Dr. Friedrich Janssen • Chairman  of the Supervisory Board of LANXESS AG Former member of the Board of Management of E.ON Ruhrgas AG, Essen •F  ormer Chief Executive of the Shipping, Refining and Marketing Division Further offices: of The British Petroleum Co. p.l.c., London, U.K. • LANXESS Deutschland GmbH, Cologne* •F  ormer member of the Board of Directors of The British Petroleum Co. p.l.c., • National-Bank AG, Essen* London, U.K. • HanseWerk AG, Quickborn* (formerly E.ON Hanse AG) Further offices: • Avacon AG, Helmstedt* •L ­ ANXESS Deutschland GmbH, Cologne* (Chairman) • Thüga Assekuranz Services München Versicherungsmakler GmbH, Munich •B ­ iesterfeld AG, Hamburg* (Vice Chairman) • Hoberg & Driesch GmbH, Düsseldorf (Chairman of the Advisory Board) •H ­ OYER GmbH, Hamburg •K ­ EMNA Bau Andreae GmbH & Co. KG, Pinneberg •O ­ AO Severstal, Cherepovets, Russia Robert J. Koehler Former Chairman of the Board of Management of SGL Carbon SE, Wiesbaden Ulrich Freese (Vice Chairman) Further offices: •M  ember of the Bundestag • LANXESS Deutschland GmbH, Cologne* •F  ormer Vice Chairman of the German Mining, Chemical and • Heidelberger Druckmaschinen AG, Heidelberg* (Chairman) Energy Industrial Union, Hannover • Klöckner & Co. SE, Duisburg* • Freudenberg SE, Weinheim* Further offices: • Benteler International AG, Salzburg, Austria (Chairman) •L  ANXESS Deutschland GmbH, Cologne* (Vice Chairman) • Vattenfall Europe Mining AG, Cottbus* (Vice Chairman) • Vattenfall Europe Generation AG, Cottbus* (Vice Chairman) • Vattenfall GmbH, Berlin* Rainer Laufs • Vivawest Wohnen GmbH, Essen* (Vice Chairman) • Self-employed consultant • Former Chairman of the Management Board of Deutsche Shell AG, Hamburg Further offices: Axel Berndt • LANXESS Deutschland GmbH, Cologne* • WCM Beteiligungsund Grundbesitz AG, Frankfurt am Main* (Chairman) •S  pecialist for Portfolio & Change Management in the IT department, • Petrotec AG, Düsseldorf* (Chairman) LANXESS Deutschland GmbH • Asklepios Kliniken GmbH, Hamburg* •F  ormer member of the Works Council at the Leverkusen site • Asklepios Kliniken Verwaltungsgesellschaft mbH, Königstein im Taunus* Further offices: • MediClin AG, Offenburg* (since October 23, 2014) • LANXESS Deutschland GmbH, Cologne* • Bilfinger Industrial Services GmbH, Munich (Member of the Advisory Board) • Bilfinger Industrial Technologies GmbH, Frankfurt am Main (Member of the Advisory Board) Dr. Hans-Dieter Gerriets •C  hairman of the LANXESS AG Group Managerial Employees’ Committee •C  hairman of the LANXESS Managerial Employees’ Committee Thomas Meiers •M  anager of a production facility in the Advanced Industrial Intermediates District Secretary of the German Mining, Chemical and Energy Industrial Union, business unit of LANXESS Deutschland GmbH Cologne Further offices: Further offices: •L  ANXESS Deutschland GmbH, Cologne* • LANXESS Deutschland GmbH, Cologne* • INEOS Deutschland Holding GmbH, Cologne* • INEOS Köln GmbH, Cologne* Corporate Governance Report 61 Claudia Nemat Member of the Board of Management of Deutsche Telekom AG, Bonn Further offices: • LANXESS Deutschland GmbH, Cologne* • Buyln SA, Brussels, Belgium (Vice Chairwoman) • Hellenic Telecommunications Organization S.A. (OTE S.A.), Maroussi, Athens, Greece Hans-Jürgen Schicker Chairman of the Works Council at the Uerdingen site Further offices: • LANXESS Deutschland GmbH, Cologne* Gisela Seidel Chairwoman of the Works Council at the Dormagen site Further offices: • LANXESS Deutschland GmbH, Cologne* Theo H. Walthie Self-employed consultant Further offices: • LANXESS Deutschland GmbH, Cologne* • NBE Therapeutics AG, Basle, Switzerland (President of the Board of Administration) The information about offices held refers to memberships of other supervisory boards and comparable supervisory bodies of companies in Germany and abroad (as of December 31, 2014). * Statutory supervisory boards 62 LANXESS Annual Report 2014 Report of the Supervisory Board Dear Stockholders, Behind LANXESS lies a very challenging year. In particular, the persistently difficult competitive environment in the synthetic rubber businesses and the resulting price pressure continued to substantially impact LANXESS’s earnings development. With an EBITDA pre exceptionals of €808 million, LANXESS posted slight year-on-year growth in earnings. However, the earnings situation in the polymers business clearly reflected the difficult market environment the company faced. In 2014, the Supervisory Board implemented a change of leadership of the Board of Management. At the start of the year, on account of strategic differences with Dr. Axel C. Heitmann, the Supervisory Board approved the mutually agreed termination of Dr. Heitmann’s appointment as a member and Chairman of the Board of Management. Effective April 1, 2014, the Supervisory Board appointed Matthias Zachert as the new Chairman of the Board of Management. Until he joined Merck KGaA in 2011, Mr. Zachert had been Chief Financial Officer of LANXESS. In the reporting year, under the leadership of Matthias Zachert as the new Chairman of the Board of Management and with the support of the Supervisory Board, LANXESS initiated an extensive corporate realignment program in response to the difficult economic situation. The three-phase program is aimed at sustainably increasing LANXESS’s competitiveness. The first phase of the program, which is focused on the competitiveness of the business and administrative structures, was successfully concluded at the end of 2014. In this phase, ­business units were merged and their number reduced from 14 to 10 effective January 1, 2015. Additionally, LANXESS will be reducing the workforce by 1,000 positions worldwide through the end of 2016 by means of voluntary separation. Also in 2014, LANXESS initiated measures from the second phase of the realignment program, which is focused on manufacturing, commercial and supply chain excellence. In the reporting year, LANXESS achieved initial savings of around €20 million as a result of the program. The realignment program will be systematically pursued in the current fiscal year. Report of the Supervisory Board 63 During 2014, the Supervisory Board duly and fully performed the tasks In a further extraordinary meeting on February 21, 2014, the Supervisory­ and duties incumbent upon it under the law, the articles of association Board resolved the immediate mutual termination of Dr. Heitmann’s­ and the rules of procedure for the Supervisory Board. It advised the appointment to the Board of Management. F ­ urthermore, we apBoard of Management regularly on the management of the company proved the conclusion of an amendment agreement to the ­severance and monitored its work. Alongside the personnel changes on the Board agreement made with Dr. Heitmann on January 26, 2014, in which of Management, the Supervisory Board concerned itself in particular Dr. Heitmann declared his willingness to waive his right to the agreed with the realignment program initiated after the change of leadership termination benefits. At this meeting, the Supervisory Board also and the measures aimed at increasing competitiveness. resolved that Mr. Zachert would already join the LANXESS Board of Management effective April 1, 2014, after his former employer agreed The Supervisory Board was directly involved in all decisions of funto release him from his duties effective that same date. damental importance for the company. The Board of Management informed us regularly in written and oral reports about business perforThe focus of the Supervisory Board meeting held on March 18, 2014 mance, the situation of the Group, including the risk situation, strategic was the review of the annual financial statements and consolidated development and current issues. On the basis of these reports, we financial statements for fiscal 2013, the proposal for use of the disdiscussed significant business transactions in detail. We thoroughly tributable profit, and preparation of the motions for resolution by the examined the reports and the resolutions proposed by the Board of Annual Stockholders’ Meeting. The Supervisory Board also considered Management and discussed them at length in meetings of the full issues pertaining to corporate governance. Furthermore, it defined the Supervisory Board and its committees. If the law, articles of associavariable compensation components for the members of the Board of tion or other provisions required the Supervisory Board to approve the Management on the basis of target attainment in fiscal 2013. actions of the Board of Management, we discussed these actions and adopted resolutions on them. At the meeting on May 7, 2014, after detailed discussion and on the basis of the authorization by the Stockholders’ Meeting on May 28, The Chairman of the Supervisory Board and the Board of Management 2010, concerning the use of Authorized Capital II, the Superviwere in regular contact outside of the Supervisory Board’s meetings. sory Board approved an increase in the company’s share capital We regularly discussed the present state of the company, matters of by just under 10%, excluding stockholders’ subscription rights, in strategy, planning, business performance, risks, risk management and an accelerated bookbuilding process. This increase by a nominal compliance, as well as material events. amount of €8,320,266 was against the issuance of 8,320,266 new, no-par bearer shares in the company. The Supervisory Board also resolved to establish a Capital Increase Committee to represent the full Principal topics discussed by the Supervisory Board Supervisory Board in making the further decisions necessary to implement the capital increase, which resulted in gross proceeds of around The Supervisory Board met a total of eight times in 2014. €433 million. This measure strengthened LANXESS’s equity and reduced net financial liabilities. During the meeting, we also discussed We regularly discussed the challenging sales and earnings perforin detail with the Board of Management possible courses of action mance of the company and its segments, as well as the financial posifor the rubber businesses and other LANXESS business units. Other tion. Additionally, the Board of Management kept us updated about subjects discussed included possible measures to reduce costs and the overall state of the economy, the situation in the chemical industry, increase competitiveness. Furthermore, the Supervisory Board decided the performance of LANXESS stock, and investment and acquisition to extend Dr. Rainier van Roessel’s term of office as a member of the plans. Other important issues addressed by the Supervisory Board Board of Management by five years from January 1, 2015, and to are presented below. reappoint him as the company’s Industrial Relations Director. In an extraordinary meeting on January 26, 2014, the subject of which The meeting that took place immediately prior to the Annual Stockwas the change in leadership at LANXESS, the Supervisory Board holders’ Meeting on May 22, 2014, served to prepare that meeting. ­approved the mutual termination of the appointment of Dr. Heitmann­­ as a member and Chairman of the Board of Management effective­ On August 5, 2014, the Board of Management presented the program ­February 28, 2014. At the same time, it approved a severance agreefor the realignment of LANXESS. We again discussed in detail stratement concluded with Dr. Heitmann. The Supervisory Board also apgies and possible measures for the company’s economic recovery. proved the appointment of Matthias Zachert as the new Chairman Other subjects for discussion were the causes of the changed market of the Board of Management. Until Mr. Zachert joined the company, developments in the rubber businesses, the anticipated development initially planned for May 15, 2014, Dr. Düttmann was provisionally of capacities, the cost situation and raw material supplies. At this assigned the tasks and responsibilities of Chairman of the Board of meeting, we resolved the mutual termination of the appointment of Management. In connection with the change of leadership, the SuperDr. Werner Breuers as a member of the Board of Management effective visory Board also reassigned Board of Management responsibilities. 64 LANXESS Annual Report 2014 August 5, 2014. At the same time, a change to the assignment of The Audit Committee met four times during the year. It dealt in parBoard of Management responsibilities was also decided. ticular with the annual financial statements of LANXESS AG for fiscal 2013, the consolidated financial statements of the LANXESS Group In the meeting held on November 5, 2014, the Board of Management and the combined management report for fiscal 2013, the interim reported on the current status of and further steps in the LANXESS reports issued during fiscal 2014, and the condensed consolidated realignment program. We were also informed about the status of the financial statements and interim management report included in the associated human resources measures. Additionally, the Board of 2014 half-year financial report. It also reviewed the company’s risk Management explained the company’s internal control, risk managemanagement and internal control systems. Other topics discussed ment and auditing systems. were the significant findings by the internal audit department, corporate planning, compliance and the determination of the principal areas At its meeting on December 10, 2014, the Supervisory Board reviewed of focus for the audit of the 2014 financial statements. The external in full and approved the corporate planning for 2015 proposed by auditor attended two of the Audit Committee’s four meetings and the Board of Management. It also discussed the company’s strategic reported on the auditing activities. alignment and capital expenditure policy. We additionally looked at the future compliance organization of the LANXESS Group and resolved The Presidial Committee convened six times during 2014 to prepare to amend the rules of procedure for the Supervisory Board. In light the meetings of the Supervisory Board and the decisions to be reached of the ongoing projects for the company’s realignment and in deviaby the full Supervisory Board concerning human resources measures tion from the original Supervisory Board resolution of December 11, in the company’s Board of Management. 2013, the Board of Management and the Supervisory Board agreed to reduce the potential maximum amount of the Annual Performance The Nominations Committee met twice in fiscal 2014. The ComPayment (APP) variable salary component payable to the members mittee formed pursuant to Section 27, Paragraph 3 of the German of the Board of Management for fiscal 2014. Lastly, the Supervisory Codetermination Act did not have to convene. Board defined the conditions for the Board of Management’s variable compensation components for fiscal 2015. At its meeting on May 7, 2014, the Supervisory Board established a Capital Increase Committee up until midnight on May 21, 2014 All members of the Supervisory Board and its committees performed to represent the Supervisory Board in taking the further necessary their duties diligently and conscientiously. The Supervisory Board’s decisions to implement the capital increase resolved by the Board of meetings in 2014 were attended by all members, with the exception Management on the same day. On May 8, 2014, the Capital Increase of one member who was not present at two meetings. Committee Committee approved the Board of Management’s decision concernmeetings were attended by all members, with the exception of two ing the placement price for the issuance of shares in respect of the meetings that one member was unable to attend. The stockholder capital increase. The members of this committee were the Chairman representatives and employee representatives to the Supervisory of the Supervisory Board, Dr. Rolf Stomberg, and Supervisory Board Board worked together in a spirit of trust. They regularly held separate members Dr. Friedrich Janssen, Ms. Gisela Seidel and Mr. Hans-Jürgen meetings at which they prepared the meetings of the full Supervisory Schicker. Dr. Stomberg was elected chairman of this committee, with Board. The members of the Board of Management attended the SuMs. Seidel as his deputy. pervisory Board meetings unless the Chairman of the Supervisory Board determined otherwise. The chairmen of the committees each reported on the meetings and the work of the committees at the meetings of the full Supervisory Board. Work of the committees The Supervisory Board has four committees: the Audit Committee, Corporate governance and declaration of compliance the Presidial Committee, the Nominations Committee and the Committee formed pursuant to Section 27, Paragraph 3 of the German In the year under review, the Supervisory Board discussed the German Codetermination Act. The committees are tasked with preparing the Corporate Governance Code (the Code). The joint declaration of com­ topics and resolutions to be discussed at meetings of the full Superpliance made on December 10, 2014, by the Board of Management visory Board. They also, at times, exercise decision-making powers and Supervisory Board pursuant to Section 161 of the German Stock conferred on them by the Supervisory Board. Corporation Act can be viewed by stockholders at any time on the Report of the Supervisory Board 65 company’s website. As expressed in the declaration, LANXESS AG Composition of the Supervisory Board complies with the Code’s recommendations and suggestions except in a few justified cases. No conflicts of interest on the part of Supervisory The composition of the Supervisory Board changed during fiscal Board members became known last year. Further information about 2014. At midnight on June 30, 2014, Dr. Rudolf Fauss retired and corporate governance can be found in the company’s Corporate ceased to be the representative of the LANXESS managerial employGovernance Report. ees on the Supervisory Board. He was succeeded as a member of the Supervisory Board by Dr. Hans-Dieter Gerriets, who was his elected substitute member. Financial statements of LANXESS AG and consolidated financial statements of the LANXESS Group The Supervisory Board thanks the Board of Management, all of the Group’s employees and the employee representatives for their enorThe Board of Management of LANXESS AG prepared the financial mous dedication and work. statements for the 2014 fiscal year in accordance with the rules of the German Commercial Code, the consolidated financial statements for fiscal 2014 in accordance with the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) and the combined management report for 2014. Cologne, March 17, 2015 These were all audited by PricewaterhouseCoopers Aktiengesellschaft Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft, the auditor appointed by the Annual Stockholders’ Meeting and engaged by the Supervisory Board. The The Supervisory Board auditor issued an unqualified opinion in each case. The Supervisory Board convinced itself of the independence of the Dr. Rolf Stomberg auditor and the persons acting on the auditor’s behalf. Chairman The audit reports and the documents relating to the financial statements were discussed at length with the Board of Management and the auditor at the Audit Committee meeting held on March 16, 2015. They were also discussed in detail on the basis of the required documents and notes at the Supervisory Board’s financial statements meeting held on March 17, 2015. The responsible auditor was present for the discussions concerning the financial statements of LANXESS AG and the consolidated financial statements of the LANXESS Group. He reported on the material results of the audits. He was also available to the Audit Committee and full Supervisory Board to provide additional information. Based on the recommendation of the Audit Committee as well as on its own review and in-depth discussions about the financial statements of LANXESS AG, the consolidated financial statements of the LANXESS Group, the combined management report and the proposal for appropriation of the profit, the Supervisory Board endorsed the auditor’s conclusions and had no objections to raise. The Supervisory Board has approved the annual financial statements of LANXESS AG and the consolidated financial statements of the LANXESS Group, which were prepared by the Board of Management. The Supervisory Board endorsed the Board of Management’s proposal for use of the distributable profit after close examination and extensive deliberations that carefully weighed the best interests of the company and the stockholders. Financial Information 67 Combined Management Report of the ­LANXESS Group and ­LANXESS AG Combined Management Report 68 Fundamentals 68 Group structure 68 Business 70 Strategy 72 Value management and control system 74 Procurement and production 76 Sales organization and customers 77 Research and development 79 Corporate responsibility 80 Economic report 80 Legal environment 80 Business conditions 82 Key events influencing the company’s business 82 Comparison of forecast and actual business 83 Business performance of the ­LANXESS Group 86 Business trends by region 87 Segment information 90 Statement of financial position and financial condition 98 Management’s summary of business development and the fiscal year 99 Earnings, asset and financial position of ­LANXESS AG 101 Employees 102 Compensation report 110 Report pursuant to Section 289, Paragraph 4 and Section 315, Paragraph 4 of the German Commercial Code 112 Report pursuant to Section 289a of the German Commercial Code 112 Events after the end of the reporting period 112 Report on risks, opportunities and future perspectives 112 Economic outlook 114 Future perspectives 115 Opportunity and risk report 68 LANXESS Annual Report 2014 Group structure Management and control organization Legal structure LANXESS AG has a two-tier management structure consisting of the Board of Management, which manages the company, and the LANXESS AG is the parent company of the LANXESS Group and ­Supervisory Board, which oversees the Board of Management with the functions largely as a management holding company. LANXESS assistance of an Audit Committee formed from among its members Deutschland GmbH and LANXESS International Holding GmbH are to advise on financial matters. The Board of Management shapes wholly owned subsidiaries of LANXESS AG and in turn control the Group strategy and manages resource allocation, infrastructure and other subsidiaries and affiliates both in Germany and elsewhere. organization. As the Group management company, LANXESS AG is responsible for financing and for communication with the company’s The following are the principal companies wholly owned by LANXESS AG key stakeholders. directly or indirectly: For additional information, please also see the Corporate Governance Principal Direct or Indirect Subsidiaries of ­LANXESS AG Report. Company Name and Domicile Function Segments L ­ ANXESS Deutschland GmbH, Production All Cologne, Germany and sales Business L ­ ANXESS Butyl Pte. Ltd., Production Performance Polymers, Singapore and sales Performance Chemicals ­LANXESS Corporation, Production All Business organization Pittsburgh, U.S.A. and sales L ­ ANXESS Elastomères S.A.S., Production Performance Polymers As part of the realignment of the LANXESS Group by means of the Lillebonne, France and sales “Let’s LANXESS again” program, we consolidated our business units L ­ ANXESS Elastomers B.V., Production Performance Polymers Sittard-Geleen, Netherlands and sales effective January 1, 2015. LANXESS is still structured in three segL ­ ANXESS Elastômeros do Brasil S.A., Production Performance Polymers ments but these now comprise a total of 10 business units, each of Rio de Janeiro, Brazil and sales which conducts its own operations and has global profit responsibility. L ­ ANXESS Holding Hispania, S.L., Holding­ All Barcelona, Spain ­company The Butyl Rubber and Performance Butadiene Rubbers business units ­LANXESS Inc., Production Performance Polymers were merged to form the Tire & Specialty Rubbers business unit. This Sarnia, Canada and sales decision was based on overlapping customer structures, regional LANXESS India Private Ltd., Production All Thane, India and sales commonalities in the established markets and changed conditions LANXESS International Holding Holding­ All in the emerging economies. Furthermore, LANXESS consolidated GmbH, Cologne, Germany ­company the High Performance Elastomers and Keltan Elastomers business ­ ANXESS International SA, L Sales All Granges-Paccot, Switzerland units in the High Performance Elastomers business unit. Here, too, ­LANXESS N.V., Production Performance Polymers, there were substantial overlaps in customer structures. The specialty Antwerp, Belgium and sales Performance Chemicals chemicals product line of the Rubber Chemicals business unit, the L ­ ANXESS Rubber N.V., Production Performance Polymers Zwijndrecht, Belgium Functional Chemicals business unit and the Rhein Chemie business Rhein Chemie Rheinau GmbH, Production Performance Chemicals unit now make up the new Rhein Chemie Additives business unit. Mannheim, Germany and sales By consolidating our additives business operations, we are seeking Saltigo GmbH, Production Advanced Intermediates Leverkusen, Germany and sales access to new markets and customers. Effective January 1, 2015, the antioxidants and accelerators product lines of the Rubber Chemicals business unit were integrated into the portfolio of the Advanced Industrial Intermediates business unit. These restructuring measures Changes to the Group portfolio have no impact on our reporting for fiscal 2014. In March 2014, we divested our wholly owned subsidiary PerlonGroup functions and service companies assigned to them support Monofil­ GmbH, Dormagen, Germany. This company is among the our business units by providing financial, legal, technical and other world’s leading producers of polyamide and polyester monofilacentralized services. Complementing this global alignment of the ments, which are used above all in paper manufacturing, shipping business units and group functions, the country organizations ensure and ­agriculture. the necessary proximity to markets and provide the organizational infrastructure required. Combined Management Report – Fundamentals 69 Group structure | Business The segments in brief We have combined our application-oriented process and functional chemicals operations in the Performance Chemicals segment. We have combined our synthetic rubber and engineering plastics activities in the Performance Polymers segment. Performance Chemicals Business units Material Protection Products Performance Polymers Inorganic Pigments Business units Butyl Rubber 1) Functional Chemicals 1) Performance Butadiene Rubbers 1) Leather Keltan Elastomers 2) Rhein Chemie 1) High Performance Elastomers 2) Rubber Chemicals 2) High Performance Materials Liquid Purification Technologies Sites Brilon, Dormagen, Hamm-Uentrop, Krefeld-­ Sites Bitterfeld, Brunsbüttel, Dormagen, KrefeldUerdingen, Leverkusen and Marl, Germany Uerdingen, Leverkusen and Mannheim, Germany Antwerp and Zwijndrecht, Belgium Epierre, France Sittard-Geleen, Netherlands Antwerp, Belgium La Wantzenau and Port-Jérôme, France Branston, United Kingdom Sarnia, Canada Filago, Italy Gastonia and Orange, U.S.A. Lipetsk, Russia Cabo, Duque de Caxias, Porto Feliz and Triunfo, Vilassar de Mar, Spain Brazil Merebank, Newcastle and Rustenburg, South Africa Nantong and Wuxi, China Burgettstown, Bushy Park, Chardon, Jhagadia, India Greensboro, Little Rock and Pittsburgh, U.S.A. Singapore Porto Feliz, Brazil Applications Tires Burzaco, Merlo and Zárate, Argentina Automotive Changzhou, Qingdao, Shanghai and Wuxi, China Electronics Jhagadia, India Electrical engineering Toyohashi, Japan Medical equipment Singapore Sydney, Australia 1) Effective January 1, 2015, merged to form the new Tire & Specialty Rubbers business unit 2) Effective January 1, 2015, merged to form the new High Performance Elastomers Applications Disinfection business unit Protection and preservation of wood, construction materials, coatings and foodstuffs Color pigments The business activities that LANXESS combines in its Advanced Polymer additives Leather processing products Intermediates segment make it one of the world’s leading suppliers Tire chemicals of industrial chemical intermediates and a key player in the custom Water treatment products synthesis and manufacturing of chemical precursors and specialty 1) Effective January 1, 2015, merged to form the new Rhein Chemie Additives business unit active ingredients. 2) E  ffective January 1, 2015, divided between the Advanced Industrial Intermediates and the new Rhein Chemie Additives business units Advanced Intermediates Business units Advanced Industrial Intermediates 1) Saltigo Sites Brunsbüttel, Dormagen, Krefeld-Uerdingen and Leverkusen, Germany Baytown, U.S.A. Liyang, China Nagda, India Applications Agrochemicals Automotive Construction Dyestuffs Coatings Pharmaceuticals 1) E ffective January 1, 2015, also includes some activities of the Rubber Chemicals business unit 70 LANXESS Annual Report 2014 ­LANXESS has a Presence Throughout the World Europe North and Central America Asia South America Australia Africa Strategy With the customized products and services offered by their business units, our segments make a valuable social and economic contribuThe LANXESS Group is a globally operating chemicals enterprise that tion to mastering the challenges presented by these megatrends. is characterized particularly by flexible asset structures, a diversified customer base, a worldwide presence with regional flexibility and an entrepreneurial management structure. The company’s portfolio Structural challenges on the supply side ranges from polymers to industrial, specialty and fine chemicals. Its development is aligned with four central megatrends: Whereas we consider long-term demand development to be largely intact, supported by the aforementioned megatrends, we are facing • The growing demand for mobility, particularly in China, India and three significant structural changes on the supply side: other large emerging economies, and the simultaneous need to make mobility more environmentally friendly. • The European chemical industry – and thus also LANXESS – is • Agriculture, which will have to satisfy the sharp increase in global ­increasingly experiencing cost disadvantages in the global comfood requirements due to a rapidly growing world population. petitive arena because of higher raw material and energy prices. • Urbanization, resulting worldwide in the migration of people from • Import pressure on the European markets is being increased by rural areas to cities. All these people will need living space, offices suppliers from the emerging economies that are state-owned and a robust infrastructure. According to current forecasts, nearly or at least supported by state subsidies and by U.S. companies 70% of the world population will be city-dwellers in 2050. that benefit from much lower energy costs. • The rising demand for water due to population growth and climate • As the result of expanding local production capacities – also for change will likely result in water becoming a valuable commodity high-quality products – export opportunities to the world’s growth in the not-too-distant future. regions are successively declining. Combined Management Report – Fundamentals 71 Business | Strategy Although raw material and energy prices declined during the second Capital expenditure strategy half of 2014, the structural developments are impacting our synthetic rubber business especially. Overcapacities of some 20% already We are striving to increase our international competitiveness through exist for the common rubber grades. Additional capacity start-ups, capital expenditures focused on continuous efficiency improvements especially for EPDM and butyl rubbers, could further reinforce this in our production facilities and attractive growth opportunities in profitimbalance. able markets. The following principles guide our capital expenditure activities: To be successful in this changed environment in the long term, we must tangibly improve the efficiency of our business and ad• Having focused in recent years on the construction of world-scale ministrative processes and make LANXESS’s business units more plants in Singapore and China, we intend in the future to target competitive again. investment more specifically – with the exercise of strict cost discipline – on improving the efficiency of existing plants and on new plants for the Advanced Intermediates and Performance Extensive realignment program initiated Chemicals segments. • We invest in sustainably growing markets that are the strategic Against the background of these structural challenges, we initiated focus for our operating segments. the three-phase “Let’s LANXESS again” program in the third quarter. • Capital expenditures must satisfy clear financial criteria that, at We have been working since then on its consistent implementation. a minimum, preserve the average return on capital employed (ROCE) achieved by the LANXESS Group during a normal In the first phase of the program, we reduced the number of our ­business cycle. business units from 14 to 10 with effect from January 1, 2015 (see • Capital expenditures are mostly financed out of the cash flow from “Business organization” in this combined management report). We are operating activities or, if that is insufficient, from other available also streamlining the administration of our business units and service liquidity or credit lines. functions through cross-functional workforce reductions worldwide and the consolidation of group functions. Through a more efficient organizational structure, we are fostering market and customer proximity and Financing strategy also seeking to sustainably improve our cost position. From the end of 2016, we aim to achieve annual savings of around €150 million. Our financing policy is conservative and sustainable. Its cornerstones The first phase of the realignment will result in a reduction of about are accessing international financial markets and securing long-term 1,000 positions worldwide. financial flexibility. As part of the second phase, we have started two excellence initiaIn respect of capital requirements and capital coverage, we work to tives focusing on our operational competitiveness. In a manufacturing optimally reconcile competing requirements for profitability, liquidity, excellence initiative through to the end of 2016, we will be examining security and autonomy. The debt level is aligned to the ratio systems all production processes and facilities with respect to market requireused by the leading rating agencies for investment-grade companies. ments, potential synergies and the need for temporary or permanent plant shutdowns. A parallel initiative is focusing on commercial and Growth of our company is enabled by its business operations and supply chain excellence. specific financing measures. Our goal is to generate positive earnings contributions along with a positive cash flow. We have already initiated the first steps of the program’s third phase as well, which is closely allied with the second phase. Here, the focus is on examining portfolio options, as well as improving access to raw materials and customer markets – also through strategic partnerships. With the financial headroom gained by “Let’s LANXESS again,” we aim to redirect our strategic focus beyond 2016 toward growth – especially in less cyclical businesses. 72 LANXESS Annual Report 2014 Value management and control system Earning power Value Management and Control System The key indicator for steering the earning power of the LANXESS 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Group and the individual segments is EBITDA pre exceptionals. It is EBITDA pre calculated from EBIT by adding back depreciation of property, plant ­exceptionals € million 918 1,146 1,223 735 808 and equipment, amortization of intangible assets and any exceptional EBITDA items. The latter are effects of an unusual nature or magnitude. They margin pre exceptionals % 12.9 13.1 13.4 8.9 10.1 may include write-downs, restructuring expenses, expenses for the Capital design and implementation of IT projects and expenses for portfolio employed € million 3,750 4,784 5,442 4,969 5,093 adjustments. Grants and subsidies from third parties for the acquisiROCE % 17.0 17.2 15.6 5.8 7.9 tion and construction of property, plant and equipment are accounted Days of inventory for as deferred income using the gross method. In this respect, no outstanding adjustments other than for gross depreciation and amortization are (DIO) Days 69.3 73.7 82.8 70.7 79.1 Days of sales made when calculating EBITDA pre exceptionals. outstanding (DSO) Days 46.3 49.9 47.4 47.8 48.0 Every operational decision or achievement is judged in the short and Net financial ­liabilities € million 913 1,515 1,483 1,731 1,336 long term by its sustainable impact on EBITDA pre exceptionals. As Net financial part of the annual budget and planning process, targets are set for debt ratio 1.0x 1.3x 1.2x 2.4x 1.7x this benchmark of our company’s success, which are then taken into Investment ratio % 7.4 8.0 8.1 8.1 8.6 account in determining employees’ variable income components. We use EBITDA pre exceptionals as our key controlling parameter because it facilitates assessment of the company’s development over To achieve our strategic goals, we need specific indicators that we several reporting periods. can use to measure the outcome of our activities. The most important indicator of our financial performance – and thus the company’s Simple revenue data such as net sales are not among the Group’s key controlling parameter – is EBITDA (earnings before interest, in­controlling parameters because they do not permit any direct conclucome taxes, depreciation and amortization) pre exceptionals. We view sions about our profitability. Volatile raw material prices are a hallmark of ­other financial performance ratios such as return on capital employed our industry and their fluctuation throughout the year impacts our sell(ROCE), days of inventory outstanding (DIO) and net financial debt ing prices. This influences sales but, other than short-term effects, has ratio as company-specific lead indicators that we monitor but which largely no impact on the margins that are significant to our profitability. are not relevant to steering our business. We therefore set no sales targets, either for the short or medium term. The calculation of specific indicators is founded on a reliable, readily understandable financial and controlling information system. We are Company-specific lead indicators constantly working to further improve the information provided by the Accounting and Corporate Controlling group functions through Lead indicators support the timely identification of material changes in consistent reporting of budget, forecast and actual data. the company’s earnings, asset and financial position and the initiation of appropriate measures. Our success is largely reflected by our earning power so our control system is focused on steering this parameter. Our annual budget and planning process delivers key values for the Group’s earning power and our ability to finance operations from our own funds as the starting point for steering the company. This information is used, for example, to make financing and capital expenditure decisions. To ensure a timely response to changes in market conditions Combined Management Report – Fundamentals 73 Value management and control system and the competitive environment, operational forecasts are prepared Cost of capital twice each year as the basis for updating the full-year budget and the associated key values we use to control the Group. In addition, regular Borrowing costs are calculated from risk-free interest, i.e. in our case, forecasts of the key values for our earning power are prepared. from the return on a long-term German government bond plus a risk premium for industrial companies in the same risk category as Certain parameters used in budgets and forecasts are defined cenLANXESS. The cost of equity reflects the return expected by investors trally and applied uniformly because they have a major influence on from an investment in LANXESS shares. Equity investors demand a the key values. Strategic raw materials, like butadiene, have a crucial risk premium due to the greater risk involved in acquiring shares than role in forecasting. The ongoing development of procurement prices in buying risk-free government bonds. This is known as a market risk is significant to the timely adjustment of selling prices. Even regional premium and is calculated using the long-term excess return generated differences in the availability of raw materials over a specific period of by a stock investment over an investment in risk-free government bonds time may become significant. Given the regional diversification of our and adjusted by the beta factor denoting the relative risk of an investproduction sites and customer markets, exchange rate development ment in LANXESS stock compared with that of the market as a whole. also affects the profitability resulting from sales and cost trends, with corresponding repercussions for pricing and hedging strategies. In In 2014, ROCE was 7.9% – against 5.8% in 2013 – and thus almost addition, we draw on continuously updated growth forecasts for our level with our weighted average cost of capital (WACC) after adjustcustomer industries and the regions where we do business in order ment for comparability. to prepare and review sales and capital expenditure decisions. Capital employment Profitability To optimize our working capital at the operational level, we use two Return on capital employed (ROCE) has been implemented as a profkey performance indicators: DSO (days of sales outstanding) and DIO itability ratio at Group level which indicates how efficiently we utilize (days of inventory outstanding). These describe receivables in relation our capital. This makes it an important criterion in capital expenditure to sales and inventories in relation to the cost of goods sold for the decisions, for example. previous quarter. From the reporting year, DIO replaces the previously used ratio DSI (days of sales in inventories). In 2014, DIO was at 79.1 days (2013: 70.7 days) and DSO at 48.0 days (2013: 47.8 days). Ebit pre exceptionals ROCE = Expenditures for property, plant and equipment are subject to rigorous Capital employed capital discipline and are aligned systematically with those product Capital employed = Total assets areas with the greatest potential for success. We prioritize investment Less deferred tax assets Less interest-free liabilities projects on the basis of financial indicators such as the pay-off period, net present value and ROCE. For more detailed information about our capital expenditure guidelines, please see “Capital expenditure Interest-free liabilities comprise provisions (except those for pensions strategy” above. and other post-employment benefits), income tax liabilities, trade payables and items included under “other non-financial liabilities.” In addition, we use a simplified variant of ROCE, called “business ROCE,” to evaluate the performance of our business units. 74 LANXESS Annual Report 2014 Debt Procuring chemical raw materials is a significant priority at LANXESS. Our aim is to secure our supplies on the basis of long-term contracts. The net financial debt ratio, which we use solely at Group level, is The availability of raw materials has always been a crucial factor in defined as net financial liabilities divided by EBITDA pre exceptionfacility location decisions. For our butyl rubber plant in Singapore, for als. ­Net financial liabilities are the total of current and non-current example, we source a large proportion of the most important feedfinancial liabilities, less cash, cash equivalents and near-cash assets. stocks via nearby pipelines. We have taken the same approach to The financial liabilities reflected in the statement of financial position sourcing the raw materials for our plant to manufacture neodymiumare adjusted here for liabilities for accrued interest. Due to lower net based performance butadiene rubber (Nd-PBR), also in Singapore. financial liabilities at December 31, 2014, the net financial debt ratio We procure key raw materials like butadiene and utilities in the form of decreased to 1.7, against 2.4 at the previous year’s reporting date. steam and biomass from the immediate vicinity at several of our other Our net financial liabilities declined by €395 million to €1,336 ­million. production sites, too. In this way, we not only minimize the costs and Moreover, at Group level, provisions for pensions and other postenvironmental impact of our transportation activities, but reduce the employment benefits are considered components of debt. They rose risk of delivery shortfalls caused by transportation issues in particular. by €347 million compared with the end of 2013, to €1,290 million. Our biggest suppliers of chemical raw materials in 2014 included Net Financial Liabilities BASF, Bayer, BP, Braskem, Evonik, ExxonMobil, INEOS, LyondellBasell, € million 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Nova Chemicals, PT Petrokimia Butadiene Indonesia, Sabic, Shell Non-current financial Chemicals and Total. ­liabilities 1,302 1,465 2,167 1,649 1,698 Current financial liabilities 176 633 167 668 182 Among the most important strategic raw materials by far for our proLess duction operations in 2014 were ammonia, benzene, butadiene, Liabilities for accrued interest (41) (55) (54) (53) (26) caustic soda, cyclohexane, ethylene, isobutylene, propylene, styrene Cash and cash equivalents (160) (178) (386) (427) (418) and toluene. In all, strategic raw materials accounted for a purchasing Near-cash assets (364) (350) (411) (106) (100) volume of about €3.0 billion in fiscal 2014 (2013: about €3.2 billion),­ 913 1,515 1,483 1,731 1,336 or around 75% of the LANXESS Group’s total expenditure for raw materials and goods in 2014, which amounted to approximately €4.0 billion (2013: about €4.2 billion). Around 78% (2013: 83%) of our total expenditure for raw materials and goods went to suppliers Procurement and production from countries in the upper third of the Country Sustainability Ranking. Of the remaining 22%, nearly two thirds were accounted for by Procurement supplies from Brazil, China and India. Our total procurement volume in 2014 was around €6.2 billion (2013: about €6.2 billion). LANXESS uses its centrally managed global procurement organization – Global Procurement & Logistics – to ensure a reliable supply of raw Across the LANXESS Group, a global procurement directive defines and other materials and services. Global Categories closely coordinate how our employees should behave toward suppliers and their employwith our business units to pool their requirements in the raw materials, ees. An internal training academy supports the training and ongoing technical goods, packaging materials, energy, services and logistics professional development of our employees and ensures the high segments. Our worldwide procurement network helps them leverage quality of our procurement processes. The training content includes our purchasing synergies, so that we can move efficiently in the market and seven-step strategic procurement process, negotiating techniques and exploit price advantages. We avoid delivery bottlenecks or reliance on intercultural awareness, as well as time, supplier and risk management. individual suppliers using strategies like multiple sourcing. As a result, we experienced no delivery shortfalls or bottlenecks in the reporting We systematically apply best-practice processes. These include period that had a material effect on our business development. ­e-procurement tools, such as e-catalogs, auctions and electronic marketplaces, many of which are integrated into our internal IT systems. In 2014, about 66% of all items ordered (2013: around 64%) were handled in e-procurement systems. Combined Management Report – Fundamentals 75 Value management and control system | Procurement and production Our HSEQ management process begins when raw materials and pore; and Wuxi, China. LANXESS also has other production sites in services are procured. In the reporting year, our procurement transacArgentina, Australia, Belgium, Brazil, China, France, Germany, India, tions involved more than 16,500 suppliers. Based on the principles Italy, Japan, Russia, South Africa, Spain, the United Kingdom and of the U.N. Global Compact, the International Labour Organization the United States. For a detailed breakdown of our production sites (ILO), Responsible Care® and other corporate responsibility codes, we by segment, please see “The segments in brief” in this combined expect our suppliers to comply with all applicable national and other management report. laws and regulations on safeguarding the environment, ensuring health and safety in the workplace and using appropriate labor and hiring The following significant changes occurred in our global production practices. These criteria, which are defined in our Supplier Code of network in 2014: Conduct, have a key role in our selection and evaluation of suppliers. • The High Performance Elastomers business unit has a new As a founder of the Together for Sustainability (TfS) initiative, we aim production line for Baypren solid polychloroprene rubber at our to enhance supply chain transparency and thus further minimize proDormagen, Germany, site. curement risks. The goal of this initiative, membership of which rose to­ • The High Performance Materials business unit opened a 12 international chemical companies in the reporting year, is to develop state-of-the-art compounding facility for engineering plastics with and implement a global audit process to assess and continuously an annual capacity of around 20,000 tons in Porto Feliz, Brazil. improve sustainability activities along the chemical industry supply • At our site in Antwerp, Belgium, the High Performance Materials chain, focusing on human rights, child labor, working standards, ocbusiness unit commissioned a new world-scale plant for polyamcupational safety, environmental protection and business integrity. As ide plastics with an annual capacity of some 90,000 tons. the assessment and audit results are shared within the initiative, we • LANXESS subsidiary Bond-Laminates GmbH, which is assigned had access to a substantially larger number of sustainability assessto the High Performance Materials business unit, completed ments (more than 2,600) and audit reports (286) at the end of 2014. capacity expansion measures for the Tepex high-performance Countries such as Brazil, China and India remained the focus of the composite at its headquarters in Brilon, Germany. 93 audits conducted during the reporting period. These identified a • At the site in Leverkusen, Germany, the Liquid Purification continuing need for action in respect of labor and human rights and T­ echnologies business unit commissioned a state-of-the-art, occupational safety. The first joint TfS Supplier Day held in Shanghai, ­food-compatible filling and packaging facility and an additional China, in October 2014 attracted around 350 participants. It was production line for weakly acidic cation exchange resins. used to explain to the attending suppliers the growing importance of a sustainable supply chain to LANXESS and the other members Including the measures described above, our cash outflows for capital of the initiative. expenditures came to €614 million in 2014. Details are given under “Capital expenditures” in the “Statement of financial position and financial condition” section of this combined management report. Production A strike at our butyl rubber facility in Zwijndrecht, Belgium, in March LANXESS is one of the world’s major producers of chemical and and April 2014 resulted in a production stoppage of nine weeks in polymer products. Our production facilities make anywhere from very total. During this time, we supplied our customers from our butyl small batches of custom-synthesized products to basic, specialty and ­rubber plants in Sarnia, Canada, and Singapore. fine chemicals and polymers in quantities of several ten thousand tons. Each of our production facilities is organizationally assigned to an individual business unit. The most important production sites are at Leverkusen, Dormagen and Krefeld-Uerdingen, Germany; Antwerp, Belgium; Sittard-Geleen, Netherlands; Orange, United States; Sarnia, Canada; Triunfo and Duque de Caxias, Brazil; Jhagadia, India; Singa76 LANXESS Annual Report 2014 Sales organization and customers Customers Sales organization Because of our broad offering, we have business relationships with a large number of customers all over the world. These customers need We sell our products all over the world, to several thousand customers an individualized, well-focused approach, which we are able to provide in more than 150 countries across all continents. LANXESS’s longbecause our sales organizations are managed through the business standing customer base includes leaders in each of its user industries. units. Individual sales and marketing strategies are reviewed on the We have well-established customer relationships in all sales regions. To basis of regular customer satisfaction surveys. meet our customers’ needs, we have set up very flexible marketing and sales structures. We manage our sales throughout the world through LANXESS serves the following industries in particular: tires, automotive, 49 companies owned by LANXESS itself. In countries where we do plastics, chemicals, agrochemicals, construction, electronics, leather not yet have our own company, we work with local sales partners. and footwear, pharmaceuticals, food, water treatment and furniture. To keep as close as possible to customers and ensure they receive Shares of Sales by Industry Sector individual support, each of our business units manages its own sales % 2014 organization. Another competitive advantage is derived from having Tires ~ 25 52 of our own production sites in 17 countries. Wherever possible, Automotive ~ 20 customers are supplied from production sites in the same region, Chemicals ~ 15 yielding advantages in terms of time and costs. Agrochemicals ~ 10 Construction, electrical/electronics, leather/footwear ~ 15 Others (cumulative share) ~ 15 In 2014, we expanded our e-business activities in purchasing, sales and logistics. Altogether, more than 1,000,000 orders and the ­respective automated follow-up notices were handled as e-business. In fiscal 2014, our top ten customers accounted for about 22% of This capability is provided by the “LANXESS one” Internet portal and total sales (2013: 24%). None of our customers accounted for more the system-to-system connections via ELEMICA. We will continue to than 10% of Group sales. 50 (2013: 57) customers accounted for expand this process, which provides benefits for all involved, by adding annual sales in excess of €20 million. further partners and technical services. The net sales invoice values accounted for by e-business came to approximately €1.8 billion, an The number of customers in each segment varies widely. The increase of about 3% on the previous year. ­Performance Polymers segment had some 3,600 customers in 2014 (2013: 3,500), while Advanced Intermediates and Performance Selling costs in the reporting year came to 9.3% of LANXESS Group Chemicals had about 3,100 (2013: 3,000) and around 11,300 sales, up 0.2 percentage points on the prior-year level of 9.1%. (2013: 11,600), respectively. This information is based on the number of customer accounts in each segment. Each segment includes all The table below shows selling costs by segment over the last five years. customer groups and sales categories. However, one customer may do business with more than one segment. Selling Costs 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 The comparatively low sales per customer in the Performance Chemicals segment, as well as its broad customer base, reflect the way in Selling costs (€ million) 646 732 763 755 742 % of sales 9.1 8.3 8.4 9.1 9.3 which its business often involves custom-tailored solutions in specialty Breakdown by segment chemicals. By contrast, the substantially lower number of customers Performance Polymers 216 262 284 286 277 in the Performance Polymers segment, which nonetheless generates Advanced Intermediates 122 127 125 126 123 relatively high sales, is typical of the synthetic rubber products busiPerformance Chemicals 300 320 335 328 330 ness. On account of the extensive customer base, no segment can Reconciliation 8 23 19 15 12 be considered dependent on just a few customers. Combined Management Report – Fundamentals 77 Sales organization and customers | Research and development Research and development Product innovation is focused on generating new products and new applications for existing products as well as on product modifications. Research and development makes an important contribution toward The development of new products is more broadly based than in the increasing our competitiveness and expanding our product portfolio business units, the main topics are generally applicable to multiple through the development of innovative products and processes as well business units. Here, too, our research goals are derived from the as the ongoing optimization of existing production processes. In 2014, needs of our customers in the markets that are relevant to LANXESS. we redefined our focus in the course of realigning our ­decentral and central research and development activities. We are now concentrating Our main research and development units are at the sites in Leverkuon projects with a shortto medium-term time horizon for the products sen, Krefeld-Uerdingen and Dormagen, Germany; London, Canada; and processes in our core businesses. and Qingdao and Wuxi, China. Testing covers, for example, highperformance rubbers and engineering plastics for lightweight automotive engineering applications. In Hong Kong, we operate a center Organizational focus for engineering plastics to strengthen our relations with automakers in the Asia-Pacific growth region. Our research programs are directly and consistently aligned with the needs of our customers in the end markets relevant to our businesses. For example, the business units in the Performance Polymers ­segment Main research and development projects are strengthening the focus of their activities on optimizing their products and product quality, as well as on developing new products. In the reporting year, the Performance Polymers segment launched an innovative crosslinking technology for EPDM rubber using resol Business units with most of their products in very mature markets, synthetic resin with zeolite as the new coactivator. This not only results such as the Advanced Industrial Intermediates business unit in the in high vulcanization rates but also in particularly efficient crosslinking. Advanced Intermediates segment, concentrate on continuous process Alongside the established vulcanization processes using sulfur and optimization to improve their production facilities and processes. peroxide, the main crosslinking technologies for EPDM, resol vulcanization represents a promising alternative for processing this synthetic Our central research unit – the Production, Technology, Safety & rubber. We have also developed a new heat-stabilized polyamide 6 for ­Environment Group Function – complements the business units’ use in direct long fiber thermoplastic (DLFT) flow molding. This is the ­research work with cross-business unit projects to ensure that potential first customized polyamide 6 for this process and, unlike conventional synergies are exploited to the full and innovations can be applied in long fiber compression molding compounds based on polyamide 6, various LANXESS units. it has outstanding flow properties and can be processed fume-free at extrusion temperatures of around 300 degrees Celsius. It therefore Research concentrates on both process and product innovation, which extends the spectrum of use for the process, which was previously are handled by separate units. dominated by polypropylene, to include applications that must display the typical advantages of polyamide 6. In the area of process innovation, the emphasis is on planning new processes and integrating new technologies into existing production The Advanced Intermediates segment has introduced Baynox Extra, a processes with the aim of achieving cost and technology leadership. highly concentrated liquid stabilizer for biodiesel. This easily metered One focus is on reviewing current production processes using mathadditive prolongs the stability of biodiesel produced from renewable ematical and experimental methods in order to pinpoint optimization raw materials, even if it contains polyunsaturated fatty acids. The compotential. In this way, for example, we have identified and in some bination of our proven antioxidants Baynox and Baynox Plus has an cases achieved considerable savings on raw materials and energy. active ingredient content of 50% and prevents premature aging. As We have also succeeded in further reducing our operating costs by the stabilizer does not crystallize out, it can be used without any probimplementing process control concepts that include online analytics lems even at temperatures of minus ten degrees Celsius, therefore in a number of plants. These concepts enable us to run our plants eliminating the need to heat the pre-tank. even closer to the optimum operating point. 78 LANXESS Annual Report 2014 The Performance Chemicals segment also brought a number of innovaThe decrease in research and development expenses already reflects tions to market in the reporting year. LANXESS has developed a new the first savings achieved by our “Advance” and “Let’s LANXESS class of retanning materials designated Levotan X-Biomer, for which again” programs. it has filed patent applications. These products make up a complete portfolio for all key steps in the retanning process and offer an alternaThe table below shows research and development expenditures in tive to synthetic retanning materials. All the products are based on the past five years. biodegradable polymers derived from renewable raw materials and are given their functionality for retanning applications in a biotechnologiResearch and Development Expenses cal process. They can be used to produce chrome-tanned leathers 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 (wet blues) which meet even the stringent technical requirements for Research and development automotive applications and children’s shoes, for example. Moreover, expenses (€ million) 116 144 192 186 160 the use of Levotan X-Biomer reduces the environmental impact of the % of sales 1.6 1.6 2.1 2.2 2.0 tanning process in many ways. In June 2014, LANXESS also launched its new Lewabrane RO S range of products, initially comprising three grades of spiral-wound membrane elements for reverse osmosis, which At the end of 2014, we employed 708 people – against 931 in were specially developed for seawater desalination. These products 2013 – in our research and development laboratories worldwide. already successfully completed important field tests prior to the launch. In our central research unit, the number of employees declined to 309 from 383 on December 31, 2013. Headcount in the decentral Our central research unit has also developed a new technology which units decreased from 548 in 2013 to 399. makes it possible to directly bond elastomers like EPDM to polyamide­ components in a single step during vulcanization. No adhesion proNumber of Employees in Research and Development moter or primer is needed, thus reducing the number of steps involved 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 in the overall process. Year end 519 731 843 931 708 % of Group employees 3.5 4.5 4.9 5.4 4.3 The research-intensive product and process development activities coordinated by the Production, Technology, Safety & Environment Group Function are conducted mainly via alliances with universities and research institutes. Generating knowledge in this way is subFields of activity and patent strategy stantially more efficient and cost-effective than if we were to maintain our own resources for this purpose. In 2014, we had a total of 154 Within the context of our global realignment, we are focusing our (2013: 194) major research and development alliances, 41 (2013: research and development activities on market-driven core projects. In 73) of which were with universities, 79 (2013: 72) with suppliers or 2014, we conducted around 210 projects (2013: 260), around 120 customers, and 34 (2013: 52) with research institutes. of which (2013: 150) aimed to design new products and ­applications or improve existing ones. Some 90 projects (2013: around 110) concerned process technology issues with a view to reducing costs, Cost trend and employees improving efficiency or increasing capacity. We plan to have roughly 20% of the research and development projects we started in 2014 Our total research and development expenses in 2014 decreased in the market or technical implementation stages by the end of 2015 by 14.0% on the prior year to €160 million, or 2.0% of sales (2013: (2013: about 20%). €186 million, or 2.2% of sales). The Butyl Rubber, High Performance Materials, Saltigo, High Performance Elastomers and Keltan Elastomers The results of our activities are protected by patents, where this is business units accounted for the largest share of these expenditures in possible and expedient. In the course of 2014, we submitted 94 2014 at 53% (2013: 59%). Saltigo, Butyl Rubber, Liquid Purification priority applications worldwide. As of December 31, 2014, the full Technologies, Material Protection Products and High Performance patent portfolio included approximately 1,010 patent families covering Elastomers were the business units most active in research in terms around 7,360 property rights. of their ratios of research and development expenses to sales. Combined Management Report – Fundamentals 79 Research and development | Corporate responsibility Corporate responsibility As of December 31, 2014, our matrix certificate covered 46 companies with 76 sites in 23 countries. In 2014, the new butyl rubber As an international specialty chemicals group, we bear a major reproduction facility in Singapore was included in the certificate for the sponsibility toward people and the environment. Our entrepreneurfirst time as planned. Our sites in the United States have also received ial activities reflect this sense of responsibility, which is also a key confirmation of their certification to RC 14001 (RC = Responsible component of our strategy. Safety, environmental protection, social Care®). In addition, we have implemented an ISO 50001-certified responsibility, quality and commercial efficiency are all key corporate ­energy management system in Germany, which was recertified in goals at LANXESS. Our products and activities enable us to make a 2014. significant contribution worldwide to supporting our customers and improving people’s quality of life. Our responsibility spans the entire On account of our realignment activities, we have revised our strategy supply and value creation chain – from the global procurement of of global certification of the energy management system in favor of raw materials and product development, through production, stora regional certification strategy. In future, certification decisions will age and transport, to use and disposal. Moreover, all our corporate be taken locally on the basis of regulatory requirements. In line with responsibility (CR) activities must be linked to our core business or this new strategy, we are preparing for certification at sites in Belgium to our available expertise. and China in 2015. We consider compliance with laws and ethical principles to be the basis for sustainable corporate governance. The “Code for Legal ComEnvironment data pliance and Corporate Responsibility at LANXESS,” which is applicable throughout the Group, specifies minimum standards and gives our We use an electronic data capture system for the systematic global employees advice and guidance on complying with these standards. recording of key performance indicators (KPIs) in the areas of safety and environmental protection. Data for all indicators except the LTIFR We have been supporting the Responsible Care® initiative since 2006 (lost time injury frequency rate) are gathered only at those production and, by signing the revised Responsible Care® Global Charter in 2014, sites in which the company has a holding of more than 50%. In the we reaffirmed our commitment to the visions and ethical principles of year under review, PricewaterhouseCoopers AG Wirtschaftsprüfungsthe initiative in the year under review. We are also committed to the gesellschaft assessed our HSE indicators for 2014 and the necessary established principles of the world’s largest corporate social respondata recording processes in the course of a business audit, again with sibility initiative, the U.N Global Compact. a view to achieving a “limited assurance” rating. Integrated management system Social commitment At LANXESS, a central management system provides the necesOur not-for-profit activities focus on providing support for science edusary global structures to ensure responsible commercial practices. cation in schools. The LANXESS education initiative is the Group-wide Worldwide, we apply internal directives and operating procedures platform for these activities and has been used to establish relevant together with the ISO 9001 and ISO 14001 international standards projects at almost all LANXESS sites. Since its launch in 2008, we for quality and environmental management. External, independent have invested a total of more than €6 million worldwide in activities experts regularly audit the progress of system integration at new sites which have reached tens of thousands of children, adolescents and and the performance of our management system worldwide. Conyoung adults. firmation of our compliance with ISO 9001 and ISO 14001 takes the form of a global matrix certificate. We successfully completed a follow-up audit in 2014. 80 LANXESS Annual Report 2014 Legal environment as by the renewed escalation of the conflicts in the Middle East. The German economy started 2014 in robust mood but lost momentum There were no changes in the legal environment in 2014 that would as the year progressed in light of the aforementioned developments. have had a material impact on the earnings, asset and financial ­position At year end, it had grown by 1.5%. In Latin America, the weak growth of the LANXESS Group or LANXESS AG. of the region’s two major economies – Brazil and Argentina – saw gross domestic product increase by only a slim 0.8%. Business conditions In 2014, the exchange rate between the euro and the U.S. dollar developed counter to the prior-year trend. Monetary policy in both GDP and Chemical Production in 2014 currency areas remained largely unchanged compared with a year Change vs. prior year in real terms (%) earlier and was again characterized by very low interest rates. While the U.S. Federal Reserve ended its bond-buying program toward the NAFTA 2.3 end of the year, the European Central Bank agreed to buy potentially 2.4 unlimited numbers of certain government bonds. Against this backLatin America 0.8 ground, the euro started 2014 at US$1.38, with the U.S. currency (1.1) mostly remaining at this level on average throughout the first half EMEA 1.6 of the year. A substantial devaluation of the euro began in July and 2.4 continued into October, interrupted by only slight upturns. Although Germany 1.5 the exchange rate subsequently displayed more substantial upturns, (0.9) the downward slide of the euro continued unabated. At year end, the Asia-Pacific euro cost US$1.21 – an increase of 11.6% in the value of the U.S. 3.9 5.6 dollar in 2014. The euro’s average rate for the year was unchanged World 2.4 year on year at US$1.33. Due to the regional positioning of our busi3.6 ness, a stronger U.S. dollar generally has a positive effect on our earn(2) 0 2 4 6 ings. Centralized hedging activities limit any impact that cannot be Gross domestic product Chemical production neutralized by ensuring that production and sales take place in the same currency area. Value of the U.S. Dollar against the Euro The economic environment 1.50 Global economic growth weakened slightly during the course of 2014 yet showed an increase of 2.4%, which was just above the prior-year 1.40 level of 2.1%. Economic development in the Asia-Pacific region resulted in growth of 3.9% on the prior year and was driven by the momentum in 1.30 the Chinese economic region, which nonetheless lost pace as the year progressed. Gross domestic product in the NAFTA region increased by 1.20 2.3% in the reporting year, although development in the first quarter was hampered by the long winter period. The economy of the EMEA 1.10 region grew by 1.6%. It was impacted by the need for structural reform Jan. Feb. March April May June July Aug. Sep. Oct. Nov. Dec. in the eurozone and the associated debate concerning the financing of 2014 Average 2014 sovereign debt. Economic development was held back by the crisis in 2013 Average 2013 Ukraine and the resulting economic sanctions against Russia as well Combined Management Report – Economic report 81 Legal environment | Business conditions On the raw material markets, prices declined over the course of the reexports supported automotive production in Germany and resulted in porting year. We are particularly affected by the prices of petrochemical growth of 2.2%. On account of weaker development in the Chinese raw materials as they have a material impact on our production costs. economic region and other Asian countries, automobile production The price of our most important strategic raw material, butadiene, in the Asia-Pacific region increased by only 2.2% on the prior year. declined over the course of the year – especially from the beginning Business development in the Latin America region in 2014 was disof the second half. Reflecting the development of the oil price, the appointing. On account of the economic crisis in Argentina and slow prices of feedstocks such as benzene and toluene also decreased. development in Brazil, production contracted by 17.2%. Global production of chemicals for the agricultural industry posted The chemical industry only modest growth of 1.8% in the reporting year. Development was positive especially in the Asia-Pacific region, where growth was 2.7%. The general economic trends had an impact on the chemical industry In the EMEA region, production increased by 2.2%. By contrast, a as well, where production worldwide grew by 3.6 %. The Asia-Pacific decrease of 0.3% saw production in Germany stay just below the region posted the strongest growth at 5.6%, supported above all by prior-year level. On account of the long winter period at the beginning the development of the Chinese economic region. In the reporting of the year, an effect that was reinforced by high inventory levels at the year, chemical production in the NAFTA region increased by 2.4%. In end of the previous year, business in the NAFTA region contracted the Latin America region, chemical industry production declined by by 1.1%. Production volumes in the Latin America region decreased 1.1% after expanding by a slim 0.3% in 2013. The chemical sector by the same extent. in the EMEA region posted growth of 2.4% whereas the industry’s business in Germany receded by 0.9%. The construction industry worldwide posted growth of 3.3%. The Asia-Pacific region saw expansion of 5.6% and thus continued on the previous year’s growth course. This trend was buoyed by infrastructure Evolution of major user industries investments in the Chinese economic region. In Germany, momentum remained positive at 2.8%, setting the country slightly apart from the Global tire production increased by 3.2% in 2014, which was on a EMEA region where, despite the critical developments in Ukraine par with the prior year. This growth was centered on the Asia-Pacific and the Middle East, growth of 1.7% was recorded. The industry’s region, which expanded by 4.5%. However, the region’s performance expansion was slightly stronger in the NAFTA region, closing out the was dampened by development in the Chinese economic region, reporting year with growth of 2.4%. By contrast, construction industry which was held back by the debate in the United States concerning production in the Latin America region barely improved, remaining punitive tariffs on tire imports from China. Despite the Ukraine crisis below the prior-year level for growth of 0.6%. and the resurgent conflicts in the Middle East, the EMEA region posted growth of 2.1%. In Germany, the tire industry expanded production Evolution of Major User Industries in 2014 by 5.6%. Compared with other regions, growth in the NAFTA region Change vs. prior year ChemiTires AutoAgroCon­ was more restrained, reaching just 1.9% despite a recovery in both in real terms (%) cals motive chemistruction cals the original equipment and replacement tire businesses. In the Latin America region, where the original equipment business in particular NAFTA 2.4 1.9 4.6 (1.1) 2.4 Latin America (1.1) (4.5) (17.2) (1.1) 0.6 displayed weakness, tire production saw a substantial decline of 4.5%. EMEA 2.4 2.1 3.7 2.2 1.7 Germany (0.9) 5.6 2.2 (0.3) 2.8 The pace of growth in global automotive production slowed slightly to Asia-Pacific 5.6 4.5 2.2 2.7 5.6 2.0% in 2014, compared with 2.7% in 2013. In percentage terms, the World 3.6 3.2 2.0 1.8 3.3 growth driver was the NAFTA region, which posted a robust increase of 4.6%. Despite the crisis in Ukraine and the associated decline in automotive production in Eastern Europe, production in the EMEA region expanded by 3.7%. Stronger local demand and sustained high 82 LANXESS Annual Report 2014 Key events influencing the company’s business Comparison of forecast and actual business Fiscal 2014 was characterized by the persistently difficult competitive In the combined management report for fiscal 2013, we had presituation in our synthetic rubber businesses. In principle, the decline dicted a slight year-on-year increase in EBITDA pre exceptionals in in procurement costs for key raw materials, especially butadiene, 2014. We narrowed this guidance in our interim reports for 2014. resulted in corresponding adjustments to selling prices. Additional The actual result of €808 million was 9.9% above the prior-year result price pressure was caused by an increase in production capacities as of €735 million and roughly in the middle of the guidance range given new suppliers entered the market and established providers expanded in our interim reports for 2014. their existing capacities. Exchange rate developments had a positive effect, as did reduced energy costs due also to the lower oil price. In line with our forecast for the LANXESS Group, the Performance ­Polymers and Advanced Intermediates segments slightly increased In March and April 2014, a strike at our site in Zwijndrecht, Belgium, EBITDA pre exceptionals on the prior year by 0.8% and 5.9% to resulted in a nine-week production stoppage with a negative impact €392 million and €303 million, respectively. By contrast, our Perforon the earnings of our Performance Polymers segment. mance Chemicals segment posted earnings of €274 million, which were substantially higher than the prior-year earnings of €231 million. In the year under review, we initiated an extensive corporate realignment program. Against this background, a decision was taken in the For LANXESS AG, we had assumed net income in 2014 slightly above second quarter to increase the capital stock of LANXESS AG and imthe level of the previous year. However, due mainly to the reduction in mediately implemented. This yielded gross proceeds of €433 million,­ income from investments in affiliated companies, net income of minus some of which was used to finance our “Let’s LANXESS again” global €85 million was substantially below the prior-year value of €35 million. realignment program. This program comprises three phases: competitiveness of the business and administrative structure, operational competitiveness, and competitiveness of the business portfolio. Further information about “Let’s LANXESS again” can be found in the “Strategy” section of this combined management report. Comparison of Forecast and Actual Business 2014 Forecast for 2014 in Annual Report 2013 Actual 2014 Business development: Group EBITDA pre exceptionals Slight year-on-year increase (2013: €735 million) €808 million Business development: segments Performance Polymers Slight improvement in demand from the main customer Persistently difficult competitive situation for industries – automotive and tires; most dynamic growth synthetic rubbers; 1.4% decrease in volumes in the Asian growth markets; continued strong competition (EBITDA pre exceptionals: €392 million) for synthetic rubber products Advanced Intermediates Good customer demand for agrochemical products; Good demand for agrochemicals; 2.1% increase in volumes more scheduled plant shutdowns in 2014 (EBITDA pre exceptionals: €303 million) Performance Chemicals Slight improvement in demand; 2.8% increase in volumes more dynamic growth in the construction industry (EBITDA pre exceptionals: €274 million) Raw material prices Varying price trends for individual strategic raw materials; Lower raw material prices with continued volatility overall trend toward higher procurement costs with continuing volatility Financial condition: Group Cash outflows for capital expenditures At prior-year level (€624 million) €614 million Combined Management Report – Economic report 83 Key events influencing the company’s business | Comparison of forecast and actual business | Business performance of the LANXESS Group Business performance of the lanxess Group In 2014, LANXESS Group sales declined by 3.5% from €8,300 million in the prior year to €8,006 million. The small increase in volumes • Group-wide realignment initiated raised sales by 0.4%. The effect of lower selling prices, which caused •P  rice-driven sales decline of 3.5% at Group level largely due to sales to decline by 3.5% percent, was compounded by mildly un­ raw materials favorable exchange rate developments and slightly negative portfolio •P  ersistently difficult competitive situation for synthetic rubbers; effects. After adjustment for currency and portfolio effects, operational good demand for agrochemicals sales decreased by 3.1%. •E  BITDA pre exceptionals up 9.9% to €808 million •E  BITDA margin pre exceptionals at 10.1%, after 8.9% in 2013 Effects on Sales •N  et income and earnings per share improved to €47 million and € million/% €0.53, respectively, against a net loss of €159 million and minus 8,300 +0.4% 8,006 €1.91 in the prior year (3.5)% (0.3)% (0.1)% •D  ebt reduced by almost €400 million compared with the prior year Key Financial Data € million 2013 2014 Change % Sales 8,300 8,006 (3.5) 2013 Price Volume Currency Portfolio 2014 Gross profit 1,548 1,588 2.6 EBITDA pre exceptionals 735 808 9.9 EBITDA margin pre exceptionals 8.9% 10.1% – EBITDA 624 644 3.2 Sales in our Performance Polymers segment decreased by a significant Operating result (EBIT) 8.0% in 2014 and thus substantially impacted LANXESS’s business pre exceptionals 288 402 39.6 Operating result (EBIT) (93) 218 > 100 performance. The development of selling prices was due especially EBIT margin (1.1)% 2.7% – to lower procurement prices for raw materials and to the persistently Financial result (146) (138) 5.5 challenging competitive situation. Volumes were also down year on Income before income taxes (239) 80 > 100 year. Negative currency effects and an unfavorable portfolio effect reNet income (loss) (159) 47 > 100 sulting from the sale of the shares of Perlon-Monofil GmbH, Dormagen, Earnings per share (€) (1.91) 0.53 > 100 Germany, had a minor impact. The Advanced Intermediates segment posted a slim sales decrease Sales and earnings of 0.2%. Here, the positive development of volumes compensated for a negative effect arising from the decline in selling prices. Exchange Group Sales rate developments had a slightly negative effect. € million Sales in our Performance Chemicals segment advanced by 2.9% 2014 8,006 due to higher volumes and a slight year-on-year increase in selling prices. A net negative impact was caused by minor portfolio effects 2013 8,300 from acquisitions made in the previous year, which were assigned to the Material Protection Products and Functional Chemicals business 2012 9,094 units, as well as from unfavorable exchange rate developments. 2011 8,775 2010 7,120 0 2,000 4,000 6,000 8,000 10,000 84 LANXESS Annual Report 2014 Sales by Segment Gross profit was €1,588 million, up by €40 million or 2.6% against € million 2013 2014 Change Proportion the prior year. The gross profit margin rose from 18.7% to 19.8%. % of Group Volume expansion and lower manufacturing costs contributed to the sales % positive development, This effect was opposed by the decline in selling prices, which slightly outweighed the positive impact of lower raw Performance Polymers 4,486 4,128 (8.0) 51.6 Advanced Intermediates 1,647 1,643 (0.2) 20.5 material costs. Exchange rate developments had a positive effect on Performance Chemicals 2,132 2,193 2.9 27.4 the gross profit of the LANXESS Group. Reconciliation 35 42 20.0 0.5 8,300 8,006 (3.5) 100.0 EBITDA and operating result (EBIT) LANXESS slightly raised sales in North America, but registered ­declines Our operating result before depreciation and amortization (EBITDA) in the other regions. Latin America and EMEA (excluding Germany) pre exceptionals increased by €73 million, or 9.9%, to €808 million were particularly affected, posting sales decreases of 11.1% and in 2014, from €735 million the year before. This was due especially 4.5%, respectively. The Asia-Pacific and Germany regions proved to the decline in manufacturing costs and to the increase in volumes. comparatively robust with declines of 3.1% and 1.2%, respectively. Favorable exchange rate effects were a further positive factor and more Sales performance across the regions was largely dependent on the than compensated for a slightly negative portfolio effect. Earnings were development of the Performance Polymers segment. held back by selling price adjustments, which exceeded the benefit from the decline in raw material costs especially because of the challenging competitive situation in the rubber market. Selling expenses declined Order book status by €13 million to €742 million in 2014. Research and development costs were down 14.0%, to €160 million. General administrative exMost of our business is not subject to long-term agreements on fixed penses declined from €301 million to €278 million. The development volumes or prices. Instead, our business is characterized by long-standof functional costs already reflected cost savings from the “Advance” ing relationships with customers and revolving master agreements. and “Let’s LANXESS again” programs. The Group’s EBITDA margin Our activities are focused on demand-driven orders with relatively pre exceptionals improved from 8.9% to 10.1%. short lead times which do not provide a basis for forward-looking statements about our capacity utilization or volumes. The business EBITDA and EBITDA Margin Pre Exceptionals is managed primarily on the basis of regular Group-wide forecasts € million of the Group operating target. For additional information, please see 2014 808 10.1% “Company-specific lead indicators.” 2013 735 8.9% Any disclosure of the Group’s order book status at a given reporting date therefore would not be indicative of the Group’s shortor 2012 1,223 13.4% medium-term earning power. For this reason, no such disclosure is made in this report. 2011 1,146 13.1% 2010 918 12.9% Gross profit 0 250 500 750 1,000 1,250 1,500 The cost of sales showed a disproportionately large decline of 4.9% compared with sales, to €6,418 million. Declining procurement prices EBITDA pre exceptionals in the Performance Polymers segment for raw materials and energies as well as higher capacity utilization advanced by €3 million from the prior-year level of €389 million, to coupled with lower idle capacity costs had a positive impact and more €392 million. This was mainly the result of considerably lower manuthan offset the opposing effect on costs caused by higher sales volfacturing costs due in part to lower energy and idle capacity costs, as umes. Moreover, the start-up of a new facility had a stronger impact well as to lower research and development expenses. In addition, the in the previous year. Exchange rate movements had a positive effect. prior year was impacted by the start-up of a new facility. Lower selling Capacity utilization, at around 79%, was one percentage point above prices resulting from the persistently difficult competitive situation the prior-year level. for synthetic rubber and a decline in purchase prices for some raw materials had the opposite effect. The net influence of currency and portfolio effects was positive. Combined Management Report – Economic report 85 Business performance of the LANXESS Group In the Advanced Intermediates segment, EBITDA pre exceptionals plant of the Butyl Rubber business unit. In 2013, net exceptional advanced by €17 million to €303 million. Continued good demand charges of €381 million were incurred, €270 million of which had no for agrochemicals led to positive volume effects. The decline in selling impact on EBITDA and were due to impairment charges recognized prices was in line with the development of raw material costs. Shifts in for the Keltan Elastomers, High Performance Elastomers and Rubber currency parities did not have a significant impact. Chemicals business units. The exceptional charges of €111 million which impacted EBITDA in 2013 were mainly related to the “Advance” The Performance Chemicals segment generated EBITDA pre excepprogram for improving competitiveness across all segments as well tionals of €274 million, up €43 million or 18.6% on the prior year. At as to expenses associated with the design and implementation of IT the segment level, the increase in sales volumes, favorable exchange projects. rate developments and a positive price effect led to improved earnings. Higher manufacturing costs had an opposing effect. Reconciliation of EBIT to Net Income (Loss) € million 2013 2014 Change % EBITDA Pre Exceptionals by Segment Operating result (EBIT) (93) 218 > 100 € million 2013 2014 Change % Income from investments ­accounted for using the Performance Polymers 389 392 0.8 equity method 0 2 – Advanced Intermediates 286 303 5.9 Net interest expense (106) (69) 34.9 Performance Chemicals 231 274 18.6 Other financial income Reconciliation (171) (161) 5.8 and expense (40) (71) (77.5) 735 808 9.9 Financial result (146) (138) 5.5 Income (loss) before income taxes (239) 80 > 100 Income taxes 71 (36) < (100) The reconciliation of EBITDA pre exceptionals to the operating result Income (loss) after (EBIT) was as follows: income taxes (168) 44 > 100 of which: attributable to non-controlling Reconciliation of EBITDA Pre Exceptionals to Operating Result (EBIT) interests (9) (3) 66.7 € million 2013 2014 Change % attributable to ­LANXESS AG stockholders [net income (loss)] (159) 47 > 100 EBITDA pre exceptionals 735 808 9.9 Depreciation and amortization (717) (426) 40.6 Exceptional items in EBITDA (111) (164) (47.7) Operating result (EBIT) (93) 218 > 100 Financial result The financial result came in at minus €138 million in fiscal 2014, The operating result (EBIT) increased very substantially from micompared with minus €146 million for the prior year. The prorated nus €93 million to €218 million in fiscal 2014. Depreciation and income from the investment in Currenta GmbH & Co. OHG, Leverkuamortization, at €426 million, was €291 million or 40.6% below sen, Germany, which is accounted for using the equity method, came the prior-year period, even after additions from capital expenditures. to €2 million, against €0 million the previous year. Interest expense Write-downs on intangible assets and property, plant and equipment declined by €36 million year on year, mainly due to the repayment came to €32 million,­after €279 million in 2013. The write-downs of the €500 million Eurobond issued in 2009, which matured in the recognized at year end 2013 reduced the depreciation and amortizareporting period. As in 2013, the capitalization of a portion of borrowtion base for the reporting year. ing costs, some of which related to the construction of the new plants in Singapore and in China, had a positive effect on the financial result. The other operating result, which is the balance between other operatAt €69 million, net interest expense was €37 million lower than in ing income and expenses, improved substantially by €209 million to the previous year. The decline in other financial income and expense minus €190 million. Adjusted for exceptional items, the other operating items resulted mainly from the substantially higher net exchange loss. result came to minus €6 million, which was €12 million higher than in In addition, interest costs for interest-bearing provisions were slightly 2013. Net exceptional charges of €184 million were incurred in the higher than in 2013. reporting year, €164 million of which impacted EBITDA and mainly related to the “Let’s LANXESS again” and “Advance” programs as well as to expenses associated with the design and implementation of IT projects. The exceptional charges of €20 million that had no impact on EBITDA were due above all to write-downs recognized on a pilot 86 LANXESS Annual Report 2014 Income before income taxes Sales by Market 2013 2014 Change Due to the improved EBIT, income before income taxes increased by € million % € million % % €319 million to €80 million. EMEA (excluding Germany) 2,404 29.0 2,296 28.7 (4.5) Germany 1,458 17.6 1,440 18.0 (1.2) Income taxes North America 1,332 16.0 1,338 16.7 0.5 Latin America 966 11.6 859 10.7 (11.1) Asia-Pacific 2,140 25.8 2,073 25.9 (3.1) In fiscal 2014, the Group had tax expense of €36 million, compared 8,300 100.0 8,006 100.0 (3.5) with tax income of €71 million the year before. The Group’s tax rate was 45.0%, after 29.7% in the previous year. EMEA (excluding Germany) Net income/Earnings per share/Earnings per share pre exceptionals Sales in the EMEA region (excluding Germany) receded by €108 million,­or 4.5%, to €2,296 million in 2014. Adjusted for curThe LANXESS Group posted net earnings of €47 million, an increase rency changes and for portfolio effects from the acquisition of the phosof €206 million year on year. A loss of €3 million was attributable to phorus chemicals business of Thermphos France S.A.R.L., ­Epierre, non-controlling interests, compared with a loss of €9 million in the France, and the sale of the shares of Perlon-Monofil GmbH, Dormagen, previous year. Germany, sales receded by 4.2%. The Performance Polymers segment posted a sales decline in the low-double-digit percentage range. In our Earnings per share are calculated by dividing net income by the Advanced Intermediates and Performance Chemicals segments, sales weighted average number of LANXESS shares in circulation during increased by mediumand low-single-digit percentages, respectively. the reporting year. The number of shares in circulation rose by the The overall negative trend in the region affected Belgium, Italy, France, shares issued for the capital increase. This increase was accounted Spain and Turkey in particular. However, sales were bolstered by posifor pro rata temporis. Earnings per share were €0.53, ahead of the tive growth in demand in other countries such as the Netherlands, the minus €1.91 recorded for the prior year. Czech Republic and South Africa. Earnings per share pre exceptionals were €1.98, against €1.37 the With a 28.7% share of total sales, after 29.0% in the prior year, EMEA year before. This value was calculated from the earnings per share (excluding Germany) remained the largest of the LANXESS Group’s adjusted for exceptional items and attributable tax effects. In the reportregions in terms of sales. ing year, exceptional items came to €184 million after €381 million in 2013. Germany Business trends by region In Germany, our sales came to €1,440 million in 2014, down €18 million,­or 1.2%, on the previous year. There were no material Sales by Market portfolio effects to consider. Our Performance Chemicals segment % posted sales growth in the low-single-digit percentage range, whereas sales of the Performance Polymers segment remained level with the 25.8 25.9 prior year. In the Advanced Intermediates segment, sales declined by Asia-Pacific a mid-single-digit percentage. Latin America 11.6 10.7 Germany’s share of Group sales rose slightly from 17.6% to 18.0%. North America 16.0 16.7 Germany 17.6 18.0 29.0 28.7 EMEA (excluding Germany) 2013 2014 Combined Management Report – Economic report 87 Business performance of the LANXESS Group | Business trends by region | Segment information North America Segment information Sales in this region came to €1,338 million, up €6 million, or 0.5%, • Performance Polymers: challenging competitive situation for from the previous year. Adjusted for slight currency and portfolio effects, ­synthetic rubbers; lower selling prices impact sales and earnings sales were up by 0.9%. Business performance was characterized by the •A  dvanced Intermediates: earnings increase with sales at positive development of the Advanced Intermediates and Performance prior-year level; agrochemicals business remains good Chemicals segments, which posted sales increases in the lowto mid•P  erformance Chemicals: sales and earnings improved especially single-digit percentage range. These more than offset a low-single-digit by higher volumes at stable prices percentage decline in the Performance Polymers segment. The United States had the primary role in the region’s development. Sales by Segment % At 16.7%, North America’s share of Group sales was 0.7 percentage Reconciliation points higher than in the prior year. 25.7 0.4 27.4 0.5 Performance Chemicals 19.8 20.5 Latin America Advanced Intermediates 54.1 51.6 Sales in Latin America receded by a substantial €107 million, or 11.1%, to €859 million. Adjusted for slight currency and portfolio Performance Polymers effects, sales were down by 10.5%. The crucial factor in business performance here was the development of the Performance Polymers segment, where sales declined by a low-double-digit percentage. Sales also fell in the Advanced Intermediates and Performance Chemicals 2013 2014 segments, but by low-single-digit percentages. Business development in the region was mainly attributable to the sales performance in Brazil. LANXESS generated 10.7% of Group sales in Latin America, comPerformance Polymers pared with 11.6% in the prior-year period. Overview of Key Data 2013 2014 Change Asia-Pacific € million Margin € million Margin % % % Sales in the Asia-Pacific region declined by €67 million, or 3.1%, to Sales 4,486 4,128 (8.0) €2,073 million in 2014. Adjusted for negative currency effects and EBITDA slight portfolio effects, sales were down by 2.4%. This development pre ­exceptionals 389 8.7 392 9.5 0.8 EBITDA 372 8.3 351 8.5 (5.6) was primarily due to the business performance in our Performance Operating Polymers and Advanced Intermediates segments, where sales deresult (EBIT) clined by a highand mid-single-digit percentage, respectively. The pre ­exceptionals 135 3.0 181 4.4 34.1 Operating result Performance Chemicals segment recorded very positive development, (EBIT) (117) (2.6) 120 2.9 > 100 expanding sales by a high-single-digit percentage. The main contribuCash outflows for tors to operational development in the region were Hong Kong, China, capital expenditures 385 428 11.2 Depreciation and Taiwan and Thailand. Increasing sales were posted in India, Singapore amortization 489 231 (52.8) and Indonesia, although the trend in the latter was far more restrained. Employees as of Dec. 31 5,379 5,176 (3.8) Asia-Pacific’s share of Group sales was more or less unchanged at 25.9%, following 25.8% the previous year. Thus, it confirmed its position as the second-strongest region behind EMEA (excluding Germany) Business in our Performance Polymers segment declined year on year in terms of sales. in 2014. Sales decreased by 8.0% to €4,128 million. This development was primarily impacted by a negative price effect of 5.9% and by a 1.4% decline in volumes. A slightly unfavorable currency effect and a minor negative portfolio effect from the sale of the shares of Perlon-Monofil GmbH, Dormagen, Germany, accounted for 0.7% of this decrease. 88 LANXESS Annual Report 2014 All business units in this segment were impacted by declining market Exceptional items amounted to €61 million, €41 million of which prices. Negative effects resulted especially from lower raw material impacted EBITDA. Most of the exceptional charges with no impact costs and the persistently difficult market environment for our synthetic on EBITDA were due to write-downs recognized on a pilot plant of rubber businesses. While the Keltan Elastomers, High Performance the Butyl Rubber business unit. The exceptional charges which imMaterials and High Performance Elastomers business units increased pacted EBITDA were largely related to measures associated with the volumes, the Butyl Rubber and Performance Butadiene Rubbers busi“Let’s LANXESS again” and “Advance” programs. Exceptional items ness units posted negative volume development. All business units in 2013 amounted to €252 million, €17 million of which impacted were held back to a small extent by exchange rate developments. In EBITDA. Most of the exceptional charges were impairment charges addition, the High Performance Materials business unit registered a recognized by the Keltan Elastomers and High Performance Elastoslightly negative portfolio effect. While the segment’s sales in Germany mers business units. and North America were slightly below the prior-year level, business in the other regions declined substantially. Advanced Intermediates EBITDA and EBITDA Margin Pre Exceptionals € million Overview of Key Data 2013 2014 Change 2014 392 9.5% € million Margin € million Margin % % % 2013 389 8.7% Sales 1,647 1,643 (0.2) EBITDA 2012 817 15.8% pre ­exceptionals 286 17.4 303 18.4 5.9 EBITDA 287 17.4 293 17.8 2.1 2011 768 15.2% Operating result (EBIT) pre ­exceptionals 209 12.7 214 13.0 2.4 2010 548 14.8% Operating result (EBIT) 210 12.8 204 12.4 (2.9) 0 200 400 600 800 1,000 Cash outflows for capital expenditures 96 84 (12.5) Depreciation and amortization 77 89 15.6 EBITDA pre exceptionals in the Performance Polymers segment adEmployees as of vanced slightly from the prior-year level of €389 million to €392 million.­ Dec. 31 2,854 2,809 (1.6) Here, the Performance Butadiene Rubbers, High Performance Elastomers and High Performance Materials business units showed a positive development. A positive impact on earnings resulted especially from Our Advanced Intermediates segment recorded sales of €1,643 million­ considerably lower manufacturing costs that were attributable in part in 2014, more or less level with the prior year. While selling price adto lower energy and idle capacity costs. Moreover, in the previous year, justments necessitated by a decline in raw material prices resulted in the start-up of a new facility proved to be a stronger burden. Decreased a negative effect of 2.1%, volumes were up by 2.1% against the prior expenses for research and development and general administration year. Exchange rate movements had no tangible effect. also contributed positively to this development. Earnings were held back by lower selling prices resulting from reduced procurement Both of the segment‘s business units were able to grow volumes, in prices for raw materials and by the persistently difficult competitive part substantially. In particular, demand for agrochemicals showed situation for synthetic rubbers. Moreover, a strike at our butyl rubber pleasing development. Selling price adjustments, especially in the plant in Belgium resulted in a production stoppage of nine weeks and Advanced Industrial Intermediates business unit, had an offsetting reduced earnings in our Butyl Rubber business unit. At the segment effect. In North America and EMEA (excluding Germany), the segment level, the development of volumes had an additional effect. Exchange delivered a positive business performance. In the other regions, sales rate development was positive and more than compensated for slightly were below the prior-year level. negative portfolio effects. The segment’s EBITDA margin pre exceptionals improved from 8.7% to 9.5%. Combined Management Report – Economic report 89 Segment information EBITDA and EBITDA Margin Pre Exceptionals Sales in the Performance Chemicals segment rose by €61 million, or € million 2.9%, to €2,193 million. While sales were increased particularly by the 2.8% expansion of volumes, selling prices also edged up by 0.3% 2014 303 18.4% compared with the prior-year level. The net impact of exchange rate and portfolio effects was slightly negative. 2013 286 17.4% Overall, the segment’s volumes and selling prices were above the 2012 305 18.2% prior-year level, although the individual business units trended differently. In most of the segment’s business units, the increase in volumes 2011 264 17.1% more than offset the slight decrease in selling prices that was due 2010 in part to lower raw material prices. The Functional Chemicals and 259 18.4% Rubber Chemicals business units were able to largely offset declining 0 100 200 300 400 volumes with higher selling prices. Positive portfolio effects in the Material Protection Products and Functional Chemicals business units were overcompensated by the unfavorable exchange rate developments at EBITDA pre exceptionals in the Advanced Intermediates segment segment level. Business expanded in the Asia-Pacific, North America, increased by €17 million, or 5.9%, to €303 million. Earnings were Germany and EMEA (excluding Germany) regions. improved particularly by higher volumes and relief from raw material costs but held back by selling price adjustments. Changes in exchange EBITDA and EBITDA Margin Pre Exceptionals rates had only a slight impact on earnings. The EBITDA margin pre € million exceptionals improved from 17.4% to 18.4%. 2014 274 12.5% Exceptional items in the reporting year amounted to €10 million 2013 231 10.8% which fully impacted EBITDA and were largely related to the “Let’s LANXESS again” program. In the prior year, exceptional income 2012 281 12.8% amounted to €1 million, in which the reversal of provisions for the realignment of the Saltigo business unit was partly offset by expenses 2011 289 13.6% for further measures relating to the “Advance” program. 2010 281 14.2% Performance Chemicals 0 100 200 300 400 Overview of Key Data 2013 2014 Change EBITDA pre exceptionals for the Performance Chemicals seg€ million Margin € million Margin % ment advanced by €43 million, or 18.6%, against the prior year to % % €274 million.­This increase resulted from positive volume effects and, Sales 2,132 2,193 2.9 especially, from favorable exchange rate developments, a beneficial EBITDA price effect and a decline in purchasing prices for raw materials. While pre ­exceptionals 231 10.8 274 12.5 18.6 earnings were held back by higher manufacturing costs, portfolio EBITDA 181 8.5 240 10.9 32.6 effects did not have a significant impact. The EBITDA margin pre Operating result (EBIT) exceptionals increased from 10.8% to 12.5%. pre ­exceptionals 139 6.5 188 8.6 35.3 Operating result (EBIT) 54 2.5 154 7.0 > 100 The exceptional items of €34 million for the segment in 2014 Cash outflows for fully impacted EBITDA and mainly related to the “Let’s LANXESS capital expenditures 111 77 (30.6) again” and “Advance” programs. Exceptional items in 2013 came to Depreciation and €85 million,­€35 million of which did not impact EBITDA. They were amortization 127 86 (32.3) Employees as of mostly accounted for by impairment charges recognized for the RubDec. 31 5,837 5,613 (3.8) ber Chemicals­business unit. The exceptional charges that impacted EBITDA in the prior year were related especially to measures associated with the “Advance” program. 90 LANXESS Annual Report 2014 Reconciliation Structure of the Statement of Financial Position Dec. 31, 2013 Dec. 31, 2014 Change Overview of Key Data € million % € million % % € million 2013 2014 Change % Assets Sales 35 42 20.0 Non-current assets 3,592 52.7 4,101 56.6 14.2 EBITDA pre ­exceptionals (171) (161) 5.8 Current assets 3,219 47.3 3,149 43.4 (2.2) EBITDA (216) (240) (11.1) Total assets 6,811 100.0 7,250 100.0 6.4 Operating result (EBIT) pre ­exceptionals (195) (181) 7.2 Equity and ­liabilities Operating result (EBIT) (240) (260) (8.3) Equity (including Cash outflows for capital non-controlling expenditures 32 25 (21.9) interests) 1,900 27.9 2,161 29.8 13.7 Depreciation and amortization 24 20 (16.7) Non-current Employees as of Dec. 31 3,273 2,986 (8.8) ­liabilities 3,029 44.5 3,447 47.6 13.8 Current liabilities 1,882 27.6 1,642 22.6 (12.8) Total equity and liabilities 6,811 100.0 7,250 100.0 6.4 EBITDA pre exceptionals for the Reconciliation came to minus €161 million, compared with minus €171 million in the prior year. The development of functional costs already reflected cost savings from the “Let’s LANXESS again” and “Advance” programs. The excepStructure of the statement of financial position tional charges of €79 million, which fully impacted EBITDA, primarily related to measures associated with the “Let’s LANXESS again” and Total assets of the LANXESS Group amounted to €7,250 million as “Advance” programs, expenses for the design and implementation of December 31, 2014, an increase of €439 million, or 6.4%, on of IT projects and expenses for portfolio adjustments, to the extent the prior-year figure. This was primarily due to capital expenditures that these expenses could not be allocated to specific segments or for property, plant and equipment, an increase in deferred tax assets business units. The exceptional charges of €45 million reported in and the expansion of inventories. The decline in trade receivables the Reconciliation in 2013, all of which impacted EBITDA, primarily had an opposing effect. The ratio of non-current assets to total assets related to measures associated with the “Advance” program, expenses increased from 52.7% to 56.6%. On the equity and liabilities side, for the design and implementation of IT projects and expenses for equity increased particularly due to the capital increase in the second portfolio adjustments, to the extent that these expenses could not be quarter. This effect was counteracted by a net comprehensive loss, allocated to specific segments or business units. primarily due to remeasurement of the net defined benefit liability from post-employment benefit plans necessitated by lower interest rates. At the end of 2014, the equity ratio was 29.8%, after 27.9% Statement of financial position and financial condition in the previous year. Statement of financial position Structure of the Statement of Financial Position – Assets € million • Increase in total assets, mainly due to capital expenditures • Equity ratio improved by capital increase 6,811 7,250 Other current assets 232 • Higher pension provisions due to lower discount rates 317 518 Cash and cash equivalents 533 2,399 • Net financial liabilities substantially below prior year at ­ 2,369 €1,336 million Inventories and receivables 448 Other non-current assets 366 3,653 3,226 Intangible assets and property, plant and equipment 2013 2014 Combined Management Report – Economic report 91 Segment information | Statement of financial position and financial condition Non-current assets rose by €509 million to €4,101 million, with in technology and innovation, also a valuable asset, is rooted in our intangible assets and property, plant and equipment increasing by specific expertise in the areas of research and development and cus€427 million to €3,653 million. Cash outflows for purchases of proptom manufacturing. It enables us to generate significant added value erty, plant and equipment and intangible assets in the reporting period for our customers. were €614 million, just below the prior-year level of €624 million. Depreciation and amortization in 2014 totaled €426 million and was The know-how and experience of our employees are crucial factors for thus below the prior-year level, mainly because of the lower depreciaour corporate success. In addition, we have sophisticated production tion and amortization base following comparatively high write-downs and business processes that create competitive advantages for us in of intangible assets and property, plant and equipment at year end the relevant markets. 2013. The carrying amount of investments accounted for using the equity method decreased by €12 million to €0 million. This change Structure of the Statement of Financial Position – Equity and Liabilities resulted from the net-asset-driven adjustment to the carrying amount € million of the interest in Currenta GmbH & Co. OHG, Leverkusen, Germany. Deferred taxes increased by €126 million, to €380 million. The ratio 6,811 7,250 560 of non-current assets to total assets was 56.6%, up from 52.7% on 502 Other current liabilities 1,082 December 31, 2013. 1,380 Current financial liabilities 1,729 1,368 Current assets decreased by €70 million, or 2.2%, compared with Other non-current liabilities December 31, 2013 to €3,149 million. The inventory growth of 1,718 1,661 €85 million, or 6.5%, to €1,384 million was attributable to slightly Non-current financial liabilities higher volumes and the development of exchange rates, especially 2,161 1,900 for the U.S. dollar. The lower prices for certain key raw materials offset Equity inventory growth. Days of inventory outstanding (DIO) increased from 70.7 to 79.1. By contrast, trade receivables were €55 million, or 5.1%, 2013 2014 lower at €1,015 million, despite opposing currency effects. Days of sales outstanding (DSO) were virtually unchanged at 48.0. Minimal portfolio effects from the sale of the shares of Perlon-Monofil GmbH, Equity amounted to €2,161 million, up by €261 million or 13.7% Dormagen, Germany, in the reporting year had no significant influcompared with December 31, 2013, primarily due to the capital ence on net working capital. Cash and cash equivalents decreased by increase of 10% in the second quarter of 2014. Factors with the op€9 million to €418 million. Near-cash assets decreased by €6 million­ posite effect were the dividend payout of €46 million to LANXESS AG to €100 million at year end following the sale of shares in money stockholders in May 2014 and the net comprehensive loss recorded, market funds. The ratio of current assets to total assets was 43.4%, which was primarily due to the remeasurement of the net defined benagainst 47.3% as of December 31, 2013. efit liability from post-employment benefit plans necessitated by lower interest rates. The ratio of equity to the Group’s total assets was 29.8% The LANXESS Group has significant internally generated intangible as of December 31, 2014, after 27.9% as of December 31, 2013. assets that are not reflected in the statement of financial position in light of accounting rules. These include the brand equity of LANXESS Non-current liabilities increased by €418 million to €3,447 million and the value of other brands of the Group. A variety of measures as of December 31, 2014. Provisions for pensions and other postwas deployed in the reporting period to continually enhance these employment benefits rose by €347 million compared with the end of assets and help strengthen the positions our business units hold in 2013, to €1,290 million. This increase mainly related to the change their respective markets. in the interest rates used in measurement, with minimal effects caused by the “Let’s LANXESS again” program. Other non-current financial Our established relationships with customers and suppliers also conliabilities amounted to €1,698 million, up by €49 million against stitute a significant intangible asset. These long-standing, trust-based December 31, 2013. This increase resulted primarily from the partial partnerships with customers and suppliers, underpinned by consistent refinancing of the €500 million Eurobond issued in 2009 that matured service quality, have made it possible for us to compete successfully in the reporting period. The ratio of non-current liabilities to total assets – also in a more challenging business environment. Our competence was 47.6%, up from 44.5% as of December 31, 2013. 92 LANXESS Annual Report 2014 Current liabilities came to €1,642 million, down by €240 million, or of the “Let’s LANXESS again” program. By contrast, in spite of small 12.8% from December 31, 2013. This decline resulted mainly from additions also resulting from this program, other current provisions the repayment of the aforementioned Eurobond issued in 2009. At decreased by €5 million to €350 million. The ratio of current liabilities €799 million, trade payables were €109 million above the prior-year to total assets was 22.6% as of December 31, 2014, against 27.6% figure, due in large part to changes in payment terms and, to a smaller at the end of 2013. extent, to shifts in exchange rates. In light of the devaluation of the euro against certain contract currencies, current derivative liabilities At €1,336 million, net financial liabilities were substantially below the increased by €79 million to €101 million. Other current liabilities figure of €1,731 million at December 31, 2013. increased by €40 million to €166 million on account of the effects The Group’s key ratios developed as follows: Ratios % 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Equity ratio Equity1) Total assets 31.1 30.2 31.0 27.9 29.8 Non-current asset ratio Non-current assets Total assets 48.3 50.7 49.8 52.7 56.6 Asset coverage I Equity1) Non-current assets 64.3 59.4 62.2 52.9 52.7 Asset coverage II Equity1) and non-current liabilities Non-current assets 153.9 137.3 157.2 137.2 136.7 Funding structure Current liabilities Total liabilities 37.2 43.5 31.4 38.3 32.3 1) Including non-controlling interests Capital expenditures Cash Outflows for Capital Expenditures vs. Depreciation and Amortization € million In 2014, capital expenditures for property, plant and equipment and 2014 614 intangible assets came to €692 million, compared with €676 million­ 426 the year before, and led to cash outflows of €614 million (2013: 2013 624 €624 million).­Depreciation and amortization totaled €426 mil717 lion in the same period (2013: €717 million). This figure included 2012 696 €20 million­in write-downs reported as exceptional items (2013: 378 €270 million). Adjusted for these write-downs, capital expenditures 2011 679 exceeded depreciation and amortization by a substantial 70% (2013: 325 51%). The increase was primarily due to the reduction in the deprecia2010 501 tion and amortization base following the recognition of write-downs 283 in 2013. 0 200 400 600 800 Cash outflows for capital expenditures Depreciation and amortization Combined Management Report – Economic report 93 Statement of financial position and financial condition In the reporting year, capital expenditures focused on the following Cash Outflows for Capital Expenditures by Segment areas: € million 428 84 77 25 • construction of new facilities, expansion and maintenance of e­ xisting facilities; 2014 614 • measures to increase plant availability; • projects to improve plant safety, enhance quality and comply with 385 96 111 32 environmental protection requirements. 2013 624 Performance Polymers Almost two-thirds of the capital expenditures in 2014 went toward Advanced Intermediates expansion or efficiency improvement measures, while the rest went Performance Chemicals Reconciliation to maintain existing facilities. In regional terms, 23% of our capital expenditures in the reporting period were made in Germany, 17% in the EMEA region (excluding In the Performance Polymers segment, capital expenditures Germany), 7% in North America, 5% in Latin America and 48% in amounted to €472 million (2013: €405 million), €428 million Asia-Pacific. Capital expenditures in Germany mostly comprised our (2013: €385 million) of which were cash outflows. Depreciation investments to increase capacities and modernize facilities in all and amortization amounted to €231 million (2013: €489 million). segments, especially investments in expansions for the Advanced The major capital expenditures in this segment were made in the Industrial Intermediates and Saltigo business units. The continued Performance Butadiene Rubbers and Keltan Elastomers business large share of capital expenditures made in the Asia-Pacific region units. Capital expenditures in the Advanced Intermediates segment in the reporting year is due primarily to the construction of a new amounted to €94 million (2013: €113 million). Cash outflows came production plant for high-performance neodymium-based perforto €84 million­(2013: €96 million), below the depreciation and mance butadiene rubber (Nd-PBR) for the Performance Butadiene amortization of €89 million (2013: €77 million). They were acRubbers business unit in Singapore and the construction of a new counted for by a number of smaller capital expenditure projects. production plant for EPDM rubber for the Keltan Elastomers business In the Performance Chemicals segment, capital expenditures unit in Changzhou, China. came to €100 million­(2013: €117 million), €77 million (2013: €111 million)­ of which were cash outflows. Depreciation and amortization stood at €86 million­(2013: €127 million). A key capital expenditure is the construction of a state-of-the-art plant for iron oxide red pigments in Ningbo, China, for the Inorganic Pigments business unit. The following table shows major capital expenditure projects in the LANXESS Group. Selected Capital Expenditure Projects 2014 Segment Site Description Performance Polymers Performance Butadiene Rubbers Singapore Construction of a production plant for neodymium-based performance butadiene rubber (Nd-PBR), start-up in the first half of 2015 Keltan Elastomers Changzhou, China Construction of a production plant for ethylene-propylene-diene (EPDM) rubber, ­start-up in 2015 High Performance Materials Porto Feliz, Brazil Construction of a new compounding plant for high-tech plastics, start-up in April 2014 High Performance Materials Antwerp, Belgium Start-up of a new polyamide plastics plant in Q3 2014 High Performance Materials Gastonia, U.S.A. Expansion of the high-tech plastics facility by the addition of a second production line, start-up in 2016 Performance Chemicals Inorganic Pigments Ningbo, China Construction of a plant for iron oxide red pigments with the addition of a mixing and milling plant for inorganic pigments, completion in Q4 2015 and start-up in Q1 2016 Liquid Purification Technologies Leverkusen, Germany Construction of a plant for weakly acidic cation exchange resins, completion in September 2014 94 LANXESS Annual Report 2014 Expansion of the Group portfolio Please see “Changes to the Group development during the reporting period was mainly attributable portfolio” in this combined management report for more information to the decline in trade receivables. This effect was intensified by the on the changes in fiscal 2014. increase in trade payables but offset by the expansion of inventories. The net cash provided by operating activities was €797 million, against €641 million in 2013. Financial condition LANXESS’s investing activities in fiscal 2014 resulted in a cash outflow • Operating cash flow above prior-year level of €587 million, up from €342 million in the previous year. Disburse• Inflow from reduction in cash tied up in working capital ments for intangible assets and property, plant and equipment came to • Cash used for investing activities reflects extensive capital €614 million, which was below the prior-year level of €624 million. The ­expenditures for growth projects cash outflows for the acquisition of subsidiaries and other businesses, • Liquidity position remains solid net of acquired cash and cash equivalents, amounted to €15 million in 2013. The acquisitions made in that year were PCTS Specialty The cash flow statement shows inflows and outflows of cash and cash Chemicals Pte. Ltd., Singapore, and the phosphorus chemicals portequivalents by type of business operation. folio of Thermphos France S.A.R.L., Epierre, France. Cash inflows from financial assets came to €8 million and mainly comprised the Cash Flow Statement proceeds from the sale of shares in money market funds. The sale of € million 2013 2014 Change the shares of Perlon-Monofil GmbH, Dormagen, Germany, resulted in Income before income taxes a cash inflow of €3 million, net of divested cash and cash equivalents. (239) 80 319 Depreciation and amortization 717 426 (291) Other items 53 144 91 Free cash flow – the difference between the cash inflows from operatNet cash provided by ­ ing activities and the cash used in investing activities – decreased by operating activities before €89 million to €210 million. change in net working capital 531 650 119 Change in net working capital 110 147 37 Net cash provided by Net cash used in financing activities came to €222 million, against operating activities 641 797 156 €260 million the year before. A major effect came from the cash inNet cash used in investing activities (342) (587) (245) flow of €433 million resulting from the capital increase in the second Net cash used in quarter of 2014. However, this was more than offset by cash outflows financing activities (260) (222) 38 of €478 million attributable to the net repayment of borrowings. InterChange in cash and cash equivalents from business activities 39 (12) (51) est payments and other financial disbursements of €131 million were Cash and cash equivalents slightly higher than the previous year’s amount of €119 million. An as of December 31 427 418 (9) outflow of €46 million was accounted for by the dividend paid to the stockholders of LANXESS AG for fiscal 2013 (2013: €83 million). Cash provided by operating activities, before changes in net working The net change in cash and cash equivalents from business activities capital, increased by €119 million to €650 million in fiscal 2014. in fiscal 2014 was minus €12 million, against €39 million the previous This was mainly due to the €319 million increase in income before year. After taking into account currency-related and other changes in income taxes to €80 million. Depreciation and amortization decreased cash and cash equivalents of €3 million, cash and cash equivalents to €426 million from €717 million in the previous year, primarily due at the closing date amounted to €418 million, against €427 million to write-downs recognized on property plant and equipment and at the previous year’s closing date. Taken together with near-cash asintangible assets at the end of 2013. sets (short-term investment of liquid assets in money market funds) of €100 million, against €106 million the previous year, the Group The decrease in net working capital compared to December 31, retained a sound liquidity position of €518 million as of December 31, 2013 resulted in a cash inflow of €147 million. The cash inflow from 2014, compared to €533 million at the end of 2013. the change in net working capital in 2013 was €110 million. The Combined Management Report – Economic report 95 Statement of financial position and financial condition Development of ­LANXESS Ratings and Rating Outlook Since 2010 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Standard & Poor’s BBB/stable BBB/stable BBB/stable BBB/negative BBB –/stable Sep. 1, 2010 Aug. 23, 2011 Aug. 31, 2012 June 27, 2013 May 19, 2014 Moody’s Investors Service Baa2/stable Baa2/stable Baa2/stable Baa2/negative Baa3/stable May 19, 2010 Nov. 23, 2011 Sep. 26, 2012 Aug. 14, 2013 June 20, 2014 Fitch Ratings BBB/stable BBB/stable BBB/stable BBB/negative BBB –/stable Dec. 17, 2010 Nov. 22, 2011 Sep. 13, 2012 Aug. 15, 2013 Aug. 18, 2014 Principles and objectives of financial management LANXESS pursues Financing analysis In fiscal 2014, LANXESS had a balanced financing a conservative financial policy characterized by the forward-looking structure and a very sound liquidity position. management of financial risks. Our aim is to be able to provide sufficient liquidity to our business operations at all times, regardless of The main change to our financial portfolio during the reporting period cyclical fluctuations in the real economy or financial markets. The resulted from the redemption of the €500 million bond that matured debt level is largely aligned with the ratio systems of the leading ratin April. For this purpose, we drew on a credit line we have with the ing agencies for investment-grade companies and we will be seeking European Investment Bank. The proceeds of the capital increase its further reduction in the future. In addition to liquidity risk, financial made in May 2014 served to finance the “Let’s LANXESS again” management also covers other financial risks, such as interest and program and strengthen our financial position. In the fourth quarter foreign exchange risks. Here too, we aim to mitigate the financial risks of 2014, we repaid two bank loans ahead of schedule in order to that arise and increase planning reliability, partly by using derivative reduce gross indebtedness and lower interest burden. We funded financial instruments. Detailed information about the management the growth program which ends in 2015 from business operations of these risks is contained in the “Opportunity and risk report” in this and using existing liquidity and credit lines. combined management report and under Note [35], “Financial instruments,” to the consolidated financial statements. LANXESS launched a €2.5 billion debt issuance program in March 2009. On this basis and aligned with the prevailing market conditions, LANXESS Group ratings Access to the capital markets and good relabonds can be placed on the capital market very flexibly with respect to tions with German and international commercial banks are essential for timing and volume. As of December 31, 2014, just under €1.5 billion achieving our financial management objectives. Accordingly, ongoing of the €2.5 billion financing facility had been utilized to issue bonds dialogue and communication with banks, investors and rating agencies and private placements. Utilization was correspondingly reduced after are of crucial importance. In fiscal 2014, the latter reduced LANXESS’s redemption of our €500 million bond in April 2014. Capital market creditworthiness from BBB and Baa2 to BBB– and Baa3, respectively. financing is a central component in LANXESS’s financing mix, which However, they raised the outlook to stable. Justifying this downward is subject to regular review to ensure the adequate diversification of assessment, the rating agencies cited factors such as LANXESS’s our financing sources. latterly weaker financial data resulting from the persistently difficult business environment for rubber. They based their stable outlook on Current financial liabilities decreased from €668 million in 2013 to the measures taken by LANXESS, including the capital increase made €182 million at December 31, 2014, largely due to the redemption in the reporting period and the implementation of the global realignof the €500 million bond. ment program we initiated. 96 LANXESS Annual Report 2014 We made only limited use of finance leases, which are reported as Financing Structure financial liabilities in the statement of financial position. As of DecemInstrument Amount Term Interest Financial ber 31, 2014, the financial liabilities from finance leases amounted to € ­million rate % covenant 1) €72 million, against €49 million in the previous year. The LANXESS Eurobond 2009/2016 September (€200 million) 199 2016 5.500 no Group uses operating leases mainly for operational reasons and not Eurobond 2011/2018 May as a means of financing. Minimum non-discounted future payments (€500 million) 498 2018 4.125 no relating to operating leases totaled €390 million (2013: €492 million). Eurobond 2012/2022 November (€500 million) 494 2022 2.625 no Private placement As of December 31, 2014, LANXESS had no material financing 2012/2022 April items not reported in the statement of financial position in the form (€100 million) 100 2022 3.500 no Private placement of factoring, asset-backed structures or project financing, for example. 2012/2027 April (€100 million) 99 2027 3.950 no LANXESS’s total financial liabilities, net of accrued interest, declined CNH bond 2012/2015 February (CNH 500 million) 66 2015 3.950 no from €2,264 million in 2013 to €1,854 million at December 31, Development bank loan 228 April 2019 no 2014. Net financial liabilities – the total financial liabilities net of cash, Other loans 98 n/a no cash equivalents and near-cash assets – declined by €395 million to Finance lease 72 n/a no €1,336 million. Total financial ­liabilities 1,854 Cash and Of the total financial liabilities, 86% bear a fixed interest rate over the cash equivalents 418 ≤ 3 months term of the financing, which is below the prior-year level of 98%. This Near-cash assets 100 ≤ 3 months enabled us to improve the balance between floating-rate assets and Total liquidity 518 financial liabilities and additionally benefit from the currently very low Net financial liabilities 1,336 interest rates. Despite the moderate decrease in the proportion of 1) Ratio of net financial liabilities to EBITDA pre exceptionals financing items with fixed interest rates over their term in our present financing structure, interest rate changes have no material effect on LANXESS’s financial condition. The proportion of loans and bonds Due to extensive financing measures taken in past fiscal years, we have denominated in euros averaged 79% in the reporting year, which was continually improved the maturity structure of our financial liabilities. At below the prior-year level of 96%. The weighted average interest rate the time this combined management report was finalized, LANXESS for our financial liabilities was 3.8% at year end 2014, which was was not exposed to any refinancing risks as it had taken early action below the prior-year level of 4.8%. This reduction was mainly due to to refinance those financial liabilities that are due to mature. The other the redemption of the €500 million bond. loans related mainly to the use of credit facilities by subsidiaries in Brazil, China, India and Argentina, some of which mature in 2015 The following overview shows LANXESS’s financing structure as of and are extended on a regular, e.g. annual, basis. December 31, 2014 in detail, including its principal liquidity reserves. Maturity Profile of ­LANXESS Financial Liabilities as of Dec. 31, 2014 € million 800 700 600 500 400 300 200 100 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 after 2019 300 200 Combined Management Report – Economic report 97 Statement of financial position and financial condition 100 0 01.01.2008 31.12.2008 Liquidity analysis In addition to cash and cash equivalents of ­LANXESS Eurobond Spreads vs. BBB Corporates Index €418 million­and investments in highly liquid AAA money market Basis points funds of €100 million, LANXESS has additional sizeable liquidity 100 100 reserves in the form of undrawn credit facilities. The investments in money market funds are undertaken only at European Group com80 80 panies that are not subject to restrictions on foreign exchange and 60 60 capital transfers. We can therefore freely dispose of the funds. Around 40 86% of our cash is held in Group companies in countries with no re40 strictions on foreign exchange and capital transfers. Only about 14% 20 20 of our cash is held in companies in regulated capital markets where cash transfers are restricted. 0 0 (20) -20 Jan. 1, 2014 Dec. 31, 2014 Thanks to our good liquidity position, our solvency was assured at all times in fiscal 2014. This is an aspect that was assessed positively ­LANXESS Eurobond 2014 ­LANXESS Eurobond 2022 by the rating agencies in their credit ratings in 2014. ­LANXESS Eurobond 2016 BBB Corporates, 5 years ­LANXESS Eurobond 2018 By far the most important of LANXESS’s credit lines is the syndicated credit facility of €1.25 billion, which has not been significantly drawn upon to date. In February 2015, we extended this facility by one year The credit risk premiums on corporate bonds displayed little volatility­in until February 2020. This credit facility is designed as an operating 2014 and declined steadily during the year. This reflected the overall line of credit and to provide funds for capital investment. It corresponds positive situation on Europe’s capital markets and, against the backto market requirements in the European syndicated loan market for ground of the further decline in interest rates, the high demand from investment-grade companies with a BBB rating. Another important investors for corporate bonds with investment-grade ratings. credit line is the €150 million facility we agreed with the European Investment Bank in fiscal 2014. None of our major loan agreements In the first half of 2014, the credit risk premiums on LANXESS bonds contains a financial covenant. LANXESS had unused credit lines totalmoved in parallel with but were below those for bonds in the BBBing around €1.5 billion as of December 31, 2014, unchanged against rated reference group. Following the reduction of LANXESS’s ratthe end of the previous year. ings to BBB– and Baa3 in the second half of the year, the credit risk premium on the LANXESS bond which matures in 2018 moved on The total of liquid assets and undrawn credit lines gives us a liquidthe same level as those for bonds with roughly the same maturities ity scope of around €2.0 billion, as in the prior year. This liquidity in the BBB-rated reference group. The development of our credit reserve secures our entrepreneurial flexibility and serves as back-up spreads underscores the fact that we retain competitive access to financing for our global realignment program; it is an expression of capital market financing. our conservative financial policy. Our solvency is safeguarded for the short and long term. Bond performance – evolution of credit spread in 2014 An important indicator for corporate bonds, apart from the absolute change in price, is the relative valuation of the risk specific to the issuer in comparison to a reference interest rate. This credit risk premium is expressed in what is known as the credit spread. Due to the higher default risk associated with longer bond maturity, long-term bonds generally feature a wider credit spread. This, and factors such as liquidity and trading volume, also apply to the various LANXESS bonds. The following chart shows the evolution of the credit spreads of our bonds and the average credit spread of corporate bonds with a BBB rating and a five-year maturity in comparison to the interest rate swap curve. 98 LANXESS Annual Report 2014 Management’s summary of business development and Our statement of financial position shows that our liquidity position the fiscal year remains solid. Additional substantial liquidity reserves in the form of undrawn credit lines are also available. Of the total financial liabilities, In 2014, the LANXESS Group’s business was largely characterized 86% bear a fixed interest rate over the term of the financing, which by the persistently difficult competitive situation for synthetic rubbers. is below the prior-year level of 98%. This enabled us to improve the While business development had been unfavorable in 2013, a slightly balance between floating-rate assets and financial liabilities and admore favorable trend was evident in the year under review. ditionally benefit from the currently very low interest rates. Our financial liabilities are free of financial covenants. At €8,006 million, LANXESS Group sales in 2014 declined by 3.5% from €8,300 million in the prior year. Our Performance Polymers Our net financial liabilities declined by €395 million to €1,336 million. segment posted a substantial decrease in sales, due especially to In fiscal 2014, the rating agencies reduced LANXESS’s creditworthilower procurement prices for raw materials and to the persistently ness from BBB and Baa2 to BBB– and Baa3, respectively. However, challenging competitive situation. In the Advanced Intermediates they raised the outlook to stable. This downward assessment was segment, sales were more or less flat with the previous year thanks to justified by factors such as LANXESS’s latterly weaker financial data good demand for agrochemicals. The Performance Chemicals segresulting from the persistently difficult business environment for rubment posted a positive business performance on account of higher ber, among other factors. volumes and selling prices. In the prior year, we made appropriate corrections to our assets afEBITDA pre exceptionals in 2014 increased by almost 10% to fected by the risks associated with the challenging competitive situ€808 million from €735 million in the previous year. This was due ation resulting from growing capacities, lower selling prices and less especially to lower manufacturing costs and higher volumes. Adfavorable prices for raw materials and energy. Although there has ditionally, cost savings were contributed by the “Advance” and “Let’s been no fundamental change to this environment, we believe that LANXESS again” programs. Earnings were held back by lower selling our company’s business situation remains positive on account of its prices due to the challenging competitive situation for synthetic rubbalanced financing position in the long term and the intactness of the bers, resulting in part from overcapacities. Overall, net income and megatrends in the medium term. earnings per share were substantially improved year on year. We upheld our conservative accounting and financing policy. In ­accordance with the consistency principle, we essentially applied the same measurement methods and exercised the same discretion as in the previous year. Our equity ratio improved from 27.9% to 29.8%, which was attributable above all to the capital increase. Total assets increased, mainly due to capital expenditures. Combined Management Report – Economic report 99 Management’s summary of business development and the fiscal year | Earnings, asset and financial position of LANXESS AG Key Business Data – Multi-Period Overview € million 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Earnings performance Sales 7,120 8,775 9,094 8,300 8,006 EBITDA pre exceptionals 918 1,146 1,223 735 808 EBITDA margin pre exceptionals 12.9% 13.1% 13.4% 8.9% 10.1% EBITDA 890 1,101 1,186 624 644 Operating result (EBIT) pre exceptionals 635 826 847 288 402 Operating result (EBIT) 607 776 808 (93) 218 EBIT margin 8.5% 8.8% 8.9% (1.1)% 2.7% Net income (loss) 379 506 508 (159) 47 Earnings per share (€) 4.56 6.08 6.11 (1.91) 0.53 Financial position Cash flow from operating activities 430 672 838 641 797 Depreciation and amortization 283 325 378 717 426 Cash outflows for capital expenditures 501 679 696 624 614 Net financial liabilities 913 1,515 1,483 1,731 1,336 Assets and liabilities Total assets 5,666 6,878 7,519 6,811 7,250 Non-current assets 2,738 3,489 3,747 3,592 4,101 Current assets 2,928 3,389 3,772 3,219 3,149 Net working capital 1,372 1,766 1,849 1,679 1,600 Equity (including non-controlling interests) 1,761 2,074 2,330 1,900 2,161 Pension provisions 605 679 893 943 1,290 Indicators ROCE 17.0% 17.2% 15.6% 5.8% 7.9% Equity ratio 31.1% 30.2% 31.0% 27.9% 29.8% Non-current asset ratio 48.3 50.7 49.8 52.7 56.6 Asset coverage I 64.3 59.4 62.2 52.9 52.7 Net working capital/sales 19.3% 20.1% 20.3% 20.2% 20.0% Employees (as of December 31) 14,648 16,390 17,177 17,343 16,584 Earnings, asset and financial position of lanxess ag income and losses from investments in affiliated companies resulting from profit or loss transfers and dividends from affiliated companies is of LANXESS AG serves primarily as the management holding company key importance for the future ability of LANXESS AG to pay a dividend. for the LANXESS Group. The principal management functions for the Therefore, especially the statements made in the “Opportunity and entire Group are performed by the Board of Management. The Board of risk report” in this combined management report apply in principle Management shapes Group strategy and manages resource allocation, to LANXESS AG as well. infrastructure and organization. The Group management company is also responsible for financing and communication with LANXESS’s key The financial statements of LANXESS AG are prepared in accordance stakeholders. The economic performance of LANXESS AG depends with the German Commercial Code (HGB) and the German Stock principally on the operating business entities in the LANXESS Group Corporation Act (AktG). and on the development of the chemical industry. The balance of 100 LANXESS Annual Report 2014 Sales and earnings of LANXESS AG to minus €37 million. This change was primarily due to the profit transfer of €67 million from LANXESS Deutschland GmbH, down LANXESS AG Income Statement in Accordance with the €102 million from the previous year, and to the assumption of a loss German Commercial Code (HGB) – Abridged of €13 million from LANXESS International Holding GmbH. By con€ million 2013 2014 Change % trast, the €28 million decrease in net interest expense to €57 million Sales 4 5 25.0 had a positive effect and was mainly attributable to the repayment of Cost of sales (4) (5) (25.0) borrowings from subsidiaries. Gross profit 0 0 – Income before income taxes came to minus €60 million, following­ General administration expenses (39) (43) (10.3) €31 million in the previous year. Net expenses for income taxes­ Other operating income 2 34 >100 Other operating expenses (2) (14) < (100) of €25 million comprised tax expenses of €1 million for 2014 Operating result (39) (23) 41.0 and €24 million for the previous years. The net loss for 2014 was €85 million­after net income of €35 million in the previous year. Income from investments in affiliated companies 169 53 (68.6) Taking into account the profit carryforward of €3 million and a withNet interest expense (85) (57) 32.9 Other financial income drawal from other retained earnings of €135 million, the distributand expenses – net (14) (33) < (100) able profit as of December 31, 2014, increased to €53 million from Financial result 70 (37) < (100) €48 million at the end of 2013. Income (loss) before income taxes 31 (60) < (100) Asset and capital structure of LANXESS AG Income taxes 4 (25) < (100) Net income (loss) 35 (85) < (100) LANXESS AG Statement of Financial Position in Accordance with the German Commercial Code (HGB) – Abridged Carryforward to new account 13 3 (76.9) Dec. 31, 2013 Dec. 31, 2014 Change Withdrawal from other retained earnings 0 135 – € million % € million % % Distributable profit 48 53 10.4 Assets Financial assets 757 23.5 758 26.3 0.1 Non-current assets 757 23.5 758 26.3 0.1 The earnings of LANXESS AG are determined largely by profit or loss Receivables from affiliated companies 1,967 61.1 1,754 60.8 (10.8) transfers from LANXESS Deutschland GmbH and LANXESS InternaOther assets 25 0.7 20 0.7 (20.0) tional Holding GmbH, which hold the shares of the other subsidiaries Liquid assets and securities 467 14.5 348 12.1 (25.5) and affiliates both in Germany and elsewhere. Current assets 2,459 76.3 2,122 73.6 (13.7) Prepaid expenses 5 0.2 4 0.1 (20.0) Sales of LANXESS AG stood at €5 million, which was slightly higher Total assets 3,221 100.0 2,884 100.0 (10.5) than the prior-year level of €4 million. They related to services provided Equity and to LANXESS Deutschland GmbH. A balanced result remained after Liabilities deducting the cost of sales, which consisted mostly of personnel exEquity 1,171 36.4 1,473 51.1 25.8 penses and appropriate shares of the general administration expenses. Provisions 101 3.1 103 3.6 2.0 Liabilities to banks 59 1.8 1 0.0 (98.3) Payables to affiliated General administration expenses increased against the previous year, companies 1,886 58.6 1,297 45.0 (31.2) up €4 million, or 10.3%, to €43 million. They principally comprised Other liabilities 4 0.1 10 0.3 >100 personnel and other business expenses not directly related to the Liabilities 1,949 60.5 1,308 45.3 (32.9) services provided to Group companies. The increase in other operating Total assets 3,221 100.0 2,884 100.0 (10.5) income was primarily due to the reversal of provisions. The operating result improved by €16 million to minus €23 million. The financial result, which comprises the balance of income and losses from investments in affiliated companies, the net interest position, and other financial income and expense, decreased by €107 million Combined Management Report – Economic report 101 Earnings, asset and financial position of LANXESS AG | Employees In view of its function as a strategic holding company, the statement Employees of financial position of LANXESS AG is dominated by financial assets and by receivables from, and payables to, subsidiaries. As of December 31, 2014, the LANXESS Group had a total of 16,584 employees, against 17,343 at the closing date of the prior LANXESS AG had total assets of €2,884 million as of December 31, year. Our global headcount reflected the measures taken to realign 2014, which was €337 million, or 10.5%, below the prior-year figthe company. Some 1,000 positions in administration and service ure. Non-current assets were €758 million and primarily included the units, marketing, and research and development worldwide were carrying amount of the investment in LANXESS Deutschland GmbH, identified for reduction by 2016 as part of the first phase of our which stands at €739 million. The share of non-current assets in total realignment (competitiveness of the business and administrative assets increased from 23.5% to 26.3%. Current assets declined by structure). €337 million,­or 13.7%, to €2,122 million and accounted for 73.6% of total assets, compared with 76.3% in 2013. Receivables from subIn the EMEA region (excluding Germany), the number of employees sidiaries accounted for 60.8% of total assets and related principally to as of December 31, 2014 was 3,267, down from 3,444 in the financial transactions and short-term loans. The share of bank balances previous year. In Germany, the headcount declined from 8,117 to and securities in total assets decreased from 14.5% to 12.1%. 7,747. The number of employees in the North America region fell to 1,371, from 1,526 as of December 31, 2013, while Latin America Equity increased by €302 million to €1,473 million, largely due to the saw its workforce shrink from 1,560 at the end of last year, to 1,467. 10% increase in the capital stock. This was partly offset by the dividend At the reporting date, we employed 2,732 people in the Asia-Pacific payout for 2013 and the net loss for the reporting period. The equity region, which is 36 more than a year ago. ratio was 51.1%, after 36.4% at the end of 2013. 13,598, or 82%, of our employees were men and 2,986, or 18%, Liabilities decreased by €641 million to €1,308 million, largely on were women. The number of employees who were non-German account of payables to subsidiaries, which were €589 million lower nationals was 9,270. In addition, we had 957 employees worldwide than the previous year at €1,297 million. The provisions increased working on temporary employment contracts. LANXESS AG had by €2 million to €103 million and related mainly to commitments to 139 employees as of the reporting date, versus 144 the year before. employees and statutory obligations. With a total of 496 trainees in 19 different career paths and seven combined vocational training and study programs at the end of 2014, LANXESS continues to train more young people than it needs to meet its own requirements. In 2014, despite our realignment program, we hired around 75% of those who completed their vocational training with us in Germany. Part-time employees accounted for 7.0% of the workforce at our German core companies as of the reporting date. Individuals with severe disabilities made up 5.4% of the workforce at our German companies. In addition, we routinely award contracts to work centers for the disabled. The lost time injury frequency rate (LTIFR), known as MAQ (injuries for every million hours worked) in Germany, is the key indicator used to assess occupational safety within the LANXESS Group. In 2014, the LTIFR was 2.3, compared with 3.2 in 2013. Personnel expenses totaled €1,457 million in fiscal 2014 (2013: €1,339 million). Wages and salaries, at €1,106 million (2013: €1,006 million), accounted for the greater part of this figure. Social security contributions were €202 million (2013: €194 million), while pension plan expenses totaled €136 million (2013: €128 million), and social assistance benefits came to €13 million (2013: €11 million). 102 LANXESS Annual Report 2014 Employees by Region HR strategy % Our entrepreneurial success is fundamentally based on our employees’ professionalism, implementation skills and sense of responsibility. Only 16.5 19.7 Asia-Pacific EMEA (excluding Germany) through their ongoing training and development – especially aimed at strengthening their willingness to learn and change – can we safe8.8 Latin America guard our company’s ability to continuously adapt to complex market challenges and sustainably improve LANXESS’s competitiveness. 8.3 North America The strategic development initiative in the HR function, which was started in 2013, was integrated into the “Let’s LANXESS again” 46.7 Germany ­program in 2014. Within the context of our realignment, leadership, dialogue, organizational consulting and change management were special areas of focus for the HR organization. Employees by Segment In addition to developing and implementing innovative concepts for % addressing the challenges resulting from demographic change, our top long-term strategic human resources goal is to attract and cultivate 18.0 a range of talented employees for LANXESS. We aim to strengthen 31.2 Other Performance Polymers our diversity, particularly in terms of age, national origin and gender. As part of our Diversity & Inclusion initiative, we have set a goal for the company: to voluntarily increase the proportion of women in middle and upper management to around 20% by 2020. The figure currently stands at around 15.3%. 33.9 16.9 Performance Chemicals Advanced Intermediates Compensation report Compensation of the Board of Management Employees by Functional Area (Annual Average) The structure of the compensation system and the level of compensa% tion for the members of the Board of Management are determined by the Supervisory Board. The appropriateness of the compensation 4.6 Research is regularly reviewed. The criteria for determining the appropriate72.4 Production ness of the compensation for an individual Board of Management 11.2 Administration member include, in particular, his duties, his personal performance, the economic situation, and the success and sustainable growth of 11.8 the LANXESS Group. Consideration is also given to compensation Marketing at comparable companies and the company’s overall compensation structure, including as well the ratio between the compensation of the Board of Management and that of LANXESS’s senior executives and the rest of the workforce, both overall and in terms of time. The compensation structure is also designed to be competitive in the international market for highly qualified executives and provide the motivation to successfully work toward sustainable corporate development. Combined Management Report 103 Employees | Compensation report The compensation system that was introduced for members of the which are defined by the Supervisory Board before the beginning of Board of Management in 2010 was approved by the Annual Stockthe respective fiscal year. In the case of 100% target attainment, the holders’ Meeting of LANXESS AG on May 28, 2010. This compensaindividual APP budget for 2014 for Mr. Zachert is 125% and for the tion system was applied when concluding the service contracts with other members of the Board of Management 115% of their respective all Board of Management members. annual base salaries. The maximum payment is defined on an annual basis by the Supervisory Board. For fiscal 2014, it has been capped The components of the compensation for members of the Board of at 100% and for fiscal 2015 at 150% of the individual budgets for Management are the annual base salary; the variable components, the members of the Board of Management – assuming 100% target which are the Annual Performance Payment, the Long-Term Incenattainment. Actual payments may differ from the amount calculated tive Plan/Long-Term Stock Performance Plan and the Long-Term in advance. Performance Bonus; and a retirement pension. The three variable components are linked to LANXESS’s annual performance and, The Long-Term Incentive Plan (LTIP) is another element of variable particularly, to its corporate success over a number of years. The compensation. This compensation component is based on the perforaverage compensation mix of 30% annual base salary and 70% varimance of LANXESS stock against a reference index, the Dow Jones able compensation components, assuming 100% target attainment, STOXX 600 ChemicalsSM. The LTIP responds to the call by legislators is strongly aligned with the company’s performance and long-term for a stronger focus on long-term company performance. It is divided value creation. The present service contracts for members of the into three three-year tranches, with the first tranche having begun in Board of Management set out the annual base salary and limits on 2008. Participation required a prior personal investment each year the amounts for the variable compensation components. They do not in LANXESS shares to a value of 13% of the annual base salary. The provide for an additional separate limit on total compensation, even shares were subject to a five-year lock-up period. The last payments taking into account a possible discretionary bonus. from the LTIP were made in 2013. 100% target attainment brought a payment per tranche of 50% of the individual target income, which is Compensation Mix for Members of the Board of Management the annual base salary plus the APP assuming 100% target attainment. % Annual base salary 30 The LTIP was succeeded effective fiscal 2010 by two other long-term Annual Performance Payment 36 variable compensation components: the Long-Term Stock Performance Long-Term Incentive Plan/Long-Term Stock Performance Plan 20 Plan (LTSP) and the Long-Term Performance Bonus (LTPB). Long-Term Performance Bonus 14 100 The LTSP is divided into four four-year tranches. The 2010–2013 tranche is also based on the performance of LANXESS stock against Annual base salary The fixed compensation comprises the annual base the Dow Jones STOXX 600 ChemicalsSM reference index. Compared to salary and compensation in kind, the latter consisting mainly of the the previous LTIP, the possible payment per tranche under the new plan tax value of perquisites such as the use of a company car. The annual has been reduced from 50% to 30% of the individual target income, base salary of the members of the Board of Management is marketassuming 100% target attainment. The condition for participation in oriented and in line with that paid at other comparable companies. the LTSP is a prior personal investment each year in LANXESS shares to a value of 5% of the annual base salary. The shares are subject to an Variable compensation The annual performance-based component average five-year lock-up period. The LTSP 2014–2017 offered since of the variable compensation, known as the Annual Performance 2014 uses the MSCI World Chemicals Index as the new reference inPayment (APP), is based on corporate business targets and other dex but is otherwise largely unchanged from the 2010–2013 tranche. conditions, such as the attainment of certain Group EBITDA targets, 104 LANXESS Annual Report 2014 Compensation of the Board of Management € ’000 Fixed compensation Variable compensation Payments from LTSP rights Year Annual CompenPerforPayLTPB Total cash Number Fair Total base sation in mance ment for (multicompenof rights values salery kind bonus1) previous year) sation years4) Serving members of the Board of Management as of December 31, 2014 Matthias Zachert 2014 900 54 1,125 – 406 5) 2,485 810,000 689 3,174 (as of April 1, 2014) 2013 – – – – – – – – – 2014 650 60 673 – 263 7) 1,646 419,250 356 2,002 Dr. Bernhard Düttmann 2013 613 57 346 2) – 218 6) 1,234 322,500 177 1,411 2014 650 49 673 – 263 7) 1,635 419,250 356 1,991 Dr. Rainier van Roessel 2013 613 47 346 2) – 218 6) 1,224 322,500 177 1,401 Former members of the Board of Management as of December 31, 2014 Dr. Axel C. Heitmann 2014 157 (1) – – – 156 – – 156 (until February 21, 2014) 2013 1,000 130 615 3) 34 323 6) 2,102 596,625 328 2,430 Dr. Werner Breuers 2014 387 34 238 – – 659 – – 659 (until August 5, 2014) 2013 613 51 346 2) – 218 6) 1,228 322,500 177 1,405 2014 2,744 196 2,709 – 932 6,581 1,648,500 1,401 7,982 Total 2013 2,839 285 1,653 34 977 5,788 1,564,125 859 6,647 1) Payment in 2014 and 2015, respectively 2) The performance bonus was voluntarily reduced by 10% of the annual base salary. 3) The performance bonus was voluntarily reduced by 6% of the annual base salary. 4) Payment in 2013 5) Payment in 2014 6) Payment of 50% each in 2014 and 2015 7) Payment of 50% each in 2015 and 2016 For more information, particularly regarding the valuation parameters therefore amounts to €5,174 thousand. The table shows the total applied, please see Note [14] to the consolidated financial statements. compensation of the other members of the Board of Management. The aggregate compensation of the entire Board of Management The personnel expenses for (2013: gain from) share-based com­­ totaled €9,982 thousand (2013: €6,647 thousand), comprising pensation in fiscal 2014 amounted to €100 thousand for ­­­Mr. Zachert, €4,940 thousand (2013: €3,124 thousand) in non-performance€20 thousand (2013: €56 thousand) for Dr. Düttmann,­€428 thousand­ related components, €3,641 thousand (2103: €2,664 thousand) (2013: €223 thousand) for Dr. van Roessel, €564 thousand (2013: in performance-related components and €1,401 thousand (2013: €385 thousand) for Dr. Heitmann and €1,056 thousand (2013: €859 thousand) in components with a long-term incentive effect. €223 thousand) for Dr. Breuers. Retirement pensions On termination of their service contracts, the The LTPB, which is the third variable compensation component, is members of the Board of Management receive benefits under the likewise aligned with long-term corporate performance. It rewards company pension plan. These benefits are paid when the beneficiary target attainment only after two successive fiscal years. The basis for reaches age 60 or if the beneficiary is permanently unable to work. calculating the LTPB is the individual APP target attainment for the They are paid to surviving dependents in the event of the beneficiary’s fiscal years in question. The exact amount of the LTPB results from the death. average individual APP target attainment for the two fiscal years. Assuming an average APP target attainment of 100%, the LTPB amounts The pension plan for the members of the Board of Management is a to 45% of the annual base salary. Actual payments in 2015 and 2016 defined contribution plan stipulating a basic contribution to be made may differ from the amounts calculated in advance. by the company equal to 25% of the annual base salary and APP. The maximum amount taken into account for calculating the APP In 2014, Mr. Zachert received a one-time payment of €2,000 thousand­ contribution is that due on 100% target attainment, irrespective of in partial recompense for the multi-year variable compensation origithe actual target attainment. Moreover, the members of the Board of nally agreed under his previous employment contract but not paid Management must themselves pay an amount from deferred compenout because of his move to LANXESS AG. His total compensation sation amounting to 12.5% of the APP. The members of the Board of Combined Management Report 105 Compensation report Management may increase their personal contribution to up to 25% on the respective circumstances and, regardless of the remaining of the APP. From the date of entitlement, up to 30% of the accumuterm of the service contract, include severance payments amounting lated capital – including the interest thereon – may be converted to to up to two times the annual base salary or, in the event of a change a pension benefit. There are claims arising from provisions in place of control, three times the annual base salary, plus the APP and LTPB before 2006 that are granted as vested rights to individual members assuming 100% target achievement and compensation pro rata temof the Board of Management. If the service contract ends before the poris of LTSP rights. beneficiary reaches the age of 60, the company pays certain additional benefits up to a defined ceiling. No additional benefits have been pledged to any member of the Board of Management in the event of termination of their service. LANXESS has established provisions for the future claims of Board of Management members. The total service cost recognized under IFRS Dr. Heitmann resigned from the Board of Management by mutual accounting rules in the 2014 consolidated financial statements for this agreement effective February 21, 2014, and left the company. Up purpose was €2,496 thousand (2013: €1,264 thousand). The presto this time, the contractually agreed benefits were granted and paid, ent value of the obligations for the members of the Board of Manageincluding the variable compensation for fiscal 2013 that had already ment serving as of December 31, 2014 was €9,994 thousand­(2013: been earned. Dr. Heitmann waived further claims, i.e. to variable com€21,740 thousand). Under IFRS accounting principles, the service pensation (APP and LTPB) pro rata, compensation for existing LTSP cost for pension entitlements earned in 2014 and the present value of rights or other severance payments. the obligations, including acquired rights, as of December 31, 2014 amounted, respectively, to €1,574 thousand­and €1,993 thousand­ Dr. Breuers will be leaving the company on expiration of his service for Mr. Zachert, €254 thousand and €2,095 thousand­(2013: contract on May 31, 2015. He already resigned from the Board of €394 thousand­and €1,584 thousand) for Dr. Düttmann, and Management effective August 5, 2014. The contractually agreed €148 thousand and €5,906 thousand (2013: €118 thousand terms of his compensation shall remain applicable until he leaves and €5,090 thousand) for Dr. van Roessel. The service cost for the company. At that time, existing LTSP rights shall be evaluated at Dr. Heitmann­and Dr. Breuers for their service on the Board of Man€1.00 per right and compensation paid pro rata, depending on the agement in 2014 came to €366 thousand and €154 thousand, length of the retention period that has already elapsed. This results in respectively. an entitlement of €729 thousand. In addition, Dr. Breuers has been granted a severance payment of €1,690 thousand comprising a tarThe net expense for pension entitlements recognized under HGB acget income, which is the annual base salary plus the APP and LTPB counting rules in the 2014 annual financial statements for this purpose assuming 100% target attainment. was €109 thousand (2013: €3,470 thousand). This amount includes income in connection with pension entitlements for Dr. Heitmann and In 2014, compensation of former members of the Board of ManageDr. Breuers of €1,851 thousand and €2 thousand, respectively. The ment totaled €1,983 thousand (2013: €308 thousand). present value of the obligations for the members of the Board of Management serving as of December 31, 2014 was €7,787 thousand­ Other benefits In 2014, no member of the Board of Management (2013: €18,565 thousand). Under HGB accounting principles, received benefits or assurances of benefits from third parties in respect the present value of the obligations, including vested rights, for the of their duties as members of the Board of Management. members of the Board of Management serving as of December 31, 2014 amounted, respectively, to €1,287 thousand for Mr. Zachert, No loans were granted to members of the Board of Management in €1,644 thousand (2013: €1,348 thousand) for Dr. Düttmann, and fiscal 2014. €4,856 thousand (2013: €4,477 thousand) for Dr. van Roessel. Individual compensation in line with the recommendations of the As of December 31, 2014, obligations to former members of the Board German Corporate Governance Code of Management totaled €27,921 thousand (2013: €11,578 thousand)­ under IFRS accounting rules and €21,215 thousand­ (2013: The following tables list the compensation, additional benefits and €9,734 thousand) under HGB accounting rules. In 2014, this total allocations (payments) for 2013 and 2014, in line with the recomcontained obligations to Dr. Heitmann and Dr. Breuers for the first time. mendations of the German Corporate Governance Code. The variable compensation components differ depending on the reference period. Benefits associated with and following termination of service on the The amounts of compensation shown also include the maximum and Board of Management The members of the Board of Management minimum attainable compensation. have indemnification rights should their service contracts be terminated for defined reasons at the instigation of the company or in the event of a material change of control over the company. The terms depend 106 LANXESS Annual Report 2014 Compensation Granted (Serving Members of the Board of Management as of December 31, 2014) € ’000 Matthias Zachert Dr. Bernhard Düttmann Dr. Rainier van Roessel Chairman of the Board of Management Chief Financial Officer Member of the Board of Management Appointed April 1, 2014 Appointed April 1, 2011 Appointed January 1, 2007 Target Target 2014 2014 Target Target 2014 2014 Target Target 2014 2014 value value (min.) (max.) value value (min.) (max.) value value (min.) (max.) 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 Annual base salary – 900 900 900 613 650 650 650 613 650 650 650 Compensation in kind – 54 54 54 57 60 60 60 47 49 49 49 Total – 954 954 954 670 710 710 710 660 699 699 699 Annual Performance Payment (APP) 2) – 1,125 1,125 1,125 748 748 0 748 748 748 0 748 Multi-year variable compensation – 1,365 406 2,431 538 649 0 1,059 538 649 0 1,059 LTPB (tranche 2012–2013) – – – – 68 – – – 68 – – – LTPB (tranche 2013–2014) – 203 203 203 293 0 0 (146) 3) 293 0 0 (146) 3) LTPB (tranche 2014–2015)2) – 473 203 608 0 293 0 366 0 293 0 366 LTSP 2010–2013 (tranche 2013) – – – – 177 – – – 177 – – – LTSP 2014–2017 (tranche 2014) – 689 0 1,620 0 356 0 839 0 356 0 839 Total – 3,444 2,485 4,510 1,956 2,107 710 2,517 1,946 2,096 699 2,506 Service cost – 1,574 1,574 1,574 394 254 254 254 118 148 148 148 Total compensation 1) – 5,018 4,059 6,084 2,350 2,361 964 2,771 2,064 2,244 847 2,654 1) In 2014, Mr. Zachert also received a one-time payment of €2,000 thousand in partial recompense for the multi-year variable compensation originally agreed under his previous employment contract but not paid out because of his move to LANXESS AG. 2) Maximum target attainment for 2014 reduced from 200% to 100% 3) 2013 grant adjusted retrospectively to 100% for 2014 Allocations (Serving Members of the Board of Management as of December 31, 2014) € ’000 Matthias Zachert Dr. Bernhard Düttmann Dr. Rainier van Roessel Chairman of the Board of Management Chief Financial Officer Member of the Board of Management Appointed April 1, 2014 Appointed April 1, 2011 Appointed January 1, 2007 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 Annual base salary – 900 613 650 613 650 Compensation in kind – 54 57 60 47 49 Total – 954 670 710 660 699 Annual Performance Payment (APP) 2) – 1,125 346 2) 673 346 2) 673 Multi-year variable compensation – 406 328 212 1,349 825 LTPB (tranche 2012–2013) – – 328 – 328 – LTPB (tranche 2013–2014) – 203 – 212 – 212 LTPB (tranche 2014–2015) – 203 – – – – LTIP 2008–2010 (tranche 2010) – – – – 1,021 – LTSP 2010–2013 (tranche 2010) – – – – – 613 Total – 2,485 1,344 1,595 2,355 2,197 Service cost – 1,574 394 254 118 148 Total compensation 1) – 4,059 1,738 1,849 2,473 2,345 1) In 2014, Mr. Zachert also received a one-time payment of €2,000 thousand in partial recompense for the multi-year variable compensation originally agreed under his previous employment contract but not paid out because of his move to LANXESS AG. 2) The performance bonus (APP) was voluntarily reduced by 10% of the annual base salary. Combined Management Report 107 Compensation report Compensation Granted (Former Members of the Board of Management as of December 31, 2014) € ’000 Dr. Axel C. Heitmann Dr. Werner Breuers Chairman of the Board of Management Member of the Board of Management Resigned February 21, 2014 Resigned August 5, 2014 Target Target 2014 2014 Target Target 2014 2014 value value (min.) (max.) value value (min.) (max.) 2013 2014 2013 2014 Annual base salary 1,000 157 157 157 613 387 387 387 Compensation in kind 130 (1) 3) (1) 3) (1) 3) 51 34 34 34 Total 1,130 156 156 156 664 421 421 421 Annual Performance Payment (APP) 1) 1,236 – – – 748 445 0 445 Multi-year variable compensation 880 – – – 538 87 0 (59) LTPB (tranche 2012–2013) 68 – – – 68 – – – LTPB (tranche 2013–2014) 484 – – – 293 0 0 (146) 2) LTPB (tranche 2014–2015)1) 0 – – – 0 87 0 87 LTSP 2010–2013 (tranche 2013) 328 – – – 177 – – – LTSP 2014–2017 (tranche 2014) 0 – – – 0 – – – Total 3,246 156 156 156 1,950 953 421 807 Service cost 376 366 366 366 376 154 154 154 Total compensation 3,622 522 522 522 2,326 1,107 575 961 1) Maximum target attainment for 2014 reduced from 200% to 100% 2) 2013 grant adjusted retrospectively to 100% for 2014 3) Including correction for prior year Allocations (Former Members of the Board of Management as of December 31, 2014) € ’000 Dr. Axel C. Heitmann Dr. Werner Breuers Chairman of the Board of Management Member of the Board of Management Resigned February 21, 2014 Resigned August 5, 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 Annual base salary 1,000 157 613 387 Compensation in kind 130 (1) 51 34 Total 1,130 156 664 421 Annual Performance Payment (APP) 1) 615 2) – 346 1) 238 Multi-year variable compensation 2,316 1,064 1,349 693 LTPB (tranche 2012–2013) 542 – 328 – LTPB (tranche 2013–2014) – – – 80 LTPB (tranche 2014–2015) – – – – LTIP 2008–2010 (tranche 2010) 1,774 – 1,021 – LTSP 2010–2013 (tranche 2010) – 1,064 – 613 Total 4,061 1,220 2,359 1,352 Service cost 376 366 376 154 Total compensation 4,437 1,586 2,735 1,506 1) The performance bonus (APP) was voluntarily reduced by 10% of the annual base salary. 2) The performance bonus (APP) was voluntarily reduced by 6% of the annual base salary. 108 LANXESS Annual Report 2014 Compensation of the Supervisory Board Payment of the variable compensation depends on how LANXESS’s stock performs relative to the Dow Jones STOXX 600 ChemicalsSM The compensation of the Supervisory Board is governed by Secindex during a member’s five-year term. The average price of LANXESS tion 12 of the company’s articles of association. The members of stock and the average level of the index during the 90 trading days the Supervisory Board of LANXESS AG receive fixed compensation prior to the Annual Stockholders’ Meeting at which the Supervisory of €80 thousand per year. The Chairman of the Supervisory Board Board members were elected are each compared with the respective receives three times, and the Vice Chairman one and a half times, this average for the 90 trading days prior to the Annual Stockholders’ Meetamount. Serving as the chair or a member of Supervisory Board coming at the conclusion of which the members’ terms end. The variable mittees is compensated separately in accordance with the German compensation is only payable if the stock has outperformed the benchCorporate Governance Code. Supervisory Board members who belong mark index. The exact amount of the variable compensation depends to a committee receive one half of the fixed compensation amount on the extent to which the stock price outperformed the benchmark in addition. The chair of the Audit Committee receives a further half. index in the preceding five years. If LANXESS stock has outperformed Supervisory Board members who chair a committee other than the the Dow Jones STOXX 600 ChemicalsSM by up to ten percentage Audit Committee receive a further quarter. However, no member may points, the variable compensation amounts to €50 thousand­for this receive in total more than three times the fixed compensation amount. five-year ­period; if it has outperformed the index by between ten and 20 percentage points, €100 thousand is paid, and if the degree of outSupervisory Board members are reimbursed for their expenses in performance is greater than this, the compensation is €150 thousand. addition and also receive an attendance allowance of €1.5 thousand for each Supervisory Board meeting and each committee meeting No variable compensation was paid in fiscal 2014. they attend, with the exception of meetings of the Committee formed pursuant to Section 27, Paragraph 3 of the German Codetermination The expected compensation payable for the term of office that began Act and meetings of the Nominations Committee. With respect to their with the conclusion of the Annual Stockholders’ Meeting on May 28, membership on the supervisory boards of LANXESS Group companies, 2010, and runs until the conclusion of the Annual Stockholders’ Meetthe members of the Supervisory Board are remunerated only for their ing that resolves to ratify the Supervisory Board members’ actions for service on the Supervisory Board of LANXESS Deutschland GmbH in fiscal 2014 was valued at €0 thousand (2013: €1,800 thousand) the amount of €5 thousand each. at December 31, 2014. The Supervisory Board members also receive a long-term incentive None of the members of the Supervisory Board received benefits for based on the company’s performance during the standard term of an services provided personally during the reporting period. No loans or individual’s membership on the Supervisory Board (five years). Unlike advances were granted to members of the Supervisory Board during the fixed compensation component, this variable compensation comthe reporting year. ponent is not paid every year, but only once at the end of the standard term of office. If a Supervisory Board member serves a shorter term, The following table breaks down the compensation received by each the amount is prorated. member of the Supervisory Board for their work on the Supervisory Board in fiscal 2014. Combined Management Report 109 Compensation report Compensation of the Supervisory Board1) € Year Fixed Compensation as Attendance Fixed Total compensation committee member allowance compensation ­LANXESS AG ­LANXESS AG ­LANXESS Deutschland GmbH 2014 240,000 0 22,500 5,000 267,500 Dr. Rolf Stomberg, Chairman 2013 240,000 0 16,500 5,000 261,500 2014 120,000 40,000 21,000 5,000 186,000 Ulrich Freese, Vice Chairman 2013 120,000 40,000 16,500 5,000 181,500 2014 80,000 40,000 18,000 5,000 143,000 Axel Berndt 2013 80,000 40,000 15,000 5,000 140,000 Dr. Rudolf Fauss 2014 40,000 20,000 10,500 2,500 73,000 (pro rata temporis until June 30, 2014) 2013 80,000 40,000 15,000 5,000 140,000 Dr. Hans-Dieter Gerriets 2014 40,000 20,000 7,500 2,500 70,000 (pro rata temporis from July 1, 2014) 2013 0 0 0 0 0 2014 80,000 120,000 27,000 5,000 232,000 Dr. Friedrich Janssen 2013 80,000 96,548 18,000 5,000 199,548 2014 80,000 40,000 21,000 5,000 146,000 Robert J. Koehler 2013 80,000 40,000 13,500 5,000 138,500 2014 80,000 40,000 18,000 5,000 143,000 Rainer Laufs 2013 80,000 40,000 15,000 5,000 140,000 2014 80,000 40,000 18,000 5,000 143,000 Thomas Meiers 2013 80,000 40,000 15,000 5,000 140,000 Dr. Ulrich Middelmann 2014 0 0 0 0 0 (deceased July 2, 2013) 2013 40,110 20,055 7,500 2,507 70,172 Claudia Nemat 2014 80,000 0 9,000 5,000 94,000 (effective July 25, 2013) 2013 35,068 0 3,000 2,192 40,260 2014 80,000 40,000 22,500 5,000 147,500 Hans-Jürgen Schicker 2013 80,000 40,000 16,500 5,000 141,500 2014 80,000 40,000 22,500 5,000 147,500 Gisela Seidel 2013 80,000 40,000 16,500 5,000 141,500 2014 80,000 40,000 18,000 5,000 143,000 Theo H. Walthie 2013 80,000 40,000 15,000 5,000 140,000 2014 1,160,000 480,000 235,500 60,000 1,935,500 Total 2013 1,155,178 476,603 183,000 59,699 1,874,480 1) Figures exclude value-added tax 110 LANXESS Annual Report 2014 Report pursuant to Section 289, Paragraph 4 the Stockholders’­ Meeting require a simple majority of the votes and Section 315, Paragraph 4 of the German cast and, if a capital majority is required, a simple majority of the Commercial Code capital stock, unless otherwise required by law or provided by the articles of association. The articles of association contain no further Pursuant to Section 289, Paragraph 4, Nos. 1 to 9 and Section 315, provisions in this regard. Section 10, Paragraph 9 of the articles of Paragraph 4, Nos. 1 to 9 of the German Commercial Code, we hereby association of LANXESS AG authorizes the Supervisory Board to make the following declarations: resolve on amendments relating solely to the form of the articles of association. 1. The capital stock of LANXESS AG amounted to €91,522,936 as of December 31, 2014, and is composed of 91,522,936 no-par 7. The Board of Management of LANXESS AG has been authorized bearer shares. All shares carry the same rights and obligations. to issue or repurchase shares as follows: One vote is granted per share, and profit is distributed per share. The rights and obligations arising from the shares are governed Own shares The Annual Stockholders’ Meeting of LANXESS AG on by the German Stock Corporation Act. May 18, 2011, authorized the Board of Management until May 17, 2016, to acquire shares in the company representing up to 10% of 2. We are not aware of any restrictions affecting voting rights or the the capital stock and to utilize them for any purpose permitted by law. transfer of shares. However, shares allocated under employee stock This authorization may also be utilized by subsidiaries of the company plans are subject to a lock-up period before they may be sold. or by third parties on behalf of the company or its subsidiaries. At the discretion of the Board of Management, such shares may be acquired 3. We received no reports of direct and indirect equity investments in either in the market or via a public tender offer. The Board of Managethe capital of LANXESS AG exceeding 10% of total voting rights. ment is authorized to use them for any purpose permitted by law. In particular, it can retire the shares, sell them other than via the stock 4. No shares carry special rights granting control authority. exchange or an offer to the stockholders, or transfer them against consideration in kind for the purpose of acquiring companies, parts 5. Employees hold a direct interest in the capital of LANXESS AG of companies or equity interests in companies or in order to conclude through employee stock programs. There are no restrictions on mergers. It is also authorized to use them to satisfy conversion rights directly exercising the control rights arising from these shares. from convertible or warrant bonds and/or profit-participation rights or income bonds (or a combination of these instruments) issued by the 6. Sections 84 and 85 of the German Stock Corporation Act and company and to grant holders of convertible or warrant bonds and/ Section 31 of the German Codetermination Act apply to the apor profit-participation rights or income bonds (or a combination of pointment and dismissal of Board of Management members. Under these instruments) issued by the company or its direct and indirect the provisions of these sections, Board of Management members affiliates that grant a conversion or option right or stipulate a converare appointed by the Supervisory Board for a term not exceedsion or warrant obligation the number of shares for which such parties ing five years. Such appointment may be renewed or the term would be entitled to subscribe upon exercise of their conversion or of office may be extended, provided that the term of each such option rights or fulfillment of the conversion or warrant obligation. The renewal or extension shall not exceed five years. Appointments stockholders shall not have subscription rights in such cases, except require a majority­of at least two-thirds of the Supervisory Board where the shares are retired. members’­ votes. Section 6, Paragraph 1 of the articles of association states that the Board of Management must consist of at least two Conditional capital The Annual Stockholders’ Meeting of LANXESS AG members. The number of members of the Board of Management on May 18, 2011, authorized the Board of Management until May 17, is determined by the Supervisory Board. The Supervisory Board 2016, with the approval of the Supervisory Board, to issue – in one or may appoint a chairman of the Board of Management and a vice more installments – warrant bonds and/or convertible bonds, profitchairman of the Board of Management. Alternative members of participation rights and/or income bonds or a combination of these the Board of Management may be appointed. The Supervisory instruments (collectively referred to as “bonds”) – as either registered Board may revoke the appointment of a member of the Board of or bearer bonds – with a total nominal value of up to €2,000,000,000, Management or the appointment of a member as Chairman of the with or without limited maturity, and to grant option rights to, or imBoard of Management for cause (Section 84, Paragraph 3 of the pose option obligations on, the holders or creditors of warrant bonds, German Stock Corporation Act). profit-participation rights with warrants or income bonds with warrants, and/or to grant conversion rights to, or impose conversion obligaSection 179 of the German Stock Corporation Act provides tions on, the holders or creditors of convertible bonds, convertible that a resolution of the Stockholders’ Meeting is required for profit-participation rights or convertible income bonds in respect of any amendment to the articles of association. Pursuant to Secbearer shares of the company representing a total pro rata increase tion 17, Paragraph 2 of the articles of association, resolutions of of up to €16,640,534 in the company’s capital stock on the terms Combined Management Report 111 Report pursuant to Section 289, Paragraph 4 and Section 315, Paragraph 4 of the German Commercial Code to be defined for these bonds. Pursuant to Section 4, Paragraph 4 of rants or convertible bonds issued by the company and its affiliates the articles of association, the capital stock of LANXESS AG is thus subscription rights to the number of new shares for which such parties conditionally increased by up to €16,640,534 (Conditional Capital). would be entitled to subscribe upon exercise of their conversion or option rights. Moreover, subscription rights can be excluded with the The conditional capital increase shall only be implemented to the approval of the Supervisory Board when the company’s capital stock is extent that the holders or creditors of, or persons obligated to exerincreased against contributions in kind, particularly for the acquisition of cise, option or conversion rights pertaining to bonds issued by the companies. Subscription rights can also be excluded with the approval company or a dependent company against cash contributions, or of the Supervisory Board in order to grant holders of convertible and/ issued against cash contributions and guaranteed by the company or warrant bonds issued by the company or its affiliates new shares or a dependent company, on or before May 17, 2016, on the basis upon exercise of their rights. Finally, subscription rights can also be of the authorization granted to the Board of Management by the Anexcluded with the approval of the Supervisory Board if the issue price nual Stockholders’ Meeting on May 18, 2011, exercise their option of the new shares is not significantly lower than the stock market price or conversion rights or, where they are obligated to do so, fulfill such at the time the issue price is fixed and the issued shares do not exceed obligation, or to the extent that the company elects to grant shares in 10% of the company’s capital stock. The upper limit of 10% of the the company in place of all or part of the cash amount due for paycapital stock is reduced by the proportionate interest in the capital stock ment. The conditional capital increase shall not be implemented if which is attributable to those shares issued or sold during the term cash compensation is granted or if the company’s own shares, shares of this authorization while excluding stockholders’ rights in direct or issued out of authorized capital or shares in another listed company analogous application of Section 186, Paragraph 3, Sentence 4 of the are used to service the option or conversion rights. German Stock Corporation Act. Further details are given in Section 4, Paragraph 2 of the articles of association. When issuing bonds, the Board of Management is authorized, with the approval of the Supervisory Board, to exclude subscription rights In addition, pursuant to Section 4, Paragraph 3 of LANXESS AG’s in the following cases: articles of association, the Annual Stockholders’ Meeting on May 28, • for residual amounts resulting from the subscription ratio; 2010, authorized the Board of Management until May 27, 2015, with • insofar as is necessary to grant to holders of previously issued the approval of the Supervisory Board, to increase the company’s capital ­option or conversion rights or obligations subscription rights stock on one or more occasions by issuing new no-par shares against to the number of new shares to which they would be entitled cash or contributions in kind up to a total amount of €8,320,268 to subscribe as stockholders upon exercise of their option or (Authorized Capital II). In fiscal 2014, €8,320,266 of the original conversion rights or fulfillment of their option or conversion Authorized Capital II of €16,640,534 was used to increase the share obligations; capital. Stockholders are generally entitled to subscription rights when • in the case of issuance against cash contributions, if the issue Authorized Capital is utilized. With the approval of the Supervisory price is not significantly below the theoretical market value of the Board, subscription rights can be excluded for residual amounts and bonds with option or conversion rights or conversion obligations,­ in order to grant holders of warrants or convertible bonds issued by as determined using accepted pricing models; if bonds are the company and its affiliates subscription rights to the number of new issued by application of Section 186, Paragraph 3, Sentence 4 shares for which such parties would be entitled to subscribe upon of the ­German Stock Corporation Act, in which case the issued exercise of their conversion or option rights. Moreover, subscription shares may not exceed a total of 10% of the capital stock either rights can be excluded with the approval of the Supervisory Board at the time this authorization takes effect or at the time it is when the company’s capital stock is increased against contributions in utilized; kind, particularly for the acquisition of companies. Subscription rights • if profit-participation rights or income bonds without option can also be excluded with the approval of the Supervisory Board in or conversion rights or conversion obligations are vested with order to grant holders of convertible and/or warrant bonds issued by bond-like characteristics. the company or its affiliates new shares upon exercise of their rights. Finally, subscription rights can also be excluded with the approval of Authorized Capital I and II ­Pursuant to Section 4, Paragraph 2 of the Supervisory Board if the issue price of the new shares is not sigLANXESS AG’s articles of association, the Annual Stockholders’ Meetnificantly lower than the stock market price at the time the issue price ing on May 23, 2013, authorized the Board of Management until is fixed and the issued shares do not exceed 10% of the company’s May 22, 2018, with the approval of the Supervisory Board, to increase capital stock. The upper limit of 10% of the capital stock is reduced the capital stock on one or more occasions by issuing new no-par by the proportionate interest in the capital stock which is attributable shares against cash or contributions in kind up to a total amount of to those shares issued or sold during the term of this authorization €16,640,534 (Authorized Capital I). Stockholders are generally enwhile excluding stockholders’ rights in direct or analogous applicatitled to subscription rights when Authorized Capital is utilized. With tion of Section 186, Paragraph 3, Sentence 4 of the German Stock the approval of the Supervisory Board, subscription rights can be Corporation Act. Further details are given in Section 4, Paragraph 3 excluded for residual amounts and in order to grant holders of warof the articles of association. 112 LANXESS Annual Report 2014 8. The service contracts between the company and the members Report pursuant to Section 289a of the German of the Board of Management of LANXESS AG contain provisions ­Commercial Code regarding the potential departure of the members of the Board of Management in the context of a change of control. These are The Board of Management and Supervisory Board have issued the outlined in the compensation report in this combined managecorporate governance declaration pursuant to Section 289a of the ment report. Such agreements, albeit with different terms, also German Commercial Code (HGB). This has been made available to exist between the company and members of the first level of upper the stockholders and can be found on our website at www.lanxess. management. In addition, the terms for placing bonds under the com under Investor Relations/Corporate Governance. company’s existing debt issuance program may contain a changeof-control clause which gives bondholders the right to redeem the bond should certain events occur that affect its rating. This applies to Events after the end of the reporting period the €200 million Eurobond issued by LANXESS Finance B.V. in the 2009 fiscal year, the €500 million Eurobond issued by LANXESS No events of particular significance took place after December 31, Finance B.V. in the 2011 fiscal year, and the €500 million Eurobond 2014, that could be expected to have a material effect on the earnings, issued by LANXESS Finance B.V. in November 2012. At the end asset and financial position of the LANXESS Group or LANXESS AG. of fiscal 2014, it also applied to the CNH 500 million bond issued by LANXESS Finance B.V. in February 2012 and redeemed in February­2015. All of these bonds are guaranteed by LANXESS AG. Report on risks, opportunities and future perspectives The terms for two private placements with a volume of €100 million each made by LANXESS Finance B.V. under the debt issuance The economic outlook below describes our expectations for economic program in the 2012 fiscal year likewise contain corresponding development. Following the report on future perspectives, we discuss change-of-control clauses. These placements are also guaranteed the opportunities and risks which may result in deviations from our by LANXESS AG. In fiscal 2011 and 2014, LANXESS Finance predictions. To give the informed reader a clearer view of the LANXESS B.V. and LANXESS AG signed agreements with an investment bank Group’s expected development, opportunities and risks, the opportufor loans of €200 million and €150 million, respectively. The loan nities and risks will be described in a combined report starting in the agreement signed by LANXESS Finance B.V. was transferred to year under review. In addition, there have been changes to the form LANXESS AG in January 2015. These agreements may be termiand content of the reporting. nated without notice or repayment of the outstanding loans may be required if another company or person gains control of more than 50% of LANXESS AG. The company also entered into an Economic outlook agreement with a syndicate of banks concerning a credit facility that is currently at €1,250 million. This agreement can also be termiGeneral business conditions We expect global economic growth of nated without notice if another company or person takes control of 3.0% in 2015. This forecast is based on the assumption that there will more than 50% of LANXESS AG. Furthermore, according to agreebe no further escalation in the crises in Ukraine and the Middle East. ments between the company and LANXESS Pension Trust e.V., A sustained low oil price could result in slight additional stimulation the company is obligated to make considerable payments to of the economy. In the NAFTA region, we are anticipating growth of LANXESS Pension Trust e.V. in the event of a change of control. 3.0%, which will likely be driven by private consumption. Especially due to a slightly improved economic environment in Europe, we are 9. The service contracts between the company and the members of assuming expansion of 2.5% in the EMEA region. A lower oil price the Board of Management of LANXESS AG as well as between and a stronger U.S. dollar are expected to have a positive effect, while the company and members of the first and second levels of upper the crisis in Ukraine will likely continue to dampen development. We management of LANXESS AG contain compensation agreements are forecasting growth of 2.0% in Germany, facilitated by low unemapplicable in the event of a change of control, as such change is ployment and an associated improvement in consumer sentiment. In more particularly described in the respective contracts. the Asia-Pacific region, we predict a gain of 4.5%. Growth in China is expected to weaken somewhat because the country’s exports will possibly no longer increase at the same pace as in the past. Combined Management Report 113 Report pursuant to Section 289, Paragraph 4 and Section 315, Paragraph 4 of the German Commercial Code | Report pursuant to Section 289a of the German Commercial Code | Events after the end of the reporting period | Report on risks, opportunities and future perspectives Expected Growth 2015 Growth of 5.0% is projected for the construction industry in 2015. In Change vs. prior year Gross domestic Chemical our view, the Asia-Pacific region will remain one focus of this developin real terms (%)1) product production ment with a forecast increase of 5.5%. We are also anticipating an NAFTA 3.0 2.5 improvement in the NAFTA region and assume growth of 8.0%. Latin Latin America 2.5 3.0 America is expected to post a gain of 4.0%. Due to a lack of momentum EMEA 2.5 2.0 in some eurozone countries and continued tensions in Eastern Europe, Germany 2.0 1.0 we anticipate growth of 2.5% for the EMEA region. Germany should Asia-Pacific 4.5 6.0 continue its positive development for expansion of 4.0%. World 3.0 4.0 1) R  ounded to the nearest 0.5% Source: LANXESS estimates and IHS Global Insight The market for agrochemicals should remain robust and post growth of 3.0%. The NAFTA region is expected to see an increase of 2.0%. We are also anticipating a recovery in Latin America with a gain of 3.0%. Future performance of the chemical industry We believe that the In the EMEA region, growth of 3.0% is expected. Growth in Germany chemical industry will continue to expand in 2015, with production is likely to weaken for an increase of 0.5%, whereas we anticipate growing by 4.0%. The emerging economies are expected to again be expansion of 3.5% in the Asia-Pacific region. the focus of this growth. Driven by development in China, we expect production expansion in the Asia-Pacific region to be 6.0% above Expected Evolution of Major User Industries the prior year. In the NAFTA region, we forecast a gain of 2.5%. We Change vs. prior year Tires AutoAgroConanticipate growth of 3.0% in Latin America and gains of 2.0% and in real terms (%)1) motive chemistruccals tion 1.0% in the EMEA and Germany regions, respectively. 2015 2015 2015 2015 Future evolution of selling markets We expect the global tire industry NAFTA 1.0 4.0 2.0 8.0 to increase production by 2.5% in 2015. In the Asia-Pacific region, Latin America 3.5 4.0 3.0 4.0 a gain of 4.5% is anticipated. China is likely to remain the driver for EMEA (1.5) 2.5 3.0 2.5 Germany 1.0 0.5 0.5 4.0 growth, albeit at a slower pace. In our predictions for the industrial Asia-Pacific 4.5 5.0 3.5 5.5 nations, we expect rising imports to result in a production decline World 2.5 4.5 3.0 5.0 of 1.5% in the EMEA region. The NAFTA region is predicted to see 1) R ounded to the nearest 0.5% positive development of 1.0%. Latin America may see growth of 3.5% Source: LANXESS estimates and IHS Global Insight in the current year, while we expect Germany to post a gain of 1.0%. We are assuming growth of 4.5% in automotive production in 2015. With anticipated expansion of 5.0%, the Asia-Pacific region is likely to remain the focus of development. We see the Chinese economic region, the ASEAN countries and India as the growth drivers here. In the NAFTA region, we predict expansion of 4.0%. The situation in Latin America should stabilize and this region is expected to turn in growth of 4.0% following the strong decline in 2014. In the EMEA region, we are anticipating a gain of 2.5%, with production in Germany expected to rise by 0.5%. 114 LANXESS Annual Report 2014 Future perspectives In 2014, against the background of the continuing challenges facing LANXESS, we initiated the three-phase “Let’s LANXESS again” proExpected earnings position of the LANXESS Group We anticipate gram for the realignment of our company with the aim of sustainably that our earnings in fiscal 2015 will be influenced by the persistently strengthening our competitiveness. In connection with the first phase challenging competitive environment, especially for our synthetic of the program, aimed at increasing the efficiency of business and rubber businesses. Additional effects will likely come from the rampadministrative structures, we have planned total exceptional charges up costs for our new rubber plants and the associated idle capacity with no impact on EBITDA of €150 million through 2016. Of these costs. We do not expect any significant momentum for our business exceptional charges, around €110 million were incurred in the reportdevelopment from the slight growth forecast for the global economy. ing year and some €40 million are expected in 2015. As decisions are taken, we will be giving further details of the second and third phases We assume the following development for the ten business units in of the program during 2015, although we already initiated the first our three segments. The assumptions made for each segment are measures of these phases in 2014. The cost reductions expected based especially on the differing market and competitive situations from the realignment initiated in the reporting year are expected to faced by the business units and the customer industries they serve. have a positive effect on our operating result in 2015. For the Performance Polymers segment, we expect a slight improveIn the current year, higher costs are also to be expected as a result ment in demand from the main customer industries – automotive of the increase in wages and salaries associated with the pending and tires – in 2015 compared with the previous year. We believe that negotiations on the collective bargaining agreement in Germany. the tire classification and labeling regulations and initiatives in various countries will slightly support demand for this segment’s rubber Against the background of the anticipated influences, which are products. However, in those business units which produce synthetic ­expected to have a largely offsetting effect on the individual segments, rubbers – especially EPDM and butyl rubber – we are anticipating we predict EBITDA pre exceptionals for the full year 2015 to be just continued price pressure due to additional capacities. In 2015, we about on a comparable level to 2014. This takes account of the expredict further positive development of our business with plastics for pected cost savings from the realignment initiated in the reporting year. lightweight construction applications in the automotive industry. The U.S. dollar is the main currency for our rubber businesses and we In 2015, we are predicting the continuing volatile development of raw expect positive effects from its continued strength. For the current material costs, which were at a comparatively low level at the end of year, this segment is expected to incur ramp-up costs totaling around the year under review. We anticipate an increase in procurement costs €25 million for the new Nd-PBR rubber plant in Singapore and the against the second half of 2014, especially for the petrochemical raw EPDM rubber plant in Changzhou, China. Also for the current year, materials that are crucial to the synthetic rubber products of our Perwe are anticipating idle costs of some €50 million for the additional formance Polymers segment. The starting point for this development capacities of these two new plants. is the comparatively low cost level at year end 2014. In 2015, we expect continued good demand from key customer The U.S. dollar will remain the key currency for our businesses. We industries for the Advanced Intermediates segment. According to expect this currency to remain volatile against the euro in 2015 and current market forecasts, growth for agrochemical products is likely anticipate that it will be slightly stronger than in 2014. to be rather restrained. In the Saltigo business unit, we anticipate a slight project-related decline in our fine chemicals and pharmaceutical The effective tax rate for the LANXESS Group is significantly influenced products businesses. by the regional distribution of its earnings. For the medium term, after conclusion of its realignment, LANXESS is targeting a tax rate of We expect a slight improvement to the demand situation for the between 22% and 25%. Given the persistently challenging business ­Performance Chemicals segment in 2015. Our business with inorsituation and our ongoing realignment program, we expect a tax rate ganic pigments for the construction industry should develop well, as of more than 30% for the current fiscal year. should our leather chemicals business although there we anticipate a burden from the continued price pressure for chrome ore products. The additives business, which has close links with the tire industry, should see stable development overall. However, we anticipate challenges for our rubber additives in the Chinese market. We anticipate ongoing strong demand for the products of our Liquid Purification Technologies business unit. Combined Management Report 115 Report on risks, opportunities and future perspectives Expected financial position of the LANXESS Group Dividend policy LANXESS follows a consistent dividend policy. As in the past, our future dividend proposals will take into account the Liquidity situation LANXESS will continue to pursue a forward-looking business performance of the relevant fiscal year, the Group’s financing and conservative financial policy in the current year. With more than goals and development trends in the new fiscal year. €2.0 billion in cash and undrawn credit lines, unchanged at year end 2014 compared with 2013 and as described under “Financial Summary of the Group’s projected performance LANXESS remains condition,” we have a very good liquidity and financing position which well positioned with its product portfolio in the relevant customer inwill enable us, for example, to safeguard our entrepreneurial flexibility dustries and key global markets and with its strategic alignment with and implement our ongoing realignment program. the world’s most important trends. Capital expenditures In the future, our capital expenditures will be inIn 2014, in light of the structural challenges on the supply side, creasingly focused on the maintenance of existing production facilities which are impacting our synthetic rubber businesses in particular, we as well as efficiency improvements and the expansion of existing plants. launched a comprehensive three-phase global realignment program, Following the start-up of our two large Nd-PBR and EPDM rubber which we will continue to systematically implement in the current year. plants in Asia in 2015, we have no further plans for major investments This program is aimed at sustainably increasing the competitiveness in the construction of new production facilities in the coming years. of the business and administrative structure, operational competitiveWe will successively reduce our capital expenditures in the coming ness and the competitiveness of the business portfolio. We view our years and expect cash outflows for capital expenditures of around realignment as a key element of our activities in the current fiscal €450 million in 2015. A further reduction to between €400 million year. Although our measures have already yielded cost savings in and €450 million may possibly be envisaged for 2016. In this way, support of our business, our development in 2015 will continue to we are seeking to achieve a balanced investment cycle to ensure our be primarily shaped by the challenging environment for our synthetic financial headroom. rubber businesses. Financing measures LANXESS is in a good position due to the longWe do not expect any significant momentum for our business developterm nature of its financing since it ensures the financing for planned ment from the slight forecast growth in the global economy. capital expenditures and the realignment program it has initiated by future cash flows, available liquidity and existing lines of credit. The Following on from the comparatively low cost levels at year end 2014, same also applies to the expected dividend payment. Other than for the we believe that the costs of petrochemical raw materials, which are redemption of a CNH 500 million bond in February 2015, there will be crucial to our rubber businesses, will increase compared to the second no further significant need for refinancing in fiscal 2015. In addition, half of 2014. LANXESS will continue its efforts to secure long-term funding as part of a conservative financing policy by further diversifying its financing We predict EBITDA pre exceptionals for the full year 2015 to be just sources and implementing forward-looking financing measures. about on a comparable level to 2014. Expected earnings position of LANXESS AG In the current fiscal year, we expect the earnings position of LANXESS AG to be substantially Opportunity and risk report better than in 2014. It is influenced by the administration expenses the company incurs in performing its tasks as a management holding Opportunity and risk management system Our success is significantly company and by the financial result, especially the net interest position dependent on identifying opportunities and risks in our business activiand the balance of income and losses from investments in affiliated ties and actively managing them. The goal of the opportunity and risk companies. We expect the net interest position to be negative on management system is to safeguard the company’s existence for the ­account of the financing structure. The balance of income and losses long term and ensure its successful future development by identifying from investments in affiliated companies and the corresponding ability opportunities and risks and, depending on their nature, appropriately of LANXESS AG to pay a dividend will depend in large measure on considering these in strategic and operational decisions. Opportunities the profit transfers and dividends paid by the other companies of the and risks are understood as potential future trends or events that might LANXESS Group. We will maintain our consistent dividend policy and result in either positive or negative departures from forecasts or goals. expect LANXESS AG to report a distributable profit that will enable our stockholders to adequately participate in the LANXESS Group’s Our management system is based both on internal organizational workearnings in the coming year. flows that are managed by way of control and monitoring mechanisms and on early warning systems that are used to closely observe changes in external conditions and systematically implement the appropriate measures. This approach applies equally to opportunities and risks. 116 LANXESS Annual Report 2014 Like all methods intended for dealing with business risk, this system The Corporate Controlling Group Function is responsible for collecting does not offer absolute protection. However, it does serve to prevent and aggregating key information across the Group at the following business risks from having a material impact on the company with a intervals: sufficient degree of certainty. • twice per year during the intrayear forecasting process; Structural basis The principles of our opportunity and risk management •o  nce per year as part of the budget and planning process for system are set forth in a Group directive. The management system, the subsequent year and the medium-term forecast horizon. which uses the COSO model as the enterprise risk management framework, comprises many different elements that are incorporated into The Corporate Development Group Function systematically analyzes business processes through the company’s organizational structure, and measures significant and strategic opportunities and risks with its workflows, its planning, reporting and communication systems, the goal of ensuring that the Group is pursuing the correct long-term and a set of detailed management policies and technical standards. strategy. The system is based on an integration concept. In other words, the Transactions particularly for the transfer of financial but also operatearly identification of opportunities and risks is an integral part of the ing risk (hedging transactions or insurance) are managed centrally management system and not the object of a separate organizational by the Treasury Group Function. This is explained in more detail in structure. The management of opportunities and risks is therefore a pri­“Opportunities and risks of future development.” mary duty of the heads of all business units, as well as of those people in Group companies who hold process and project responsibility.­ Due to the highly integrated nature of our general business processes, This is why our opportunity and risk management is based on clearly we have specialized committees composed of representatives of the defined business processes, the precise assignment of responsibilities business units and group functions who deal with issues concerning throughout the Group, and reporting systems that ensure the timely the Group’s opportunities and risks. This enables us to react quickly provision of the information required for decision-making to the Board and flexibly to changing situations and their influence on the company. of Management or other management levels. In addition, a Risk Committee chaired by the Chief Financial Officer Roles of key organizational units At LANXESS, the business units analyzes the material risks and their development for their potential each conduct their own operations, for which they have global profit impact on the company as a whole. The Risk Committee brings toresponsibility. Group functions and service companies support the busigether representatives from selected group functions to analyze existing ness units by providing financial, legal, technical and other centralized measures to counter risks, initiate additional measures, define Groupservices. Complementing this global alignment of the business units wide risk management standards and guidelines and, if necessary, and group functions, the country organizations ensure the required initiate further analyses of individual opportunities and risks that have proximity to markets and the necessary organizational infrastructure. been identified. In line with this division of duties, we have assigned responsibility to The duty to report opportunities and risks to the Corporate Controlrisk owners for the following: ling Group Function is based on the anticipated impact on Group net income or EBITDA pre exceptionals. All opportunities and risks • identification and assessment of opportunities and risks; must be reported if their anticipated impact is more than €1 million • implementation of control measures (measures taken to exploit following the implementation of countermeasures. In addition, those or enhance opportunities and to avoid or minimize risks); risks must be reported which have an anticipated impact that was • monitoring the development of opportunities and risks (e.g. on reduced by more than €10 million through the implementation of the basis of performance indicators and, perhaps also, early countermeasures. These thresholds guarantee that the information ­warning indicators); gathered about opportunities and risks is comprehensive and that the • risk mitigation (measures to minimize damage upon occurrence collection of information is not just limited to material risks or risks that of a risk event); could jeopardize the future of the company as a going concern. The • communication of the key opportunities and risks to the manageCorporate Controlling Group Function centrally determines the top ment committees of the business units and group functions. opportunities and risks only after the information has been gathered. Combined Management Report 117 Report on risks, opportunities and future perspectives There is also provision for immediate internal reporting on specific compliance management system that has been structured in accorrisk issues such as unexpected operational events with an impact of dance with the principles of an internationally recognized framework more than €10 million after the implementation of countermeasures. for enterprise risk management (COSO). A Compliance Committee In 2014, there was no cause for immediate reporting of this kind. promotes and monitors adherence to our compliance guidelines. Its work is supported by compliance officers who have been appointed The reported opportunities and risks are collected in a central database for each country in which we have a subsidiary. The Compliance Comand regularly analyzed for the Board of Management and Supervisory mittee is chaired by a Group Compliance Officer, who reports directly Board. This ensures that when new opportunities and risks arise or and regularly to the Board of Management. when existing ones change substantially, the necessary information can be communicated in a timely manner all the way to the Board of (Group) accounting aspects of the internal control and risk manageManagement and therefore also be specifically integrated into the ment system The aspects of the internal control and risk management general management of the company. system relating to the (Group) accounting process include the principles, procedures and measures required to ensure the effectiveness, Opportunity and risk assessment Opportunity and risk management efficiency and propriety of the company’s accounting, and compliance is integrated into the planning and forecasting process and identifies with applicable legal regulations. To this end, clear organizational, conopportunities and risks as potential deviations from planned or forecast trol and monitoring structures have been established. The distinctive EBITDA pre exceptionals or Group net income. features of the chemical industry and the risk management tools used regularly by LANXESS in this regard are taken into account. In addition Depending on the type of opportunity or risk, different calculation to the (Group) accounting process in its narrower sense, this also inmethods are applied in their assessment. Distribution-based opporcludes the aforementioned structured budget and forecasting process, tunities and risks are described by scenario-based fluctuations in and extensive contract management. However, the effectiveness and planning parameters such as exchange rates, raw material prices, reliability of the internal control and risk management system can be energy prices and economic development assumptions. Changes restricted by discretionary decisions, criminal acts, faulty controls or in these variables may result in either positive or negative deviations other circumstances. Thus, even if the system components used are from planned or forecast figures. applied Group-wide, the correct and timely recording of (Group) accounting issues cannot be guaranteed with full assurance. Event-based opportunities and risks (such as the failure of a supplier or the occurrence of an insured event) that would only impact earnThe Accounting Group Function, which reports to the Chief Financial ings if they actually occur are evaluated on the basis of the expected Officer, is responsible for the (Group) accounting process and therefore probability of their occurrence and the predicted effect on EBITDA for preparing the annual financial statements of LANXESS AG and pre exceptionals or Group net income. the consolidated financial statements of the LANXESS Group. It is also responsible for ensuring the uniform preparation of the singleSignificance of the Group-wide planning process Corporate planning entity financial statements of the subsidiaries that are included in is a core element of our opportunity and risk management. Events with the consolidated financial statements. The Board of Management a high probability of occurrence flow directly into the planning process. prepares the annual financial statements and the consolidated finanThe processes for corporate planning and intrayear forecasting as well cial statements, which are then forwarded to the Supervisory Board’s as the corresponding analyses and suggestions for action are steered Audit Committee without delay. Upon recommendation by the Audit by the Corporate Controlling Group Function, which works closely in Committee, the annual financial statements and the consolidated this regard with the business units. Certain Board of Management financial statements are adopted and approved by the Supervisory meetings are dedicated to discussing and adopting corporate planBoard at its financial statements meeting. The Supervisory Board, and ning outcomes, including the associated opportunities and risks. We especially its Audit Committee, deal with major questions relating to monitor, and if necessary adjust, the annual budget in any given fiscal LANXESS’s accounting, opportunity and risk management, the audit year by regularly updating our expectations for business development. mandate and the areas of focus for the auditor’s audit of the annual financial statements. Compliance as an integral component Risk management also includes preventing illegal conduct by our employees. To this end, we obtain extensive legal advice concerning business transactions and obligate employees by means of our compliance code to observe the law and to act responsibly. The compliance code is part of a comprehensive 118 LANXESS Annual Report 2014 Consolidated interim financial statements are prepared each quarFor the consolidated financial statements, all subsidiaries subject to ter. The condensed consolidated half-year financial statements are reporting requirements transmit their Group reporting data using the reviewed, while the annual financial statements and the consolidated above-mentioned consolidation system. Validation rules integrated financial statements are subjected to a full audit by the auditor of the into the system ensure that the data reported by the subsidiaries are company’s annual financial statements and consolidated financial consistent at the time of delivery. The ultimate responsibility for ensuring statements. the correctness of the reported data content lies with the accounting departments of the subsidiaries. The Corporate Accounting DepartLANXESS AG’s accounting in compliance with the German Comment within the Accounting Group Function conducts more detailed mercial Code is based on a structured process with appropriate ortesting of the correctness of the data content. To this end, the departganizational structures and workflows, including the related working ment evaluates standardized reports in which the companies explain instructions. In addition to the segregation of duties, the dual-control material facts relevant to financial reporting. After the process-based principle and continual plausibility testing serve as fundamental monicontrols have been applied, consolidation including currency translatoring tools during the financial statement preparation process. On the tion is carried out in the same system, without additional interfaces, IT side, the accounting process is supplemented by an integrated IT utilizing both automated and manual procedures. The correctness of system that is based largely on off-the-shelf software and is protected the automated consolidation steps and of the master data necessary by security measures against unauthorized access. The correctness for this purpose is reviewed regularly. Consolidation information that of the automatically generated postings and the master data required must be entered manually is posted separately, documented to the for them is regularly reviewed. Manual postings are based on a sysextent required and verified downstream. This is supplemented by tematic voucher system, documented to the necessary extent and validation rules that are integrated into the system. verified downstream. Regular coordination with other financial group functions, particuThe foundation for uniform and IFRS-compliant consolidated financial larly the Treasury, Tax & Trade Compliance and Corporate Controlling reporting at LANXESS is the Group Financial Statements Guideline. group functions, assists the financial reporting process. A continual This governs the way the provisions of the International Financial Reexchange of information with the operating business units and other porting Standards (IFRS) applicable to the Group are applied by the group functions makes it possible for the Accounting Group Funcsubsidiaries as reporting entities. Moreover, the guideline also defines tion to identify and deal with issues arising outside of accounting the chart of accounts that is binding throughout the Group. On the IT processes. These include litigation risks, projections for impairment side, the guideline is supplemented by a uniform, Group-wide delivery testing and special contractual agreements with suppliers or customand consolidation system that is based largely on off-the-shelf software ers. In addition, third-party service providers are consulted on special and is protected by security measures against unauthorized access. issues, particularly ­relating to the valuation of pensions and other post-employment benefits. By controlling and monitoring LANXESS’s (Group) accounting process, we ensure that generally accepted accounting practices in line Monitoring of risk management system and internal control system with the applicable laws and standards are applied and guarantee the (ICS) LANXESS’s Internal Auditing Department within the ­Legal & Comreliability of our financial reporting. The (Group) accounting-related pliance Group Function is tasked with overseeing whether the internal internal control system we use is based on generally accepted stancontrol and monitoring system is functioning properly and whether dards (COSO model). There were no material changes to this system organizational safeguards are being observed. The planning of audits during the period under review. Corresponding standards also apply (selection of audit subjects) and the audit methods applied are correto the single-entity financial statements of the subsidiaries. spondingly aligned with risks. To assess the effectiveness of the ICS, an annual self-assessment is also carried out in major Group companies, Preparation of the consolidated financial statements is based on a operating units and group functions. In addition, the early warning system detailed process that includes specifying a financial statement calis evaluated by the external auditor as part of the audit of the consolidated endar containing deadlines for the delivery of certain data. A further and annual financial statements. The Supervisory Board also exercises component is regular reviews of the correctness and completeness control functions, including regular monitoring of the efficiency of the of the scope of consolidation. The principle of the segregation of management systems described above by the full Supervisory Board duties as expressed in structured authorization and approval proceand by its Audit Committee. The Audit Committee reviews reports about dures and the dual-control principle as well as continual plausibility the Compliance Committee’s activities and findings, the work of the testing on data is applied end-to-end throughout the preparation and Internal Auditing Department, and the status of the risk management consolidation process. and internal control system. Combined Management Report 119 Report on risks, opportunities and future perspectives Opportunities and risks of future development Full identification of the Human resources The risk of industrial actions resulting from disputes LANXESS Group’s opportunities and risks is performed on the basis in connection with negotiations concerning future collective pay agreeof a catalog of categories, which are summarized in the table below: ments or associated with restructuring measures cannot be ruled out. We also face increases in our personnel expenses because of future Categories wage increases. Such an increase in the cost of human resources can Procurement markets be just as detrimental to earnings as increases in raw material prices, Human resources as described above, but in the case of human resources we cannot Plant operations and hazards hedge the risk in futures markets or pass it on to our customers. We Corporate strategy counter this risk by fostering open communication with our employees Sales markets and their representatives in a culture of active labor relations. The Finance employee representatives in various countries have been consulted Legal, regulatory and political environment especially with regard to our “Let’s LANXESS again” program. Continuous use is made of existing dialogue platforms such as the European Subsequent reporting is based on a planning horizon of one year. Forum, which brings together the works councils in Europe. We also actively seek dialogue with the representatives of our employees, the Procurement markets On the procurement side, the principal opportrade unions and other interest groups in the other regions in which tunities and risks lie in the high volatility of raw material and energy we operate. prices. An increase or decrease in the price of the materials we use directly results in higher or lower production costs. If prices decrease, Our employees’ expert knowledge of internal processes and issues write-downs may have to be recognized on inventories. In addition, relating to their areas of specialization is a critical factor in the ­efficiency changes in raw material prices result in higher or lower selling prices of our business operations. We take various approaches to mitigate – either immediately or after a delay. We mitigate situations like this the risk of losing this expertise and to increase our employees’ loyalty by following a sensible inventory and procurement policy. Most of the to the company, including attractive compensation models, challengcompany’s raw material and energy needs are met by long-term suping jobs and international career options. We continue to invest in the ply contracts and contracts containing price escalation clauses. Many next generation of employees by increasing the number of training agreements with customers also contain price escalation clauses. We opportunities in Germany. We have also launched and expanded realso have the option of hedging this risk via derivatives transactions gional internship, trainee and loyalty programs in, for example, North if liquid futures markets are available for hedging raw material and America, Brazil, India and China as well as Germany. In some regions energy price risks (see also “Financial markets”). Additionally, we are and countries, including China, we continue to go into schools in constantly looking for ways to use our resources more efficiently so search of interesting talents we can develop. In Germany, our prethat we can offset higher costs by raising productivity. The volatility school education program aims to arouse the interest of the youngest of raw material prices, especially for our key raw material butadiene, children in scientific phenomena. impacts our Performance Polymers segment in particular. The growing lack particularly of skilled employees in our global markets To guard against possible supply bottlenecks due to factors such as is becoming tangible in individual cases. However, this effect has been the failure of a supplier or of an upstream operation at a networked mitigated by the “Let’s LANXESS again” program launched in the third site, we pursue an appropriate inventory strategy and line up alternaquarter of 2014, which in the first instance substantially reduced our tive sources of supply. specific need for skilled employees in the reporting period. However, a forward-looking and sustainable HR policy will remain important, which is evidenced by our regular HR development conferences. In line with our needs, we are expanding our cooperations with research institutes, universities, colleges and high schools in Germany, as well as with public-sector entities both in Germany and other key target markets. At many events and conferences around the world, we have positioned our company as an attractive employer and continue to seek 120 LANXESS Annual Report 2014 early contact with highly talented young people. In Germany, where we LANXESS’s product portfolio includes substances that are classified have the largest headcount, we have established a LANXESS program as hazardous to health. In order to prevent possible harm to health, to provide both financial and expert support for undergraduate and we systematically test the properties of our products and draw our postgraduate students. We also have a loyalty program for particularly customers’ attention to the risks associated with their use. We also outstanding interns. Both these programs focus on the natural and carry product liability insurance that is customary in our industry. engineering sciences. Similar programs for young talents are being established in other major regions, where they always take account In line with LANXESS’s forward-looking approach, product monitorof local requirements. All these measures are an expression of our difing enables us to identify and evaluate potential hazards associated ferentiated employer branding approach, which we will use to sustain with our product portfolio and initiate suitable measures if relevance our positive employer image and expand this as required even during is established. our company’s realignment phase. Our information technology (IT) supports LANXESS’s business In preparing the “Let’s LANXESS again” program, we identified mis­activities worldwide, including the processes from receiving an order sion-critical activities with a view to offering the relevant knowledge to receiving payment and from placing an order to paying a vendor. holders a perspective within the LANXESS Group or to retaining their It is important that the people who use the systems receive correct knowledge for the company by means of succession planning and and meaningful information when they need it. We support this by know-how transfer. developing a uniform, integrated system architecture and investing in the expansion of IT services worldwide. There are a number of other HR risks which, because of their longterm nature, will have virtually no impact on the planned EBITDA The operation and use of IT systems entails risks. For example, netpre exceptionals for fiscal 2015. These risks include in particular works or systems may fail, or data and information may be comprodemographic change, which we actively manage. In Germany, in mised or destroyed because of operator and programming errors or order to ensure continued access to a highly skilled workforce, we external factors. In particular, we are observing a growing number have been implementing a comprehensive package of measures of threats to our IT infrastructure resulting from outside attack. All of known as “XCare” since 2009. Interdisciplinary working groups are these can cause serious business interruptions. To mitigate such risks, collaborating closely with employee representatives at LANXESS to we invest in suitable data protection systems designed to prevent the develop innovative concepts to preempt and actively address shifts loss of data and information. Various security and monitoring tools resulting from demographic change. We have also initiated comparable and access restriction and authorization systems are used to ensure programs in other regions. the integrity, confidentiality and availability of data and information and the trouble-free operation of systems. With a view to improving Plant operations and hazards A lack of plant availability and disruptions the security of our IT infrastructure, we are evaluating existing security of plant and process safety can make it impossible for us to meet promeasures for their suitability in defending against current attack sceduction targets and adequately service existing demand, resulting in a narios. Where necessary, these measures will be upgraded. Additional loss of marginal income. We use a comprehensive range of measures security systems are being established worldwide as defense against to counter this scenario. These include proactive facility maintenance, new and specific threats. regular compliance checks, the preparation of risk assessments and systematic training of employees to improve standards and safety. We Corporate strategy We actively pursue the strategic optimization of also counter the risk of unplanned production stoppages by manufacthe enterprise. Our efforts include ongoing efficiency enhancement, turing certain products at various sites worldwide. strengthening of core businesses, active portfolio management and proactive participation in industry consolidation through partnerships, Although LANXESS applies high technical and safety standards to the divestments and acquisitions. Further information can be found in the construction, operation and maintenance of production facilities, inter“Strategy” section of this combined management report. ruptions in operations, including those due to external factors, such as natural disasters or terrorism, cannot be ruled out. These can lead to The success of the decisions associated with these efforts is naturally explosions, the release of materials hazardous to health, or accidents subject to forecasting risk in respect of predicting future (market) dein which people, property or the environment are harmed. In addition velopments and making assumptions about the feasibility of planned to systematically monitoring compliance with quality standards in order measures. For example, the entry into or exit from a business segment to avoid such stoppages and accidents, we are also insured against could be based on profitability or growth expectations that prove to the resulting damage to the extent usual in the industry. be unrealistic over time. We mitigate this risk by carefully and systematically analyzing the information that is relevant to decision-making. During this process, the business units affected and the Board of Management receive support from departments with the requisite expertise and, if necessary, from external consultants. Combined Management Report 121 Report on risks, opportunities and future perspectives The LANXESS product portfolio is systematically aligned with key The fundamental risk remains that difficulties may arise in connection global trends that promise continuous growth in the coming years. with the start-up of our new plants for Nd-PBR rubber in Singapore and With our products, we offer innovative solutions for these trends and for EPDM rubber in Changzhou, China, both of which are scheduled generate measurable added value for our customers. We are sucfor 2015. From the present viewpoint, however, we do not anticipate cessfully positioned in those markets in which our product portfolio any problems. will enable us to particularly benefit from these trends in the medium and long term. The BRICS countries – especially Brazil, China and Sales and earnings effects expected from our investments and acquisiIndia – will retain a central role in this regard. tions are already considered in our forecasts. These targeted investments may also generate further operational opportunities because When gathering information in the context of acquisitions, it is possible they enable us to unlock new potential and improve our positioning that certain facts required to assess an acquisition candidate’s future in key markets. performance or to determine the purchase price are not available or are not correctly interpreted. We address this risk by conducting wellSales markets LANXESS is inherently exposed to general economic structured due diligence analyses and, where possible, by concluding developments and political change in the countries and regions in appropriate agreements with the sellers. Insufficient integration of which the LANXESS Group operates. Regional differences in economic acquired companies or businesses can result in expected developperformance and the associated demand trends can affect the Group’s ments not materializing. For this reason, we have processes in place pricing and sales potential in its various geographical markets, with with which full integration of acquired businesses is assured. If ascorresponding positive or negative effects on its earnings. Our global sumptions concerning future developments – such as the realization presence, which we are continuing to expand in growth markets, of synergies – do not materialize, this might result in a write-down enables us to participate in favorable regional developments and, on assets. We monitor this risk by carrying out impairment testing at at the same time, reduce our dependence on certain regions. This least once a year. ­approach is discussed in further detail in the “Strategy” section of this combined management report. Unlocking and exploiting operational opportunities is an important aspect of LANXESS’s entrepreneurial activities. We are committed The volatility and cyclicality that are typical of the global chemical and to using existing products and new solutions to advance our growth polymer markets and their dependence on developments in customer and sustainably strengthen our position in global markets. Investing industries harbor uncertainties for LANXESS’s business. As well as in new plants as well as expanding the capacities and increasing the influence of general economic development, the particular depenthe productivity of existing ones are key elements in these efforts. dence of the rubber business on customers in the tire and automoThe anticipated effects are taken into account in our planning or are tive industries can result in sales volatility. Additional and unplanned reported as opportunities. In principle, we expect investments to yield sales opportunities may arise through access to new markets or the benefits but they are also coupled with risks. Thus, for example, the acquisition of new customers. In addition to being subject to these success of our investments in Asia has been substantially impacted demand-side market influences, our earning power can be impacted by the challenging competitive situation in the synthetic rubber busiby structural changes in markets, such as the disappearance of existing nesses. The preparatory work for investments that exceed a specified competitors or the entry of new ones and the availability of additional significance threshold is the responsibility of the relevant business capacities, regional shifts, the migration of customers to countries with units. After review by an Investment Committee set up for this purlower costs, and product substitution or market consolidation trends pose, the information is presented to the Board of Management for in some sectors. We counter such trends by systematically managing a decision. By following this procedure, we ensure that investments costs and continuously adjusting our product portfolio, sharpening its are in line with our corporate strategy and satisfy our profitability and focus and aligning our offering with innovative customer segments security requirements. which will enable us to operate successfully in the long term. 122 LANXESS Annual Report 2014 In our Performance Polymers segment, the synthetic rubber business The opportunities and risks relating to operating activities are systemcontinues to face increasing competition, partly from new manufacatically monitored and analyzed. To this end, both sales and costs are turers entering the market. In some business units, this may result in planned in foreign currencies. In the long term, exchange rate fluctuafurther overcapacities and stronger competition on prices. LANXESS tions could adversely affect future cash flows should the LANXESS is pursuing a product-specific strategy in these areas based on factors Group not be able to counter them, for example, by pricing its products such as product and process differentiation and global positioning. in the respective local currencies. This risk is minimized by partial In 2014, the company additionally initiated the three-phase “Let’s hedging with derivative financial instruments. Hedging is performed LANXESS again” program for the global realignment of the LANXESS in line with principles determined by the Board of Management and Group. Further information about this program can be found in the is subject to continuous monitoring. “Strategy” section. Interest rates Market interest rate movements can cause fluctuations Finance The Treasury Group Function has the task of centrally recordin the fair value of a financial instrument. They affect both financial ing and managing financial opportunities and risks. Chief among assets and financial liabilities. these are: Since the majority of financial liabilities were entered into at fixed Financial Opportunities and Risks interest rates, changes in interest rates in the coming years will have Price Liquidity and Counterparty Capital Insurance only a limited impact on the LANXESS Group. changes refinancing risks investments Currencies Availability Customers Investments Shortfall Raw materials/energies Where certain market-price risks for energies of cash in pension in cover and raw materials cannot be passed on to customers in their entirety, Interest Access to Banks assets rates multiand they may be hedged on a case-by-case basis by forward commodity­ Raw bilateral capital contracts in order to reduce the volatility of cash flows. As in the previmaterials markets ous year, LANXESS had no forward commodity contracts as at the Energies reporting date. • Price changes • Liquidity and refinancing Currencies Since the LANXESS Group undertakes transactions in We ensure our access to the capital markets and our solvency through various currencies, it is exposed to fluctuations in the relative value a conservative financing policy and a target capital structure that is of these currencies. Fixed exchange rates were used in our planning largely based on the ratio systems used by leading rating agencies. Our for fiscal 2015. The development of the U.S. dollar against the euro conservative financing policy takes into account the risk of a change is of particular relevance. An appreciation of the U.S. dollar compared to our rating and the associated effects on financial risk management, with the exchange rate used in planning would have a positive effect even though LANXESS has no direct influence on the assessments on our planned EBITDA pre exceptionals. We have already entered by independent rating agencies. into hedging transactions for 2015 and 2016 to mitigate the effects of currency fluctuations. Our main liquidity reserve is a €1.25 billion syndicated credit facility, which remained largely undrawn on the reporting date. In February Currency risks from potential declines in the value of financial instru2015, its original term was extended by one year to February 2020. ments due to exchange rate fluctuations (transaction risks) arise mainly We have a further material credit line of €150 million with the Eurowhen receivables and payables are denominated in a currency other pean Investment Bank. In addition to credit facilities, the Group has than the company’s local currency. These risks and the currency risks short-term liquidity reserves of €518 million in the form of cash and arising on financial transactions, including the interest component, cash equivalents and highly liquid investments in AAA-rated money are generally fully hedged through forward exchange contracts. In market funds. Accordingly, the LANXESS Group has a liquidity position the short term, therefore, the appreciation or depreciation of the euro based on a broad range of financing instruments. against other major currencies can have no material impact on future cash flows. Combined Management Report 123 Report on risks, opportunities and future perspectives • Counterparty risks • Capital investments Counterparty risks (credit risks) arise from trade relationships with Opportunities and risks associated with the investment of pension customers and dealings with banks and other financial partners, espeassets are monitored by the Pension Committee, which is made up cially with regard to the investment business and financial instrument of the Chief Financial Officer and representatives from the Treasury, transactions. Accounting and Human Resources group functions. Customer risks are systematically identified, analyzed and managed Additional information on our financial risks can be found in Note [35], using both internal and external information sources. Customer port“Financial instruments,” to the consolidated financial statements. folios may be insured against credit risks, especially where the risk profile is elevated. • Insurance The LANXESS Group carries insurance cover against material risks The objective of receivables management at LANXESS is to collect such as those arising from property damage, business interruption and all outstanding payments punctually and in full, and thus to minimize product liability. If a loss event occurs, LANXESS must therefore pay the risk of default. Continuous monitoring is computer-assisted based only those damages in excess of the deductible. However, there is a on the payment terms agreed with the customers. These are generally residual risk of events that are not covered by the insurance or which based on the customary payment terms for the business or country. result in damages in excess of the cover guaranteed by the insurer. Reminders are sent out at regular intervals if payments are overdue. Legal, regulatory and political environment Companies in the Credit insurance has been concluded with a well-known European LANXESS Group are subject to legal risks and are parties to various credit insurer to cover material credit risks relating to receivables from litigations. The outcome of individual proceedings cannot be predicted customers. After a deductible, these cover default risks, especially in with assurance due to the uncertainties always associated with legal Europe, that could arise up to the end of the respective fiscal year disputes. To the extent necessary in light of the known circumstances in the mid-double-digit millions of euros. The maximum credit risk in each case, we have set up risk provisions for the event that the is further reduced by letters of credit in favor of LANXESS. In certain outcome of such proceedings is unfavorable to LANXESS. Taking cases, prepayment is agreed with the contracting partner. into account existing provisions and insurance, as well as agreements reached with third parties in respect of liability risks arising from legal In addition, LANXESS has a contractually agreed title to goods until the disputes, it is currently estimated that none of these proceedings will contractual partner has paid the full purchase price. The vast m ­ ajority materially affect our planned EBITDA pre exceptionals. of receivables relate to customers with very high credit standing. As a preventive approach to avoiding legal risks, LANXESS has estabThe creditworthiness of the counterparty is a key criterion in the lished an extensive compliance management system incorporating a ­financial policy and credit risk management of the LANXESS Group, range of organizational measures. Among the main risks LANXESS especially in the selection of banks and financial partners for capital has identified are those relating to antitrust legislation, plant safety investments and transactions involving financial instruments. LANXESS and environmental protection, foreign trade legislation and corruption. therefore endeavors to undertake transactions with banks and other In connection with risks relating to antitrust legislation, for example, financial counterparties that have at least an investment-grade rating. LANXESS has developed a program that combines classroom trainThe derivatives and financial assets outstanding as of the closing date ing and e-learning to ensure compliance with competition law. In this were almost all concluded with banks with an investment-grade rating. way, our employees and managers are schooled in the particular risks pertaining to their areas of business and made aware of their Credit risk management also includes global management of the significance. This training is performed and documented at regular counterparty risk relating to all existing relationships with banks and intervals. Our employees can also contact designated experts in the financial partners. The LANXESS Group pays particular attention to Legal & Compliance Group Function if they have any specific questions. risk diversification to prevent any cluster risks that could jeopardize Further information about compliance can be found in the Corporate its existence. Through master agreements, the market values of open Governance Report and in the “Compliance as an integral component” trading positions can be netted if a partner becomes insolvent, thereby section of this opportunity and risk report. further reducing risks. 124 LANXESS Annual Report 2014 Regulatory measures may lead to the tightening of safety, quality and Any violations of foreign trade regulations may result in prohibitions and environmental regulations and standards. These may result in additional restrictions on LANXESS’s export activities and the loss of its privileges costs and liability risks. Particularly noteworthy in this regard is the in respect of export procedures. In individual cases, this may also result implementation of the E.U. Regulation concerning the Registration, in fines, trade sanctions and loss of reputation. The LANXESS Group Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction of Chemicals (REACH). As ensures compliance in foreign trade and export control through the well as direct costs that could arise due to additional measures necesglobal implementation and optimization of appropriate and stable sary to comply with these standards, market structures could change control instruments and automated screening processes. By proactively to our disadvantage as a result of a shift by suppliers and custommonitoring trade policy developments, timely information is provided ers to regions outside Europe. Additional requirements imposed by to both the operating units and the management organs concerning energy and environmental policy, such as the new emission trading changes to foreign trade and the associated opportunities and risks, regulations, new environmental taxes and the redistribution of costs and appropriate recommendations for action are made. associated with the German Renewable Energy Act, could result in higher costs and in part substantial disadvantages in international Tax matters are subject to a degree of uncertainty in terms of their ascompetition. With a view to mitigating this risk, we are discussing sessment by the tax authorities in Germany and other countries. Even the economic consequences of increasing energy prices with the if we believe that all circumstances have been reported correctly and authorities and government – either directly or in cooperation with in compliance with the law, the possibility cannot be ruled out that the other energy-intensive companies via industry organizations. tax authorities may come to a different conclusion in individual cases. LANXESS was and is responsible for numerous sites at which chemiSignificance of opportunities and risks and result of opportunity and cals have been produced for periods that in some cases exceed 140 risk assessment The opportunities and risks of future development years. This responsibility also extends to waste disposal facilities. The that we identify are categorized and grouped. Their significance lies in possibility cannot be ruled out that pollution occurred during this time their potential impact on planned EBITDA pre exceptionals. Individual that has not been discovered to date. We are committed to the Responcategories or groups in which the opportunity or risk may produce sible Care® initiative and pursue active environmental management a deviation of more than 5% from our projected EBITDA pre excepand proactive environmental protection management. This includes tionals in the planning year are considered to be of medium to high constant monitoring and testing of the soil, groundwater and air and significance. of various emissions. We have set up sufficient provisions for necessary containment or remediation measures in areas with identified Within the context of opportunity and risk management for the planning contamination. Additional information on our environmental provisions year, the economic development, raw material prices and energy prices can be found in Note [14], “Other non-current and current provisions,” categories as well as the legal, regulatory and political environment and to the consolidated financial statements. finance groups are considered to be of medium to high significance. Based on the scenarios applied or the assumed probability of occurTire-labeling initiatives can lead to stronger than anticipated demand rence, these categories and groups could produce a positive deviation for higher-quality tires and thus for synthetic high-performance rubbers. of up to 13% or a negative deviation of up to 16% from our projected This would particularly benefit our Performance Polymers segment EBITDA pre exceptionals, which is our key controlling parameter. The with its global production network and customer relationships spanaforementioned groups were influenced in particular by opportunining many years. ties and risks in the environmental policy, currencies and insurance categories. Opportunities and risks in other categories – such as risks from litigations – are of very little significance. Combined Management Report 125 Report on risks, opportunities and future perspectives Opportunitiy and Risk Profile 1) Despite mixed economic developments across regions and sectors, % our risk exposure during the reporting year was not fundamentally or materially different from our risk exposure during the previous year due Economic development to our broadly diversified product and customer portfolios. Nonetheless, we would like to point to the increasing competitive pressure facing Raw material prices our synthetic rubber businesses. All planning is subject to a certain degree of forecasting risk, which could necessitate flexible adjustments Energy prices to rapidly changing business conditions over the course of the year. This is particularly true in view of the fact that planning and forecasts Legal, regulatory and political environment in general have become somewhat less reliable due to the changes observed recently in our procurement and customer markets. Finance In light of our present financing structures, our sound liquidity position, and our demonstrated ability to adapt our businesses, even on (20)% (10)% Forecast EBITDA +10% +20% pre exceptionals short notice, to significant changes in the business environment, we Risks Opportunities are confident that we will be able to successfully master any risks that materialize in the future. 1) Eventand distribution-based opportunities and risks in line with assumed scenarios; addition of the opportunities and risks shown is not permissible. Based on an overall evaluation of risk management information, the Board of Management at the present time cannot identify any sufIn light of its extensive global activities and its dependence on raw ficiently likely risks or risk combinations that would jeopardize the materials characterized by volatile price trends, our Performance existence of LANXESS. Polymers segment especially may be vulnerable to these risks, which we seek to mitigate by means of suitable countermeasures. Summary of overall opportunities and risks In recent years, LANXESS has consistently aligned its product portfolio to the key growth trends and is successfully positioned in major growth markets. Through targeted investments, we are continuing to strengthen our segments worldwide and are pursuing our research and development activities to deliver process and product innovations in all segments that will continue to set us apart from our competitors. We are responding to increasing competition, especially in our synthetic rubber businesses, with our “Let’s LANXESS again” program for the global realignment of our company. Our global position and our flexible corporate structures enable us to rapidly respond to the challenges we face and successfully utilize the strategic and operational opportunities that arise in the future. 127 Consolidated Financial Statements Consolidated Financial Statements 168 Notes to the Income Statement 128 Statement of Financial Position 168 (20) Sales 129 Income Statement 168 (21) Cost of sales 130 Statement of Comprehensive Income 168 (22) Selling expenses 131 Statement of Changes in Equity 168 (23) Research and development expenses 132 Statement of Cash Flows 168 (24) General administration expenses 168 (25) Other operating income 133 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 168 (26) Other operating expenses 133 General information 169 (27) Financial result 133 Structure and components of the 169 (28) Income taxes consolidated financial statements 170 (29) Earnings and dividend per share 133 Financial reporting standards and interpretations applied 171 (30) Personnel expenses 134 Financial reporting standards and interpretations issued but not yet mandatory 171 Other Information 135 Consolidation 171 (31) Employees 136 Currency translation 171 (32) Contingent liabilities and other financial commitments 137 Accounting policies and valuation principles 172 (33) Related parties 143 Estimation uncertainties and the exercise of discretion 173 (34) Compensation of the Board of Management 146 Companies consolidated and the Supervisory Board 174 (35) Financial instruments 149 Notes to the Statement of Financial Position 182 (36) Notes to the Statement of Cash Flows 149 (1) Intangible assets 183 (37) Segment reporting 150 (2) Property, plant and equipment 185 (38) Audit fees 151 (3) Investments accounted for using the equity method 185 (39) Declaration of Compliance pursuant to 151 (4) Investments in other affiliated companies Section 161 of the Stock Corporation Act 152 (5) Derivative financial instruments 185 (40) Utilization of disclosure exemptions 152 (6) Other non-current and current financial assets 153 (7) Other non-current assets 186 Responsibility ­Statement 153 (8) Inventories 187 Auditor’s Report 153 (9) Trade receivables 153 (10) Near-cash assets 154 (11) Other current assets 154 (12) Equity 156 (13) Provisions for pensions and other post-employment benefits 162 (14) Other non-current and current provisions 166 (15) Other non-current and current financial liabilities 167 (16) Non-current and current income tax liabilities 167 (17) Other non-current and current liabilities 167 (18) Trade payables 167 (19) Further information on liabilities 128 LANXESS Annual Report 2014 Statement of Financial Position ­LANXESS Group € million Note Dec. 31, 2013 Dec. 31, 2014 Assets Intangible assets (1) 323 320 Property, plant and equipment (2) 2,903 3,333 Investments accounted for using the equity method (3) 12 0 Investments in other affiliated companies (4) 13 13 Non-current derivative assets (5) 20 5 Other non-current financial assets (6) 11 11 Non-current income tax receivables 1 6 Deferred taxes (28) 254 380 Other non-current assets (7) 55 33 Non-current assets 3,592 4,101 Inventories (8) 1,299 1,384 Trade receivables (9) 1,070 1,015 Cash and cash equivalents 427 418 Near-cash assets (10) 106 100 Current derivative assets (5) 58 14 Other current financial assets (6) 6 5 Current income tax receivables 55 28 Other current assets (11) 198 185 Current assets 3,219 3,149 Total assets 6,811 7,250 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Capital stock and capital reserves 889 1,317 Other reserves 1,690 1,253 Net income (loss) (159) 47 Other equity components (525) (458) Equity attributable to non-controlling interests 5 2 Equity (12) 1,900 2,161 Provisions for pensions and other post-employment benefits (13) 943 1,290 Other non-current provisions (14) 258 275 Non-current derivative liabilities (5) 12 20 Other non-current financial liabilities (15) 1,649 1,698 Non-current income tax liabilities (16) 49 25 Other non-current liabilities (17) 89 118 Deferred taxes (28) 29 21 Non-current liabilities 3,029 3,447 Other current provisions (14) 355 350 Trade payables (18) 690 799 Current derivative liabilities (5) 22 101 Other current financial liabilities (15) 668 182 Current income tax liabilities (16) 21 44 Other current liabilities (17) 126 166 Current liabilities 1,882 1,642 Total equity and liabilities 6,811 7,250 Consolidated Financial Statements 129 Statement of Financial Position | Income Statement Income Statement ­­ ­LANXESS Group € million Note 2013 2014 Sales (20) 8,300 8,006 Cost of sales (21) (6,752) (6,418) Gross profit 1,548 1,588 Selling expenses (22) (755) (742) Research and development expenses (23) (186) (160) General administration expenses (24) (301) (278) Other operating income (25) 128 118 Other operating expenses (26) (527) (308) Operating result (EBIT) ( 93) 218 Income from investments accounted for using the equity method 0 2 Interest income 2 3 Interest expense ( 108) (72) Other financial income and expense ( 40) (71) Financial result (27) (146) (138) Income (loss) before income taxes ( 239) 80 Income taxes (28) 71 (36) Income (loss) after income taxes (168) 44 of which attributable to non-controlling interests (9) (3) of which attributable to ­LANXESS AG stockholders [net income (loss)] (159) 47 Earnings per share (undiluted/diluted) (€) (29) (1.91) 0.53 130 LANXESS Annual Report 2014 Statement of Comprehensive Income ­LANXESS Group € million 2013 2014 Income (loss) after income taxes (168) 44 Items that will not be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss Remeasurements of the net defined benefit liability for post-employment benefit plans (4) (308) Other comprehensive income (net of income tax) attributable to investments accounted for using the equity method 26 (19) Income taxes 5 95 27 (232) Items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss if specific conditions are met Exchange differences on translation of operations outside the eurozone (199) 122 Financial instruments (7) (75) Income taxes 3 20 (203) 67 Other comprehensive income, net of income tax (176) (165) Total comprehensive income (344) (121) of which attributable to non-controlling interests (8) (3) of which attributable to L ­ ANXESS AG stockholders (336) (118) Consolidated Financial Statements 131 Statement of Comprehensive Income | Statement of Changes in Equity Statement of Changes in Equity ­LANXESS Group € million Capital Capital Other Net Other equity components Equity Equity Equity stock ­reserves reserves income ­attributable attribut-able (loss) Currency Financial to to nontranslation instruments LANXESS AG controlling adjustment stockholders interests Dec. 31, 2012 83 806 1,238 508 (329) 8 2,314 16 2,330 Allocations to retained earnings 508 (508) 0 0 Dividend payments (83) (83) (83) Total comprehensive income 27 (159) (200) (4) (336) (8) (344) Income (loss) after income taxes (159) (159) (9) (168) Other comprehensive income, net of income tax 27 (200) (4) (177) 1 (176) Remeasurements of the net defined benefit liability for post-employment benefit plans (4) (4) (4) Exchange differences on translation of operations outside the eurozone (200) (200) 1 (199) Financial instruments (7) (7) (7) Other comprehensive income (net of income tax) attributable to investments a­ ccounted for using the equity method 26 26 26 Income taxes on other comprehensive income 5 3 8 8 Other changes 1) 0 (3) (3) Dec. 31, 2013 83 806 1,690 (159) (529) 4 1,895 5 1,900 Allocations to retained earnings (159) 159 0 0 Capital increase 8 420 428 428 Dividend payments (46) (46) (46) Total comprehensive income (232) 47 122 ( 55) (118) (3) (121) Income after income taxes 47 47 (3) 44 Other comprehensive income, net of income tax (232) 122 ( 55) (165) 0 (165) Remeasurements of the net defined benefit liability for post-employment benefit plans (308) ( 308) (308) Exchange differences on translation of operations outside the eurozone 122 122 0 122 Financial instruments (75) (75) (75) Other comprehensive income (net of income tax) attributable to investments a­ ccounted for using the equity method (19) (19) (19) Income taxes on other ­comprehensive ­income 95 20 115 115 Dec. 31, 2014 91 1,226 1,253 47 (407) (51) 2,159 2 2,161 1) Effects of the transition to full consolidation and the change to proportionate consolidation 132 LANXESS Annual Report 2014 Statement of Cash Flows ­LANXESS Group € million Note 2013 2014 Income (loss) before income taxes (239) 80 Amortization, depreciation and write-downs of intangible assets and property, plant and equipment 717 426 Gains on disposals of intangible assets and property, plant and equipment (2) (1) Income from investments accounted for using the equity method 0 (2) Financial losses 111 75 Income taxes paid (41) (31) Changes in inventories 186 (39) Changes in trade receivables 5 97 Changes in trade payables (81) 89 Changes in other assets and liabilities (15) 103 Net cash provided by operating activities 641 797 Cash outflows for purchases of intangible assets and property, plant and equipment (624) (614) Cash inflows from financial assets 290 8 Cash inflows from the divestment (cash outflows for the acquisition) of subsidiaries and other businesses, less divested (acquired) cash and cash equivalents (15) 3 Cash inflows from sales of intangible assets and property, plant and equipment 5 8 Interest and dividends received 2 8 Net cash used in investing activities (36) (342) (587) Cash inflow from capital increase 0 433 Proceeds from borrowings 105 324 Repayments of borrowings (163) (802) Interest paid and other financial disbursements (119) (131) Dividend payments (83) (46) Net cash used in financing activities (36) (260) (222) Change in cash and cash equivalents from business activities 39 (12) Cash and cash equivalents as of January 1 386 427 Exchange differences and other changes in cash and cash equivalents 2 3 Cash and cash equivalents as of December 31 (36) 427 418 Consolidated Financial Statements 133 Statement of Cash Flows | General information | Structure and components of the consolidated financial statements | Financial reporting standards and interpretations applied Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements General information Financial reporting standards and interpretations applied LANXESS AG is entered as a stock corporation in the Commercial Register of the Cologne District Court under HRB 53652. Its registered The consolidated financial statements of the LANXESS Group as of office is at Kennedyplatz 1, 50569 Cologne, Germany. ­December 31, 2014 were prepared in accordance with the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as endorsed by the The annual financial statements of LANXESS AG and the consolidated European Union (E.U.) and the corresponding interpretations, together financial statements of the LANXESS Group, to which the auditors, with the additional requirements of Section 315a, Paragraph 1 of the PricewaterhouseCoopers Aktiengesellschaft Wirtschaftsprüfungs­ German Commercial Code (HGB). gesellschaft, Frankfurt am Main, have issued unqualified auditor’s ­reports, are published in the German Federal Gazette (Bundesanzeiger). Accounting for participating interests in other entities The consolidated financial statements of the LANXESS Group for fiscal 2014 were prepared by the Board of Management of As of January 1, 2014, the LANXESS Group applied new or revised LANXESS AG and authorized for submission to the Supervisory standards on accounting for participating interests in other entities. Board on ­February 27, 2015. It is the responsibility of the Supervisory These comprise the new standards IFRS 10, IFRS 11 and IFRS 12 Board to examine the consolidated financial statements and declare together with the revised standards IAS 27 and IAS 28. IFRS 10 whether or not it approves them. replaces the requirements for consolidated financial statements and special purpose entities previously contained in IAS 27 and SIC 12 and largely redefines the control concept, which forms the basis for Structure and components of the consolidated determining which companies are to be fully consolidated. This did financial statements not result in any changes for LANXESS, however. IFRS 11, which supersedes IAS 31 and SIC 13, prescribes the accounting for joint The consolidated financial statements comprise the statement of arrangements and requires a reassessment of whether a joint arrangefinancial position, the income statement and statement of comprement constitutes a joint operation or a joint venture. The interest in hensive income, the statement of changes in equity, the statement a joint operation is accounted for by recognizing the share of assets, of cash flows and the notes, which include the segment information. liabilities, revenues and expenses according to the rights and obligations of the partners. Joint ventures, by contrast, are accounted for The consolidated financial statements were prepared in euros (€). in the consolidated financial statements using the equity method in Amounts are stated in millions of euros (€ million) except where other­ line with the new requirements of IAS 28. The investment in DuBay wise indicated. Assets and liabilities are classified in the statement of Polymer GmbH, Hamm, Germany, was previously accounted for using financial position as current or non-current. Further details of their the proportionate consolidation method. This entity is to be regarded maturities are provided below in certain cases. as a joint operation, since the partners exercise joint control over it, purchasing its entire output between them. The company is therefore The consolidated financial statements were prepared on the basis of accounted for according to LANXESS’s shares of its assets, liabilities, historical acquisition, generation, construction or production costs of revenues and expenses. The application of the new or revised stanthe assets. Where different valuation principles are prescribed, these dards did not affect the classification of Currenta GmbH & Co. OHG, are used. They are explained in the section on accounting policies Leverkusen, Germany, as an associate. It therefore continues to be and valuation principles. accounted for using the equity method according to IAS 28. Finally, IFRS 12 relates only to disclosure requirements. The application of The income statement was prepared using the cost-of-sales method. the new and revised standards as a whole had no material impact on the LANXESS Group’s earnings, asset and financial position. The fiscal year for these consolidated financial statements is the ­calendar year. 134 LANXESS Annual Report 2014 Impairment of assets Financial instruments Also mandatory as of the beginning of 2014 are the amendments to In November 2009, the IASB published IFRS 9. The new requirements IAS 36 that were published in May 2013. The new rules make it clear this standard introduced for classifying and measuring financial asthat the recoverable amount of an asset or cash-generating unit now sets were supplemented in October 2010 by requirements for the only has to be disclosed for periods in which a write-down has been measurement of financial liabilities and the derecognition of financial recognized or reversed. Additional disclosures are required when a instruments. In November 2013, the IASB published amendments write-down is recognized or reversed and the recoverable amount is to IFRS 9 containing new rules on hedge accounting. These amendbased on fair value less costs of disposal. Since these amendments ments allow early adoption of the requirement that fair value changes relate solely to disclosures in the notes to the financial statements, they attributable to changes in the credit risk of a liability designated as at had no impact on the earnings, asset and financial position. fair value through profit or loss be presented in other comprehensive income under certain conditions even if the other rules of IFRS 9 are not simultaneously applied. In July 2014, the IASB issued the final Further changes version of IFRS 9. This contains revised regulations for classifying and measuring financial assets and, for the first time, rules on impairment The mandatory first-time application of the following financial reporting charges for financial instruments. The expected loss model is now used standards and interpretations in 2014 currently has no impact, or no to anticipate and recognize future losses as well as losses that have material impact, on the LANXESS Group: already been incurred. The new standard is to be applied for annual • Amendments to IAS 32: Offsetting financial assets and periods beginning on or after January 1, 2018. Earlier application financial liabilities is permitted. It has not yet been endorsed by the E.U. The LANXESS • Amendments to IAS 39: Novation of derivatives and Group is currently evaluating the impact the application of this standard continuation of hedge accounting will have on its earnings, asset and financial position. Financial reporting standards and interpretations Revenue from contracts with customers ­issued but not yet mandatory The IASB published the new standard IFRS 15 on May 28, 2014. It In 2014 the LANXESS Group did not yet apply certain further financial supersedes IAS 11 and IAS 18 and introduces a five-step model conreporting standards and interpretations that had already been issued taining basic principles for revenue recognition. These basic principles by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) and the IFRS relate, in particular, to the identification of the services performed and Interpretations Committee but were not mandatory for that year. The the associated revenues and rules on the timing of revenue recogniapplication of these standards and interpretations is in some cases tion. The standard also contains further rules on specific issues and contingent upon their endorsement by the E.U. It is therefore possible requires additional disclosures in the notes on the type, level, timing that the dates for mandatory application may ultimately be later than and uncertainties relating to revenues from contracts with customindicated below. ers. The new standard is to be applied for annual periods beginning on or after January 1, 2017. Earlier application is permitted. It has not yet been endorsed by the E.U. The LANXESS Group is currently evaluating the impact the application of this standard will have on its earnings, asset and financial position. Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 135 Financial reporting standards and interpretations applied | Financial reporting standards and interpretations issued but not yet mandatory | Consolidation The following financial reporting standards and interpretations currently have no impact, or no material impact, on the LANXESS Group. Standard/Interpretation Date of Mandatory for Endorsed by publication LANXESS as of the E.U. fiscal year IFRIC 21 Levies May 20, 2013 2015 yes IAS 19 Defined Benefit Plans: Employee Contributions – Amendments to IAS 19 Nov. 21, 2013 2016 yes Various IAS and IFRS Annual Improvements to the International Financial Reporting Standards, 2010–2012 Cycle Dec. 12, 2013 2016 yes Various IAS and IFRS Annual Improvements to the International Financial Reporting Standards, 2011–2013 Cycle Dec. 12, 2013 2015 yes IFRS 14 Regulatory Deferral Accounts Jan. 30, 2014 2016 no IFRS 11 Accounting for Acquisitions of Interests in Joint Operations – Amendments to IFRS 11 May 6, 2014 2016 no IAS 16 and IAS 38 Clarification of Acceptable Methods of Depreciation and Amortisation – Amendments to IAS 16 and IAS 38 May 12, 2014 2016 no IAS 16 and IAS 41 Agriculture: Bearer Plants – Amendments to IAS 16 and IAS 41 June 30, 2014 2016 no IAS 27 Equity Method in Separate Financial Statements – Amendments to IAS 27 Aug. 12, 2014 2016 no IFRS 10 and IAS 28 Sale or Contribution of Assets between an Investor and its Associate or Joint Venture – Amendments to IFRS 10 and IAS 28 Sep. 11, 2014 2016 no Various IAS and IFRS Annual Improvements to the International Financial Reporting Standards, 2012–2014 Cycle Sep. 25, 2014 2016 no IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and Investment Entities – Applying the Consolidation Exception – Amendments to IFRS 10, IAS 28 IFRS 12 and IAS 28 Dec. 18, 2014 2016 no IAS 1 Disclosure Initiative – Amendments to IAS 1 Dec. 18, 2014 2016 no Consolidation a significant influence over the variable returns. The ability to control another company generally derives from direct or indirect ownership The financial statements of the consolidated companies were prepared of a majority of the voting rights. In the case of structured entities, using uniform accounting policies and valuation principles. control normally derives from contractual agreements. A company is consolidated as of the date from which LANXESS AG is able to If the fiscal year of a consolidated company does not end on Decemexercise control and deconsolidated when this is no longer the case. ber 31,­interim financial statements are prepared for the purpose of consolidation. Interests in associates in which the LANXESS Group exerts a significant influence, generally through an ownership interest between 20% Intra-Group profits, losses, sales, income, expenses, receivables and and 50%, and interests in joint ventures are accounted for using the payables are eliminated. equity method. Entities that are in aggregate immaterial to the Group’s earnings, asset Scope of consolidation and financial position are not consolidated, but are included in the consolidated financial statements at cost of acquisition. The consolidated financial statements of the LANXESS Group include LANXESS AG and all subsidiaries under the control of LANXESS AG. Changes in the scope of consolidation are stated in the section headed Control exists if LANXESS AG is exposed to variable returns from the “Companies consolidated,” which also contains a list of companies. relationship with a company and has power over the company. Power means that LANXESS AG has existing rights that give it the current ability to direct the relevant activities of the company and thus exert 136 LANXESS Annual Report 2014 Fully consolidated companies Joint operations Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method. Joint operations are joint arrangements in which the parties that exercise The cost of a business combination is stated as the aggregate of the joint control have rights to the assets and obligations for the liabilities fair values, at the date of acquisition, of the assets transferred, liabilities relating to the arrangement. LANXESS accounts for its share of the incurred or assumed, and any equity instruments issued in exchange joint assets and joint liabilities of such joint operations and its share of for control of the acquiree. It also contains the fair value of assets and the revenues and expenses, including its share of any jointly incurred liabilities resulting from contingent consideration contracts. expenses. For the first-time consolidation, the assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities identified in the course of the acquisition are measured at Currency translation fair value as of the acquisition date. In the financial statements of the individual consolidated companies For each business combination, there is an option to include any shares that form the basis for the consolidated financial statements of the not acquired either at their fair value or at the pro rata share of the fair LANXESS Group, all foreign-currency assets and liabilities are transvalue of the acquiree’s net assets. They are reported in the statement lated at closing rates, irrespective of whether they are hedged. Forward of financial position as equity attributable to non-controlling interests. contracts serving as economic hedges against fluctuations in exchange rates are reflected at fair value. Acquisition-related costs – except those incurred to issue debt or equity securities – are recognized in profit or loss. The financial statements of each foreign entity are valued on the basis of the currency of the primary economic environment in which the Goodwill is measured as of the acquisition date as the excess of the entity operates (functional currency concept). By far the majority of consideration transferred, the amount of any non-controlling interests foreign companies are financially, economically and organizationally and the fair value of any previously held equity interest over the fair autonomous and their functional currencies are therefore the respecvalue of the net assets acquired. Negative goodwill is immediately tive local currencies. The assets and liabilities of these companies recognized in profit or loss after the purchase price allocation has are translated at closing rates, while income and expense items are been re-examined. translated at average rates for the year. Goodwill arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity is recorded in Investments accounted for using the equity method the currency of the acquired entity and translated at the closing rate, irrespective of the date on which it arose. The cost of acquisition of an entity accounted for using the equity method (associate) is adjusted annually by the percentage of any Equity is translated at historical rates, while income, expenses and change in its equity corresponding to LANXESS’s percentage interest other changes during the year are translated at average rates. The in the entity. If any decline in value exceeds the carrying amount of differences between the resulting amounts and those obtained by the entity, write-downs are recognized on the associated non-current translating at closing rates are reported separately in other compreassets. If the carrying amount of the entity and the associated assets hensive income as exchange differences on translation of operations are reduced to zero, liabilities would be recognized if the owner has outside the eurozone. entered into a legal or substantive obligation, e.g. to offset pro rata losses, or has made payments for the entity. If a company is deconsolidated, the relevant exchange differences are reversed and recognized in profit or loss. Differences arising from the first-time accounting for investments using the equity method are determined according to the same principles as for consolidated subsidiaries. Any goodwill is included in the carrying amount of the associate. Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 137 Consolidation | Currency translation | Accounting policies and valuation principles The principal exchange rates used for currency translation in the The costs incurred for in-house software development at the application LANXESS Group were: development stage are capitalized and amortized over the expected useful life of the software from the date it is placed in service. Exchange Rates €1 Closing rate, Dec. 31 Average rate Emissions allowances are recognized at cost. Allowances allocated free of charge by the German Emissions Trading Authority (DEHSt) 2013 2014 2013 2014 or comparable authorities in other European countries are capitalized Argentina ARS 8.99 10.28 7.28 10.76 at a value of zero. Brazil BRL 3.23 3.22 2.87 3.12 China CNY 8.35 7.54 8.16 8.19 United Kingdom GBP 0.83 0.78 0.85 0.81 India INR 85.23 76.54 77.82 81.05 Property, plant and equipment Japan JPY 144.72 145.23 129.62 140.39 Canada CAD 1.47 1.41 1.37 1.47 Property, plant and equipment is carried at the cost of acquisition or Singapore SGD 1.74 1.61 1.66 1.68 construction less depreciation for wear and tear. LANXESS does not South Africa ZAR 14.57 14.04 12.83 14.41 use the revaluation model. Write-downs are recognized for any reducUnited States USD 1.38 1.21 1.33 1.33 tion in value that goes beyond normal depreciation. In compliance with IAS 36, impairment charges are measured by comparing the carrying amounts to the discounted cash flows expected to be generated by Accounting policies and valuation principles the assets in the future. Where it is not possible to allocate future cash flows to specific assets, the impairment charge is assessed on The accounting policies and valuation principles are the same as those the basis of the discounted cash flows for the cash-generating unit to used in the previous fiscal year and have been consistently applied. which the asset belongs. Write-downs are reversed if the reasons for However, certain changes have resulted from the mandatory first-time them no longer apply, provided that this does not cause the carrying application in 2014 of new or amended financial reporting standards amounts of the assets to exceed either the amortized cost at which and interpretations. These changes are explained in the section headed they would have been recognized if they had not been written down “Financial reporting standards and interpretations applied.” or their current recoverable amount. The cost of self-constructed property, plant and equipment comprises Intangible assets the direct cost of materials, direct manufacturing expenses, and appropriate allocations of material and manufacturing overheads and an Intangible assets comprise goodwill and other intangible assets such as appropriate share of the depreciation and write-downs of assets used software, concessions, industrial property rights, similar rights and asin construction. It also includes the shares of expenses for company sets, and licenses to such rights and assets. Acquired intangible assets pension plans and discretionary employee benefits that are attributwith a definite useful life are recognized at cost and amortized over their able to construction. respective useful lives using the straight-line method. The amortization period for intangible assets other than goodwill is between 3 and 20 Where an obligation exists to decommission or dismantle assets at years. Amortization for 2014 has been allocated to the respective the end of their useful life or to restore a site to its original condition, functional areas. Any further decline in value is recognized by means the present value of the obligation is capitalized along with the cost of a write-down. Write-downs are reversed in the following year if the of acquisition or construction and a provision in the same amount is reasons for them no longer exist, provided that this does not cause the recognized. carrying amounts of the assets to exceed either the amortized cost at which they would have been carried if the write-downs had not been If the construction phase of property, plant or equipment extends over recognized or their current recoverable amount. The lower of these a long period, the directly attributable borrowing costs incurred up to two amounts is recognized. Intangible assets with indefinite useful the date of completion are capitalized as part of the cost of acquisition lives and goodwill are not amortized. They are tested for impairment or construction. annually or more often if events or a change in circumstances indicate a possible impairment. Any impairment charges are recognized in other operating expenses. Impairment charges on goodwill are not reversed. 138 LANXESS Annual Report 2014 Expenses for current maintenance and repairs are recognized directly The future lease payments are recorded as financial liabilities. ­Liabilities in profit or loss. Subsequent acquisition or construction costs are under finance leases are recognized at the fair value of the leased ascapitalized if they will result in future economic benefits and can be set at the inception of the lease or the present value of the minimum reliably determined. lease payments, whichever is lower. Thereafter the minimum lease payments are divided into financing costs and the portion representExpenses for general overhauls of major large-scale plants are recoging repayment of the principal. In the case of leasing contracts that do nized separately at the cost of the overhaul as part of the related assets not include the transfer of substantially all risks and rewards incidental and depreciated over the period between one general overhaul and to ownership (operating leases), the lessee recognizes the lease paythe next using the straight-line method. ments as current expenses. Where assets comprise material components with different purposes, Property, plant and equipment also include assets that LANXESS leases different properties, or different useful lives, the components are capior rents out to third parties under agreements other than finance leases. talized individually and depreciated over their useful lives. However, if the lessee is to be regarded as the economic owner of the assets, a receivable is recognized in the amount of the discounted When property, plant or equipment is sold, the difference between future lease or rental payments. the net proceeds and the carrying amount is recognized as a gain or loss in other operating income or expenses. Leasing arrangements may be embedded in other contracts. Where IFRS stipulates separation of the embedded leasing arrangement, the Assets are depreciated by the straight-line method based on the folcomponents of the contract are recognized and measured separately. lowing useful lives, which are applied uniformly throughout the Group: Useful Lives Financial instruments Buildings 20 to 50 years Outdoor infrastructure 10 to 20 years Financial instruments are contracts that give rise simultaneously to Plant installations 6 to 20 years a financial asset for one party and a financial liability or equity instruMachinery and equipment 6 to 12 years ment for another. These include primary financial instruments, such Laboratory and research facilities 3 to 5 years as trade receivables or payables and other financial assets or liabilities, Storage tanks and pipelines 10 to 20 years as well as derivative financial instruments, which are used to hedge Vehicles 5 to 8 years Computer equipment 3 to 5 years risks arising from changes in currency exchange rates, raw material Furniture and fixtures 4 to 10 years prices or interest rates. Financial instruments are recognized as soon as the LANXESS Group becomes the contracting party to them. Financial assets are derecogLeasing nized when the contractual rights to receive payments from them expire or the financial assets are transferred together with all significant risks In accordance with IAS 17, leased assets where substantially all risks and rewards. Financial liabilities are derecognized when the contractual and rewards incidental to ownership are transferred (finance leases) obligations are met or canceled, or when they expire. are capitalized at the lower of their fair value and the present value of the minimum lease payments at the date of addition. They are depreciIn the case of regular-way purchases and sales, the settlement date is ated over their useful lives. If subsequent transfer of title to the leased the relevant date for first-time recognition or derecognition of financial asset is uncertain, it is depreciated over the shorter of its estimated assets in the financial statements. useful life and the lease term. Trade receivables and other financial receivables are initially recognized at fair value and subsequently accounted for at amortized cost using the effective interest method. Write-downs are recognized for any decline in value using separate accounts. Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 139 Accounting policies and valuation principles Investments in affiliated companies and the equity instruments included subsequently reclassified to other operating income or cost of sales, in non-current assets are classified as available-for-sale financial asas appropriate, when the hedged transaction is recognized in profit or sets and recognized at fair value, except where their fair value cannot loss. Any portion of the change in value of such derivatives deemed to be reliably determined, in which case they are recognized at cost. be ineffective with regard to the hedged risk is recognized directly in Where objective evidence exists that such assets may be impaired, an profit or loss. Changes in the fair value of interest rate derivatives used impairment charge is recognized on the basis of an impairment test. to hedge long-term liabilities with variable interest rates – provided such derivatives qualify for hedge accounting – are recognized in other Investments in companies accounted for using the equity method are comprehensive income and subsequently reclassified to profit or loss recognized at the amounts corresponding to LANXESS’s shares in as interest income or expense at the same time as the income from their equity in accordance with IAS 28. the hedged transaction is recognized in profit or loss. Financial assets held for trading are recognized at fair value. Any gain Contracts concluded for the purpose of receiving or delivering nonor loss arising from subsequent measurement is reflected in the infinancial items based on expected purchases, sales or utilization and come statement. held for this purpose are recognized not as financial derivatives but as pending transactions. If the contracts contain embedded derivatives, All other primary financial assets are classified as available for sale the derivatives are accounted for separately from the host contract, and recognized at fair value except if they are allocable to loans and provided that the economic characteristics and risks of the embedded receivables. Any gain or loss resulting from subsequent measurement, derivative are not closely related to those of the host contract. with the exception of write-downs and of gains and losses from currency translation, is recognized in other comprehensive income until the asset is derecognized. Determination of fair value Primary financial liabilities are initially recognized at fair value less The principal methods and assumptions used in measuring the fair any transaction costs. In subsequent periods, they are measured at value of financial instruments are outlined below: amortized cost using the effective-interest method. Trade receivables, other receivables and cash and cash equivalents LANXESS does not utilize the option of designating non-derivative are generally due within one year. Their carrying amount is therefore financial assets or liabilities at fair value through profit or loss upon their fair value. Receivables due in more than one year are discounted initial recognition. using current interest rates to determine their fair value. The fair value of securities is determined from their market price on Derivative financial instruments and hedging the closing date, disregarding transaction costs. transactions The fair value of loans and liabilities to banks is calculated from disThe LANXESS Group recognizes derivative financial instruments as counted future interest payments and capital repayment amounts. assets or liabilities at their fair value on the closing date. Gains and losses resulting from changes in fair value are recognized in profit The bonds are traded in an active, liquid market. Their fair values are or loss. Where foreign currency derivatives or forward commodity the prices determined and published by the market. If no liquid market contracts used to hedge future cash flows from pending business or price is available for a bond, its fair value is determined on the basis forecast transactions qualify for hedge accounting under the relevant of observable inputs, using a risk-related discount rate. financial reporting standard, changes in the value of such instruments are recognized separately in other comprehensive income until the underlying transactions are realized. The amounts recognized here are 140 LANXESS Annual Report 2014 The fair value of trade payables and other primary financial liabilities Cash and cash equivalents due within one year is normally their carrying amount. That of all other liabilities is determined by discounting them to present value where Cash and cash equivalents comprise checks, cash and balances with feasible. banks. Securities with maturities of up to three months from the date of acquisition are recognized in cash and cash equivalents in view of The fair values of receivables and liabilities relating to finance leases their high liquidity. are the present values of the net lease payments calculated using the market rate for comparable lease agreements. Non-current assets and liabilities held for sale Most of the derivative financial instruments used by LANXESS are traded in an active, liquid market. The fair values as of the end of the Material assets are recognized as held for sale if they can be sold in reporting period pertain exclusively to forward exchange contracts their current condition and a sale is highly probable. Such assets may and are derived from their trading or listed prices using the “forward be individual non-current assets, groups of assets (disposal groups) method.” Where no market price is available, values are determined or complete business entities. A disposal group may also include using recognized capital market pricing methods based on observable liabilities if these are to be divested together with the assets as part market data. In determining the fair values, adjustments for LANXESS’s of the transaction. own credit risk and counterparty credit risk are made on the basis of the respective net positions. Assets classified as held for sale are no longer depreciated. They are recognized at the lower of fair value less costs to sell and the carrying amount. Inventories Inventories encompass assets held for sale in the ordinary course of Provisions business (finished goods and merchandise), assets in the process of being manufactured for sale (work in process) and assets consumed Provisions are recognized and measured in accordance with IAS 37 during the production process (raw materials and supplies). They and, where appropriate, IAS 19 and IFRS 2, using the best estimates are valued by the weighted-average method and recognized at the of the amounts of the obligations. Non-current portions of material lower of cost and net realizable value, which is the estimated selling provisions due in more than one year are discounted to present value price in the ordinary course of business less the estimated remaining if the extent and timing of the obligation can be assessed with reaproduction costs and selling expenses. sonable certainty. Where the projected obligation alters as the time of performance approaches (interest effect), the related expense is The cost of production comprises the direct cost of materials, direct recognized in other financial expense. manufacturing expenses and appropriate allocations of fixed and variable material and manufacturing overheads at normal capacity If the projected obligation declines as a result of a change in the utilization, where these are attributable to production. estimate, the provision is reversed by the corresponding amount and the effect is recognized in the income or expense item(s) in which the It also includes expenses for company pension plans, corporate welfare provision was originally recorded. facilities and discretionary employee benefits that can be allocated to production. Administrative costs are included where they are attributProvisions for pensions and other post-employment benefits are esable to production. tablished for defined benefit pension plans. The provision is measured according to the actuarial present value of the obligation, calculated Borrowing costs incurred in the course of production are not included using the projected unit credit method. This takes into account not in the acquisition or production cost of inventories as the products are only the known pensions and pension entitlements as of the closing not manufactured using long-term production processes. date, but also expected future salary and benefit increases. RemeasureGiven the production and distribution sequences characteristic of the LANXESS Group, work in process and finished goods are grouped together. Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 141 Accounting policies and valuation principles ments of the net defined benefit liability are fully recognized in other Liabilities comprehensive income in the period in which they occur. They are not reclassified to profit or loss in a subsequent period. Other current liabilities are recognized at repayment or redemption amounts. Other non-current liabilities are recognized at amortized cost. Personnel-related provisions mainly include those for annual bonus payments, payments under multi-year compensation programs and Subsidies received from third parties for the acquisition or construction other personnel costs. of property, plant and equipment are reflected in other liabilities and released to the respective functional area of the income statement The stock-based employee compensation programs (Long-Term Inover the underlying period or expected useful life of the assets to centive Plan – LTIP and Long-Term Stock Performance Plan – LTSP) which they relate. provide for cash settlement. Provisions are established for the obligations entered into under such programs on the basis of the proportionate fair value of the rights allocated to employees. The fair value Sales and other revenues is determined using the Monte Carlo method, in which future returns are simulated and the expected payment is calculated from the value Revenues are recognized as soon as delivery has been made or the of the rights based on a two-dimensional standard distribution of service rendered and are reported net of sales taxes and deductions. returns. The fair value of the rights is reflected in a pro rata provision This is normally the case when the significant risks and rewards associduring the vesting period. ated with ownership of the goods pass to the purchaser. It must also be sufficiently probable that the economic benefits will be obtained The stock-based compensation program for members of the and the costs incurred must be reliably determinable. Supervisory Board provides for variable cash settlement, provided that LANXESS stock has outperformed a defined index during their term of Customer rebates are reflected in the period in which the revenues office. Provisions are established for the expected obligations on the are realized. Revenues such as license fees, rental income, interest basis of the fair value of the expected settlement amount. income or dividends that are attributable to a subsequent fiscal year are accrued. The LANXESS Group also records provisions for current or pending legal proceedings where the resulting expenses can be reasonably The LANXESS Group does not have long-term production orders. estimated. These provisions include all estimated fees and legal costs Accordingly, the percentage-of-completion method is not applied to and the cost of potential settlements. However, litigation expenses determine when revenues are realized. are only included if it is assumed that they will have to be borne by LANXESS. The amounts of such provisions are based upon information and cost estimates provided by the Group’s legal advisers. The proviResearch and development expenses sions are regularly reviewed together with the Group’s legal advisers and adjusted if necessary. According to IAS 38, research costs cannot be capitalized, whereas development costs must be capitalized if, and only if, specific narrowly defined conditions are fulfilled. Development costs must be capitalized Contingent liabilities if it is sufficiently certain that the development activity will generate future economic benefits which will also cover the associated develContingent liabilities are potential obligations to third parties or existing opment costs. However, since the development and optimization of commitments, the extent of which cannot be reasonably estimated products and processes frequently involves uncertainties, the condior which are unlikely to lead to an outflow of resources. They are not tions for capitalization of development costs are generally not met. recognized in the statement of financial position unless they have been entered into in connection with a business combination. 142 LANXESS Annual Report 2014 Income taxes Disbursements for the acquisition of property, plant and equipment are included in the cash flows for investing activities after deducting any This item comprises the income taxes paid or accrued in the individual third-party subsidies. Investments involving finance leases, along with countries, plus deferred taxes. Income taxes are computed on the capitalized borrowing costs, are not included. Comparison therefore basis of local tax rates. should not be made between these items and the capital expenditures shown in the schedule of changes in property, plant and equipment. Income tax liabilities and provisions for income taxes comprise the liabilities relating to the respective fiscal year and any liabilities from Payments relating to operating leases are included in cash flows from previous years. They are assessed on the basis of the applicable legoperating activities. Disbursements made under finance leases where islation, taking into account present legal practice judgments and LANXESS is the lessee are recognized as cash outflows for financing prevailing opinion. activities, while cash inflows under finance leases where LANXESS is the lessor are recognized as cash inflows from investing activities. In accordance with IAS 12, deferred taxes are calculated for temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets or liabilities in the Cash outflows relating to the financing of pension obligations are statement of financial position and the tax base and for differences allocated to cash flows for operating activities. arising from consolidation measures or realizable tax loss carryforwards. The calculations are based on tax planning calculations and Purchase prices paid or received in connection with acquisitions or customary and realizable tax strategies. Deferred taxes are calculated divestments of subsidiaries or other business entities are included in at the rates which are expected to apply in the individual countries at the investing cash flow after deducting cash and cash equivalents the time of realization, taking into account the period for which deacquired or divested. ferred taxes may be used and any constraints on the utilization of loss ­carryforwards. These are based on the statutory regulations in force, Interest and dividends received are also included in investing cash flow, or already enacted in relation to future periods, as of the closing date. while interest and dividends paid are reflected in financing cash flow. The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each closing date and only the amount likely to be realizable due to future taxable Global impairment testing procedure and impact income is recognized. Deferred tax assets from loss carryforwards are recognized if it is probable that the carryforwards can be utilized. In the LANXESS Group, the impairment testing of non-current assets starts with an analysis to determine whether impairment charges Deferred tax assets and liabilities are netted if they relate to income need to be recognized or previously recognized impairment charges taxes levied by the same tax authorities. reversed. If there are indications that this is the case, the residual carrying amount of each cash-generating unit is compared to its recoverable amount. In the LANXESS Group these impairment tests are Statement of cash flows performed at least once a year. The statement of cash flows shows how cash inflows and outflows Cash-generating units to which goodwill is allocated are tested anduring the year affected the cash and cash equivalents of the LANXESS nually for impairment – or more frequently if events or changes in Group. Cash flows are classified by operating, investing and financing circumstances indicate a possible impairment. The residual carrying activities in accordance with IAS 7. The liquidity reported in the stateamount of each cash-generating unit, including the goodwill allocated ment of cash flows comprises cash and cash equivalents. to it, is compared to its recoverable amount. The cash flow from operating activities is calculated using the indirect method. This involves eliminating the translation effects and the effects of changes in the scope of consolidation from the changes recognized in the items on the statement of financial position. Therefore, the cash flows calculated by the indirect method cannot be directly derived from the statement of financial position. Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 143 Accounting policies and valuation principles | Estimation uncertainties and the exercise of discretion The LANXESS Group defines its business units as the cash-generating Future net cash flows are discounted using the weighted average cost units. However, if there is reason to suspect impairment of non-current of capital, which is derived according to IAS 36 from capital market assets below business-unit level, impairment testing is also performed models, taking into account the capital structure and business risks at this level and impairment charges are recognized in the income specific to the chemical industry, and is extrapolated from external statement where necessary. market information. The recoverable amount is the higher of the asset’s fair value less If a decline in value is determined, an impairment charge is first reccosts of disposal and the value in use. If the carrying amount of a ognized for any goodwill assigned to the respective strategic busicash-generating unit exceeds the recoverable amount, an impairment ness unit. Any remaining impairment amount is allocated among the charge is recognized in certain circumstances. The fair value less costs other non-current assets of the strategic business unit in proportion to of disposal – which represents the best estimate of the potential sale the carrying amounts on which the impairment test was based. The proceeds at the time of the respective impairment test – is the amount recoverable amount of any non-current assets below the level of the obtainable from the sale of a cash-generating unit in an arm’s-length cash-generating unit is assessed and the loss is allocated, but only transaction between knowledgeable, willing parties, less the costs of up to the recoverable amount of these assets. Any further impairment disposal. The value in use is defined as the present value of future charge that would have been allocated to these assets is allocated cash flows based on the continuing use of the asset and its retirement proportionately to the other assets in the cash-generating unit. at the end of its useful life. The first step in an impairment test is to determine the fair value less costs of disposal. If this is less than the Impairment charges are fully recognized in the income statement under carrying amount of the cash-generating unit, the value in use is then other operating expenses and reflected in the segment reporting in determined. The fair value less costs of disposal is generally calculated the expenses of the respective segments. using a capital value method which is allocated to Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy (see under “Fair value measurement” in Note [35]). The results of the global impairment tests in fiscal 2013 and 2014 are outlined in the following section. Determination of the recoverable amount based on the fair value less costs of disposal relies on a forecast of future net cash flows. This is based on the planning approved by the management of LANXESS AG, Estimation uncertainties and the exercise of discretion which contains estimates of expected market conditions and other factors such as future raw material prices, energy costs, functional cost The preparation of consolidated financial statements in accordance items and exchange rates. The interactions which exist between these with IFRS entails the selection of accounting policies and valuation factors are reflected in the expected net cash flows. The estimates are principles and the use of forward-looking assumptions and estimates based on management’s past experience, taking account of internal that may affect the measurement of assets and liabilities, income and and external economic and industry-specific sources of information. expenses, and contingent liabilities. Capacity expansions, reorganization projects and the resulting synergies, provided these can also be used by a third party, are reflected in All assumptions and estimates used in the consolidated financial future net cash flows through estimates. Determination of the value statements are based on management’s expectations. Information in use is based on a corresponding forecast of future net cash flows. that could alter these estimates is reviewed continually and may result However, cash inflows and outflows relating to expansion projects that in adjustments to the carrying amounts of the respective assets and have not yet commenced, restructuring that is planned but has not liabilities. yet been approved, and the associated synergies are not taken into account. The forecasts used to calculate the fair value less costs of Assumptions and estimates that could materially impact the measuredisposal and to determine the value in use cover a five-year period. ment of the LANXESS Group’s assets and liabilities are explained Growth rates are not reflected in the perpetual annuity calculation. below. 144 LANXESS Annual Report 2014 The LANXESS Group tests its cash-generating units for impairment at Further, in view of the challenging competitive environment and the least once a year by determining the respective recoverable amount change in the assessment of growth prospects, impairment tests (for further information see the section headed “Global impairment were performed in 2013 on the High Performance Elastomers cashtesting procedure and impact”). The test is based on forecasts of future generating unit in the Performance Polymers segment and the Rubnet cash flows, derived from reasonable assumptions representing the ber Chemicals cash-generating unit in the Performance Chemicals management’s best assessment of the economic circumstances at segment using a discount rate after taxes of 7.8%. These tests led the time of the impairment test. Management’s expectations of future to the recognition of a €54 million impairment charge for the High net cash flows therefore indirectly affect the measurement of goodwill Performance Elastomers cash-generating unit and a €29 million imand other assets. pairment charge for the Rubber Chemicals cash-generating unit. The business activities of the High Performance Elastomers cash-generating The assumptions and estimates used for the impairment test conunit comprise the production and distribution of synthetic rubber with ducted on assets in fiscal 2014 could differ from the actual values in special technical properties for the manufacturing industry, especially subsequent periods, necessitating subsequent valuation adjustments. the automotive and construction sectors, and mechanical engineering. The annual impairment tests are based on a discount rate after taxes The impairment test led to the recognition of a €54 million impairment of 7.4% (2013: 7.9%), without using growth rates to determine the charge to reduce the carrying amount to the recoverable amount less perpetual annuity. The calculation is based on a capital value method costs of disposal. This impairment charge was recognized in the inwhich is allocated to Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy in accordance come statement under other operating expenses. €1 million pertained with IFRS 13. The testing of the cash-generating units showed no to intangible assets and €53 million to property, plant and equipment. need for the recognition or reversal of impairment charges in fiscal The business activities of the Rubber Chemicals cash-generating unit 2014. There has been no material change in the estimates used for comprise the production and marketing of specialty rubber chemicals the impairment charges recognized in the previous year for the cashsold mainly to manufacturers of tires and technical rubber products. generating units Keltan Elastomers, High Performance Elastomers The impairment test as of year end 2013 led to the recognition of a and Rubber Chemicals. €29 million impairment charge to reduce the carrying amount to the recoverable amount less costs of disposal. This impairment charge In 2013, an impairment charge of €174 million was recognized was recognized in the income statement under other operating exfor the cash-generating unit Keltan Elastomers, the business activipenses in fiscal 2013. €5 million pertained to intangible assets and ties of which comprise the production and marketing of ethylene-­ €24 million to property, plant and equipment. propylene-diene (EPDM) rubber. Of the impairment charge recognized, €11 million­­related to goodwill, €16 million to other intangible assets The annual impairment test for the principal goodwill items is perand €147 million to property, plant and equipment. The impairment formed on the basis of fair value less costs of disposal. The calculation charge was recognized in the income statement under other operating is based on a capital value method which is allocated to Level 3 of the expenses. This reduced the carrying amount of the Keltan Elastomers fair value hierarchy in accordance with IFRS 13. Impairment tests are cash-generating unit to its fair value less costs of disposal. In view of performed on goodwill items in local currency if triggering events occur the temporary overcapacities anticipated for the coming years and the and at least once yearly on the regular impairment testing date. These energy cost advantages enjoyed by U.S.-based producers, changes are items mainly comprise goodwill of €80 million (2013: €80 million)­carforecasted in the market and competitive environment which will have ried by the Performance Butadiene Rubbers business unit, €27 million­ an effect beyond the five-year planning period. To determine the fair (2013: €25 million) allocated to the Material Protection Products busivalue less costs of disposal, the terminal value according to the five-year ness unit and €18 million (2013: € ­ 18 million) pertaining to the High plan was and is therefore assessed over a further five-year period and Performance Materials business unit. Information on calculating the the outcome of this assessment taken into account in the valuation. net cash flows can be found in this chapter and the previous chapter. The Performance Butadiene Rubbers business unit is dependent in large part on market development in the tire and automotive industries, the Material Protection Products business unit on the performance of various industries and the High Performance Materials business unit primarily on market development in the automotive industry. Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 145 Estimation uncertainties and the exercise of discretion The impairment test performed on goodwill items in 2014 did not therefore possible that legal judgments could give rise to expenses indicate any need for recognition of impairment charges. Neither a that are not covered, or not fully covered, by recognized provisions one-percentage-point increase in the discount rate nor a 10% reduction or equivalent insurance and that could materially affect the business in expected future net cash flows would have led to the recognition of operations, revenues, earnings or cash flows of the LANXESS Group. an impairment charge on goodwill items. There is also a degree of uncertainty surrounding the assessment of In 2013, goodwill of €2 million recognized upon the acquisition of certain tax situations by the tax authorities. Although the LANXESS PCTS Specialty Chemicals Pte. Ltd., Singapore, was allocated to Group believes it has presented all tax-relevant information correctly the Material Protection business unit in the Performance Chemicals and in compliance with the law, it is possible that the tax authorities segment and was also tested for impairment as of the end of 2013. may occasionally reach different conclusions. Provisions have been The goodwill of €11 million pertaining to the Keltan Elastomers cashestablished where changes in tax assessments are probable. In addigenerating unit was impaired to zero in 2013. tion, charges from tax risks from previous years are not considered to be likely. In the event of unfavorable developments, LANXESS could The recognition and measurement of provisions are also affected be faced with additional charges in the low-double-digit millions of by assumptions as to the probability of utilization, timing, the uneuros. The calculations are principally based on experience of the derlying discount rate and the absolute level of risk. The LANXESS outcome of previous tax audits and their impact on the subsequent Group performed sensitivity analyses on all provisions existing as of periods and the applicable legislation, taking into account present ­December 31, 2014, as required by the IFRS. These involved callegal practice and prevailing opinion. culating the impact of variations in the parameters used, especially the probability of occurrence, discount rate and absolute level of risk. Other significant estimates and discretion are used to assess the The outcome of these sensitivity analyses shows that variations in useful lives of intangible assets and property, plant and equipment, the assumptions described above would not have a material impact the capitalization of development costs, the probability of collecting on the level of other provisions reported in the consolidated financial receivables and other assets, the valuation of inventories and the ability statements of the LANXESS Group. For further information on the to realize tax claims and deferred tax assets recognized for temporary sensitivity analyses relating to provisions for pension and other postdifferences and tax loss carryforwards. The first-time consolidation of employment benefits, see Note [13]. business operations also involves estimation uncertainties and the exercise of discretion in determining the fair values of the acquired Defined benefit pension plans also necessitate actuarial computations assets and assumed liabilities. and measurements. The section on provisions for pensions and other post-employment benefits contains information on the assumptions on which the actuarial calculations and estimates were based (see Note [13]). Further, the LANXESS Group is affected by legal disputes. As an international chemicals company, the LANXESS Group is exposed to administrative or court proceedings in the normal course of business and may be again in the future. Administrative and court proceedings generally involve complex technical and/or legal issues and are therefore subject to a number of imponderables. The outcomes of any current or future proceedings cannot be predicted with certainty. It is 146 LANXESS Annual Report 2014 Companies consolidated The consolidated financial statements of the LANXESS Group include the parent company LANXESS AG and all domestic and foreign ­affiliates. EMEA (excl. Germany North America Latin America Asia-Pacific Total Germany) Fully consolidated companies (incl. parent company) Jan. 1, 2014 23 12 5 5 20 65 Additions 0 Retirements (1) (1) (2) Mergers (1) (1) Dec. 31, 2014 23 11 5 5 18 62 Consolidated associates and jointly controlled entities Jan. 1, 2014 2 2 Additions 0 Retirements 0 Mergers 0 Dec. 31, 2014 0 2 0 0 0 2 Non-consolidated companies Jan. 1, 2014 2 2 1 3 2 10 Additions 0 Retirements (1) (1) Mergers 0 Dec. 31, 2014 2 2 1 3 1 9 Total Jan. 1, 2014 25 16 6 8 22 77 Additions 0 0 0 0 0 0 Retirements 0 (1) 0 0 (2) (3) Mergers 0 0 0 0 (1) (1) Dec. 31, 2014 25 15 6 8 19 73 Also consolidated in the EMEA (excluding Germany) region are the DuBay Polymer GmbH, Hamm, Germany, is included in the consolistructured entities Dirlem (RF) (Pty) Ltd., Modderfontein, South Africa, dated financial statements as a joint operation on a pro rata basis in and Rustenburg Chrome Employees Empowerment Trust, Modderaccordance with IFRS 11 because the partners exercise joint confontein, South Africa. The purpose of these structured entities is to trol and purchase its entire output between them. The interest held ensure employee participation in the company in accordance with by LANXESS in this company’s capital is 50%. The purpose of the South Africa’s Black Economic Empowerment legislation. LANXESS company is to produce polybutylene terephthalate base resins and exercises control because the principal business activities were deblends for the joint owners and their affiliated companies. This busifined by LANXESS when the structured entities were established. ness relationship does not involve any material risks. LANXESS guarantees the value of the interests in LANXESS Chrome Mining (Pty.) Ltd., Modderfontein, South Africa, held and managed by these structured entities. This does not entail any material risks for the LANXESS Group. Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 147 Companies consolidated Further, Currenta GmbH & Co. OHG, Leverkusen, Germany, is an Other information on companies consolidated associate accounted for in the consolidated financial statements using the equity method (see Note [3]). LANXESS’s share in its capital The following table lists the affiliated companies in accordance with is 40%. Given its ability to contribute to material aspects of financial Section 313, Paragraph 2 of the German Commercial Code: and business policy decisions, LANXESS is able to exert a significant influence. Currenta GmbH & Co. OHG principally provides site serCompany Name and Domicile vices in the areas of energy, infrastructure and logistics for LANXESS’s % Interest held production sites in Germany. In view of its status as a personally liable Fully consolidated companies partner, LANXESS may be required to inject further capital in the future. Transactions with this company are outlined in Note [33]. Germany ­LANXESS AG, Cologne – LANXESS-TRSC (Nantong) Chemical Industrial Co., Ltd., Nantong, Aliseca GmbH, Leverkusen 100 China, is a producer of nitrile rubber. LANXESS’s share in its capital Bond-Laminates GmbH, Brilon 100 IAB Ionenaustauscher GmbH Bitterfeld, Greppin 100 is 50%. This company is fully consolidated because LANXESS can ­LANXESS Accounting GmbH, Cologne 100 determine key aspects of its financial and business policy. The non­LANXESS Buna GmbH, Marl 100 controlling interests in this company have a negligible influence on ­LANXESS Deutschland GmbH, Cologne 100 the activities and cash flows of the LANXESS Group. ­LANXESS Distribution GmbH, Leverkusen 100 ­LANXESS International Holding GmbH, Cologne 100 Europigments, S.L., Barcelona, Spain, and Rhein Chemie (Qingdao)­ Rhein Chemie Rheinau GmbH, Mannheim 100 Co., Ltd., Qingdao, China, are production companies in which Saltigo GmbH, Leverkusen 100 LANXESS has a stake of 52% and 90%, respectively. These compaEMEA (excluding Germany) nies are fully consolidated because LANXESS holds the majority of Europigments, S.L., Barcelona, Spain 52 the voting rights and therefore exercises control. The non-controlling ­LANXESS (Pty.) Ltd., Modderfontein, South Africa 100 interests in these companies have a negligible influence on the activi­LANXESS Central Eastern Europe s.r.o., Bratislava, Slovakia 100 ties and cash flows of the LANXESS Group. ­LANXESS Chemicals, S.L., Barcelona, Spain 100 ­LANXESS CISA (Pty.) Ltd., Newcastle, South Africa 100 L ­ ANXESS Chrome Mining (Pty.) Ltd., Cash transfers from companies in China, Brazil, India, South Africa, Modderfontein, South Africa 100 South Korea, Argentina and Russia are subject to restrictions as a ­LANXESS Elastomères S.A.S., Lillebonne, France 100 result of regulated capital markets. These affect approximately 14% ­LANXESS Elastomers B.V., Sittard-Geleen, Netherlands 100 (2013: 10%) of the LANXESS Group’s cash and cash equivalents. ­LANXESS Emulsion Rubber S.A.S., La Wantzenau, France 100 ­LANXESS Epierre SAS, Epierre, France 100 Non-consolidated companies are accounted for at cost. These com­LANXESS Finance B.V., Sittard-Geleen, Netherlands 100 ­LANXESS Holding Hispania, S.L., Barcelona, Spain 100 panies are immaterial to the LANXESS Group’s earnings, asset and ­LANXESS International SA, Granges-Paccot, Switzerland 100 financial position, since together they account for less than 0.1% of ­LANXESS Kimya Ticaret Limited Şirketi, Istanbul, Turkey 100 Group sales and less than 0.1% of equity. ­LANXESS Limited, Newbury, U.K. 100 ­LANXESS N.V., Antwerp, Belgium 100 PCTS Specialty Chemicals Pte. Ltd., which is based in Singapore, was ­LANXESS Rubber N.V., Zwijndrecht, Belgium 100 consolidated for the first time effective April 5, 2013. The provisional ­LANXESS S.A.S., Courbevoie, France 100 purchase price allocation made with respect to this transaction was ­LANXESS S.r.l., Milan, Italy 100 OOO ­LANXESS, Moscow, Russia 100 not adjusted in light of any new information or knowledge within one OOO ­LANXESS Lipetsk, Lipetsk, Russia 100 year from the acquisition date and is therefore final. Sybron Chemical Industries Nederland B.V., Ede, Netherlands 100 Sybron Chemicals International Holdings Ltd., The same applies to the purchase price allocations for the phosphorus Newbury, U.K. 100 chemicals business of Thermphos France S.A.R.L., Epierre, France, which was acquired on September 14, 2013. Nexachem Trading (Qingdao) Co., Ltd., Qingdao, China, was liquidated in the reporting period. In addition, PCTS Specialty Chemicals Pte. Ltd., Singapore, was merged with LANXESS Butyl Pte. Ltd., Singapore. LANXESS sold all the shares of Perlon-Monofil GmbH, Dormagen, Germany, effective March 19, 2014. These changes had no material impact on the LANXESS Group’s earnings, asset and financial position. 148 LANXESS Annual Report 2014 Company Name and Domicile Company Name and Domicile % Interest held % Interest held Fully consolidated companies Jointly controlled entity North America Germany ­LANXESS Corporation, Pittsburgh, U.S.A. 100 DuBay Polymer GmbH, Hamm 50 ­LANXESS Inc., Sarnia, Canada 100 ­LANXESS Sybron Chemicals Inc., Birmingham, U.S.A. 100 Associate accounted for using the equity method Rhein Chemie Corporation, Chardon, U.S.A. 100 Sybron Chemical Holdings Inc., Wilmington, U.S.A. 100 Germany Currenta GmbH & Co. OHG, Leverkusen 40 Latin America ­LANXESS Elastômeros do Brasil S.A., Rio de Janeiro, Brazil 100 ­ ANXESS Industria de Produtos Quimicos e Plasticos Ltda., L Structured entities São Paulo, Brazil 100 ­LANXESS S.A. de C.V., Mexico City, Mexico 100 EMEA (excluding Germany) ­LANXESS S.A., Buenos Aires, Argentina 100 Dirlem (RF) (Pty) Ltd., Modderfontein, South Africa 49 Rhein Chemie Uruguay S.A., Colonia, Uruguay 100 Rustenburg Chrome Employees Empowerment Trust, ­Modderfontein, South Africa 0 Asia-Pacific ­ ANXESS Elastomers Trading (Shanghai) Co., Ltd., L Non-consolidated immaterial subsidiaries Shanghai, China 100 ­LANXESS (Changzhou) Co., Ltd., Changzhou, China 100 Germany ­LANXESS (Liyang) Polyols Co., Ltd., Liyang, China 100 ­LANXESS Middle East GmbH, Cologne 100 ­LANXESS (Ningbo) Pigments Co., Ltd., Ningbo City, China 100 Vierte LXS GmbH, Leverkusen 100 ­LANXESS Butyl Pte. Ltd., Singapore 100 ­LANXESS Chemical (China) Co., Ltd., Shanghai, China 100 EMEA (excluding Germany) ­LANXESS Hong Kong Limited, Hong Kong, China 100 ­LANXESS Mining (Proprietary) Ltd., Modderfontein, South Africa 100 ­LANXESS India Private Ltd., Thane, India 100 W. Hawley & Son Ltd., Newbury, U.K. 100 ­LANXESS K.K., Tokyo, Japan 100 ­LANXESS Korea Limited, Seoul, South Korea 100 North America ­LANXESS Pte. Ltd., Singapore 100 ­LANXESS Energy LLC, Wilmington, U.S.A. 100 ­LANXESS PTY Ltd., Homebush Bay, Australia 100 ­LANXESS Shanghai Pigments Co., Ltd., Shanghai, China 100 Latin America ­LANXESS Specialty Chemicals Co., Ltd., Shanghai, China 100 ­ ANXESS-TSRC (Nantong) Chemical Industrial Co., Ltd., L Comercial Andinas Ltda., Santiago, Chile 100 Nantong, China 50 Petroflex Trading S.A., Montevideo, Uruguay 100 ­LANXESS (Wuxi) Chemical Co., Ltd., Wuxi, China 100 Rhein Chemie Japan Ltd., Tokyo, Japan 100 Asia-Pacific Rhein Chemie (Qingdao) Co., Ltd., Qingdao, China 90 PCTS Specialty Chemicals Malaysia (M) Sdn. Bhd., Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia 100 Other non-consolidated immaterial companies Latin America Hidrax Ltda., Taboão da Serra, Brazil 39 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 149 Companies consolidated | Notes to the statement of financial position Notes to the statement of financial position 1 Intangible assets Changes in intangible assets were as follows: Changes in Intangible Assets in 2013 € million Acquired goodwill Other Advance payments Total intangible assets Cost of acquisition or generation, Dec. 31, 2012 175 325 28 528 Changes in scope of consolidation 1)/acquisitions 2 8 10 Capital expenditures 18 6 24 Disposals (7) 0 (7) Reclassifications 14 (14) 0 Exchange differences (18) (16) 0 (34) Cost of acquisition or generation, Dec. 31, 2013 159 342 20 521 Accumulated amortization and write-downs, Dec. 31, 2012 (1) (137) 0 (138) Changes in scope of consolidation 1) 0 0 Amortization and write-downs in 2013 (11) (65) 0 (76) of which write-downs (11) (23) 0 (34) Disposals 7 7 Reclassifications 0 0 0 Exchange differences 0 9 9 Accumulated amortization and write-downs, Dec. 31, 2013 (12) (186) 0 (198) Carrying amounts, Dec. 31, 2013 147 156 20 323 1) Including effects of the transition to full consolidation and the change to proportionate consolidation Changes in Intangible Assets in 2014 € million Acquired goodwill Other Advance payments Total intangible assets Cost of acquisition or generation, Dec. 31, 2013 159 342 20 521 Changes in scope of consolidation/acquisitions (1) (1) Capital expenditures 7 12 19 Disposals 0 (1) (1) Reclassifications 4 (4) 0 Exchange differences 5 9 1 15 Cost of acquisition or generation, Dec. 31, 2014 164 361 28 553 Accumulated amortization and write-downs, Dec. 31, 2013 (12) (186) 0 (198) Changes in scope of consolidation 0 0 Amortization and write-downs in 2014 (31) 0 (31) of which write-downs 0 0 Disposals 0 0 Reclassifications 0 0 0 Exchange differences (1) ( 3) (4) Accumulated amortization and write-downs, Dec. 31, 2014 (13) (220) 0 ( 233) Carrying amounts, Dec. 31, 2014 151 141 28 320 The write-downs of goodwill and other intangible assets in fiscal 2013 mainly comprised impairment charges recognized on the Keltan Elastomers, High Performance Elastomers and Rubber Chemicals cashgenerating units as a result of the respective impairment tests. Further information is provided in the section headed “Estimation uncertainties and exercise of discretion.” 150 LANXESS Annual Report 2014 2 Property, plant and equipment Changes in property, plant and equipment were as follows: Changes in Property, Plant and Equipment in 2013 € million Land and Technical Other fixtures, Advance payments Total buildings equipment and fittings and and assets under machinery equipment construction Cost of acquisition or construction, Dec. 31, 2012 1,399 6,201 278 746 8,624 Changes in scope of consolidation 1)/acquisitions 15 (8) 0 0 7 Capital expenditures 44 165 29 414 652 Disposals (24) (104) (24) (5) (157) Reclassifications 113 431 19 (563) 0 Exchange differences (52) (159) (11) (25) (247) Cost of acquisition or construction, Dec. 31, 2013 1,495 6,526 291 567 8,879 Accumulated depreciation and write-downs, Dec. 31, 2012 (864) (4,562) (204) 0 (5,630) Changes in scope of consolidation 1) 3 19 0 22 Depreciation and write-downs in 2013 (95) (446) ( 33) (67) (641) of which write-downs (38) (140) 0 (67) (245) Disposals 23 103 23 5 154 Reclassifications 0 0 0 0 0 Exchange differences 18 93 8 0 119 Accumulated depreciation and write-downs, Dec. 31, 2013 (915) (4,793) (206) (62) (5,976) Carrying amounts, Dec. 31, 2013 580 (1,733) 85 505 2,903 1) Including effects of the transition to full consolidation and the change to proportionate consolidation Changes in Property, Plant and Equipment in 2014 € million Land and Technical Other fixtures, Advance payments Total buildings equipment and fittings and and assets under machinery equipment construction Cost of acquisition or construction, Dec. 31, 2013 1,495 6,526 291 567 8,879 Changes in scope of consolidation/acquisitions (5) (28) 0 0 (33) Capital expenditures 25 146 17 485 673 Disposals (11) (138) (11) (3) (163) Reclassifications 39 190 13 ( 242) 0 Exchange differences 44 156 6 54 260 Cost of acquisition or construction, Dec. 31, 2014 1,587 6,852 316 861 9,616 Accumulated depreciation and write-downs, Dec. 31, 2013 (915) (4,793) (206) (62) (5,976) Changes in scope of consolidation 4 25 0 29 Depreciation and write-downs in 2014 (48) (315) (30) (2) (395) of which write-downs (2) (26) (2) (2) (32) Disposals 7 138 11 1 157 Reclassifications (1) (14) (2) 17 0 Exchange differences (12) (82) (4) 0 (98) Accumulated depreciation and write-downs, Dec. 31, 2014 (965) (5,041) (231) (46) (6,283) Carrying amounts, Dec. 31, 2014 622 1,811 85 815 3,333 Write-downs were recognized on buildings and infrastructure, techniRubber Business Unit. In 2013, impairment charges were recognized cal equipment and machinery and assets under construction due to for the Keltan Elastomers, High Performance Elastomers and Rubber reorganization or other events that gave rise to a decline in value. The Chemicals cash-generating units, as explained in the section headed write-downs in fiscal 2014 mainly related to a pilot facility in the Butyl “Estimation uncertainties and exercise of discretion.” Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 151 Notes to the statement of financial position Capitalized property, plant and equipment include assets with the Data from the Statement of Financial Position following gross and net values held under finance leases: € million Dec. 31, Dec. 31, 2013 2014 Assets Held Under Finance Leases Non-current assets 476 653 € million Dec. 31, 2013 Dec. 31, 2014 Current assets 523 524 Total assets 999 1,177 Gross Net Gross Net Non-current liabilities 696 1,110 carrying carrying carrying carrying amount amount amount amount Current liabilities 245 269 Total liabilities 941 1,379 Buildings 3 3 3 2 Equity 58 (202) Technical equipment Adjustment of LANXESS’s interest and and machinery 62 37 87 59 equity valuation (46) 116 Fittings and equipment 10 6 18 11 Pro rata loss not recognized in consolidated 75 46 108 72 financial statements 0 86 Investments accounted for using the equity method 12 0 Directly attributable borrowing costs of €17 million (2013: €15 million)­ were capitalized. The average cost of debt for the LANXESS Group was 3.6% in 2014 (2013: 4.5%). The €12 million decrease (2013: €4 million increase) in the carrying amount of investments accounted for using the equity method – after taking into account income of €2 million (2013: €0 million) from 3 Investments accounted for using the equity method ­Currenta GmbH & Co. OHG, Leverkusen, Germany, which is accounted for using the equity method – arose from losses of €19 million­(2013: As in the previous year, Currenta GmbH & Co. OHG, Leverkusen, gains of 23 million) recognized in other comprehensive income and the Germany, was accounted for using the equity method. As of the first obligation to assume the pro rata loss of €5 million (2013: profit transquarter of 2013, the investment in LANXESS-TSRC (Nantong) Chemifer of €2 million). In 2013, the carrying amount was further ­reduced cal Industrial Co., Ltd., Nantong, China, was no longer accounted for by disbursements of €12 million from reserves and by €8 million using the equity method. Instead, the company was fully consolidated relating to the first-time full consolidation of LANXESS-TSRC (Nanas a subsidiary. tong) Chemical Industrial Co., Ltd., Nantong, China. The divestment of Anhui Tongfeng Shengda Co., Ltd., Tongling, China, in 2013 had The following tables show the main items of the income statements, no impact on the carrying amount of the investments. statements of comprehensive income and statements of financial position of investments accounted for using the equity method: A share of the losses in fiscal 2014 and of the accumulated losses of Currenta GmbH & Co. OHG, Leverkusen, Germany, amounting to Data from the Income Statement and Statement of Comprehensive Income €86 million was not recognized in the consolidated financial state€ million 2013 2014 ments (2013: €0 million). Sales 1,386 1,311 Operating result (EBIT) 50 43 Income after income taxes 14 5 4 Investments in other affiliated companies Other comprehensive income, net of income tax 63 (261) Total comprehensive income 77 (256) This item contains interests in other affiliated companies totaling­ €13 million (2013: €13 million). As of December 31, 2014, all the other investments classified as available-for-sale financial assets – apart from the shares in Gevo, Inc., Englewood, United States, and BioAmber Inc., Minneapolis, United States – comprised unlisted equity instruments. Since the fair values of these instruments at the closing date could not be reliably determined, they were recognized at cost. There are currently no plans to dispose of these investments. 152 LANXESS Annual Report 2014 5 Derivative financial instruments The LANXESS Group expects that, of the unrealized losses on currency hedges recognized in other comprehensive income in 2014, The derivative financial instruments held by the LANXESS Group €42 million will be reclassified from equity to profit or loss in 2015 comprise forward exchange contracts and are capitalized in the conand €8 million in 2016 (2013: €7 million of unrealized gains in 2014 solidated financial statements for fiscal 2014 at a total fair value of and €2 million of unrealized losses in 2015). €19 million (2013: €78 million). Instruments with a negative fair value totaling €121 million (2013: €34 million) are recognized as liabilities. Information on the maturity structure of derivative assets and liabilities is given in Note [35]. Derivative Financial Instruments € million Dec. 31, 2013 Notional Positive Negative 6 Other non-current and current financial assets amount fair values fair values Current forward Other Financial Assets exchange contracts 2,037 58 (22) € million Dec. 31, 2013 Non-current forward exchange contracts 401 20 (12) Non-current Current Total 2,438 78 ( 34) Receivables under finance leases 0 2 2 Available-for-sale financial assets 1 0 1 Other financial receivables 10 4 14 Derivative Financial Instruments 11 6 17 € million Dec. 31, 2014 Notional Positive Negative amount fair values fair values Other Financial Assets Current forward € million Dec. 31, 2014 exchange contracts 2,120 14 (101) Non-current Current Total Non-current forward exchange contracts 383 5 (20) Receivables under finance leases – – – 2,503 19 (121) Available-for-sale financial assets 1 0 1 Other financial receivables 10 5 15 11 5 16 Cash flow hedges As of December 31, 2014, the unrealized losses recognized in other comprehensive income in 2014 or earlier periods from currency hedging contracts that qualify for hedge accounting As of the reporting date, there were no receivables from lease agreeamounted to €50 million (2013: unrealized gains of €5 million). In ments (finance leases) in which the other party, as lessee, is to 2014, €1 million was reclassified from equity to profit or loss due to be r­ egarded as the economic owner of the leased assets (2013: the realization of the hedged transactions and recognized as a loss ­€2 million­due within one year). (2013: gain of €5 million). Currency hedging contracts concluded to hedge future sales in foreign currencies had a total notional amount of Write-downs of other financial assets amounted to €7 million (2013: €1,017 million (2013: €967 million). As of December 31, 2014, these €7 million) and related to other financial receivables which have been contracts had positive fair values of €3 million (2013: €35 million)­ written down entirely. and negative fair values of €73 million (2013: €30 million).­Contracts with a total notional amount of €756 million (2013: €712 million) were due within one year. The hedged cash flows will be realized within the next three years. Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 153 Notes to the statement of financial position 7 Other non-current assets 9 Trade receivables Other non-current assets are carried at amortized cost less any All trade receivables – totaling €1,015 million (2013: €1,070 ­million) –­ ­write-downs. No write-downs were made in 2013 or 2014. are due within one year. Of the trade receivables, €3 million (2013: €3 million) pertained to investments accounted for using the equity Other non-current assets comprised: method and €1,012 million (2013: €1,067 million) pertained to other customers. Other Non-Current Assets € million Dec. 31, Dec. 31, Trade receivables as of December 31, 2014, are stated after 2013 2014 ­write-downs of €17 million (2013: €18 million) on gross receivables Receivables from pension obligations 22 0 of €17 million (2013: €19 million). Other receivables 33 33 55 33 The changes in write-downs of trade receivables were as follows: Write-Downs of Trade Receivables The €22 million decline in receivables from pension obligations was € million 2013 2014 mainly attributable to the change in value of the plan assets held by (13) (18) Balance at beginning of year the associated pension fund. The other receivables include periodic Additions charged as expenses (9) (4) accruals and other reimbursement claims. Reversals/utilization 3 6 Exchange differences 1 (1) Balance at end of year (18) (17) 8 Inventories The inventories of the LANXESS Group comprised: The maturity structure of past-due trade receivables was as follows: Inventories Maturity Structure of Past-Due Trade Receivables € million Dec. 31, Dec. 31, € million Dec. 31, Dec. 31, 2013 2014 2013 2014 Raw materials and supplies 238 260 Carrying amount 1,070 1,015 Work in process, finished goods and merchandise 1,061 1,124 of which neither impaired nor past due 939 896 1,299 1,384 of which unimpaired but past due by up to 30 days 106 94 between 31 and 60 days 12 15 between 61 and 90 days 7 3 Inventories of €227 million (2013: €246 million) are reflected at net more than 90 days 5 7 realizable value. The changes in write-downs of inventories were as follows: With regard to trade receivables that were neither impaired nor past due, there were no indications as of the closing date that the respecWrite-Downs of Inventories tive debtors would not meet their payment obligations. € million 2013 2014 Balance at beginning of year (86) ( 92) Additions charged as expenses (36) (65) 10 Near-cash assets Reversals/utilization 28 33 Changes in scope of consolidation – 1 The near-cash assets of €100 million (2013: €106 million) comprise Exchange differences 2 (4) units of money market funds that can be sold at any time and are Balance at end of year (92) (127) expected to be realized within twelve months after the closing date. 154 LANXESS Annual Report 2014 11 Other current assets warrants or convertible bonds issued by the company and its affiliates subscription rights to the number of new shares for which such parOther receivables and other assets totaling €185 million (2013: ties would be entitled to subscribe upon exercise of their conversion €198 million) are stated at amortized cost less any write-downs, or option rights. Moreover, subscription rights can be excluded with which were €2 million in 2014. They principally comprise miscelthe approval of the Supervisory Board when the company’s capital laneous claims for tax refunds amounting to €144 million (2013: stock is increased against contributions in kind, particularly for the €128 million),­m ­ ainly pertaining to sales taxes, and other reimburseacquisition of companies. Subscription rights can also be excluded ment claims from goods and service transactions. with the approval of the Supervisory Board in order to grant holders of convertible and/or warrant bonds issued by the company or its affiliates new shares upon exercise of their rights. Finally, subscription rights 12 Equity can also be excluded with the approval of the Supervisory Board if the issue price of the new shares is not significantly lower than the stock Capital stock The capital stock of LANXESS AG amounted to market price at the time the issue price is fixed and the issued shares €91,522,936 as of December 31, 2014 and is composed of do not exceed 10% of the company’s capital stock. The upper limit 91,522,936 no-par bearer shares. All shares carry the same rights of 10% of the capital stock is reduced by the proportionate interest in and obligations. One vote is granted per share, and profit is distributed the capital stock attributable to those shares issued or sold during the per share. term of this authorization while excluding stockholders’ rights in direct or analogous application of Section 186, Paragraph 3, Sentence 4 Capital increase On May 7, 2014, the Board of Management of of the German Stock Corporation Act. Further details are given in LANXESS AG resolved, with the approval of the Supervisory Board Section 4, Paragraph 2 of the articles of association. and pursuant to the authorization of the Annual Stockholders’ Meeting of May 28, 2010, on Authorized Capital II, to increase the capital stock In addition, pursuant to Section 4, Paragraph 3 of LANXESS AG’s of LANXESS AG by a nominal amount of €8,320,266, corresponding articles of association, the Annual Stockholders’ Meeting on May 28, to nearly 10% of the capital stock, by the issuance of 8,320,266 new 2010, authorized the Board of Management until May 27, 2015, no-par bearer shares under exclusion of stockholders’ subscription with the approval of the Supervisory Board, to increase the comparights, in order to strengthen the LANXESS Group’s financial position. ny’s capital stock on one or more occasions by issuing new no-par The new shares were placed with international investors through an shares against cash or contributions in kind up to a total amount of accelerated bookbuilding process at a price of €52 per share. The €8,320,268 (Authorized Capital II). In fiscal 2014, €8,320,266 of capital increase took effect on May 9, 2014, when it was entered in the Authorized Capital II of €16,640,534 was used to increase the the commercial register. The placement increased the company’s share capital. Stockholders are generally entitled to subscription rights equity by the gross proceeds of €433 million. The transaction costs of­ when Authorized Capital is utilized. With the approval of the Supervi€7 million were recorded as a deduction from equity, taking tax effects sory Board, subscription rights can be excluded for residual amounts of €2 million into account. Following this capital increase, the capital and in order to grant holders of warrants or convertible bonds issued stock of LANXESS AG is now €91,522,936. by the company and its affiliates subscription rights to the number of new shares for which such parties would be entitled to subscribe upon Authorized capital As of December 31, 2014, the company’s authoexercise of their conversion or option rights. Moreover, subscription rized capital comprised the following: rights can be excluded with the approval of the Supervisory Board when the company’s capital stock is increased against contributions in Authorized Capital I and II Pursuant to Section 4, Paragraph 2 of kind, particularly for the acquisition of companies. Subscription rights LANXESS AG’s articles of association, the Annual Stockholders’ can also be excluded with the approval of the Supervisory Board in ­Meeting on May 23, 2013, authorized the Board of Management order to grant holders of convertible and/or warrant bonds issued by until May 22, 2018, with the approval of the Supervisory Board, to the company or its affiliates new shares upon exercise of their rights. increase the capital stock on one or more occasions by issuing new Finally, subscription rights can also be excluded with the approval of the no-par shares against cash or contributions in kind up to a total amount Supervisory Board if the issue price of the new shares is not significantly of €16,640,534 (Authorized Capital I). Stockholders are generally lower than the stock market price at the time the issue price is fixed entitled to subscription rights when Authorized Capital is utilized. and the issued shares do not exceed 10% of the company’s capital With the approval of the Supervisory Board, subscription rights can stock. The upper limit of 10% of the capital stock is reduced by the be excluded for residual amounts and in order to grant holders of proportionate interest in the capital stock attributable to those shares issued or sold during the term of this authorization while excluding stockholders’ rights in direct or analogous application of Section 186, Paragraph 3, Sentence 4 of the German Stock Corporation Act. Further details are given in Section 4, Paragraph 3 of the articles of association. Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 155 Notes to the statement of financial position Conditional capital As of December 31, 2014, the company’s conSection 186, Paragraph 3, Sentence 4 of the German Stock Corporaditional capital comprised the following: tion Act, in which case the issued shares may not exceed a total of 10% of the capital stock either at the time this authorization takes Conditional capital The Annual Stockholders’ Meeting of LANXESS AG effect or at the time it is utilized; on May 18, 2011, authorized the Board of Management until May 17, • if profit-participation rights or income bonds without option or con2016, with the approval of the Supervisory Board, to issue – in one or version rights or conversion obligations are vested with bond-like more installments – warrant bonds and/or convertible bonds, profitcharacteristics. participation rights and/or income bonds or a combination of these instruments (collectively referred to as “bonds”) – as either registered Share buyback and retirement The Annual Stockholders’ Meeting of or bearer bonds – with a total nominal value of up to €2,000,000,000, LANXESS AG on May 18, 2011, authorized the Board of Management with or without limited maturity, and to grant option rights to, or impose until May 17, 2016, to acquire shares in the company representing up option obligations on, the holders or creditors of warrant bonds, profitto 10% of the capital stock and to utilize them for any purpose permitparticipation rights with warrants or income bonds with warrants, and/or ted by law. This authorization may also be utilized by subsidiaries of the to grant conversion rights to, or impose conversion obligations on, the company or by third parties on behalf of the company or its subsidiaries. holders or creditors of convertible bonds, convertible profit-participation At the discretion of the Board of Management, such shares may be rights or convertible income bonds in respect of bearer shares of the acquired either in the market or via a public tender offer. The Board of company representing a total pro rata increase of up to €16,640,534 Management is authorized to use them for any purpose permitted by in the company’s capital stock on the terms to be defined for these law. In particular, it can retire the shares, sell them other than via the bonds. Pursuant to Section 4, Paragraph 4 of the articles of associastock exchange or an offer to the stockholders, or transfer them against tion, the capital stock of LANXESS AG is thus conditionally increased consideration in kind for the purpose of acquiring companies, parts of by up to €16,640,534 (Conditional Capital). companies or equity interests in companies or in order to conclude mergers. It is also authorized to use them to satisfy conversion rights The conditional capital increase shall only be implemented to the extent from convertible or warrant bonds and/or profit-participation rights or that the holders or creditors of, or persons obligated to exercise, option income bonds (or a combination of these instruments) issued by the or conversion rights pertaining to bonds issued by the company or company and to grant holders of convertible or warrant bonds and/ a dependent company against cash contributions, or issued against or profit-participation rights or income bonds (or a combination of cash contributions and guaranteed by the company or a dependent these instruments) issued by the company or its direct and indirect company, on or before May 17, 2016, on the basis of the authorization­ affiliates that grant a conversion or option right or stipulate a convergranted to the Board of Management by the Annual Stockholders’ sion or warrant obligation the number of shares for which such parties Meeting on May 18, 2011, exercise their option or conversion rights or, would be entitled to subscribe upon exercise of their conversion or where they are obligated to do so, fulfill such obligation, or to the extent option rights or fulfillment of the conversion or warrant obligation. The that the company elects to grant shares in the company in place of all stockholders shall not have subscription rights in such cases, except or part of the cash amount due for payment. The conditional capital where the shares are retired. increase shall not be implemented if cash compensation is granted or if the company’s own shares, shares issued out of authorized capital Capital reserves The capital reserves of LANXESS AG were increased or shares in another listed company are used to service the option or by €419,456,790 in the fiscal year and stood at €1,225,652,280 conversion rights. as of December 31, 2014. When issuing bonds, the Board of Management is authorized, with Other reserves The €437 million decrease in other reserves to the approval of the Supervisory Board, to exclude subscription rights €1,253 million was entirely attributable to the decrease in retained in the following cases: earnings from €1,531 million to €1,094 million. • for residual amounts resulting from the subscription ratio; • insofar as is necessary to grant to holders of previously issued opRetained earnings comprise prior years’ undistributed income of comtion or conversion rights or obligations subscription rights to the panies included in the consolidated financial statements. They also number of new shares to which they would be entitled to subscribe contain remeasurements of the net defined benefit liability from postas stockholders upon exercise of their option or conversion rights or employment benefit plans and the related tax effects. fulfillment of their option or conversion obligations; • in the case of issuance against cash contributions, if the issue price is Other equity components The other equity components mainly comnot significantly below the theoretical market value of the bonds with prise exchange differences from the translation of operations outside option or conversion rights or conversion obligations, as determined the eurozone and remeasurements of derivatives for purposes of cash using accepted pricing models; if bonds are issued by application of flow hedge accounting. 156 LANXESS Annual Report 2014 Non-controlling interests Non-controlling interests comprise the inMulti-employer plans The pension plan in Germany financed through terests held by other stockholders in the equity of Europigments, Bayer-Pensionskasse is also accounted for in the consolidated finanS.L., Barcelona, Spain, Rhein Chemie (Qingdao) Co., Ltd., Qingdao, cial statements as a defined contribution plan. The above amounts China, and LANXESS-TSRC (Nantong) Chemical Industrial Co., Ltd., include contributions of €28 million (2013: €28 million) to BayerNantong, China. Pensionskasse. Contributions of about the same amount are expected for the following fiscal year. Capital management The main purpose of capital management in the LANXESS Group is to maintain the long-term viability of the business Bayer-Pensionskasse is a legally independent private insurance comoperations and achieve an attractive return on capital compared to pany and is therefore subject to the German Insurance Supervision the chemical industry average. LANXESS’s financial policy defines Act. Since the obligations of the participating entities are not cona second key criterion for capital management, which is to maintain fined to payment of the contributions for the respective fiscal year, an investment-grade rating. To achieve this goal, the Group has to Bayer-Pensionskasse constitutes a defined benefit multi-employer meet indicators set by the rating agencies. Most of these are derived plan and therefore would normally have to be accounted for pro rata from the statement of financial position, the income statement or the as a defined benefit plan. statement of cash flows. Details can be found in the section headed “Value management and control system” in the combined manageBayer-Pensionskasse is financed not on the principle of coverage ment report for fiscal 2014. Capital management in the LANXESS for individual benefit entitlements, but on the actuarial equivalence Group entails decisions by the relevant internal bodies on the capital principle, based on totals for the whole plan. This means that the sum structure shown on the statement of financial position, the appropriof existing plan assets and the present value of future contributions ateness of the company’s equity, the use of the distributable profit, must be at least equal to the present value of the future benefits paythe amount of the dividend, the financing of capital expenditures, and able under the plan. The LANXESS Group is therefore exposed to the thus on issuances or repayments of debt. The articles of association actuarial risks of the other entities participating in Bayer-Pensionskasse. of LANXESS AG do not contain any specific capital requirements. Thus no consistent or reliable basis exists for allocating the benefit obligation, plan assets and costs that would enable LANXESS to account for Bayer-Pensionskasse as a defined benefit plan in accordance 13 Provisions for pensions and other with IAS 19. As contributions are based on future coverage of the post-employment benefits total obligation, all participating entities pay contributions at the same rates based on the employee income levels on which social security Most employees in the LANXESS Group are entitled to retirement contributions are payable. Bayer-Pensionskasse is therefore accounted benefits on the basis of contractual agreements or statutory regulafor as a defined contribution plan and not as a defined benefit plan. tions. These are provided through defined contribution or defined benefit plans. There are no minimum funding requirements, nor is there any information that could be used to estimate the future contributions on Defined contribution plans In the case of defined contribution plans, the basis of current underfunding or overfunding. The statutes do the company pays contributions into separate pension funds. These not provide for the sharing of any surplus or shortfall in the event that contributions are included in the functional cost items as expenses Bayer-Pensionskasse is wound up or LANXESS ceases to participate. for the respective year, and thus in the operating result. Once the contributions have been paid, the company has no further payment LANXESS’s share of the total contributions to Bayer-Pensionskasse obligations. Payments to defined contribution plans in 2014 totaled was unchanged from the previous year at approximately 17%. Bayer€49 million (2013: €49 million). Pensionskasse has been closed to new members since January 1, 2005. Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 157 Notes to the statement of financial position Defined benefit plans The global post-employment benefit obligations Only limited defined benefit pension obligations exist on the basis of are calculated at regular intervals – at least every three years – by an statutory regulations. These principally comprise obligations to make independent actuary using the projected unit credit method. Coma lump-sum payment if employment is terminated. The amount of this prehensive actuarial valuations are generally undertaken annually for payment mainly depends on years of service and final salary. all major post-employment benefit plans. The other post-employment benefit obligations primarily relate to the reContractually based defined benefit pension plans exist primarily in imbursement of retirees’ healthcare costs in North and South America. Germany, Canada and Brazil. The other post-employment benefit obligations in Germany comprise other long-term benefits payable to employees and benefits payable The defined benefit pension obligations in Germany mainly relate to upon termination of employment. These are mainly early-retirement lifelong benefits payable in the event of death or disability or when benefits and collectively agreed salary components granted in the the employee reaches retirement age. Benefits are determined on form of pension benefits. They are included in pension provisions as the basis of the total annual pension increments earned during the they are by nature pension entitlements. period of employment and vary according to employees’ individual salaries. Additional pension entitlements exist that are related to salThe defined benefit pension obligations are financed both internally ary components set aside by employees and are payable when they through provisions and externally through legally independent pension reach retirement age. Alongside direct commitments, the pension funds. The pension obligations in Germany are partly covered on a adjustment obligation assumed by Bayer-Pensionskasse is accounted voluntary basis via LANXESS Pension Trust e.V., Leverkusen, Germany. for in a separate defined benefit plan in accordance with Section 16 The allocation of funds to LANXESS Pension Trust e.V. is dependent of the German Occupational Pensions Improvement Act (BetrAVG). on future decisions by the company. In Canada and Brazil, pension obligations have to be financed through pension funds. Allocations In Canada, the defined benefit obligations comprise, in particular, to pension funds in these countries are determined by the regulatory lifelong pension benefits, which are payable in the event of disability environments and the need to comply with funding regulations. Conor death or when the employee reaches retirement age. The level of tributions are paid mainly by the employer. The investment strategy is these benefits is determined from the total annual pension increments determined principally by the LANXESS Corporate Pension Committee earned during the period of employment, depending on the employee’s and is designed to protect the capital, optimally manage risks, take individual salary and the actual date of retirement. The existing defined into account changes in pension obligations and ensure the timely benefit pension plans are closed to new members. availability of plan assets. At the regional level, the strategy is generally directly coordinated and monitored by representatives of LANXESS via In Brazil, the defined benefit obligations comprise lifelong benefits, the relevant committees of the pension funds or of LANXESS Pension principally in the event of death or disability or when the employee Trust e.V., taking regulatory requirements into account. In Brazil, the reaches retirement age. The benefits are calculated according to the investment of plan assets forms an integral part of the pension fund’s total annual pension increments earned during the period of employoverall investment strategy and is basically managed and supervised ment and also depend on individual salary, the number of years for by the pension fund. which statutory social insurance contributions have been paid, and comparable statutory pension benefits. The principal defined benefit Minimum funding requirements may have to be met for defined benefit pension plans are closed to new members. obligations in both Brazil and Canada. These depend on the local regulatory framework and are reflected in additional pension provisions. Funding surpluses from defined benefit plans are recognized as receivables relating to pension obligations to the extent that they can be used to reduce future contributions, taking into account the asset ceiling. These mainly relate to defined benefit plans in Brazil. The respective calculations are based on actuarial valuations. 158 LANXESS Annual Report 2014 In 2014, total expenses of €120 million (2013: €106 million) for The table shows the amounts recognized in other comprehensive defined benefit plans were recognized in profit or loss and are split income rather than profit or loss in 2014: between the operating result and the financial result as follows: Amounts Recognized in Other Comprehensive Income Expenses for Defined Benefit Plans € million Pension plans Other post-­ employment benefit € million Pension plans Other post-­ plans employment benefit plans 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 Return on plan assets excluding amounts included in interest (45) 21 0 0 Operating result Actuarial gains/losses Current service cost 34 37 36 38 from ­changes in demographic Past service cost 17 10 (9) 0 assumptions 0 (17) 0 0 Gains/losses from settlements 0 0 – – Actuarial gains/losses from Administration expenses/taxes 1 1 0 0 changes in financial ­assumptions 101 (282) 7 (7) Actuarial gains/losses from Actuarial gains/losses from changes in financial a­ ssumptions – – 0 2 ­experience adjustments (37) (12) 4 2 Financial result Changes in effects of the asset ceiling (61) 2 – – Net interest 22 27 5 5 Changes in effects of minimum Recognized in profit or loss 74 75 32 45 funding requirements (2) (15) – – Amounts recognized in other comprehensive income (44) (303) 11 (5) Administration expenses in the operating result contain expenses from the investment of assets that are not directly attributable to the earning of income on plan assets. The costs of managing the plan assets that The change in the net defined benefit liability for post-employment are directly attributable to the earning of income on plan assets are benefit plans is shown in the following table: recognized in other comprehensive income. Changes in Net Defined Benefit Liability The actuarial gains and losses relate to other non-current employee € million Pension plans Other post-­ benefits or termination benefits that are included in pension provisions employment benefit plans because they are by nature retirement benefits. 2013 2014 2013 2014 The net interest is the balance of the interest expense from compoundNet defined benefit liability, January 1 708 797 121 124 ing the defined benefit obligation, interest expense from changes in Recognized in profit or loss 74 75 32 45 the effects of the asset ceiling and minimum funding requirements, Recognized in other and interest income from plan assets. comprehensive income 44 303 (11) 5 Employer contributions (13) (21) 0 (1) Benefits paid (21) (22) (10) (17) Business combinations and disposals 1 (5) 0 0 Exchange differences 4 3 (8) 4 Net defined benefit liability, December 31 797 1,130 124 160 Recognized in the statement of financial position Receivables from pension obligations (22) 0 – – Provisions for pensions and other post-employment benefits 819 1,130 124 160 Net defined benefit liability, December 31 797 1,130 124 160 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 159 Notes to the statement of financial position The components of the reconciliation of the net recognized liability Remeasurements of the defined benefit liability due to changes in actuare explained in the following tables, which show the development of arial gains and losses resulting from changes in financial assumptions the defined benefit obligation, the external plan assets and the effects are mainly attributable to changes in the discount rates for defined of the asset ceiling and minimum funding requirements, and explain benefit obligations in the main countries of relevance for LANXESS. the major changes. The changes in past service cost for pension obligations and in current The defined benefit obligation developed as follows: service cost for the other post-employment benefit obligations result mainly from the “Advance” and “Let’s LANXESS again” programs in Change in Defined Benefit Obligation Germany and relate to early-retirement agreements, to improvements € million Pension plans Other post-­ to existing benefit entitlements for employees taking early retirement, employment benefit and to severance agreements. In the previous year, the other postplans employment benefit obligations included a negative change in past 2013 2014 2013 2014 service cost in the United States due to the new regulatory requireDefined benefit obligation ments aimed at securing health care benefits. Defined benefit obligation, January 1 1,854 1,787 125 128 Current service cost The disposals result from the divestment of Perlon-Monofil GmbH, 34 37 36 38 Interest expense 90 93 5 5 Dormagen, Germany. Actuarial gains/losses from changes in demographic The other additions in 2013 mainly resulted from the reclassification assumptions 0 17 0 0 Actuarial gains/losses from of existing pension plans in Belgium as defined benefit plans because changes in financial assumptions (101) 282 (7) 9 the insurance companies’ guaranteed interest rates have dropped Actuarial gains/losses from below the statutory minimum return on contributions to corporate experience adjustments 37 12 (4) (2) Past service cost pension plans. 17 10 (9) 0 Gains/losses from settlements 0 0 – – Employee contributions 1 2 – – The exchange differences pertaining to defined benefit obligations Benefits paid (70) (78) (10) (17) mainly resulted from changes in the exchange rates for the Canadian Disbursements for settlements – 0 – – dollar and the Brazilian real. Business combinations and disposals 1 (6) – 0 Other additions 33 0 – – The change in external plan assets is shown in the following table: Administration expenses/taxes 0 0 0 0 Exchange differences (109) 22 (8) 5 Change in External Plan Assets Defined benefit obligation, € million Pension plans Other post-­ December 31 1,787 2,178 128 166 employment benefit plans Of the defined benefit obligation for pensions, Germany accounts 2013 2014 2013 2014 for 58% (2013: 56%), Canada for 22% (2013: 22%) and Brazil for Plan assets at fair value 15% (2013: 17%). Plan assets, January 1 1,146 1,046 4 4 Interest income 68 73 0 0 Return on plan assets excluding The other post-employment benefit obligations comprise €74 ­million amounts included in interest (45) 21 0 0 (2013: €63 million) for the reimbursement of health care costs and Gains/losses from settlements – – – – €92 million (2013: €65 million) for miscellaneous other benefit comEmployer contributions 13 21 0 1 mitments. Employee contributions 1 2 – – Benefits paid (49) (56) 0 0 Disbursements for settlements – – – – The actuarial gains and losses from changes in demographic asBusiness combinations and sumptions result from the application of new mortality tables, mainly disposals – (1) – – in Canada. Other additions 33 – – – Costs of managing plan assets/ taxes (1) (1) 0 0 Exchange differences (120) 20 0 1 Plan assets, December 31 1,046 1,125 4 6 160 LANXESS Annual Report 2014 Of the plan assets, Canada accounts for 40% (2013: 37%), Brazil for The fair value of plan assets is comprised as follows: 34% (2013: 36%) and Germany for 19% (2013: 20%). Breakdown of Plan Assets as of December 31 Employer contributions are used both for external funding of pension € million 2013 2014 obligations where LANXESS is eligible for reimbursements of penCash and cash equivalents 69 25 sion payments and for external funding of pension obligations where of which quoted in an active market 69 25 subsequent pension payments will be made directly out of external Equity instruments 231 215 plan assets. of which quoted in an active market 120 110 Government bonds 245 393 of which quoted in an active market 245 393 The latter type of obligations exists mainly outside Germany and Corporate bonds 372 268 ­totaled €21 million in 2014 (2013: €13 million). External funding of which quoted in an active market 304 204 where LANXESS can assert reimbursement claims mainly pertains Investment funds 35 132 to LANXESS Pension Trust e.V. No additional funding was provided of which quoted in an active market 16 102 to LANXESS Pension Trust e.V in 2014 or 2013. Real estate 27 23 Insurance contracts 55 60 The disposals result from the divestment of Perlon-Monofil GmbH, of which quoted in an active market 0 1 Other 16 15 Dormagen, Germany. of which quoted in an active market 0 3 1,050 1,131 The exchange differences pertaining to plan assets mainly resulted from changes in the exchange rates for the Canadian dollar and the Brazilian real. The plan assets do not include any real estate used by the company, nor do they normally include any financial instruments owned by the Changes in the effects of the asset ceiling and minimum funding company. However, plan assets could conceivably include index prodrequirements are shown in the following table: ucts containing LANXESS securities. Changes in Effects of the Asset Ceiling and Minimum Funding The following weighted discount rates were used to calculate the Requirements for Defined Benefit Plans defined benefit obligation and determine the pension expense: € million Effects of the Minimum funding asset ceiling requirements Valuation Assumptions as of December 31 2013 2014 2013 2014 % Pension plans Other post-­ January 1 0 54 0 2 employment benefit Interest expense 0 7 0 0 plans Additions (+) / deductions (–) 61 (2) 2 15 2013 2014 2013 2014 Exchange differences (7) 0 0 1 Discount rate 5.31 4.38 3.98 2.87 December 31 54 59 2 18 Germany 3.75 2.75 1.43 0.59 Canada 4.50 3.75 4.75 3.75 Brazil 12.25 12.50 12.25 12.50 Changes in the effects of the asset ceiling mainly relate to the Brazilian defined benefit pension plans, while changes in minimum funding requirements relate to the Canadian plans. The following weighted valuation assumptions were used for the other parameters: Valuation Assumptions as of December 31 % Pension plans Other post-­ employment benefit plans 2013 2014 2013 2014 Expected salary increases 3.4 3.3 3.2 3.1 Expected benefit increases 2.2 2.3 – – Expected increases in medical costs – – 7.3 7.0 Expected long-term increases in medical costs – – 5.2 5.1 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 161 Notes to the statement of financial position The assumptions are weighted on the basis of the defined benefit Sensitivity is calculated by altering one parameter while leaving all the ­obligation at year end. The discount rates used for Germany and Canada others unchanged. The method used is the same as for the a­ ctuarial are derived from high-quality fixed-interest corporate bonds with the valuation of benefit obligations. However, sensitivity calculations desame maturities. In Brazil, however, there is no liquid market for such pend on interest rate effects and the absolute change in the parambonds so the discount rate is based on those for government bonds eter. Moreover, it is unlikely in practice that only one parameter would with the same maturities. This method of deriving the discount rates is change, so the change in a parameter could correlate with other unchanged from the previous year in the principal countries. assumptions. Where the expected development of the parameter used in the sensitivity calculation was based on a different variation The long-term cost increase for medical care is expected to take place in the parameter, the stated change in the benefit obligation was apwithin 13 years (2013: 13 years). proximated using the straight-line method. The Heubeck mortality tables 2005 G form the biometric basis for The weighted average duration of defined benefit pension obligations the computation of pension obligations in Germany. Current national was 17 years (2013: 16 years). This figure was based on weighted biometric assumptions are used to compute benefit obligations at average durations of 21 years (2013: 20 years) for Germany, 13 years other Group companies. (2013: 11 years) for Canada and 10 years (2013: 12 years) for Brazil. The weighted average duration of the defined benefit obligations for A change in the principal valuation parameters would result in the other post-employment benefits was 7 years (2013: 9 years). ­following percentage changes in the defined benefit obligation: The funded status is reported in the following table as the underfundSensitivities of Defined Benefit Obligations as of December 31, 2014 ing or overfunding of the defined benefit obligation after deduction of % Pension plans Other post-­ plan assets, without taking into account changes in the effects of the employment benefit asset ceiling or minimum funding requirements: plans 2013 2014 2013 2014 Funded Status as of December 31 Discount rate € million Pension plans Other post-­ +0.5%-pt. (8.1) (7.8) (3.3) (2.9) employment benefit – 0.5%-pt. 8.7 8.9 3.7 3.2 plans Expected salary increases 2013 2014 2013 2014 +0.25%-pt. 0.5 0.5 0.2 0.2 Funded status – 0.25%-pt. (0.4) (0.5) (0.2) (0.2) Defined benefit obligation for Expected benefit increases funded plans 1,497 1,790 12 14 +0.25%-pt. 3.6 3.9 – – External plan assets (1,046) (1,125) (4) (6) – 0.25%-pt. (3.2) (3.7) – – Underfunding of funded plans 451 665 8 8 Mortality Defined benefit obligation for – 10% 2.7 2.7 3.2 1.1 unfunded plans 290 388 116 152 Expected increases in medical costs Funded status, December 31 741 1,053 124 160 +1%-pt. – – 3.7 3.6 – 1%-pt. – – (3.4) (3.3) The expected cash outflow for pension fund contributions and benefit payments in 2015 is €42 million based on year-end 2014 exchange The sensitivity of the mortality rates was calculated for the countries rates. with significant pension obligations. A reduction in mortality increases the individual life expectancy of insurees. A 10% reduction would increase the average life expectancy of employees of retirement age in the countries of importance for LANXESS by about one year. 162 LANXESS Annual Report 2014 14 Other non-current and current provisions On the closing date, the LANXESS Group had other current provisions of €350 million (2013: €355 million) and other non-current provisions of €275 million (2013: €258 million). The maturity structure of other provisions is shown in the following table: Other Provisions € million Dec. 31, 2013 Dec. 31, 2014 Up to 1 year 1–5 years Over 5 years Total Up to 1 year 1–5 years Over 5 years Total Personnel 100 49 39 188 142 43 34 219 Environmental protection 16 18 71 105 15 27 74 116 Trade-related commitments 96 6 – 102 68 8 – 76 Restructuring 39 14 5 58 30 12 5 47 Miscellaneous 104 44 12 160 95 55 17 167 355 131 127 613 350 145 130 625 The total of other provisions increased from €613 million to €625 million­in 2014. The changes in other provisions were as follows: Changes in Other Provisions in 2014 € million Jan. 1, 2014 Additions Interest effect Utilization Reversals Exchange Dec. 31, 2014 ­differences Personnel 188 138 3 (99) (14) 3 219 Environmental protection 105 8 4 (6) 0 5 116 Trade-related commitments 102 35 1 (49) (14) 1 76 Restructuring 58 15 0 (21) (6) 1 47 Miscellaneous 160 68 1 (28) (36) 2 167 613 264 9 (203) (70) 12 625 Personnel-related provisions Personnel-related provisions are mainly established for annual performance-related compensation and multiyear compensation programs. Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 163 Notes to the statement of financial position Multi-year compensation programs Obligations arising from the stock-based compensation are valued on the basis of the following principal parameters: Stock-based compensation LANXESS AG offers a stock-based compensation program to members of the Management Board and Principal Parameters as of December 31 top-level managers. The program provides for cash settlement. Fol% 2013 2014 lowing the granting of rights under a three-year Long-Term Incentive Expected share price volatility 37.0 34.0 Plan launched in 2008 (LTIP 2008–2010), a new Long-Term Stock Expected dividend payment 2.0 2.0 ­Performance Plan (LTSP 2010–2013) was introduced in 2010 under Expected volatility of which rights were granted for the years 2010–2013. Awards are Dow Jones STOXX 600 ChemicalsSM 20.0 19.0 Correlation between LANXESS stock and based on the performance of LANXESS stock relative to the Dow Dow Jones STOXX 600 ChemicalsSM 77.0 73.0 Jones STOXX 600 ChemicalsSM. The Long-Term Stock Performance Expected volatility of Plan (LTSP 2014–2017) introduced in 2014 is largely identical with MSCI World Chemicals Index – 16.0 Correlation between LANXESS stock and the LTSP 2010–2013. The main difference is that awards are based MSCI World Chemicals Index – 66.0 on the performance of LANXESS stock relative to the MSCI World Risk-free interest rate 0.6 0.0 Chemicals Index. The base price of the stock and the benchmark index for the LTSP programs are calculated using a volume-weighted average of the closing prices on the first ten trading days in January­ The relevant risk-free interest rate in 2014 was 0.01 % (2013: 0.63%). of the year of issue of the tranche. The date of issue of the rights granted and still outstanding and the rights from the outstanding tranches is The expected volatilities are based on the historical volatility of February 1 each year. Participation in the programs is conditional LANXESS stock and the Dow Jones STOXX 600 ChemicalsSM or the upon each manager making a personal investment in LANXESS stock, MSCI World Chemicals Index in the past four years. depending on his/her base salary. LTIP 2008–2010 If LANXESS stock outperformed the index, a payment of at least €0.75 per right was made. For each percentage point up to 5% by which the stock outperformed the index, €0.05 was paid in addition. For each percentage point above 5%, €0.06667 was paid in addition. The maximum possible payment per right, however, was €2.00. LTSP 2010–2013 and LTSP 2014–2017 If LANXESS stock outperforms the respective index, a payment of at least €0.75 per right is made. For each percentage point by which the stock outperforms the index, €0.125 is paid in addition. The maximum possible payment per right, however, is €2.00. 164 LANXESS Annual Report 2014 At the end of 2014, there were no longer any rights outstanding from the LTIP programs. The following table provides information on the tranches of the other programs outstanding as of December 31, 2014: LTIP and LTSP LTIP LTSP LTSP 2008 – 2010 2010 – 2013 2014 – 2017 Tranche 2010 Tranche 2010 Tranche 2011 Tranche 2012 Tranche 2013 Tranche 2014 Duration 6 years 7 years 7 years 7 years 7 years 7 years Vesting period 3 years 4 years 4 years 4 years 4 years 4 years Holding period for personal investment shares Feb. 1, 2013 Jan. 31, 2017 Jan. 31, 2017 Jan. 31, 2017 Jan. 31, 2017 Jan. 31, 2018 Initial ­LANXESS share price €27.28 €27.28 €55.60 €44.54 €63.25 €47.41 Initial Dow Jones STOXX 600 ChemicalsSM price 432.44 points 432.44 points 564.17 points 533.45 points 665.98 points – Initial MSCI World Chemicals Index price – – – – – 238.07 points Fair value per right as of December 31, 2013 €0.90 €0.92 €0.15 €0.26 €0.25 – Fair value per right as of December 31, 2014 – €0.25 €0.05 €0.10 €0.07 €0.54 Change in number of outstanding rights Outstanding rights as of January 1, 2014 9,888 9,525,520 10,493,544 11,532,576 12,774,998 – Rights granted – – – – – 13,619,349 Rights exercised 9,888 9,392,924 – – – – Rights compensated – 35,883 2,009,082 2,117,354 2,183,824 1,701,484 Rights forfeited – 85,734 929,130 998,254 1,065,541 269,070 Outstanding rights as of December 31, 2014 0 10,979 7,555,332 8,416,968 9,525,633 11,648,795 LANXESS shares were trading at €38.46 at year end 2014. The Dow LANXESS stock plan An employee stock plan was implemented Jones STOXX 600 ChemicalsSM benchmark index stood at 786.36 in 2013 under which LANXESS staff could purchase shares in the points, while the MSCI World Chemicals Index was 256.43 points. company at a 50% discount. Employees acquired a total of 225,419 LANXESS shares under this program. These shares must be retained Due to the exercise of the rights from the 2010 tranche of the LTSP for at least three years. Since there are no further conditions attached 2010–2013 at maximum value and the settlement of rights in connecto this stock plan, the discount of €5 million in the prior year was tion with LANXESS’s realignment program, net expense of €16 million ­expensed immediately. Stock plans are discretionary benefits granted was recorded in 2014 (2013: net gain of €3 million). The rights from by LANXESS and do not confer any right to receive or claim similar the tranches granted in 2010 were exercised at maximum value. A benefits in the future. provision of €3 million existed as of December 31, 2014 (2013: €12 million). Of this amount, the intrinsic value of rights exercisable as of the closing date accounted for €0 million (2013: €0 million). Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 165 Notes to the statement of financial position Environmental provisions The Group’s activities are subject to extenvisions for environmental remediation costs are stated at the present sive legal requirements in the jurisdictions in which it does business. value of the expected commitments where environmental assessments ­Compliance with environmental laws may require LANXESS to remove or clean-ups are probable, the costs can be reasonably estimated and or mitigate the effects of the release or disposal of chemical substances no future economic benefit is expected to arise from these measures. at various sites. Under some of these laws, a current or previous site Costs are estimated based on significant factors such as previous owner or plant operator may be held liable for the costs of removing experience in similar cases, environmental assessments, current cost hazardous substances from the soil or groundwater on its property levels and new circumstances affecting costs, our understanding of or neighboring areas, or rendering them harmless, without regard to current environmental laws and regulations, the number of other powhether the owner or operator knew of or caused the presence of tentially responsible parties at each site and the identity and financial the contaminants, and often regardless of whether the practices that position of such parties in light of the joint and several nature of the resulted in the contamination were legal at the time they occurred. As liability, and the remediation methods likely to be employed. many of LANXESS’s production sites have a long history of industrial use, it is not always possible to accurately predict the effects such It is difficult to estimate the future costs of environmental protection situations may have on the LANXESS Group in the future. and remediation because of many uncertainties concerning the legal requirements and the information available about conditions in the Since LANXESS is a chemical company, the possibility therefore cannot various countries and at specific sites. Subject to these factors, but be excluded that soil or groundwater contamination may have occurred taking into consideration experience gained to date with matters of a at its locations in the past. Claims in this regard could be brought similar nature, we believe our provisions to be adequate based upon by government agencies, private organizations or individuals. Such currently available information. However, the possibility that additional claims would then relate to the remediation of sites or areas of land costs could be incurred beyond the amounts accrued cannot be exowned by the LANXESS Group where products were manufactured cluded. LANXESS nevertheless estimates that such additional costs, by third parties under contract manufacturing agreements or where should they occur, would not materially impact the Group’s earnings, waste from production facilities operated by the LANXESS Group was asset and financial position. treated, stored or disposed of. Trade-related commitments Provisions for trade-related commitments Potential liabilities exist with respect to various sites under legislation mainly comprise those for rebates, customer discounts, product resuch as the U.S. environment law commonly known as “Superfund.” turns, impending losses and onerous contracts. At locations in the United States, numerous companies, including LANXESS, have been notified that the U.S. authorities or private indiProvisions for restructuring Provisions for restructuring totaled viduals consider such companies to be potentially responsible parties €47 million­on December 31, 2014 (2013: €58 million). Of this under Superfund or related laws. At some sites, LANXESS may be amount, €25 million (2013: €38 million) comprised provisions for the sole responsible party. Remediation measures have already been human resources measures and €22 million (2013: €20 million) initiated at most of the sites concerned. comprised provisions for other expenses and, to a small extent, for demolition. The existing provisions for environmental remediation costs relate primarily to the rehabilitation of contaminated sites, recultivation of Sundry provisions The sundry provisions contain provisions for guarlandfills, and redevelopment and water protection measures. The proantees and product liability, and provisions for other liabilities. 166 LANXESS Annual Report 2014 15 Other non-current and current financial liabilities The following tables show the structure and maturities of other ­financial liabilities: Other Financial Liabilities as of Dec. 31, 2013 € million Current Non-current 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 > 2018 Total Bonds 500 60 199 497 692 1,448 Liabilities to banks 105 46 46 39 22 153 Liabilities under finance leases 9 6 6 5 4 19 40 Other primary financial liabilities 54 2 1 2 3 8 668 114 252 46 523 714 1,649 Other Financial Liabilities as of Dec. 31, 2014 € million Current Non-current 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 > 2019 Total Bonds 66 199 498 693 1,390 Liabilities to banks 78 10 228 238 Liabilities under finance leases 8 9 7 6 6 36 64 Other primary financial liabilities 30 2 2 2 6 182 220 9 504 234 732 1,698 The following bonds were outstanding on December 31, 2014: Liabilities under lease agreements are recognized if the leased assets are capitalized under property, plant and equipment as the ecoBonds nomic property of the Group (finance leases). Lease payments totalIssuance Nominal Carrying Interest Maturity ing €94 million (2014: €60 million), including €22 million (2013: amount amount rate €11 million) in interest, are to be made to the respective lessors in million € million % future years. September 2009 200 EUR 199 5.500 September 2016 May 2011 500 EUR 498 4.125 May 2018 Other primary financial liabilities include accrued interest of €26 ­million February 2012 500 CNH 66 3.950 February 2015 April 2012 100 EUR 100 3.500 April 2022 (2013: €53 million) on financial liabilities. Of this amount, €24 million April 2012 100 EUR 99 3.950 April 2027 (2013: €52 million) relates to the above-mentioned bonds. November 2012 500 EUR 494 2.625 November 2022 Information on the fair values of financial liabilities and the contractually agreed payments, especially interest payments, is given in Note [35]. The weighted average interest rate for the LANXESS Group’s financial liabilities denominated in euros and other currencies at year end was 3.8% (2013: 4.8%). Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 167 Notes to the statement of financial position 16 Non-current and current income tax liabilities The other current liabilities are recognized at settlement cost. They comprise: The non-current and current income tax liabilities comprised: Other Current Liabilities Income Tax Liabilities € million Dec. 31, Dec. 31, 2013 2014 € million Dec. 31, 2013 Non-current Current Total Payroll liabilities 15 53 Other tax liabilities 45 47 Provisions 49 20 69 Social security liabilities 20 21 Payables – 1 1 Miscellaneous liabilities 46 45 49 21 70 126 166 Income Tax Liabilities The increase in payroll liabilities mainly relates to severance payments € million Dec. 31, 2014 in connection with the “Let’s LANXESS again” program. Non-current Current Total Other tax liabilities include not only Group companies’ own tax liabiliProvisions 25 42 67 ties, but also taxes withheld for payment to the authorities on behalf Payables – 2 2 of third parties. 25 44 69 Social security liabilities include, in particular, social insurance contributions that had not been paid by the closing date. 17 Other non-current and current liabilities The miscellaneous liabilities principally comprise accruals for At year end the other non-current liabilities comprised: outstanding­invoices relating to the reporting period. As of December 31, 2014, there were liabilities of less than €1 million to Currenta Other Non-Current Liabilities GmbH & Co. OHG, Leverkusen, Germany. There were no such liabilities € million Dec. 31, Dec. 31, to other affiliated companies in 2013. 2013 2014 Payroll liabilities 0 14 Social security liabilities 5 5 18 Trade payables Miscellaneous liabilities 84 99 89 118 Trade accounts are payable mainly to third parties. As in the previous year, the entire amount totaling €799 million (2013: €690 million) is The miscellaneous non-current liabilities mainly included asset subdue within one year. sidies of €97 million (2013: €83 million) granted by third parties. Trade payables of €109 million (2013: €40 million) related to Currenta GmbH & Co. OHG, Leverkusen, Germany, which is accounted for using the equity method, and its affiliated companies, while trade payables of €690 million (2013: €650 million) related to other suppliers. 19 Further information on liabilities Of the total liabilities, €738 million (2013: €721 million) have maturities of more than five years. The change was mainly attributable to an increase in liabilities under finance leases. 168 LANXESS Annual Report 2014 Notes to the income statement 24 General administration expenses 20 Sales The general administration expenses, amounting to €278 million (2013: €301 million), comprise costs not directly related to operaSales, which amounted to €8,006 million (2013: €8,300 million), tional business processes and the costs for the country organizations. mainly comprise goods sold less discounts and rebates. A breakdown of sales and the change in sales by segment and region 25 Other operating income is given in the segment information (see Note [37]). Other Operating Income € million 2013 2014 21 Cost of sales Income from non-core business 92 84 Income from hedging with Cost of Sales derivative fi­ nancial ­instruments 7 0 Income from the reversal of provisions 5 8 € million 2013 2014 Gains from the disposal of non-current assets 3 1 Expenses for raw materials and merchandise 4,234 4,000 Income from reversals of write-downs of Direct manufacturing and other production costs 2,518 2,418 ­receivables and other assets 1 1 6,752 6,418 Miscellaneous operating income 20 24 128 118 Direct manufacturing costs include those for personnel, depreciation, amortization, write-downs, energies, and goods and services procured. The other production costs mainly comprise inventory valuation effects 26 Other operating expenses and inventory discrepancies. Other Operating Expenses € million 2013 2014 22 Selling expenses Expenses for non-core business 84 74 Write-downs of trade receivables Selling Expenses and other current assets 9 4 Expenses for hedging with € million 2013 2014 derivative financial instruments 0 3 Marketing costs 471 459 Exceptional items 381 184 Outward freight charges and of which impairment charges recognized on other selling expenses 284 283 cash-generating units 257 0 755 742 Losses from the disposal of non-current assets 1 0 Miscellaneous operating expenses 52 43 527 308 The selling expenses mainly comprise those for the internal and external marketing and sales organization, freight charges, warehousing, packaging and the provision of advice to customers. Of the exceptional items of €184 million (2013: €124 million, excluding impairment charges recognized on cash-generating units), €70 million (2013: €72 million) was allocable to the cost of sales in 23 Research and development expenses line with its economic relevance, while €39 million (2013: €9 million) was allocable to research and development expenses, €32 million The research and development expenses of €160 million (2013: (2013: €22 million) to administration expenses, €23 million (2013: €186 million) mainly include the costs incurred to gain new scientific €9 million) to selling expenses, and €20 million (2013: €12 million) and technical knowledge, expenses relating to the search for alternato miscellaneous operating expenses. tive products and production processes, and costs for applying the results of research. The exceptional items mainly comprise the costs of the “Let’s LANXESS again” program for the global realignment of the Group, and the costs of the “Advance” program initiated the previous year. The research and development costs they include comprise write-downs of €19 million­ on a pilot facility in the Butyl Rubber business unit (Performance Polymers segment). Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 169 Notes to the income statement The impairment charges of €257 million recognized on the cash28 Income taxes generating units in 2013 mainly related to the Performance Polymers segment and, to a lesser extent, the Performance Chemicals segment. This item comprises the income taxes paid or accrued in the individual They were primarily allocable to the cost of sales. Further information countries, plus deferred taxes. Income taxes are computed on the on the background to and the extent of the impairment charges recbasis of local tax rates. ognized can be found in the section headed “Estimation uncertainties and exercise of discretion.” The breakdown of income taxes by origin is as follows: The impairment test performed on the cash-generating units in 2014 Income Taxes by Origin did not show any need for the recognition or reversal of impairment € million 2013 2014 charges. Current taxes (17) (59) Deferred taxes resulting from temporary differences 62 (1) 27 Financial result statutory changes in tax rates 0 0 loss carryforwards 26 24 The financial result is comprised as follows: Income taxes 71 (36) Financial Result € million 2013 2014 In 2014, deferred tax income and deferred tax expenses of roughly the same amount resulted from changes in temporary differences. Income from investments accounted for u ­ sing the equity method 0 2 Interest income 2 3 The actual tax expense for 2014 was €36 million (2013: tax income Interest expense (108) (72) of €71 million). This is €11 million (2013: €5 million) more than the Net interest expense (106) (69) expected tax expense of €25 million (2013: expected tax income of Interest expense from compounding interest-bearing provisious (33) (41) €76 million). Net exchange loss (1) (23) Miscellaneous financial expenses 0 (7) In calculating the expected tax expense for the LANXESS Group, Dividends and income from an unchanged overall tax rate of 31.8% was applied to the German other affiliated companies (6) 0 Other financial income and expense (40) (71) companies. This comprises a corporation tax rate of 15.0%, plus a Financial result (146) (138) solidarity surcharge (5.5% of corporation tax) and trade tax. Interest expense mainly includes payments of bond interest. The amount recognized has been adjusted for capitalized borrowing costs of €17 million­(2013: €15 million). The interest portion of the lease payments under finance leases, amounting to €3 million (2013: €3 million), is included in interest expense. In 2013, the income from other affiliated companies was reduced by €6 million due to a valuation adjustment for the interest held in BioAmber Inc., Minneapolis, United States, resulting from that company’s stock performance. 170 LANXESS Annual Report 2014 The reconciliation of the expected tax result to the actual tax result The deferred taxes recognized in other comprehensive income comis as follows: prised €91 million (2013: €6 million) related to remeasurements of the net defined benefit liability for post-employment benefit plans Reconciliation to Reported Tax Result and €20 million (2013: €3 million) relating to financial instruments. € million 2013 2014 In addition, other comprehensive income contained current taxes of €4 million (2013: minus €1 million). Income (loss) before income taxes (239) 80 Aggregated income tax rate of ­LANXESS AG 31.8% 31.8% Expected tax result 76 (25) Deferred tax assets of €337 million (2013: €75 million) relate to tax Tax difference due to differences between jurisdictions in which losses were recorded in 2014 or 2013. The local tax rates and the hypothetical tax rate (8) (14) increase was mainly attributable to the fact that the corporate tax entity Reduction in taxes due to in Germany reported a loss, primarily due to the exceptional items in tax-free income and reduction of tax bases 4 3 utilization of unrecognized loss carryforwards 0 3 connection with the “Advance” and “Let’s LANXESS again” programs. Increase in taxes due to The deferred tax assets of €231 million for the German tax entity mainly non-tax-deductible expenses (7) (15) related to differences in the valuations of pension provisions for tax Other tax effects 6 12 purposes. LANXESS assumes that is will generate sufficient taxable Actual tax result 71 (36) income in the future to realize the deferred tax assets. Effective tax rate 29.7% 45.0% Based on tax planning calculations and strategies, deferred tax asThe deferred tax assets and liabilities are allocable to the various items sets of €111 million (2013: €85 million) were recognized on the of the statement of financial position as follows: €380 million­(2013: €292 million) in tax loss carryforwards that represent income likely to be realized in the future. This amount included Deferred Taxes deferred taxes of €82 million (2013: 59 million) on loss carryforwards € million Dec. 31, 2013 Dec. 31, 2014 with an unlimited carryforward period. Deferred Deferred Deferred Deferred tax tax tax tax Deferred taxes were not recognized for €158 million (2013: assets ­liabilities assets ­liabilities €192 million)­of tax loss carryforwards. Of this amount, €100 million­ Intangible assets 11 52 9 52 (2013: €147 million) can theoretically be used over more than five Property, plant and equipment 32 119 29 130 years. Further, deferred tax assets were not recognized in 2014 for taxInventories 20 3 31 1 deductible temporary differences of €43 million (2013: €29 million). Receivables and other assets 8 24 8 29 Accordingly, deferred taxes on loss carryforwards of €39 million (2013: Pension provisions 157 0 243 – Other provisions 96 11 93 11 €52 ­million) and deferred tax assets on tax-deductible temporary Liabilities 28 3 58 0 differences of €15 million (2013: €11 million) were not recognized. Loss carryforwards 85 – 111 – 437 212 582 223 of which non-current 264 179 392 182 29 Earnings and dividend per share Set-off (183) (183) (202) (202) 254 29 380 21 The calculation of earnings per share for 2014 included only earnings from continuing operations and was based on the weighted average The change in deferred taxes is calculated as follows: number of shares outstanding during the reporting period. As of December 31, 2013, 83,202,670 shares were outstanding. The capital Changes in Deferred Taxes increase in the second quarter of 2014 outlined in Note [12] resulted in € million 2013 2014 the issuance of 8,320,266 new shares, so from this time 91,522,936 Deferred taxes as of January 1 129 225 Tax income/expense recognized in the income statement 88 23 Changes in scope of consolidation (5) (1) Deferred taxes recognized in other comprehensive income 9 111 Exchange differences 4 1 Deferred taxes as of December 31 225 359 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 171 Notes to the income statement | Other information shares were outstanding. The capital increase was taken into account Other information on a pro rata temporis basis when calculating the average number of shares outstanding. On this basis, the weighted average number of 31 Employees shares outstanding in the reporting period was 88,472,172. Since there are currently no equity instruments in issue that could dilute The average number of employees in the LANXESS Group in 2014 earnings per share, basic and diluted earnings per share are identical. was 16,807 (2013: 17,430). The decline compared to the previous Further information on equity instruments that could dilute earnings year was mainly due to employees who left the company as a result of per share in the future is contained in Note [12]. the “Advance” and “Let’s LANXESS again” programs, and to changes in the scope of consolidation. Earnings per Share 2013 2014 Change % Employees by Function Net income (loss) (€ million) (159) 47 > 100 2013 2014 Number of shares outstanding 83,202,670 88,472,172 6.3 Production 12,456 12,163 Earnings per share Marketing 2,082 1,987 (­undiluted/diluted) (€) (1.91) 0.53 > 100 Administration 1,980 1,878 Research 912 779 17,430 16,807 LANXESS AG reported a distributable profit of €53 million for fiscal 2014 (2013: €48 million). The dividend payment made to stockholders of LANXESS AG during fiscal 2014 amounted to €0.50 per share (2013: €1.00 per share). 32 Contingent liabilities and other financial ­commitments 30 Personnel expenses Contingent liabilities result from guarantees and similar instruments assumed on behalf of third parties. They represent potential future The breakdown of personnel expenses is as follows: commitments in cases where the occurrence of certain events would create an obligation that was uncertain at the closing date. An obligaPersonnel Expenses tion to perform under such contingent liabilities arises in the event of € million 2013 2014 delayed settlement or insolvency of the debtor. Wages and salaries 1,006 1,106 Social security contributions 194 202 Contingent liabilities as of December 31, 2014 amounted to €7 million­ Retirement benefit expenses 128 136 (2013: €8 million). There are no contingent liabilities relating to Social assistance benefits 11 13 ­Currenta GmbH & Co. OHG, Leverkusen, Germany, which is ­accounted 1,339 1,457 for using the equity method. As a personally liable partner in Currenta GmbH & Co. OHG, LANXESS may be required to inject further capital into this company in the future. Total personnel expenses increased in 2014, mainly as a result of the expenses for the “Let’s LANXESS again” program and for performanceApart from provisions, liabilities and contingent liabilities, financial related remuneration. The personnel expenses shown here do not commitments also exist under operating leases. contain the interest expenses for compounding personnel-related provisions, especially pension provisions, which is reflected in the As explained in the section on recognition and valuation principles, financial result (see Note [27]). operating leases are those which – unlike finance leases – do not transfer substantially all risks and rewards incidental to the ownership of the leased assets to the lessee. In the LANXESS Group, operating leases are mainly used for operational reasons and not as a means of financing. 172 LANXESS Annual Report 2014 The minimum non-discounted future lease and rental payments relat33 Related parties ing to operating leases totaled €390 million (2013: €492 million). In the course of its operations, the LANXESS Group sources materials, The respective payment obligations mature as follows: inventories and services from a large number of business partners around the world. These include companies in which LANXESS AG Maturity Structure of Lease and Rental Payments has a direct or indirect interest. Transactions with these companies € million Dec. 31, Dec. 31, are carried out on an arm’s-length basis. 2013 2014 Up to 1 year 61 56 Transactions with Currenta GmbH & Co. OHG, Leverkusen, Germany, 1 to 2 years 54 48 which is accounted for in the consolidated financial statements using 2 to 3 years 49 41 the equity method, and its subsidiaries mainly comprised the purchase 3 to 4 years 41 36 of site services in the fields of utilities, infrastructure and logistics total4 to 5 years 40 35 ing €423 million (2013: €455 million). As of December 31, 2014, More than 5 years 247 174 492 390 trade payables of €109 million (2013: €40 million) and receivables of €3 million (2013: €5 million) existed as a result of these transactions. In addition, a provision of €5 million was recorded as of the reporting Payments under operating leases in 2014 amounted to €67 million date in respect of the claim by Currenta GmbH & Co. OHG to offset (2013: €61 million). Future lease and rental payments include agreethe loss for 2014. There were also payment obligations to Currenta ments relating to the Group’s headquarters in Cologne, to which it GmbH & Co. OHG amounting to €1 million (2013: €5 million) under relocated in 2013, and to the production site in Singapore. operating leases and obligations of €4 million (2013: €3 million) under purchase agreements. Contingent liabilities relating to Currenta Financial commitments resulting from orders already placed under purGmbH & Co. OHG are outlined in the previous section. chase agreements relating to planned or ongoing capital expenditure projects in the area of property, plant and equipment and intangible Information on the compensation of the Board of Management and assets totaled €171 million (2013: €283 million). Of the respective Supervisory Board can be found in the next section. payments, €130 million are due in 2015, €38 million in 2016 and €3 million in 2017. Description of the master agreement Under the master agreement that was concluded between Bayer AG and LANXESS AG together with the Spin-Off and Takeover Agreement, Bayer AG and LANXESS AG agreed, among other things, on commitments regarding mutual indemnification for liabilities in line with the respective asset allocation and on special arrangements allocating responsibility to deal with claims in the areas of product liability, environmental contamination and antitrust violations. The master agreement also contains arrangements for the allocation of tax effects relating to the spin-off and to the preceding measures to create the subgroup that was subsequently spun off. Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 173 Other information 34 Compensation of the Board of Management The balances outstanding to members of the Board of Management and the Supervisory Board totaled €2,336 thousand (2013: €4,706 thousand), comprising provisions of €1,346 thousand (2013: €1,653 thousand) for annual For fiscal 2014, total compensation of €9,982 thousand (2013: bonuses, €687 thousand (2013: €1,899 thousand) for the LTPB and €6,647 thousand) was paid to the members of the Board of Man€303 thousand (2013: €1,154 thousand) for the LTSP. agement of LANXESS AG, comprising €7,649 thousand (2013: €4,777 thousand) in short-term compensation (fixed compensaPension benefits of €293 thousand (2013: €308 thousand) were paid tion, annual bonus, benefits in kind and other), €0 thousand (2013: to former members of the Board of Management. The total obligation €34 thousand) in compensation relating to the previous year, and toward former members of the Board of Management as of Decemother long-term compensation components totaling €932 thousand­ ber 31, 2014 was €27,921 thousand (2013: €11,578 thousand). (2013: €977 thousand) as part of the Long-Term Performance Payments totaling €1,983 thousand were made to former members ­Bonus (LTPB). The total also includes compensation paid under the of the Board of Management in fiscal 2014 (2013: €308 thousand). stock-based L ­ ong-Term Stock Performance Plan (LTSP), under which 1,648,500 share-based compensation rights were granted in 2014 The members of the Supervisory Board received total compensation of (2013: 1,564,125). The fair value of these rights at the grant date was €1,936 thousand in 2014 (2013: €1,874 thousand), which was paid €1,401 thousand (2013: €859 thousand). Personnel expenses for the at the start of the following year. The provisions established for stockstock-based compensation programs amounted to €2,168 thousand based compensation for Supervisory Board members as of Decemin fiscal 2014 (2013: a gain of €887 thousand). ber 31, 2014 amounted to €0 thousand (2013: €1,800 thousand). Details of the compensation system for members of the Board of In addition, the employee representatives on the Supervisory Board Management and an individual breakdown of the compensation are who are on LANXESS’s payroll received remuneration under their given in the “Compensation report” section of the combined manageemployment contracts. The amounts of these salaries represented ment report for fiscal 2014. appropriate compensation for the employees’ functions and tasks within the Group. In addition, service costs of €2,496 thousand (2013: €1,264 thousand) ­relating to defined benefit pension plans were incurred in Details of the compensation system for members of the Supervisory 2014 for members of the Board of Management as part of their Board and an individual breakdown of the amounts paid are contained compensation package. The present value of the defined benefit obin the “Compensation report” section in the combined management ligation as of ­December 31, 2014 was €9,994 thousand (2013: report for fiscal 2014. €21,740 thousand).­ No loans were granted to members of the Board of Management or The total net expense for the compensation of the members of the the Supervisory Board in fiscal 2014 or 2013. Board of Management in 2014 was €14,935 thousand (2013: €6,165 thousand). This amount includes expense of €1,690 thousand for the severance payment made to Dr. Breuers. Together with settlement of his LTSP rights amounting to €729 thousand, benefits granted to a former member of the Board of Management who stepped down during the fiscal year totaled €2,419 thousand and were granted during the fiscal year. 174 LANXESS Annual Report 2014 35 Financial instruments The risks relating to operating activities are systematically monitored and analyzed. To this end, both sales and costs are planned in foreign Primary financial instruments are reflected in the statement of financial currencies. In the long term, exchange rate fluctuations could adversely position. In compliance with IAS 39, financial assets are categorized affect future cash flows should the LANXESS Group not be able to as “loans and receivables,” “held at fair value through profit or loss,” absorb them, for example, by pricing its products in the respective “held to maturity” or “available for sale” and, accordingly, recognized at local currencies. This risk is minimized by partial hedging with derivacost or fair value. Liability instruments that are neither held for trading tive financial instruments. Changes in the fair values of these instrunor constitute derivatives are recognized at amortized cost. ments are recognized in the financial result or, in the case of cash flow hedges, in other comprehensive income. Realized income or expense Risks and risk management The global alignment of the LANXESS from the effective portion of cash flow hedges is recognized in other Group exposes its business operations, earnings and cash flows to a operating income or expenses. Hedging is performed in line with variety of market risks. Material financial risks to the Group as a whole, principles determined by the Board of Management and is subject to such as currency, interest rate, counterparty, liquidity and raw material continuous monitoring. price risks, are centrally managed. If the exchange rate for the euro had been 5% higher against the These risks could impair the earnings and financial position of the hedged currencies on the reporting date, this would have had a LANXESS Group. The various risk categories and the risk management €23 million (2013: €19 million) effect, mainly on other compresystem for the LANXESS Group are outlined below. hensive income, which would have improved accordingly. This effect mainly relates to the U.S. dollar. A correspondingly lower rate for the The principles of risk management are defined by the Board of Maneuro would have had basically the opposite effect. agement. At the regular strategy meetings of the Financial Risk Committee, which are chaired by the Chief Financial Officer, reports on Many companies in the LANXESS Group are based outside the eurothe outcome of financial risk management and on current risks levels zone. Since the Group prepares its consolidated financial statements are presented and any further action is decided upon. Simulations are in euros, the annual financial statements of these subsidiaries are performed to assess the impact of market trends. The implementation translated into euros for consolidation purposes. Changes in the averof the Financial Risk Committee’s decisions and ongoing risk manageage exchange rate for a given local currency from one period to the ment are undertaken centrally by the Treasury Group Function. The next can materially affect the translation of both sales and earnings aim of financial risk management is to identify and evaluate risks and reported in this currency into euros (translation risk). Unlike the effect to manage and limit their effects as appropriate. of exchange rate fluctuations in the case of transaction risk, translation risk has no impact on Group cash flows in the local currency. Currency risks Since the LANXESS Group undertakes transactions in various currencies, it is exposed to fluctuations in the relative value The LANXESS Group has material assets, liabilities and businesses of these currencies. The development of the U.S. dollar against the outside the eurozone that are reported in local currencies. The related euro is of particular relevance. long-term currency risks are estimated and evaluated on a regular basis. In view of these risks, however, foreign currency transactions Currency risks from potential declines in the value of financial instruare only concluded if consideration is being given to withdrawing ments due to exchange rate fluctuations (transaction risks) arise mainly from a particular business and it is intended to repatriate the funds when receivables and payables are denominated in a currency other released by the withdrawal. The effects of exchange rate fluctuations than the company’s local currency. Such risks and the currency risks on the translation of net positions into euros are reflected in other arising on financial transactions, including the interest component, comprehensive income. are generally fully hedged using forward exchange contracts. In the short term, the appreciation or depreciation of the euro against other major currencies can have no material impact on future cash flows due to hedging. Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 175 Other information Interest rate risks Market interest rate movements can cause fluctuaEurope, that could arise up to the end of the respective fiscal year tions in the fair value of a financial instrument. These interest rate in the mid-double-digit millions of euros. The maximum credit risk changes affect both financial assets and financial liabilities. is further reduced by letters of credit in favor of LANXESS. In certain cases, prepayment is agreed with the contracting partner. Since the majority of financial liabilities were entered into at fixed interest rates, changes in interest rates in the coming years will have In addition, LANXESS has a contractually agreed title to goods until only a limited impact on the LANXESS Group. the contractual partner has paid the full purchase price. The vast majority of receivables relate to customers with very high credit standing. The financial liabilities with variable interest rates are covered by investments with short-term fixed interest rates from available liquidity The creditworthiness of the counterparty is a key criterion in the fiso that the LANXESS Group will incur slightly higher interest costs if nancial policy and credit risk management of the LANXESS Group, interest rates increase. A general change of one percentage point in especially in the selection of banks and financial partners for capital interest rates as of December 31, 2014 would have reduced Group investments and transactions involving financial instruments. LANXESS net income by €1 million (2013: increased net income by €1 million). therefore endeavors to undertake transactions with banks and other financial counterparties that have at least an investment-grade rating. Counterparty risks Counterparty risks (credit risks) arise from trade The derivatives and financial assets outstanding as of the closing date relationships with customers and dealings with banks and other finanwere almost all concluded with banks with an investment grade rating. cial partners, especially with regard to the investment business and financial instrument transactions. Credit risk management also includes global management of the counterparty risk relating to all existing relationships with banks and Customer risks are systematically identified, analyzed and managed financial partners. The LANXESS Group pays particular attention to using both internal and external information sources. Customer portrisk diversification to prevent any cluster risks that could jeopardize folios may be insured against credit risks, especially where the risk its existence. Through master agreements, the market values of open profile is elevated. trading positions can be netted if a partner becomes insolvent, thereby further reducing risks. The objective of receivables management at LANXESS is to collect all outstanding payments punctually and in full, and thus to minimize the Liquidity risks Liquidity risks arise from potential financial shortfalls risk of default. Continuous monitoring is computer-assisted, based on and the resulting increase in refinancing costs. The aim of liquidity the payment terms agreed with the customers. These are generally management in the LANXESS Group is to ensure that the Group has in line with the customary payment terms for the business or country. sufficient liquidity and committed credit facilities available at all times Reminders are sent out at regular intervals if payments are overdue. to enable it to meet its payment commitments, and to optimize the liquidity balance within the Group. The maximum risk of default on receivables, cash and cash equivalents, near-cash assets, derivatives and other financial assets is reflected in The main liquidity reserve is a €1.25 billion syndicated credit facility. their carrying amounts in the statement of financial position (disregardIn February 2015, this was extended by one year to February 2020. ing netting arrangements not reflected in the statement of financial There is a further material credit line of €150 million with the Europosition). pean Investment Bank. In addition to credit facilities, the Group has short-term liquidity reserves of €518 million (2013: €533 million) in Credit insurance has been concluded with a well-known European the form of cash and cash equivalents and highly liquid AAA-rated credit insurer to cover material credit risks relating to receivables from money market funds. Accordingly, the LANXESS Group has a liquidity customers. After a deductible, these cover default risks, especially in position based on a broad range of financing instruments. 176 LANXESS Annual Report 2014 The following table shows the contractually agreed (undiscounted) cash flows for primary financial liabilities, the interest components thereof and derivative financial instruments: Dec. 31, 2013 € million 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 > 2018 Bonds (542) (114) (252) (41) (541) (802) of which interest (42) (54) (52) (41) (41) (102) Liabilities to banks (108) (62) (37) (41) (22) 0 of which interest (3) (4) (3) (2) 0 0 Trade payables (690) of which interest 0 Liabilities under finance leases (11) (8) (8) (6) (5) (22) of which interest (2) (2) (2) (1) (1) (3) Other primary financial liabilities (57) (3) (1) (2) 0 0 of which interest (54) 0 0 0 0 0 Derivative liabilities Hedging instruments that qualify for hedge accounting Disbursements (136) (48) Receipts 116 39 Other hedging instruments Disbursements (182) (14) (24) (6) (6) Receipts 180 13 23 5 5 Derivative assets Hedging instruments that qualify for hedge accounting Disbursements (415) (131) (3) Receipts 444 138 3 Other hedging instruments Disbursements (972) (32) (1) (3) Receipts 1,002 38 5 4 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 177 Other information Dec. 31, 2014 € million 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 > 2019 Bonds (96) (252) (41) ( 541) (21) (781) of which interest (30) (52) (41) (41) (21) (81) Liabilities to banks (79) (14) (2) (2) (229) 0 of which interest (1) (4) (2) (2) (1) 0 Trade payables (799) of which interest 0 Liabilities under finance leases (12) (12) (10) (8) (8) (44) of which interest (4) (3) (3) (2) (2) (8) Other primary financial liabilities (30) (2) (2) 0 0 (2) of which interest (26) 0 0 0 0 0 Derivative liabilities Hedging instruments that qualify for hedge accounting Disbursements (618) (227) Receipts 559 214 Other hedging instruments Disbursements (1,086) (32) (4) (1) (13) Receipts 1,041 28 4 0 10 Derivative assets Hedging instruments that qualify for hedge accounting Disbursements (21) ( 9) 0 Receipts 23 9 0 Other hedging instruments Disbursements (191) Receipts 203 4 0 The contractually agreed payments for other primary financial liabilities LANXESS had no forward commodity contracts at year end 2014 due within one year from the reporting date included accrued interest or 2013. of €26 million (2013: €53 million) that mainly related to the bonds. Carrying amounts, measurement and fair value of financial instruRaw material price risks The LANXESS Group is exposed to changes ments The following table shows the carrying amounts of the individual in the market prices of energies and raw materials used for its business classes of financial assets and liabilities and their fair values. The basis operations. Increases in energy and raw material procurement costs are of measurement is also shown: generally passed on to customers. Where such risks cannot be passed on in their entirety, the related risks may be hedged on a case-by-case basis by forward commodity contracts in order to reduce the volatility of cash flows. Where cash flow hedges qualify for hedge accounting, changes in their fair values are recognized in other comprehensive income until the hedged transaction is realized. 178 LANXESS Annual Report 2014 Dec. 31, 2013 € million IAS 39 measurement Carrying amount ­category Dec. 31, 2013 Financial assets Trade receivables LaR 1,070 Receivables under finance leases – 2 Other financial receivables LaR 14 Cash and cash equivalents LaR 427 Available-for-sale financial assets Near-cash assets AfS 106 Other available-for-sale financial assets AfS 14 Derivative assets Hedging instruments that qualify for hedge accounting – 35 Other hedging instruments FAHfT 43 Financial liabilities Bonds FLAC (1,948) Liabilities to banks FLAC (258) Trade payables FLAC (690) Liabilities under finance leases – (49) Other primary financial liabilities FLAC (62) Derivative liabilities Hedging instruments that qualify for hedge accounting – (30) Other hedging instruments FLHfT (4) Dec. 31, 2014 € million IAS 39 measurement Carrying amount ­category Dec. 31, 2014 Financial assets Trade receivables LaR 1,015 Receivables under finance leases – – Other financial receivables LaR 15 Cash and cash equivalents LaR 418 Available-for-sale financial assets Near-cash assets AfS 100 Other available-for-sale financial assets AfS 14 Derivative assets Hedging instruments that qualify for hedge accounting – 3 Other hedging instruments FAHfT 16 Financial liabilities Bonds FLAC (1,456) Liabilities to banks FLAC (316) Trade payables FLAC (799) Liabilities under finance leases – (72) Other primary financial liabilities FLAC (36) Derivative liabilities Hedging instruments that qualify for hedge accounting – (73) Other hedging instruments FLHfT (48) LaR Loans and receivables AfS Available-for-sale financial assets FAHfT Financial assets held for trading FLAC Financial liabilities measured at amortized cost FLHfT Financial liabilities held for trading Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 179 Other information Measurement according to IAS 39 Measurement Fair value ­according to IAS 17 Dec. 31, 2013 Amortized cost Acquisition cost Fair value (other Fair value comprehensive income) (profit or loss) 1,070 1,070 2 2 14 14 427 427 106 106 9 5 5 35 35 43 43 (1,948) (2,032) (258) (264) (690) (690) (49) (51) (62) (62) (30) (30) (4) (4) Measurement according to IAS 39 Measurement Fair value ­according to IAS 17 Dec. 31, 2014 Amortized cost Acquisition cost Fair value (other Fair value comprehensive income) (profit or loss) 1,015 1,015 – – 15 15 418 418 100 100 10 4 4 3 3 16 16 (1,456) (1,630) (316) (316) (799) (799) (72) (78) (36) (36) (73) (73) (48) (48) 180 LANXESS Annual Report 2014 Fair value measurement of the bonds is allocated to Level 1 of the Assets and Liabilities Measured at Fair Value hierarchy outlined in the section “Fair value measurement.” How€ million Dec. 31, 2013 ever, three bonds with a fair value of €311 million are allocated to Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Level 2 as there is no liquid market for them. Fair value measurement Non-current assets of non-current liabilities to banks is also allocated to Level 2. In 2014, Investments in other affiliated their carrying amounts were equal to their fair value. The fair value of companies 4 – – ­liabilities allocated to Level 2 is calculated using discounted cash flows Non-current derivative assets – 20 – and taking account of observed market interest rates. Other non-current financial assets – 1 – Current assets Near-cash assets 106 – – Carrying Amounts by IAS 39 Category Current derivative assets – 58 – € million Dec. 31, Dec. 31, Other current financial assets 0 – – 2013 2014 Non-current liabilities Loans and receivables 1,511 1,448 Non-current derivative liabilities – 12 – Available-for-sale financial assets 120 114 Current liabilities Financial assets held for trading 43 16 Current derivative liabilities – 22 – 1,674 1,578 Financial liabilities measured at amortized cost (2,958) (2,607) Financial liabilities held for trading (4) (48) Assets and Liabilities Measured at Fair Value (2,962) (2,655) € million Dec. 31, 2014 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Fair value measurement The measurement of fair value is based on a Non-current assets hierarchy reflecting the significance of the measurement inputs. The Investments in other affiliated fair value measurement hierarchy for an asset or liability comprises companies 3 – – three levels: Non-current derivative assets – 5 – Other non-current financial assets – 1 – Current assets Level 1 Quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical Near-cash assets 100 – – assets or liabilities on the measurement date Current derivative assets – 14 – Level 2 Inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 Other current financial assets 0 – – that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly Non-current liabilities or indirectly Non-current derivative liabilities – 20 – Level 3 Unobservable inputs for the asset or liability Current liabilities Current derivative liabilities – 101 – The following table shows the volumes of assets and liabilities that were measured at fair value on a recurring basis as of the end of the The investments in other affiliated companies measured at fair value reporting period and the levels of the fair value hierarchy into which pertain to shares in the listed companies Gevo, Inc., Englewood, United the measurement inputs were categorized. Reclassification between States, and BioAmber Inc., Minneapolis, United States. The item “Inthe levels is reviewed as of each reporting date. There were no reclasvestments in other affiliated companies” in the statement of financial sifications in 2013 or 2014. position also includes €10 million in non-listed equity instruments, the fair values of which at the end of the reporting period could not be reliably measured and which are therefore recognized at cost. There are currently no plans to dispose of these investments. Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 181 Other information Offsetting of financial assets and financial liabilities Offsetting was not used for the financial assets and financial liabilities recognized in the statement of financial position. The following table shows how legally enforceable master netting arrangements or similar agreements impact, or could impact, the Group’s financial position: Offsetting of Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities as of December 31, 2013 € million Carrying amount Related amounts not offset in the Net amount of financial statement of financial position instruments Financial instruments Financial collateral Financial assets Trade receivables 1,070 (36) (1) 1,033 Derivative assets 78 (7) 0 71 Financial liabilities Trade payables (690) 36 0 (654) Derivative liabilities (34) 7 0 (27) Offsetting of Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities as of December 31, 2014 € million Carrying amount Related amounts not offset in the Net amount of financial statement of financial position instruments Financial instruments Financial collateral Financial assets Trade receivables 1,015 (30) 0 985 Derivative assets 19 (9) 0 10 Financial liabilities Trade payables (799) 30 0 (769) Derivative liabilities (121) 9 0 (112) Either contracting party may offset on a net basis the positive and negative fair values arising from past-due derivative asset or liability contracts with the same counterparty. 182 LANXESS Annual Report 2014 Net result by category The following table provides an overview of the Net cash used in investing activities Purchases of intangible assets, net results based on the measurement categories defined in IAS 39: property, plant and equipment led to a cash outflow of €614 million in 2014 (2013: €624 million). Cash inflows from investment subsidies Net Results by IAS 39 Category reduced cash outflows for capital expenditures by €25 million (2013: € million 2013 2014 €30 million). Cash inflows from financial assets mainly comprised proceeds from the sale of units in money market funds. The divestment of Loans and receivables (27) 64 Available-for-sale financial assets (6) 0 subsidiaries resulted in a cash inflow of €3 million (2013: €0 million) Assets and liabilities held for trading 41 (120) net of acquired cash and cash equivalents and retrospective purchase Financial liabilities measured at amortized cost (121) (39) price adjustments. Included in interest and dividends received is a cash (113) (95) inflow of €2 million from a profit transfer from Currenta GmbH & Co. OHG, Leverkusen, Germany (2013: cash outflow of €17 million for Net gains and losses principally comprise interest income and expense loss assumption). The cash inflows comprised €4 million (2013: and remeasurement effects. €2 million) in interest received and €4 million (2013: €0 million) from other affiliates. The net cash outflow for investing activities was In addition, fees of €14 million were incurred in 2014 (2013:­ €587 million (2013: €342 million). €9 million) in connection with financial instruments. Net cash used in financing activities The 10% increase in the capital Collateralization of financial liabilities Financial liabilities amounting stock in 2014 resulted in gross proceeds of €433 million (2013: to €0 million (2013: €0 million) were collateralized by mortgages or €0 million). Outflows included €478 million (2013: €58 million) for other property claims. the repayment of borrowings, €131 million (2013: €119 million) for interest paid and other financial disbursements, and €46 million Mezzanine financing Mezzanine instruments such as profit participa(2013: €83 million) for the dividend, including €46 million (2013: tion rights, convertible bonds or warrant bonds have not been issued. €83 million) paid to the stockholders of LANXESS AG. A net cash Information on the possible issuance of such instruments is given in outflow of €222 million (2013: €260 million) was recorded for financNote [12]. ing activities. Details of unused credit facilities are given in Note [35]. Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents, which com36 Notes to the Statement of Cash Flows prise cash, checks and bank balances, amounted to €418 million­ (2013: €427 million). In accordance with IAS 7, this item also Explanation of the method used to calculate and present cash includes­securities with maturities of up to three months from the flows For a general explanation, please see the comments on the date of ­acquisition. statement of cash flows in the section headed “Accounting policies and valuation principles.” Net cash flow provided by operating activities The net cash flow from operating activities is determined by deducting the financial result, depreciation, amortization and write-downs and non-cash items from income before income taxes. A further adjustment is then made for the change in other assets and liabilities. Income before income taxes, which is the starting point for the statement of cash flows, amounted to €80 million (2013: minus €239 million) after depreciation, amortization and write-downs of €426 million (2013: €717 million). Income taxes paid in 2014 amounted to €31 million (2013: €41 million). The change in net working capital resulted in a cash inflow of €147 million­ (2013: €110 million). Taking into account the increase in other assets and liabilities of €103 million (2013: decrease of €15 million), the cash inflow provided by operating activities amounted to €797 million in 2014 (2013: €641 million). Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 183 Other information 37 Segment reporting Key Data by Segment € million Performance Advanced Performance Reconciliation ­LANXESS Polymers Intermediates Chemicals 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 External sales 4,486 4,128 1,647 1,643 2,132 2,193 35 42 8,300 8,006 Inter-segment sales 1 0 51 46 8 9 (60) (55) 0 0 Segment/Group sales 4,487 4,128 1,698 1,689 2,140 2,202 (25) (13) 8,300 8,006 Segment result/EBITDA pre exceptionals 389 392 286 303 231 274 (171) (161) 735 808 Exceptional items affecting EBITDA (17) (41) 1 (10) (50) (34) (45) (79) (111) (164) Segment assets 3,294 3,647 1,026 1,023 1,392 1,455 161 158 5,873 6,283 Segment acquisitions 18 18 0 Segment capital expenditures 405 472 113 94 117 100 41 26 676 692 Depreciation and amortization 253 208 76 84 87 84 22 18 438 394 Write-downs 236 23 1 5 40 2 2 2 279 32 Segment liabilities 817 1,018 577 660 671 816 396 504 2,461 2,998 Employees (December 31) 5,379 5,176 2,854 2,809 5,837 5,613 3,273 2,986 17,343 16,584 Employees (average for the year) 5,419 5,220 2,857 2,813 5,928 5,693 3,226 3,081 17,430 16,807 Key Data by Region € million EMEA (exclud­ Germany North America Latin America Asia-Pacific ­LANXESS ing Germany) 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 External sales by market 2,404 2,296 1,458 1,440 1,332 1,338 966 859 2,140 2,073 8,300 8,006 Non-current region assets 631 642 1,039 1,029 388 413 319 320 882 1,284 3,259 3,688 Acquisitions 18 18 0 Capital expenditures 135 117 229 158 46 46 50 34 216 337 676 692 Employees (December 31) 3,444 3,267 8,117 7,747 1,526 1,371 1,560 1,467 2,696 2,732 17,343 16,584 Notes to the segment reporting The valuation principles applied in The reconciliation eliminates inter-segment items and reflects assets segment reporting correspond to the uniform recognition and valuation and liabilities not directly allocable to the core segments including, in principles used for the consolidated financial statements prepared in particular, those pertaining to the Corporate Center. The reconciliaaccordance with IFRS. tion also includes €0 million (2013: €12 million) relating to Currenta GmbH & Co. OHG, Leverkusen, Germany, which is accounted for using On December 31, 2014, the LANXESS Group comprised the followthe equity method, and the income of €2 million (2013: €0 million) ing reporting segments: from this investment (see note [3]). Segment Operations The transfer prices used for inter-segment business transactions are Performance Polymers Special-purpose rubbers for high-quality rubber prod­ calculated using the OECD rules as if they had been agreed upon ucts, e.g. for use in vehicles, tires, ­construction and between independent third parties in comparable circumstances footwear; engineering plastics; polyamide compounds (arm’s-length principle). Advanced Intermediates Intermediates for the agrochemicals and coatings industries; fine chemicals as precursors and intermediates for pharmaceuticals, agrochemicals and specialty The majority of employees reflected in the reconciliation provide serchemicals; custom manufacturing vices for more than one segment. They include technical service staff. Performance Chemicals Material protection products; inorganic pigments for the coloring of concrete, emulsion paints and other coatings; finishing agents for the leather industry; ­rubber chemicals; reverse osmosis membrane elements and ion exchange resins for water treatment; plastics additives such as flame retardants and plasticizers 184 LANXESS Annual Report 2014 The reporting regions are those into which LANXESS’s activities are Reconciliation of Segment Sales organized: EMEA (Europe [excluding Germany], Middle East, Africa), € million 2013 2014 Germany, North America, Latin America and Asia-Pacific. Total segment sales 8,325 8,019 Other/Consolidation (25) (13) Regional sales are calculated according to the recipient’s place of Group sales 8,300 8,006 business. In fiscal 2014, no individual customer of the LANXESS Group accounted for more than 10% of Group sales. Reconciliation of Segment Results The earnings indicator used for internal management purposes in € million 2013 2014 the LANXESS Group is the operating result before depreciation and Total segment results 906 969 amortization (EBITDA) pre exceptionals (see the section headed “Value Depreciation and amortization (717) (426) management and control system” in the combined management report Exceptional items affecting EBITDA (111) (164) for 2014). This is disclosed as the “segment result.” The starting point Other financial income and expense (40) (71) for calculating EBITDA pre exceptionals is the operating result (EBIT), Net interest expense (106) (69) Income from investments accounted which comprises gross profit, selling expenses, general administration for using the equity method 0 2 expenses, research and development expenses and other operating Other/Consolidation (171) (161) income and expenses. EBITDA pre exceptionals is calculated from Income (loss) before income taxes (239) 80 EBIT by adding back depreciation and impairments of property, plant and equipment, amortization and impairments of intangible assets, disregarding exceptional items. The latter are effects of an unusual Segment assets principally comprise intangible assets, property, plant nature or magnitude. They may include write-downs, restructuring and equipment, inventories and trade receivables. In particular, segexpenses, expenses for the design and implementation of IT projects ment assets do not include cash and cash equivalents, income tax and expenses for portfolio adjustments. receivables, receivables from derivatives, or other financial assets. In view of the Group’s central financial management, interest income Information on equity-method income is contained in Note [3]. and expense and income tax income and expense are not reported This mainly arises from the provision of site services by Currenta at segment level. The write-downs recognized in the Performance GmbH & Co.OHG, Leverkusen, Germany, and is not allocated among Polymers and Performance Chemicals segments in the previous fiscal the segments. year mainly comprised impairment charges resulting from the impairment tests carried out for the Keltan Elastomers, High Performance Reconciliation of Segment Assets Elastomers and Rubber Chemicals cash-generating units. Further € million Dec. 31, Dec. 31, information is provided in the section headed “Estimation uncertain2013 2014 ties and exercise of discretion.” The write-downs in fiscal 2014 mainly Total segment assets 5,712 6,125 related to a pilot facility of the Butyl Rubber business unit (Performance Cash and cash equivalents 427 418 Polymers segment). Deferred tax assets 254 380 Near-cash assets 106 100 Income tax receivables 56 34 In 2014, the exceptional items that impacted EBITDA mainly related to Derivative assets 78 19 measures associated with the “Let’s LANXESS again” and “Advance” Other financial assets 17 16 programs. The corresponding exceptional items in the previous year Other/Consolidation 161 158 mainly resulted from reorganizational measures taken as part of the Group assets 6,811 7,250 “Advance” program. Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 185 Other information Capital expenditures made by the segments mainly comprise additions 39 Declaration of Compliance pursuant to to intangible assets, property, plant and equipment. Section 161 of the Stock Corporation Act All depreciation, amortization and impairments in fiscal 2013 and A Declaration of Compliance with the German Corporate Governance 2014 were recognized directly in profit or loss. Code has been issued pursuant to Section 161 of the German Stock Corporation Act (AktG) and made available to stockholders on the Segment liabilities mainly comprise provisions, trade payables and LANXESS website. other liabilities. In particular, segment liabilities do not include income tax liabilities, liabilities from derivatives, or other financial liabilities. 40 Utilization of disclosure exemptions Reconciliation of Segment Liabilities € million Dec. 31, Dec. 31, In 2014, the following German subsidiaries utilized disclosure exemp2013 2014 tions pursuant to Section 264, Paragraph 3 of the German Commercial Total segment liabilities 2,065 2,494 Code (HGB): Other financial liabilities 2,317 1,880 Derivative liabilities 34 121 •A  liseca GmbH, Leverkusen Income tax liabilities 70 69 •B  ond-Laminates GmbH, Brilon Deferred tax liabilities 29 21 • IAB Ionenaustauscher GmbH Bitterfeld, Greppin Other/Consolidation 396 504 Group liabilities 4,911 5,089 •L  ANXESS Accounting GmbH, Cologne •L  ANXESS Buna GmbH, Marl •L  ANXESS Deutschland GmbH, Cologne •L  ANXESS Distribution GmbH, Leverkusen 38 Audit fees •L  ANXESS International Holding GmbH, Cologne •R  hein Chemie Rheinau GmbH, Mannheim In 2014, total audit fees of €2,731 thousand (2013: €2,151 thou•S  altigo GmbH, Leverkusen sand) for the auditor of the consolidated financial statements of the • Vierte LXS GmbH, Leverkusen LANXESS Group were recognized as expenses. Of this amount, €1,322 thousand (2013: €1,333 thousand) related to the auditing Outside of Germany, LANXESS Limited (registration no. 03498959), of financial statements, €560 thousand (2013: €485 thousand) to Newbury, United Kingdom, utilized the exemption from the auditing of other audit-related services and €849 thousand (2013: €333 thouits annual financial statements as permitted by Section 479A of the sand) to other services rendered to Group companies. The amount U.K. Companies Act 2006. As required by law, LANXESS AG, as the recognized for other services is influenced, among other things, by parent company, guaranteed all outstanding liabilities as of Decema purchase in the area of IT services made by the auditors of the ber 31, 2014, with respect to Section 479C of the U.K. Companies financial statements. The fees for financial statements audit services Act 2006. comprise all fees, including incidental expenses, paid or to be paid for the audits of the consolidated financial statements of the LANXESS Group and the mandatory financial statements of LANXESS AG and its German subsidiaries. 186 LANXESS Annual Report 2014 Responsibility ­Statement To the best of our knowledge, and in accordance with the applicable financial reporting principles, the consolidated financial statements give a true and fair view of the earnings, asset and financial position of the Group, and the combined management report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the LANXESS Group and LANXESS AG, together with a description of the principal opportunities and risks associated with the expected development of the LANXESS Group and LANXESS AG. Cologne, February 27, 2015 LANXESS Aktiengesellschaft The Board of Management Matthias Dr. Bernhard Dr. Rainier Zachert Düttmann van Roessel Consolidated Financial Statements 187 Responsibility Statement | Auditor’s Report Auditor’s Report We have audited the consolidated financial statements prepared by and the combined management report are examined primarily on the LANXESS Aktiengesellschaft, Cologne, comprising the statea test basis within the framework of the audit. The audit includes ment of financial position, the income statement and the statement assessing the annual financial statements of those entities included of comprehensive income, statement of changes in equity, cash flow in consolidation, the determination of the entities to be included in statement and the notes to the consolidated financial statements, consolidation, the accounting and consolidation principles used and together with the group management report, which is combined with significant estimates made by the company’s Board of Management, the management report of the company, for the business year from as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the consolidated January 1 to December 31, 2014. The preparation of the consolifinancial statements and the combined management report. We dated financial statements and the combined management report believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion. in accordance with the IFRSs, as adopted by the E.U., and the additional requirements of German commercial law pursuant to § (Article) Our audit has not led to any reservations. 315a Abs. (paragraph) 1 HGB (“Handelsgesetzbuch”: German Commercial Code) are the responsibility of the parent company’s Board In our opinion based on the findings of our audit the consolidated of Management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the financial statements comply with the IFRSs as adopted by the E.U. consolidated financial statements and the combined management and the additional requirements of German commercial law pursuant report based on our audit. to § 315a Abs. 1 HGB and give a true and fair view of the net assets, financial position and results of operations of the Group in accordance We conducted our audit of the consolidated financial statements with these provisions. The combined management report is consistent in accordance with § 317 HGB and German generally accepted with the consolidated financial statements and as a whole provides a standards for the audit of financial statements promulgated by the suitable view of the Group’s position and suitably presents the oppor­ Institut der Wirtschaftsprüfer (Institute of Public Auditors in Germany) tu­nities and risks of future development. (IDW). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit such that misstatements materially affecting the presentation of the net assets, financial position and results of operations in the conCologne, March 2, 2015 solidated financial statements in accordance with the applicable financial reporting framework and in the combined management PricewaterhouseCoopers report are detected with reasonable assurance. Knowledge of the Aktiengesellschaft business activities and the economic and legal environment of the Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft Group and expectations as to possible misstatements are taken into account in the determination of audit procedures. The effectiveness of the accounting-related internal control system and the evidence Bernd Boritzki Carsten Manthei supporting the disclosures in the consolidated financial statements German Public Auditor German Public Auditor 188 LANXESS Annual Report 2014 About this Report Reporting methodology and data collection GRI The full report made here is aligned to national and international The report is compiled in accordance with GRI Guidelines. We used standards for financial and sustainability reporting: the International the G3.1 Guidelines, issued in March 2011, which include more than Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), the Global Reporting Initiative 120 indicators that describe the company, its sustainability information (GRI) and the principles of the Global Compact. It thus combines and the report itself. GRI reporting is performed annually. financial and sustainability reporting by the LANXESS Group. In the GRI Content Index, we list which criteria from the current GRI The reporting period is 2014. In compiling the data, we applied the Guideline are addressed in the LANXESS Annual Report 2014. In principles of balance, comparability, accuracy, timeliness, clarity and addition to the disclosures contained in this report, supplementary reliability. The report covers the Group companies that are included information can be found on the LANXESS Group website. Our disin the consolidated financial statements. closures have been made in accordance with GRI Application Level B. This has been confirmed by the Global Reporting Initiative in the Environmental protection data are gathered only at those production context of an audit (B+). To ensure the quality of the data, Pricewatersites in which the company has a holding of more than 50%. On achouseCoopers has audited selected indicators with limited assurance. count of their recent acquisition by the LANXESS Group, the following These are identified accordingly in the report. production sites are not yet included: Epierre, France, and Lipetsk, Russia. By contrast, the lost time injury frequency rate (LTIFR), known as MAQ (injuries for every million hours worked) in Germany, applies to all sites in which LANXESS has a holding of more than 50%. In the case of other indicators which do not refer to the LANXESS Group, the areas of scope are explicitly defined in the report. We use an electronic data capture system for the systematic global recording of key performance indicators (KPIs) in the areas of safety and environmental protection. With regard to data collection, we have additionally taken the following recommendations into consideration: Greenhouse Gas Protocol (GHG Protocol), International Energy Agency (IEA). We use a standardized corporate information system for reporting HR data worldwide. Further information 189 About this Report | HSEQ: Independent Assurance Report HSEQ: Independent Assurance Report Independent Assurance Report This responsibility includes the selection and application of appropriate methods to prepare the sustainability data as well as the use of To LANXESS AG, Cologne assumptions and estimates for individual environmental and safety performance data which are reasonable in the circumstances. FurWe have been engaged to perform a limited assurance engagement thermore, the responsibility includes designing, implementing and for selected environmental and safety performance data includmaintaining systems and processes relevant for the preparation of ing supplementing annotations for the period January 1, 2014 to the “Corporate Responsibility” chapter in the Annual Report 2014. ­December 31, 2014. These data can be found in the “Environmental and Safety Performance Data” table in the “Health, safety, environment and climate protection along the value chain” section of the Our Independence and Quality Control “Corporate Responsibility” chapter in the Annual Report 2014 of LANXESS AG, Cologne (hereinafter the Company) marked with*) We have complied with the independence and other ethical require(hereinafter sustainability data). ments of the Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants issued by the International Ethics Standards Board for Accountants, which is founded on fundamental principles of integrity, objectivity, professional Management’s Responsibility competence and due care, confidentiality and professional behaviour. The Company’s Board of Managing Directors is responsible for the The firm applies International Standard on Quality Control 1 and proper preparation of the sustainability data in accordance with the ­accordingly maintains a comprehensive system of quality control incriteria stated in the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines Vol. 3.1 cluding documented policies and procedures regarding compliance (pp. 7–17) of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI): with ethical requirements, professional standards and applicable legal • Materiality, and regulatory requirements. •S  takeholder Inclusiveness, •S  ustainability Context, • Completeness, Practitioner’s Responsibility • Balance, • Clarity, Our responsibility is to express a conclusion based on our work per• Accuracy, formed as to whether any matters have come to our attention that • Timeliness, cause us to believe that the selected sustainability data in the “Health, • Comparability and safety, environment and climate protection along the value chain” sec• Reliability. tion of the “Corporate Responsibility” chapter in the Annual Report 2014 of LANXESS have not been prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the above mentioned criteria of the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines Vol. 3.1 of the GRI. The sustainability data subject to our procedures are marked with*). Any links to external sources of documentation as well as prospective statements and statements from external experts were not in scope of our engagement. We also have been engaged to make recommendations for the further development of CR management and CR reporting based on the results of our ­assurance engagement. 190 LANXESS Annual Report 2014 We conducted our work in accordance with the International Standard Emphasis of Matter – Recommendations on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000. This standard requires that we comply with ethical requirements and plan and perform the assurWithout qualifying our conclusion above, we make the following recance engagement to express our conclusion with limited assurance. ommendations for the further development of CR management and CR reporting: In a limited assurance engagement the evidence-gathering procedures •C onsistent implementation of the internal control system for the are more limited than in a reasonable assurance engagement and HSE data based on the defined target processes particularly with therefore less assurance is obtained than in a reasonable assurance respect to organizational changes and new business units; engagement. •F urther development of an integrated understanding at the ­different company levels with regards to controlling in order to The procedures selected depend on the practitioner’s judgement. use synergy effects to financial controlling more efficiently and to further improve data quality. Within the scope of our work we performed amongst others the ­following procedures: • Interviews with employees who are responsible for reporting the Cologne, February 27, 2015 environmental and safety performance data regarding the processes and controls in place when collecting the environmental PricewaterhouseCoopers and safety performance data; Aktiengesellschaft • Inventory of the processes and inspection of the systems and Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft ­processes that are implemented to collect, calculate, analyze, verify and aggregate the environmental and safety performance data as well as sample testing; Bernd Boritzki Hendrik Fink • Analytical evaluations of the environmental and safety perforWirtschaftsprüfer Wirtschaftsprüfer mance data based on samples in line with the quarterly and (German Public Auditor) (German Public Auditor) ­annually data collection; • Review of internal documents, contracts and invoices/reports of external services providers. Conclusion Based on our limited assurance engagement, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the selected sustainability data have not been prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the criteria of the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines Vol. 3.1 (pp. 7–17) of the GRI. Further information 191 HSEQ: Independent Assurance Report | GRI Content Index GRI Content Index GRI Indicators Location Explanation Status UNGC 1. Strategy and analysis 1.1 Foreword by the Chairman of the Board p. 2 of Management 1.2 Key impacts, risks and opportunities pp. 5 –6, pp. 119 –125 2. Organizational proﬁle 2.1 Name of the organization LANXESS AG 2.2 Primary brands, products or services pp. 68 – 69 2.3 Operational structure, business units p. 68, pp. 147 –148 2.4 Location of the organization’s headquarters Cologne, Germany 2.5 Countries where the organization operates pp. 69 – 70, http://lanxess.com/en/ corporate/about-lanxess/ sites-worldwide/ 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form p. 68 2.7 Markets p. 76, pp. 86 – 89 2.8 Scale of the organization Table of key data, inside front cover; p. 28, p. 38, p. 90 2.9 Signiﬁcant changes in the organization’s size, p. 68, pp. 146 –147 structure or ownership 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period p. 17, p. 28, p. 51 3. Report parameters 3.1 Reporting period p. 188 3.2 Date of most recent previous report 2014 3.3 Reporting cycle p. 188 3.4 Contact point regarding the report Masthead 3.5 Process of deﬁning report content p. 17 3.6 Boundary of the report pp. 147 –148, p. 188 3.7 Limitations on the scope or boundary pp. 38 –39, p. 188 of the report 3.8 Joint ventures, subsidiaries, outsourced pp. 135 –136, p. 188 operations 3.9 Data measurement techniques pp. 38 –39, pp. 142 –145, and the bases of calculations p. 188 3.10 Effects of any re-statements of information p. 38 –39 provided in earlier reports 3.11 Changes in the scope, boundary or pp. 38 –39, p. 68, measurement methods applied in the report pp. 146 –147 3.12 GRI Content Index pp. 191 –197 3.13 External assurance for the report pp. 189 –190 Status: Fully reported Partly reported Not reported T Core indicator T Additional indicator 192 LANXESS Annual Report 2014 GRI Indicators Location Explanation Status UNGC Governance, commitments 4. and engagement 4.1 Governance structure of the organization p. 13 1–10 4.2 Independence of the Chairman of the pp. 55 –56 1–10 ­Supervisory Board 4.3 Independent members of highest governance pp. 55 –56 1–10 body 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees p. 27, p. 49, pp. 57 –58 1–10 to provide recommendations or direction to the highest governance body 4.5 Linkage between compensation for members pp. 26 –27, pp. 103 – 105 1–10 of the highest governance and management bodies and the organization’s performance 4.6 Processes in place to ensure conflicts of interpp. 14 –15 1–10 est are avoided 4.7 Qualifications and expertise of the members of p. 3, 1–10 the highest governance body for guiding the http://lanxess.com/en/ organization’s strategy on economic, environcorporate/about-lanxess/ mental and social topics management/board-ofmanagement/ 4.8 Mission, values, codes of conduct and pp. 13 –16, p. 79 1–10 principles 4.9 Procedures of the highest governance body pp. 6 – 8, pp. 13 –15 1–10 for overseeing the organization’s economic, environmental and social performance 4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest goverpp. 103 – 105 nance body’s own performance with respect to economic, environmental and social performance 4.11 Explanation of how the precautionary principle pp. 77 – 78, pp. 115 –118 7 is addressed 4.12 Participation in and endorsement of externally pp. 14 –15 1–10 developed economic, environmental, and social charters, principles or other initiatives 4.13 Important memberships pp. 14 –15, pp. 74 –75 1–10 4.14 List of stakeholder groups p. 16 4.15 Basis for identification of stakeholder groups pp. 16 –18 4.16 Engagement of stakeholder groups pp. 16 –18, p. 75, pp. 77 –78 4.17 Response to key topics and concerns raised pp. 16 – 18 by stakeholder groups Economic performance indicators Management approach pp. 5 –11, pp. 41 – 43 1, 4, 6, 7 EC1 Direct economic value generated p. 41, p. 92, and distributed pp. 100 –101, p. 129 EC2 Financial implications of climate change pp. 5 –8 7 EC3 Coverage of the organization’s pp. 26 –27, p. 101 defined-benefit plan obligations EC4 Financial assistance received from government EC6 Selection of locally based suppliers p. 74 EC7 Hiring of local human resources pp. 19 – 21, p. 24 6 EC8 Infrastructure investments and services p. 21, pp. 41 – 43 ­provided primarily for public benefit Status: Fully reported Partly reported Not reported T Core indicator T Additional indicator Further information 193 GRI Content Index GRI Indicators Location Explanation Status UNGC Environmental performance indicators Management approach pp. 13 –15, pp. 30 – 36, 7, 8, 9 p. 40, p. 74 EN1 Materials used by weight or volume p. 74 8 EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled Not relevant as LANXESS cannot use any significant quantities 8–9 input materials of recycled input materials in the manufacture of its products. EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy p. 38 8 source EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source p. 38 8 EN5 Energy saved due to conservation p. 33 8–9 and efficiency improvements EN6 Initiatives to increase energy efficiency p. 33, pp. 77 – 78, 8–9 or based on renewable energies http://green-mobility. com/en/home/, http:// webmagazin.lanxess.de/ nimms-leicht/nimms-leicht. html (German only) EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy p. 33 8–9 consumption and reductions achieved EN8 Total water withdrawal by source p. 36, p. 38 8 EN11 Land in or adjacent to protected areas pp. 32 –33 8 EN12 Impacts on biodiversity in protected areas 8 EN13 Habitats protected or restored pp. 32 –33 8 EN16 Direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions pp. 33 – 35, p. 38 8 by weight EN17 Other relevant greenhouse gas emissions p. 35 8 by weight EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions pp. 33 – 35 7–9 EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances p. 38 8 by weight EN20 NOX, SOX and other air emissions by type p. 38 8 and weight EN21 Total water discharge p. 36, p. 38 8 EN22 Quantity of waste by type and disposal method p. 36, p. 39 8 EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills During work to clean a vessel in Krefeld-Uerdingen, Germany, on 8 ­September 9,­­2014, a chemical reaction occurred which resulted in the emission of HCl and SO2. The road adjacent to the Chempark site was closed as a precaution. The vapors were knocked down by the Fire Department. No personal injury occurred. On September 17, 2014, a technical defect at the site in Antwerp, Belgium, resulted for a short time in elevated emissions of sulfur dioxide from a stack. Due to the prevailing weather conditions, this had a negative impact on one production area in a neighboring facility. Several employees received medical treatment but were subsequently able to continue working. The incident’s causes were investigated in detail and technical improvements were installed. EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts p. 31, p. 36, 7–9 http://lanxess.com/en/ corporate/about-lanxess/ megatrends/water/ EN27 Reclaiming of packaging materials p. 35 8–9 EN28 Fines for non-compliance with environmental 8 laws and regulations EN29 Significant environmental impacts of transportpp. 34 –35 8 ing products and other goods and materials used for the organization’s operations, and transporting members of the workforce 194 LANXESS Annual Report 2014 GRI Indicators Location Explanation Status UNGC Labor practices and decent work Management approach pp. 18–26, pp. 28 – 29, 1, 3, 6 p. 40 LA1 Total workforce by employment type, p. 23, pp. 101 – 102 region and gender LA2 Employee turnover by age group, p. 19 6 gender and region LA3 Benefits provided to full-time employees pp. 26 – 27 LA4 Employees covered by collective bargaining p. 27 1, 3 ­agreements LA5 Minimum notice periods regarding significant p. 27 3 ­operational changes LA6 Workforce representation in health 1 and safety c­ ommittees LA7 Injuries, occupational diseases pp. 28 – 29, p. 38, p. 101 1 and work-related accidents LA8 Measures regarding serious diseases p. 26 , pp. 28 –29 1 LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal p. 26 1 ­agreements with trade unions LA10 Hours of training per employee pp. 22 – 24 LA11 Programs for skills management pp. 22 – 25 and lifelong learning LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular pp. 22 – 24 ­performance and career development reviews LA13 Composition of governance bodies p. 3, p. 25, pp. 60 – 61 1, 6 LA14 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration 1, 6 of women to men LA15 Take-up of parental leave, by gender p. 25 Status: Fully reported Partly reported Not reported T Core indicator T Additional indicator Further information 195 GRI Content Index GRI Indicators Location Explanation Status UNGC Human rights Management approach pp. 13 –15, p. 18, 1– 6 pp. 24 – 27, pp. 74 –75 HR1 Investment agreements and contracts that All acquisitions of companies or interests in companies are subject to a 1– 6 include human rights clauses or that have careful due diligence process to ensure that human rights are also respectundergone human rights screening ed by the target company. Significant suppliers of goods and services are regularly the subject of supplier assessments that include aspects such as compliance with our Supplier Code of Conduct, which also covers human rights. In fiscal 2014, we received no reports or other indications of human rights violations by our suppliers. HR2 Percentage of suppliers and contractors that p. 16, pp. 74 –75 1– 6 have undergone human rights screening HR3 Employee training on human rights aspects We do not implement training dedicated to the topic of human rights. In 1– 6 our view, the principles set forth in human rights are so firmly anchored in LANXESS’s corporate culture that no further training appears to be necessary. There was no statistical measurement of the amount of time devoted to the topic of human rights in general compliance training. HR4 Incidents of discrimination and actions taken We have received no reports nor are we aware of any systematic discrimi1, 2, 6 nation of employees by LANXESS with regard to race, skin color, age, gender, sexual orientation, ethnicity, religion, disability, union membership or political opinion. In individual cases, misconduct by employees in respect of colleagues or third parties was reported. We will never tolerate such misconduct, if verifiable, and it will always result in disciplinary sanctions up to and including dismissal. Such incidents are processed decentrally at LANXESS and there is no central reporting system. HR5 Violation of the right to exercise freedom 1– 3 of ­association or collective bargaining HR6 Principles and measures to eliminate The LANXESS Group does not use child labor. By accepting our Supplier 1, 2, 5 child labor Code of Conduct, suppliers also undertake not to use child labor. Significant suppliers of goods and services are regularly the subject of supplier assessments that include aspects such as compliance with our Supplier Code of Conduct. We have received no reports or other indications of the use of child labor by our suppliers. HR7 Principles and measures to eliminate forced The LANXESS Group does not use forced or compulsory labor. By accept1, 2, 4 or compulsory labor ing our Supplier Code of Conduct, suppliers also undertake not to use forced or compulsory labor. Significant suppliers of goods and services are regularly the subject of supplier assessments that include aspects such as compliance with our Supplier Code of Conduct. We have received no reports or other indications of the use of forced or compulsory labor by our suppliers. HR8 Security personnel training LANXESS does not employ its own security personnel at its sites but 1, 2 procures security services from specialized external providers. They, like all our suppliers, are subject to our Supplier Code of Conduct, which also covers human rights. HR9 Violations involving rights of indigenous people In fiscal 2014, we received no reports or other indications of cases involving 1, 2 the violation of indigenous rights. HR10 Operations that have been subject to human Our global Compliance Management System (CMS) covers all of rights reviews and/or impact assessments LANXESS’s business activities. Like all LANXESS’s business entities, the CMS itself is subject to internal and external audits. On account of the full integration of our CMS in the LANXESS organization, all business activities are subject to permanent compliance monitoring, which also covers the respect of human rights. In respect of our suppliers, LANXESS is actively involved in the Tf S (Together for Sustainability) initiative, which was established and is operated by a number of major chemical companies. Respect for human rights is one of the main objectives and criteria of the supplier evaluations and audits that are jointly performed by this initiative. HR11 Number of grievances related to human In fiscal 2014, we received no reports or other indications of grievances rights filed related to human rights. 196 LANXESS Annual Report 2014 GRI Indicators Location Explanation Status UNGC Society Management approach pp. 13 –15, pp. 17 –18, 10 pp. 41 – 43, http://lanxess.com/en/ corporate/about-lanxess/ public-affairs/ SO1 Percentage of operations with implemented pp. 41 – 43 local community engagement, impact assessments and development programs SO2 Business units analyzed for risks related The analysis and monitoring of risks related to corruption are the respon10 to corruption sibility of our Legal & Compliance Group Function. Various analytical approaches and scopes are applied: 1. Assessment of the risk of exposure to corruption and general monitoring of the internal control system: all business units 2. Transaction monitoring to ensure compliance with company regulations with an influence on the prevention of corruption in the standard SAP system: approximately 80% of all transactions 3. Dedicated corruption scans in seven countries which Transparency International deems to be particularly at risk: approximately 20% of all transactions SO3 Percentage of employees trained in antiLANXESS applies a risk-oriented training concept. Corruption training 10 corruption policies and procedures targets exposed professional groups and countries. The proportion of employees from the total workforce who have received classroom-based training is around 15%. SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents In fiscal 2014, we received no reports or other indications of cases of active 10 of corruption corruption by LANXESS employees. In individual cases of verifiable corruption of LANXESS employees (passive corruption), we take disciplinary action (usually dismissal) and, if the legal chances of success are high enough, initiate civil damage claims (damages and criminal litigation). In fiscal 2014, we recorded a single-digit number of cases of passive corruption. SO5 Public policy positions and lobbying pp. 17 –18, 1–10 http://lanxess.com/en/ corporate/about-lanxess/ public-affairs/ SO8 Penalties for non-compliance with laws and regulations SO9 Operations with significant potential or actual pp. 32 – 34, pp. 36 –37, ­negative impacts on local communities p. 120 SO10 Prevention and mitigation measures pp. 32 – 36 implemented Status: Fully reported Partly reported Not reported T Core indicator T Additional indicator Further information 197 GRI Content Index GRI Indicators Location Explanation Status UNGC Product responsibility Management approach pp. 13 –15, pp. 28 – 31 1, 8 PR1 Health and safety impacts during product pp. 28 – 32, pp. 74 – 75 1 life cycles PR3 Type of product and service information pp. 30 – 31 8 required by legislation PR4 Incidents of non-compliance with regulations At the present time, neither our compliance organization nor the Legal & 8 and voluntary codes concerning product and Compliance Group Function yet has a system for recording such cases. We service information met the labeling and reporting deadlines resulting from the REACH and GHS regulations for all affected substances in our portfolio. PR5 Customer satisfaction including results of p. 17 surveys measuring customer satisfaction PR6 Programs for adherence to laws, standards Our communication and marketing activities comply with the relevant and voluntary codes related to advertising laws and regulations, our corporate values and the Code for Legal ­Compliance and Corporate Responsibility at LANXESS. The same applies to product marketing and advertising. PR8 Complaints regarding breaches of customer In fiscal 2014, we received no reports or other indications of complaints 1 privacy and losses of customer data regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data. PR9 Fines for non-compliance with laws and r­ egulations concerning the provision and use of products and services 198 LANXESS Annual Report 2014 Glossary ISO 50001 International standard which defines requirements for systematic energy management to help organizations reduce energy costs, greenhouse gas emissions and other environmental impacts. ISO 9001 International standard which defines minimum requirements for quality management systems. Polyamide A synthetic polymer with very good mechanical and electrical properties and high resistance to chemicals and wear. Industry-specific terms REACH Abbreviation for the Registration, Evaluation, A ­ uthorization CLP and GHS CLP is the abbreviation for classification, labeling and and Restriction of Chemicals. The E.U. REACH Regulation stipupackaging. The E.U. CLP Regulation contains new provisions for the lates the registration, assessment and approval of chemicals ­before classification, labeling and packaging of substances and mixtures. ­marketing. It imposes a duty on manufacturers and importers to It was announced on December 31, 2008 and has already entered ­determine the hazardous characteristics of substances and e ­ stimate into force. their impact on health and the environment. This new regulation is based on the Globally Harmonized System of Synthetic rubber Synthetic rubber is the term used for elastic Classification and Labeling of Chemicals – or GHS for short – which ­polymers produced from petrochemical raw materials. It is the ensures that hazards are labeled in the same way all over the world. ­starting product for rubber production. With a 50 to 60% share of The use of internationally agreed classification criteria and ­labeling production­volume, styrene-butadiene rubber is the most important elements is aimed at making things easier for distributors and at of the s­ ynthetic rubbers. It is used especially in the manufacture of ­protecting people and the environment worldwide from the hazards car tires. that may be caused by chemicals. VOC emissions Volatile organic compounds is the collective term for Compounding facility A facility for processing and finishing engineerorganic carbon compounds that evaporate easily or already become ing plastics to enhance their functional properties. gaseous at low temperatures. Elastomers Stable yet elastic and formable polymers that are used Vulcanization Vulcanization is a process that applies heat and to manufacture tires, rubber bands and sealing rings, for example. ­pressure over time to make rubber more durable. It destroys the plastic properties of the rubber or rubber blend and makes it elastic. ISO 14001 International standard which supports organizations in introducing an environmental policy, formulating environmental targets and implementing these with the aid of an environmental management system. Further information 199 Glossary Financial glossary GDP Gross domestic product: the sum of all goods and services produced by an economy over the period of one year and destined Capital employed This is defined as total assets less deferred tax for consumption. assets and interest-free liabilities. Goodwill Intangible assets from the acquisition of a company. This is Cash flow Inflows and outflows of cash and cash equivalents. measured as the excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair value of the net assets acquired. Corporate governance Responsible corporate management and oversight aligned with long-term value creation. It comprises Hedging An investment position intended to limit or offset certain the o ­ bservance of laws, regulations, recognized standards and clearly identified risks such as exchange rate fluctuations or interest recommen­dations as well as the implementation and application rate changes. of company guidelines and management and control structures. IAS/IFRS International Accounting Standards/International Financial Deferred taxes Tax expense or tax income that is likely to arise in the Reporting Standards. These are uniform international accounting future from temporary differences between the carrying amount used regulations issued by the International Accounting Standards Board in the annual financial statements and the taxable value of ­assets and with the aim of ensuring the global comparability of financial stateliabilities and tax income that is likely to arise in future from unused ments and the publication of information of relevance to decisions. loss carryforwards or tax credits. Joint venture A contractual agreement between two or more partners Due diligence The careful investigation and analysis of a c­ ompany, concerning an economic activity which they manage jointly. particularly in respect of its economic, legal, tax and financial ­condition and its performance in the areas of technology and the Net financial liabilities Calculated as the sum of current and nonenvironment. It is undertaken especially by potential purchasers current financial liabilities (adjusted for liabilities for accrued interest) involved in ­acquisition projects. less cash, cash equivalents and near-cash assets. EBIT Earnings before interest and taxes: the operating result before Net working capital The sum of all inventories and trade accounts deduction of interest and income taxes. receivable less trade accounts payable. EBITDA Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amorti­ Purchase price allocation Distribution of the cost of an acquisition zation: the operating result before deduction of interest and income to the acquired assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities. taxes plus depreciation and impairment losses on property, plant and equipment and amortization and impairment losses on intangible Rating Assessment of a debtor’s credit standing. Ratings are issued assets. by, for example, the world’s leading rating agencies such as Standard & Poor’s, Moody’s Investors Service and Fitch Ratings, but also by EMEA Europe, Middle East, Africa region banks applying their own criteria. Equity method Accounting method that sets the interests in ­affiliated ROCE Return on capital employed: ROCE is the ratio of EBIT pre companies against the acquisition costs, with the result that any exceptionals to capital employed and a measure of profitability. changes in the stakeholder’s interest lead to an adjustment in the net assets of the affiliated company. Sell-side analysts Sell-side analysts work for banks and b ­ rokerages. They produce industry-specific analyses of listed companies. ­These Financial covenants Clauses or (side) agreements in loan agreeare used to assess the stock of the companies analyzed and to ments and term sheets. These are contractually binding promises make investment recommendations. Published in the form of by the borrower or obligor during the term of the loan agreement, ­research s­ tudies, these recommendations are targeted at external for example, that net financial liabilities will not exceed a defined users, ­especially institutional investors, and are intended to provide multiple of an earnings indicator such as EBITDA pre exceptionals. ­investment ideas. 200 LANXESS Annual Report 2014 Index H High Performance Elastomers 8f, 69, 75, 77, 88, 114 High Performance Materials 69, 75, 77, 88, 93, 114 HR policy 18ff. HSEQ targets 40 I Income statement 83ff., 129, 168ff. Inorganic Pigments 69, 93, 114 K A Keltan Elastomers 8f, 69, 93 Advanced Industrial Intermediates 69, 88 L Advanced Intermediates 69, 88f, 114, 183 Leather 69, 78, 114 Annual Stockholders’ Meeting 49, 57f Liquid Purification Technologies 69, 75, 78, 93, 114 Awards 17, 28, 51 Liquidity 97, 115 B M Board of Management 3, 55, 59, 102ff. Markets 5ff., 69, 80f, 112f Bonds 49, 95ff. Material Protection Products 69, 89 Business conditions 80f, 112ff. Materiality matrix 16f Butyl Rubber 8, 69, 88 Megatrends 5f, 70 C Multi-period overview 99 Capital expenditures 10, 92f, 115 N Compensation 26f, 102ff. Net financial liabilities 73f, 92, 98 Compliance 14f, 54f Corporate governance 52ff. O Corporate responsibility 8, 12ff., 79 Offices 59f Customer industries 69, 81, 113 Opportunities 119 ff. D P Declaration of Compliance 53f Performance Butadiene Rubbers 8f, 69, 88, 93, 114 Demography 25f Performance Chemicals 9, 69, 75, 78, 89, 93, 114, 183 Directors’ dealings 58 Performance Polymers 8f, 69, 75, 77, 87f, 93, 114, 183 Diversity 24f Products 5f, 30ff., 77f Dividend 49, 115 R E Rating 50, 95 Earnings per share 86, 170f Realignment 8ff. EBITDA pre exceptionals 9f, 72, 84ff., 114 Research and development 77f EBITDA margin 84, 88ff. Rhein Chemie 9, 69 Education initiative 41ff. Rhein Chemie Additives 9, 69, 114 Employees 18ff., 101f Risk management 115ff., 174ff. Environmental protection 28ff. Rubber Chemicals 9, 69, 89 Equity 91, 131, 154ff. S F Sales 83ff. Financial management 95ff. Saltigo 69, 114 Forecasts 112ff. Segment reporting 87ff., 183ff. Functional Chemicals 9, 69, 89 Sites 69f Stakeholders 16ff. G Statement of cash flows 94, 132, 182 GRI Content Index 191ff. Statement of financial position 90ff., 128, 149ff. Stock 44ff. Strategy 4ff., 70ff., 114ff. Subsidiaries 68, 147f Supervisory Board 55ff., 62ff. Supervisory Board committees 57 Sustainability 5ff., 12ff. T Targets 5ff., 40, 114f Tire & Specialty Rubbers 8, 69 Further Information 201 Index | Graphics and Tables Graphics and Tables Combined Management Report 68 Principal Direct or Indirect Subsidiaries of LANXESS AG 69 Performance Polymers in Brief 69 Advanced Intermediates in Brief 69 Performance Chemicals in Brief 70 LANXESS has a Presence Throughout the World 72 Value Management and Control System 74 Net Financial Liabilities 76 Selling Costs Cover 76 Shares of Sales by Industry Sector C2 LANXESS Group Key Data 78 Research and Development Expenses C2 Sales by Region 78 Number of Employees in Research and Development C2 Employees by Region 80 GDP and Chemical Production in 2014 80 Value of the U.S. Dollar against the Euro 81 Evolution of Major User Industries in 2014 Strategy 82 Comparison of Forecast and Actual Business 2014 6 Corporate Responsibility 83 Key Financial Data 7 Positioning of LANXESS Businesses 83 Group Sales 8 Three-Phase Realignment Program 83 Effects on Sales 9 The New Alignment of Our Business Units 84 Sales by Segment 10 Savings from Phase I of “Let’s LANXESS Again” 84 EBITDA and EBITDA Margin Pre Exceptionals 10 Capital Allocation 85 EBITDA Pre Exceptionals by Segment 85 Reconciliation of EBITDA Pre Exceptionals to EBIT Corporate Responsibility 85 Reconciliation of EBIT to Net Income 14 The Ten Principles of the Global Compact 86 Sales by Market 16 LANXESS Materiality Matrix 87 Sales by Segment 18 HR Strategies 87 Performance Polymers: Overview of Key Data 19 New Employees 88 Performance Polymers: EBITDA and EBITDA Margin Pre Exceptionals 19 Turnover Resulting from Voluntary Resignations 88 Advanced Intermediates: Overview of Key Data 19 Turnover by Region 89 Advanced Intermediates: EBITDA and EBITDA Margin Pre Exceptionals 23 LANXESS Employee Structure by Segment 89 Performance Chemicals: Overview of Key Data 23 LANXESS Employee Structure by Functional Area 89 Performance Chemicals: EBITDA and EBITDA Margin Pre Exceptionals 23 LANXESS Employee Structure by Employment Type 90 Reconciliation: Overview of Key Data 25 LANXESS Employee Structure by Age Group 90 Structure of the Statement of Financial Position 29 Work-Related Injuries to LANXESS Employees Resulting in 90 Structure of the Statement of Financial Position – Assets Absence from Work (LTIFR) 91 Structure of the Statement of Financial Position – Equity and Liabilities 31 REACH Implementation Schedule 92 Ratios 32 Direct and Indirect Energy Consumption by Region 92 Cash Outflows for Capital Expenditures vs. Depreciation and Amortization 33 Energy Consumption 93 Cash Outflows for Capital Expenditures by Segment 33 Energy Consumption by Segment 93 Selected Capital Expenditure Projects 2014 34 Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Scope 1 and Scope 2) 94 Cash Flow Statement 34 Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Scope 1) by Segment 95 Development of LANXESS Ratings and Rating Outlook Since 2010 35 VOC Emissions 96 Financing Structure 36 Water Consumption 96 Maturity Profile of LANXESS Financial Liabilities as of Dec. 31, 2014 36 Wastewater 97 LANXESS Eurobond Spreads vs. BBB Corporates Index 36 Total Waste 99 Key Business Data – Multi-Period Overview 36 Waste for Disposal 100 LANXESS AG Income Statement 37 Input-Output Balance Sheet 2014 100 LANXESS AG Statement of Financial Position 38 Environmental and Safety Performance Data 102 Employees by Region 40 HSEQ Targets 102 Employees by Segment 42 Social Activities by Topic 102 Employees by Functional Area 42 Social Activities by Region 103 Compensation Mix for Members of the Board of Management 104 Compensation of the Board of Management Investor Information 106 Compensation Granted (Serving Members of the Board of Management) 46 Stock Performance since Listing 106 Allocations (Serving Members of the Board of Management) 46 Stock Performance 2014 107 Compensation Granted (Former Members of the Board of Management) 47 Performance Data 2014 107 Allocations (Former Members of the Board of Management) 47 Capital Market Information 109 Compensation of the Supervisory Board 48 Stockholder Profile as of January 31, 2015 113 Expected Growth in GDP and Chemical Production 48 Geographical Breakdown as of January 31, 2015 113 Expected Evolution of Major User Industries 49 Recommendations as of January 31, 2015 119 Main Sources of Risk 49 Overview of LANXESS’s Main Bonds 122 Financial Opportunities and Risks 125 Opportunity and Risk Profile Corporate Governance 59 Offices Held by Serving Board of Management Members 60 LANXESS AG Supervisory Board 2 02 LANXESS Annual Report 2014 Financial Calendar 2015 May 7 Interim Report Q1 2015 May 13 Annual Stockholders’ Meeting, Cologne August 6 Interim Report H1 2015 November 5 Interim Report Q3 2015 Please do not hesitate to contact us if you have any questions or comments. Contact Corporate Communications Tel. +49 221 8885 2674 E-mail: mediarelations@­lanxess.com Contact Investor Relations Tel. +49 221 8885 3851 E-mail: ir@­lanxess.com This Annual Report was published on March 19, 2015. Masthead ­LANXESS AG Kennedyplatz 1 50569 Cologne Germany Tel. +49 221 8885 0 www.lanxess.com Agency Kirchhoff Consult AG, Hamburg, Germany Photography (Management) Alfred Jansen, Cologne, Germany English edition Currenta GmbH & Co. OHG Language Service Printed by Kunstund Werbedruck, Bad Oeynhausen, Germany Publisher: lanxess AG 50569 Cologne Germany www.lanxess.com
