rebalance Sustainable Synergies Ideas for a brighter tomorrow CEO Note and Introduction Section 1 About HCL Section 2 Scope and Stakeholder management Section 3 Responsible Business Section 4 Redefine Workplace Section 5 Renew Ecosystem Section 6 Repay Society Section 7 Annexures Section 8 “I am only one, but I am one. I cannot do everything, but I can do something. And I will not let what I cannot do interfere with what I can do.” HCL believes in the “Power of will determine the development Our core focus this year is to play One”. These words by Edward agenda for the next 15 years. These a catalytic role in the development Everett Hale lie at the foundation of SDGs, according to Ban Ki-Moon, of 200 villages in India and touch our philosophy as our sustainability offer an extraordinary pipeline for the lives of two million people initiatives are fuelled and driven by investment and platform in which in the states of Uttar Pradesh the individual efforts of our people. responsible business can thrive. and Tamil Nadu. Our efforts are targeted towards achieving While our efforts in this direction In this watershed year, I am proud holistic community development, go back a long way, 5 years ago to say that HCL Technologies is including economic and social we began a journey in reviewing not only pursuing sustainability development of rural areas, across and documenting our efforts in in its business but also instilling the parameters of education, an annual Sustainability Report. the discipline of business into its employability, health, infrastructure It revealed many of the positive sustainability goals. And we’re and water availability. steps being taken across the doing this with a 3-point formula organization that had gone by picking the right cause, instilling In addition, we have woven unnoticed so far. It also revealed the right processes and reviewing sustainability in our core some gaps that needed to be on the right metrics. products. For instance, as the bridged. More importantly, it report highlights, our 2020 Goals connected all the isolated threads include efforts such as reducing together to weave a strong and The right cause our carbon footprint and building cohesive fabric of our collective Choosing a cause closely aligned Green Data Centers. We have set efforts towards sustainability. to the business and philosophical ourselves a target of reducing our DNA of an organisation is an carbon footprint by 20 per cent Looking back today, I feel a sense and absolute energy consumption important step to catalyse of pride at the manner in which in our data centers by 40 per progress. It ensures whole-hearted we have aligned our business and cent over the base year 2011. adoption and implementation of sustainability agenda in a way that I am glad to note that we have the program across stakeholders. reinforces each other. stayed steadfast on the path this At HCL our programs are largely year. The carbon footprint of our As you will read in the following focused on the areas of education, operations was reduced by 19.39 pages, not only are we gaining % per capita over our base year employability and livelihood momentum as a force of good and 2011, and 3.82 % of total energy opportunity improvement of the responsible business, we are also consumption has been substituted disadvantaged. We see these putting the strength of our business with renewable energy in FY15 three areas as a sustainable processes behind it to ensure which is lesser than last year. cycle leading to improvement tireless energy for uninterrupted of household incomes of the progress in this direction. We have set ourselves a target of communities we are focused on. reducing our carbon footprint by UN Secretary-General Ban Ki20 per cent and absolute energy We chose these missions with moon recently pointed out that consumption in our data centers the belief that a focused push on “Sustainable development is not by 40 per cent over the base year education and employability skills charity; it is smart investment.” 2011. I am glad to note that we have an unparalleled impact on I could not agree more. In 2015, have stayed steadfast on the path a community’s overall progress the entire world is focused on the this year. The carbon footprint of due to their direct co-relation with United Nations’ new Sustainable our operations was reduced by household incomes. Development Goals (SDGs), which 19.39 % per capita over our base year 2011, and 3.82 % of total From a Corporate Program translate this common sense into energy consumption has been perspective, we have been real actions. substituted with renewable energy investing in developing urban slums in FY15 which is lesser than last through community development I truly believe corporate social year. and advocacy initiatives, and are responsibility is the conscience now moving our focus towards of an organization. Besides rural development. its intended impacts on the The right community and stakeholders, it processes Our rural projects are aimed has an important role in defining at building model villages in the culture of a company and We recognize that creating an partnership with central and state gives a sense of larger purpose effective programme is just the governments, village communities, to our people. As you will see in beginning. The ongoing success NGOs, knowledge institutions the pages that follow, often the of the programme depends on a and allied partners. We also focus problems may seem complicated, consistent and sustainable vision, on community mobilization for but the answers very simple. ease and flexibility in implementation creating self-governed councils and most importantly employee thereby transferring accountability engagement. At HCL, sustainability for nurturing the programs to actions must become part of them. Additionally, we are striving everyday operations. to equip semi-urban youths with a range of skills that make them The key success factors behind employable and entrepreneurial. this best practice are: The power of self-empowered individuals unleashing their passion and time The right metrics unfettered by any organizational In order to ensure serious impediments; the philosophy of adherence to intended goals, continuum cycle which ensures impact metrics need to be that the impact felt by the significantly evolved. At HCL, communities is on a holistic level we believe this is our strength as rather than any tactical, one-time project managers meeting and advantage; and management exceeding client expectations support and governance to ensure within committed timelines. We that all the programs have the deploy the same strength to might of the organization behind implement measure and review them. our progress to create an ongoing cycle of improvement. At HCL Technologies, we adopt this through the distinct prisms of We believe sustainability is not Individual Social Responsibility and simply good business but doing Corporate Programs. The former business well – and integrating is embodied in the ‘Power of One’ broader societal concerns into – a program that encourages, business strategy and performance enthuses and enables employees as part of the company’s business to engage in social causes of their model. This is common sense as choice. This program has achieved our own interests can be realized tremendous success with close to by incorporating the interests of 50,000 employees today working passionately on causes they hold all those with whom we have a Anant Gupta, mutually dependent relationship. dear to their heart. At HCL we have attempted to CEO, HCL Technologies The ecological footprint is a measure to figure how much of the earth’s resources are being used by a person, a community/country or an activity. The UN Millennium Ecosystem Assessment is showing that human beings have already overshot the earth’s bio capacity by using up 25% more than what is available as resources. This data shows that we are well past what is sustainable, and we have depleted so much of resources that the earth may no longer sustain us. Latest news on extinction of 114 life forms (insects and animals) is a clear example of this non sustenance. HCL global employee footprint create work places that have footprint continue to make is largely based in India and USA optimal usage of water and a difference. We have also followed by other 30 countries reduce the footprint. HCL’s started to invest in renewable where we operate. A comparison focus on water conservation has energy in India, through solar of these 2 countries on their certainly helped us to reduce powered grids in the office sites. ecological foot print gives us some per capita water foot print by at Investments in green buildings interesting facts: least 5% every year. Similarly, to balance the hot weather and in communities we provide the need for the air conditioners 1. India has the 3rd largest eco adequate infrastructure as well have helped us reduce the per footprint following USA and as conservation techniques capital carbon foot print over China, and the Indians use two for people to consume safe the years. times the natural resources water as well harvest whenever within the country that it can possible. The global facts could be debated sustain. However the per and we may get fresh set of date capita footprint is very low, 3. USA when compared to for the year 2016, but there is ranking 125th amongst the 152 India has very interesting one fact that remains constant countries that participated for facts on consumption pattern – responsible companies invest this comparative study. This based on lifestyles of people. today for a better tomorrow. And shows that the standard of living Americans comprise 5% of at HCL, we believe in a better among the large population world’s population and also tomorrow without compromising has inequalities and therefore generate one of highest rates the wellbeing of our people, Sustainability programs in of carbon emission amongst or society or environment. Our India cannot just focus on the developed nations. The sustainability 2020 strategy has its environment sustenance average American uses 7 trees foundation on this belief, and our but also should seek to and 680 pounds of paper per continuous improvement on all improve the human access to year, amounting to the largest aspects of sustainability show that resources and bring equity in ecological footprint among we are committed to doing our bit consumption patterns. Perhaps all countries. Therefore at towards a sustainable tomorrow. this is where HCL strategy on HCL Americas we continue Please continue to write your views community development ties to promote and introduce on HCL Sustainability practices and well with improving the access practices related to recycle and suggestions at sustainability@hcl. to resources by less privileged reduce. com people living both in urban slums and villages. 4. The per capita carbon emissions in India amount to 2. India has another crucial issue approximately 2% of the global to battle in future. Indians are CO2 emissions as against consuming 13% of total water the 18% of USA. However, I consumption, while the Indian believe the absolute emission population account for 17% % in India is much higher, and of the world’s population. companies have an important Thank you, With much of the employable role in reducing the same. population moving into semi This is where HCL’s green IT Srimathi Shivashankar urban and urban cities, it is the and solutions to customers for Lead Diversity and Sustainability responsibility of employers to managing their own carbon From the Sustainability Desk 1 2 About HCL About HCL GRI3.1 PARAMETERS Page Profile Reported Geography Description Number SR/ Disclosure (C/P/NA) Scope AR 2.1 Name of the organization. C 4 G 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services. 4 G 2.3 4 G Operational structure of the organization, including main divisions, operating companies, subsidiaries, and joint ventures. C 2.4 Location of organization's headquarters. C 4-5 G Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries with either major operations or 2.5 C 5 G that are specifically relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report. Annexure IV 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. C G 2.6 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, 2.7 C 4 G sectors served, and types of customers/beneficiaries). 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization. C 4 G Significant changes during the reporting period regarding 2.9 C 4 G size, structure, or ownership. 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period. C 6 G C Comprehensive • P Partial • NA Not Applicable • G Global • I India About HCL 3 About HCL Technologies HCL Technologies is a leading and BPO. HCL leverages along with its subsidiaries, has global IT services company, its extensive global offshore reported consolidated revenues of working with clients in the areas infrastructure and network of US $ 6.5 Billion, as on year ended that impact and redefine the core offices in 31 countries to provide June 30 2015. Corporate Identity of their businesses. Since its holistic, multi-service delivery in number (CIN) of the company is inception into the global landscape key industry verticals including L74140DL1991PLC046369. after its IPO in 1999, HCL focuses Financial Services, Manufacturing, on ‘transformational outsourcing’, Consumer Services, Public While the revenues and employees underlined by innovation and value Services and Healthcare. HCL turnover have grown there have creation, and offers integrated takes pride in its philosophy of been no significant changes during portfolio of services including Ideapreneurship which empowers the reporting period regarding software-led IT solutions, remote our 110,000+ transformers structure, or ownership. infrastructure management, to create a real value for the engineering and R&D services customers. HCL Technologies, For more information, please visit www.hcltech.com. Corporate Headquarters: HCL Technologies, A-9, Sec.3, Noida, U.P. India. For details regarding Sustainability, please write to Sustainability@hcl.com 4 About HCL OUR GLOBAL OPERATIONS About HCL 5 AWARDS AND RECOGNITIONS HCL ranked 9th among 100 HCL was recognized as a leading companies for Sustainability and employer by many forums and Community Development in Asia in won many prestigious awards in the Inaugural Channel News Asia 2014 15 Sustainability Ranking for 2014 HCL’s Education project HCL Technologies won the Golden “HCL Gurukul” is declared one of Peacock award in June 2015 for the top three winners in the National Occupational Health and Safety CSR Case Contest “CSR Initiativescompliance a Key differentiator” for education project “HCL Gurukul” EMPLOYER RECOGNITIONS FY15 HCL Certified as Top Employer in Go-Mobile Project recognized as UK for the Ninth consecutive year. best in class. It is envisioned to HCL has been listed in the HR HCL’ s Culture of yield high productivity by adding Best practices publication 2015 Ideapreneurship has been flexibility, freedom and speed to awarded. information accessibility One of the top three winners in Won Bronze award for the Best Winner at the Best Talent Won “Most innovative the National “CSR Case Contest ” Certification program for our Management practices in Asia Deployment of HR technology” for CSR InitiativesManagerial Excellence Program Study for our Career and the gamification of its onboarding a key differentiator” from Brandon Hall Group at 2014 Performance Management process organized by HR for education project Excellence in Learning Awards practices Excellence Awards London “HCL Gurukul” HCL ranked 9th among 100 companies for Sustainability and Community Development in HCL awarded the TISS Leap HCL won the award for Asia in the Inaugural Channel Vault Award for its innovative “Best Career Mobility” in the HCL applauded for its Strong News Asia Sustainability Ranking Learning practices by the CLO People Matters L & D Leadership Commitment to HR Excellence for 2014 Awards Forum League Awards 6 About HCL SCOPE AND STAKEHOLDER MANAGEMENT GRI 3.1 PARAMETERS Profile Reported Geography Description Page Number UNGC Disclosure (C/P/NA) Scope Reporting period (e.g., fiscal/calendar year) 3.1 C 10 G for information provided. 3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any). C 10 G 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.) C 10 G Contact point for questions regarding the 3.4 C 10 G report or its contents. 3.5 Process for defining report content. C 10 G Boundary of the report (e.g., countries, divisions, subsidiaries, leased facilities, joint 3.6 C 10 G ventures, suppliers) See GRI Boundary protocol for further guidance State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report. (see 3.7 C 10 G completeness principle for explanation of scope) Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced 3.8 operations, and other entities that can C 10 RE 4 G significantly affect comparability from period to period and/or between organisations Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations, including assumptions and techniques underlying estimations applied to the complication of 3.9 C 10-11, RE 8 G the Indicators and other information in this report. Explain any decisions not to apply, or to substantially diverge from the GRI Indicator Protocols Explanation of the effect of any restatements of information provided in earlier reports, and the reasons for such 3.1 C Annexure G re-statement (e.g. mergers/ acquisitions, change of base years/ periods, nature of business measurement methods). Significant changes from previous reporting 3.11 periods in the scope, boundary or C 10-11 G measurement methods applied in this report Table identifying the location of the 3.12 C Indices across sections Standard Disclosures in the report. Policy and current practice with regard to 3.13 C 10 G seeking external assurance for the report C Comprehensive • P Partial • NA Not Applicable • G Global • I India • RE – Renew Ecosystem About HCL 7 Governance, Commitment and Engagement Profile Reported Geography Description Page Number UNGC Disclosure (C/P/NA) Scope Governance structure of the organization, including committees under the highest 11, 4.1 governance body responsible for specific C G Annexure IV 4.1 tasks, such as setting strategy or organisational oversight Indicate whether the Chair of the highest 11, 4.2 governance body is also an executive C G Annexutre IV 4.2 officer For organizations that have a unitary board structure, state the number and 4.3 genders of the highest governance body C Annexure IV 4.3 G that are independent and or non executive members Mechanisms for shareholders and 10, 4.4 employees to provide recommendations or C G Annexure IV 4.4 direction to the highest governance body Linkage between compensation for members of the highest governance body, senior managers, and executives 10-11, 4.5 C G (including departure arrangements), and the Annexure IV 4.5 organization's performance (including social and environmental performance) Processes in place for the highest 4.6 governance body to ensure conflicts of C Annexure IV 4.6 G interest are avoided Process for determining the composition, qualifications, and expertise of the members of the highest governance 4.7 C Annexure IV, 4.7 G body and its committees, including any considerations of gender and other indicators of diversity Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of conduct, and principles 4.8 relevant to economic, environmental and C Annexure G social performance and the status of their implementation Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organisation's identification and management of economic, environmental, and social 10-11, 4.9 performance, including relevant risks C G Annexure IV 4.9 and opportunities, and adherence or compliance with internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct, and principles C Comprehensive • P Partial • NA Not Applicable • G Global • I India • RE – Renew Ecosystem 8 About HCL Governance, Commitment and Engagement Profile Reported Geography Description Page Number UNGC Disclosure (C/P/NA) Scope Processes for evaluating the highest governance body's own performance 4.10 C Annexure IV, 4.10 G 7 particularly with respect to economic, environmental, and social performance Explanation of whether and how the 4.11 precautionary approach or principle is C 12 G addressed by the organization Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, 4.12 C 12-13, Annexure G principles, or other initiatives to which the organization subscribes or endorses Memberships in associations (such as industry associations) and/or national/ international advocacy organizations in which the organization: * Has positions 4.13 in governance bodies; * Participates C 12-13, Annexure G in projects or committees; * Provides substantive funding beyond routine membership dues; or * Views membership as strategic. List of stakeholder groups engaged by the 4.14 C 11 G organization. Basis for identification and selection of 4.15 C 11 G stakeholders with whom to engage. Approaches to stakeholder engagement, 4.16 including frequency of engagement by type C 11 G and by stakeholder group Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement 4.17 and how the organization has responded C 11-15 G to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting. C Comprehensive • P Partial • NA Not Applicable • G Global • I India • RE – Renew Ecosystem Business Responsibility Report Indicators Core Principle Indicators Section Stakeholder • Mapping of internal and external stakeholders Stakeholder Management Engagement • Engagement mechanisms (formal and informal) with internal and external stakeholders Stakeholder Management • Issues of interest/ concern for internal and external stakeholders • Mapping of disadvantaged, vulnerable and marginalized stakeholders, if Stakeholder Management any • Engagement mechanisms (formal and informal) with disadvantaged, vulnerable and marginalized stakeholders Repay Society • Issues of interest/ concern for disadvantaged, vulnerable and marginalized stakeholders Repay Society • Business Responsibility About HCL 9 Scope of our Report Sustainability Report 2015 is have been followed for reporting The scope for the environment HCL Technologies’ fifth annual on the various factors. We have section and specific details of sustainability report of HCL sought external assurance for our locations and sites covered are Technologies (HCLT). Sustainability Report from KPMG. available in the GRI Content Index This report reflects material issues, of the report. The workplaceWe have assessed our current state which have significant economic, related details cover our Global on all sustainability parameters environmental and social impact Operations; the communityusing the Global Reporting that can substantially influence the outreach programmes under the Initiatives’ framework version assessments or decisions of our ‘Repay Society’ section include all 3.1. In addition, the verification stakeholders. our activities in India and significant has been done using assurance Global Development Centres standard as per ‘International The economic performance (GDC). Federation of Accountants’ section is based on our Annual (IFAC) International Standard Report. S.R. Baltiboi & Co, who are There are no changes from the for Assurance Engagements the independent external auditors previous report in the scope, [ISAE 3000, Emission-related of our Annual Report, have audited boundary or measurement calculations are based on the GHG the attached consolidated balance methods. However, details of protocol a corporate accounting sheet of HCL Technologies restatements of information and reporting standard, which is Limited, its subsidiaries and joint provided in last year’s report and further explained in the ‘Renew ventures together as a ‘Group’. the corresponding reasons are Ecosystem’ section of this report. available in this GRI content index The Annual Report is available at of every section. We support The report covers the performance the following link: www.hcltech.com the women empowerment of all the business units directly principles of the United Nations under HCL Technologies (HCL); The sustainability priorities have Global Compact (UNGC) and and the reporting principles and been drafted based on our also advocate and implement the methodologies are in accordance engagements with stakeholders principles of UNGC in our actions. with the principles of GRI G3.1 and the material issues, impacts and Business Responsibility and our sustainability responses For suggestions or feedback Report (BRR) that is mandated are discussed in detail under the please continue to write at by the Securities Exchange Board 4Rs – Responsible Business, sustainability@hcl.com of India (SEBI). The relevant Redefine Workplace, Renew indicators and technical protocols Ecosystem and Repay Society. 10 From the Sustainability Desk Stakeholder Engagements for Identifying Sustainability Opportunities and Materiality issues Our engagement approach is multi-dimensional. It encompasses identifying sustainability opportunities and implementing related activities through varying types, levels and frequency of interactions, span of control in the engagement and accountability. Based on this approach, we collaborate with employees, customers and investors; consult academia, suppliers, vendors, immediate community and NGOs; monitor our competitors, business analysts, media and social networks; participate in forums organized by the government, trade bodies and civil societies for sustainability actions. The sustainability office partners with nominated members from the Business, Employee First Councils, Infrastructure and Administration, Human Resources, Customer Advocacy Group, and Marketing for implementing actions. Engagement Stakeholder Channels/ Communication Tools* Level Runway, Town Hall, Employee First Council, Employee Resource Collaborate Employees and Customers Groups, Smart Survey on Employee Engagement, Employee Experience Surveys, Customer Satisfaction Surveys Investors, Suppliers, Communities, Analyst meets, supplier audits and meetings, community and NGO Consult NGOs, Students and Academia interactions, students joining as interns for CSR programs Competitors, Global Advocacy Monitor Organizations, Media Affinity Public reports, benchmark data and social platforms Networks Sustainability Forums, Government Participate Memberships; Events/ campaigns/best practices sessions Task Forces, Trade Associations Each of the focus areas mentioned employees in their day-to-day The management approach, and in ‘Sustainability 10’ and the activities. The corresponding sustainability governance and corresponding material issues changes are reflected in the vendor policies and guidelines relating are discussed in detail under the and supplier contracts in form of to sustainability are outlined 4 pillars of sustainability in this addendums. in the Annexure of this report. report. The stakeholder channels Stakeholder Engagement and for identifying, strategizing and The sustainability progress Sustainability Priorities. implementing the material issues is regularly reviewed by for every aspect (business, people, Ms Robin Abrams, Independent When we embarked on the environment, and society and) are Director, HCL Technologies. Her Sustainability Reporting journey in provided in detail under the same DIN no. is 00030840. The sponsor FY11, we identified key materiality sections. issues and actions that need to and custodian for all sustainability be considered for Enterpriseactions is Mr. Prithvi Shergill, our Our CEO is the chief custodian of wide Risk Management. In the Chief Human Resources Officer. the corporate governance mandate last two years, we have been able The Sustainability Council has and his perspectives on sustainable to embed these risks in various expanded to include the senior governance are available at functional departments of HCL and most members from key functional www.hcltech.com. We ensure specific actions have been carried that our governance polices are departments. out by the respective departments. in line with the ever changing Therefore at the beginning of global corporate governance The program office continues to FY15, the Sustainability Council scenario. We continue to conduct oversee day-to-day activities. Our decided not to continue reporting various trainings and awareness stakeholder engagements have these risks independently—the campaigns to ensure that the helped us to rethink our priorities progress of the desired actions changes are imbibed by our which are mentioned under would rather be reviewed with the “Sustainability 2020” section. function heads. From the Sustainability Desk 11 This decision helped us to advance our engagement with key internal and external stakeholders, and reprioritize some of the materiality issues and sustainability actions which were already being carried out. Details of the stakeholder engagement and outcomes are provided below: Sections in which priorities Stakeholder Key Sustainability Priority are addressed Wellness and Wellbeing, Career Development, Learning Forums, Employees Redefine Workplace, Repay Society Grievance Channels, and Hobby Clubs Customers Innovative IT Solutions, Green IT Responsible Business Responsible Business, Redefine Vendors and Suppliers Adherence to quality norms, and ethical procurement Workplace Immediate Education, Employability Trainings, Women Empowerment and communities in which Repay Society Health/Sanitation we operate Investors and Transparency and maintenance of high degree of disclosure Responsible Business Shareholders levels and focus on good corporate governance Community Development, Capacity Development, Advocacy NGOs, and Advocacy on Human Rights issues such as Diversity, Safety, Advocacy on Renew Ecosystem, Repay Society Groups Environment and Climate Change Renewable Energy, Inclusive Growth (identifying cities to operate, Renew Ecosystem, Responsible ICT Forums staffing approach) Business, Redefine Workplace Materiality Matrix The stakeholder engagement during FY15 helped us to reconfirm our materiality matrix against our four pillars of sustainability—Responsible Business, Redefine Workplace, Renew Ecosystem and Repay Society. The priorities, whether high, medium or low, are based on what the stakeholders and HCL value collectively on a mutual sustainable journey. The issues that are mentioned toward the core of this matrix are of high significance to HCL and also to stakeholders. The significance of material Importance Importance issues is determined by the to to measure of two parameters STAKEHOLDERS HCL’s BUSINESS 12 About HCL During FY15, the top priorities that emerged from our stakeholder engagements include: • Responsible Business: A comprehensive risk management framework and business continuity processes, and innovation-based solutions for customers • Redefine Workplace: Employee career development programs, gender diversity at the work place, and safety and security of women employees in India • Renew Ecosystem: Facility certifications, energy management and water conservation • Repay Society: Understanding CSR bill in India and drafting a strategy to align with the requirement, building the capacity of NGOs to support us in the long term, enabling skills development for youths in urban slums as well as in key geographies where we operate (USA and UK), empowering women and identifying sectors for rural development in India About HCL 13 Sustainability 10 by 2020 – Our Goals and Milestones Sustainability 10 Goal by 2020 Achieved till FY15 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS Advocacy Participate and contribute ideas to shape HCL is a member of Leadership Group UN women, UN public policies that are science-based and Global Compact and Diversity Forum, NASSCOM. impact social and environmental issues positively. Green Data Centers Reduce absolute energy consumption of Reduced absolute energy consumption by 4.35 % our data centers by 40% over the base over FY14. FY11. In one of our big size data centers the reduction in FY14 is reaching 34% over the base year FY11. Supply Chain Partnering with our supply chain on good Our procurement policy includes aspects of equal Responsibility governance and achievement of mutual opportunities, human rights, green guidelines and ethics. goals of sustainability performance. COBEC and related policies were shared with all vendors. 1000+ housekeeping, cab drivers and security staff trained on Whistle blower and secure channels. REDEFINE WORKPLACE Promote Inclusive Growth Integrate diversity into our service lifecycle Marginal improvement on gender ratios. Formal Employee and Supply and inclusion in employee lifecycle mentoring programme for women in progress. Chain programmes. Nurture Employee Employee benefits to include sustainable Assisting HCLites Anytime (AHA) an integrated new life Wellbeing and Safety lifestyle and workplace safety programmes continuity services available for all employees. RENEW ECO SYSTEM Reduce Carbon Reduce per capita carbon footprint by 20% Reduced per capitacarbon footprint by 19.39% over the Footprint in Operations. over the base FY11. base FY11 Invest in Renewable 20% of power purchased will be substituted 3.82 % of total energy consumption has been substituted Energy by renewable energy. with renewable energy in FY15 Improve Water Reduce consumption of water by 30% over 14.82 % reduction since base FY11. Efficiency the base year 2011 in our owned facilities for sustenance. Meet World Class 50% of company owned office sites will 50% of buildings comply with LEED or similar standards Green Standards for comply with LEED or similar standards. for green. our Buildings 14 About HCL Sustainability 10 Goal by 2020 Achieved till FY15 REPAY SOCIETY Sustainable livelihood for Enrolment 100000+ beneficiaries Education – 60000 children enrolled in 29150 children are covered through education education programme. programme. Skill development – 10000 youth enrolled 2250 youth enrolled in Yuvakendra of which 1635 youth in skills development and digital literacy are placed in jobs. programmes. Women empowerment30000 girls and 6500 girls and women are covered through various women. women empowerment programs. Impact social indicators. 60% eligible candidates enrolled for higher Achieved in a row for 2 years. secondary. 90% pass percentage among Gurukul Achieved in a row for 2 years. students 25% increase of student enrolment of Achieved in FY15. Yuvakendra for skill development. To ensure 100% enrollment of targeted women for digital literacy. In Progress 70% women in age group 18 to 35 will In Progress be covered under health and sanitation program. 90% of enrolled in Yuvakendra to be placed In Progress in Jobs. Power of One – Enable Employees participate in community giving, 20,000 volunteers participated in community and help employees advocacy and capacity building including development. connect with the mentorship for NGOs and students. community About HCL 15 CL’s global employee footprint is largely based in India and the USA, followed by 0 other countries where we operate. A comparison of these two countries on heir ecological foot print gives us some interesting facts: India has the 3rd largest eco footprint by at least 5% every year. green buildings to balance the hot footprint following USA and China, Similarly, we provide adequate weather and the need for the air using twice the natural resources infrastructure to communities for conditioners have helped us further within the country than it can consumption of safe water as well reduce the per capital carbon sustain. However, the per capita as spread awareness on footprint over the years. footprint is very low, ranking 125th conservation techniques. amongst the 152 countries The aforementioned numbers and surveyed. This shows that the 3 Americans comprise 5% of world’s 3. facts are just a glimpse of a future standard of living among the large population and annually produce that holds several uncertainties. population has inequalities and 27% of the world’s garbage. The One thing is for sure—responsible therefore sustainability programs in average American uses 7 trees and companies must invest today for a India cannot just focus on 680 pounds of paper per year, better tomorrow. At HCL, we environment sustenance but amounting to the largest ecological believe in a better tomorrow should also seek to improve the footprint among all countries. without compromising the human access to resources and Therefore, at HCL Americas we wellbeing of our employees, the bring equity in consumption continue to promote and introduce society and the environment. Our patterns. Perhaps this is where eco-friendly practices such as Sustainability 2020 Strategy is HCL’s community development recycling, waste reduction and founded on this belief. Our strategy ties in well with improving water conservation. continuous focus on improving all access to resources for the less aspects of sustainability privileged people living both in 4. 4 The per capita carbon emissions in demonstrates our commitment to a urban slums and villages. India amount to approximately 2% sustainable tomorrow. of the global CO2 emissions as Indians are consuming 13% of the against the 18% of USA. However, global water resources, while the absolute emission percentage accounting for 17% of the world’s in India is much higher, and population. With much of the companies have an important role employable population moving to in reducing the same. This is where semi-urban and urban cities, it is HCL’s green IT and solutions to the responsibility of employers to customers for managing their own create work places that have carbon footprint continue to make optimal usage of water and reduce a difference. We have also started the footprint. HCL’s focus on water to invest in renewable energy in conservation has certainly helped India, through solar powered grids Thank you, us to reduce per capita water in the office sites. Investments in Srimathi Shivashankar RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS GRI3.1 PARAMETERS Reported Page Geography G3DMA Description UNGC (C/P/NA) Number Scope DMA EC Disclosure on Management Approach EC C Annual Report G C Aspects Economic performance Market presence Indirect economic impacts DMA SO Disclosure on Management Approach SO C 1-19 G Aspects Local communities RS Corruption Public policy Anti-'competitive behavior Compliance DMA PR Disclosure on Management Approach PR C G Aspects Customer health and safety Product and service labeling Marketing communications Customer privacy Compliance Economic Performance Reported Page Geography Description UNGC Indicator (C/P/NA) Number Scope Economic Performance Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, operating costs, employee EC1 compensation, donations and other community P 7 G investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments Financial implications and other risks and EC2 opportunities for the organization's activities due to C 6,15 G 7 climate change Coverage of the organization's defined benefit plan EC3 C Annual Report G obligations Significant financial assistance received from EC4 C Annual Report G government Range of ratios of standard entry level wage by EC5 gender compared to local minimum wage at C RW 8 Annexure G significant locations of operation Policy, practices and proportion of spending on EC6 locally-based suppliers at significant locations of C 17, Annexure G operation C Comprehensive • P Partial • NA Not Applicable • G Global • I India • RS – Repay Society • RW Redefine Workplace 2 Responsible Business Performance Reported Page Geography Description UNGC Indicator (C/P/NA) Number Scope Indirect Economic Impacts Understanding and describing significant indirect EC9 C 16 G economic impacts, including the extent of impacts Local Communities Prevention and mitigation measures implemented in SO10 operations with significant potential or actual negative C 16 G impacts on local communities Corruption Percentage and total number of business units SO2 C 6 G 10 analyzed for risks related to corruption Percentage of employees trained in organization's SO3 c 6 G 10 anti-corruption policies and procedures SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption C 6 G 10 Employment Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not LA3 provided to temporary or part time employees by C 7 G 3 major operations Public Policy Public policy positions and participation in public SO5 C Annexure G policy development and lobbying Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to SO6 political parties, politicians, and related institutions by C 6 G country Anti-competitive Behavior Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive SO7 behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their C 6 G outcomes Compliance Monetary value of significant fines and total number of SO8 non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws C 6 G and regulations Prevention and mitigation measures implemented in SO10 operations with significant potential or actual negative C 15 G impacts on local communities Human Rights Percentage and total number of significant investment HR1 agreements and contracts that include clauses C 16, Annexure G 1-6 incorporating human rights concerns Percentage of significant suppliers, contractors and HR2 other business partners that have undergone human C 16, Annexure G 1-6 rights screening, and actions taken RB siting Total number of incidents of discrimination and HR4 C 6, Annexure G 1-6 corrective actions taken; Whistleblower policy Operations and significant suppliers identified, in which the right to exercise freedom of association and HR5 C 16, Annexure G collective bargaining may be violated or at significant risk, and actions taken to support these rights C Comprehensive • P Partial • NA Not Applicable • G Global • I India • RS – Repay Society • RW Redefine Workplace Responsible Business 3 Performance Reported Page Geography Description UNGC Indicator (C/P/NA) Number Scope Child Labor Operations and significant suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor, and HR6 C 16 G 1,2,5 measures taken to contribute to the effective abolition of child labor Forced and Compulsory Labor Operations and significant suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor, and measures taken to contribute to the effective HR7 C 16 G 1,2,4 abolition of child labor risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor, and measures to contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor Biodiversity Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in EN11 or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high bio C 15 I diversity value outside protected areas Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity in protected EN12 C 16 areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas Monetary value of significant fines and total number EN28 of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with \ C 6 G environmental laws and regulations Total environmental protection expenditures and EN30 C 16 8 investments by type Social : Product Responsibility Customer Health and Safety Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services are assessed for PR1 NA improvement, and percentage of significant products and services categories subject to such procedures. Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning health PR2 NA and safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes. Product and Service Labelling Type of product and service information required by procedures, and percentage of significant PR3 NA products and services subject to such information requirements. Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product PR4 NA and service information and labeling, by type of outcomes. Practices related to customer satisfaction, including PR5 C 6 G results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction. C Comprehensive • P Partial • NA Not Applicable • G Global • I India • RS – Repay Society • RW Redefine Workplace 4 Responsible Business Performance Reported Page Geography Description UNGC Indicator (C/P/NA) Number Scope Marketing Communications Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and PR6 voluntary codes related to marketing communications, C 17 G including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing PR7 C 17 G communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship by type of outcomes. Customer Privacy Total number of substantiated complaints regarding PR8 breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer C 8 G 10 data. Compliance Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance PR9 with laws and regulations concerning the provision C 7 G and use of products and services C Comprehensive • P Partial • NA Not Applicable • G Global • I India • RS – Repay Society • RW Redefine Workplace Business Responsibility Report indicators Core Principle Indicators Section Ethics, transparency • Independent Director responsible for overseeing BR • Responsible Business and accountability performance • Annexure 1 – Management Approach • Ethics Code/ Code of Conduct and Policies (COBEC & ABAC policy, • Code of Conduct for Suppliers/ Business Core principle Procurement policy) aspect Indicative KPIs • Partners • Stakeholder complaint resolution mechanism Product life cycle • Sustainable/ Green procurement policy • Annexure 1 – Management Approach sustainability and Policies • Buildings and infrastructure solutions for socially marginalized sections • Repay Society • Investment products and solutions to promote green • Responsible Business/ Renew technologies Ecosystem • Initiatives to promote paperless transactions for customers • Responsible Business • Office Green Policy to promote reduction in paper usage • Responsible Business Responsible Business 5 Responsible Business HCL places huge focus on the way we run the business, handle customer interactions and deliver services. To be successful at what we do, we believe that it is extremely important to have a deep understanding of our customers’ business drivers and the markets they operate in and from. Our Customer Advisory Council convenes bi-annually to provide feedback and recommendations on our key strategic issues and solutions identified by us. This Council has been honored with the Forrester Groundswell Award in the ‘Business-toBusiness Embracing’ category. In FY15, the participation rate for Our day-to-day operations and to conduct various trainings and our annual survey on customer decisions are guided by a set of awareness campaigns to ensure satisfaction was 72%. We were rules under the Code of Business that the changes are imbibed by able to sustain the satisfaction of Ethics and Conduct principles and our employees in their day-tocustomers which is evidenced policies (COBEC). During FY15, day activities. The corresponding in the fact that 80% of our top we reinforced our responsibility changes are reflected in the vendor accounts were reported under the towards balanced governance and supplier contracts in form of customer delight category by the with the dissemination of the Code addendums. agency that carried out the survey of Business Ethics and Conduct for us. Key expectations of our (COBEC); Anti-Bribery and AntiThe sponsor and custodian customers are being analyzed for Corruption (ABAC) Policy; and for all sustainability actions is implementation during FY16. Business Gifts and Entertainment Mr. Prithvi Shergill, our Chief Policy (BGEP). These policies Human Resources Officer. The HCL Governance Framework are available at http://www. The Sustainability Council has driving our business and customer hcltech.com/about-us/corporateexpanded to include the seniorservice is based on the principles governance/governance-policies. most members from key functional of integrity, fairness, equity, departments. transparency, accountability A total of 78,283 employees and commitment to values. completed their online ABAC and We were not subjected to any Demonstration of sound corporate COBEC trainings during FY15. significant legal actions for governance practices helps us to anti-competitive behavior, antiaccelerate economic growth and We have also institutionalized trust, monopoly practices or related value creation for all our an external ombudsman to look non-compliance with laws and stakeholders. into all complaints on the related regulations in the FY15. The subject. Any stakeholder can internal risks and audits team While we focus on economic report any violation of ethics at provides key management growth and creating value for whistleblower.hcl@tari.co.in leaders with risk insights and the our stakeholders, we follow the various departments proactively responsible business principles We continue to help our employees implement actions to comply with outlined below: understand and manage ethical COBEC or local regulations. dilemmas/situations by sharing (1) Upholding integrity and the organization’s perspectives We are an apolitical advocate transparency in all our activities through the ethicsdialog@hcl.com of government policies on by adhering to our code of channel. It is a mandate for every sustainability, and had not conduct principles HCLite to complete their training contributed financially or in kind (2) Investing in innovation and on the code of conduct and related to political parties, politicians or ideapreneurs who add value policies at the time of induction. related institutions during FY15. to our innovation and client sustainability efforts Our CEO is the chief custodian During FY15, our revenues of the corporate governance increased and our global (3) Improvising expertise through mandate and his perspectives employee base grew to over knowledge management on sustainable governance 106,000 employees. All the details (4) Delivering ICT solutions in a are available at http://www. on our economic growth, as well sustainable manner through hcltech.com. We ensure that our as the business-related risks and green data centers, inclusive governance polices are in line with opportunities are available in the procurement and supply chain the ever changing global corporate Annual Financial Report published management. governance scenario. We continue in http://www.hcltech.com/ investors/ results-reports. 6 Responsible Business Statement as per Indian GAAP Consolidated financial statement (FS), INR Crores 2014-15 2013-14 2012-13 Component INR INR INR Direct economic value generated INR Net sales plus revenues from financial investments and a) Revenues 37,840.68 32,821.06 25,932.17 sales of assets Economic value distribute Payments to suppliers, nonstrategic investments, b) Operating costs 10,957.23 9,938.40 8,010.78 royalties, and financial payments Total monetary outflows for employees (current 17,726.43 14,906.36 12,574.17 c) Employee wages and payments, not future commitments*) benefits Pension and Gratuity d) Payments to providers of All financial payments made to the providers of the capital organizations capital Dividend 2,385.59 700.27 835.36 Interest 17.57 54.33 70.70 e) Payments to government (by Gross taxes country) India 1,764.31 1,510.57 971.49 Others 490.06 12.40 393.64 Voluntary contributions and investments of funds in the f) Community investments 7.28 2.88 11.13 broader community (includes donations) Economic value retained (calculated as economic value Investment, equity release, etc. 4,492.21 5,695.85 3,064.90 generated less economic value distributed) USA 54.88 52.45 57.85 Geo-wise break down of Europe 27.42 28.80 26.54 revenue RoW 17.70 18.75 15.61 Year-on-year revenue growth (%) 15.29 26.57 23.27 Employee cost/ total revenue (%) 46.84 45.42 48.49 Operating profit/ total revenue (%) 24.18 24.29 20.58 Return on average invested capital (%) 28.75 43.45 37.35 Key economic ratios ROCE (PBIT) average capital employed (%) 41.66 48.42 45.84 Basic EPS Growth (before exceptional Items (%) 11.80 60.24 65.86 Price/ earnings at the end of the year 17.68 8.03 6.67 Tax/ PBT (%) 19.91 17.80 23.25 Scope: HCLT, Global operations FY15 Tax Benefit: MAT credit recognized by company in books of accounts as on 30th June 2015 and 30th June 2014 is INR 772.46 crores and INR 460.25 crores respectively. Hence, the net MAT credit increased in current year is INR 312.21. R&D expenditure in 2014-15 is INR 181.77 Cr. Our total spending on Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) in India for FY15 has been INR 6.17 crores. Responsible Business 7 We are zero tolerant to any We provide regular trainings on the importance of having strategic information security violations. information security policies, and tactical capabilities to plan for We have made information procedures and practices. This and to respond to incidents such security training mandatory for training is conducted during the that it is able to continue business all our employees. We organize induction of the employees and operations at an acceptable level. information security awareness thereafter at regular intervals HCL Technologies has developed programs throughout the centrally and by respective a robust enterprise-wide Business year through mailers, posters, functions/department. Information Continuity Management System screensavers, advisories and security training is a mandate (BCMS), policy and framework e-learning programs. We also for all employees and covers to manage disruptions and conduct a two-week annual aspects including password contingency scenarios. This awareness campaign on sharing, data disclosure, business management framework is information security to educate continuity management and IPR based on ISO 22301 and also employees on their responsibility infringement. comprises of a well-defined Crisis to protect information as well as Management Plan which ensures report any violations. The related HCL Technologies recognizes the that the organization is prepared policies are available in COBEC potential impact associated with to appropriately respond to major service disruptions, and the emergency situations. Our Indian guidelines. Approximately 95% of importance of maintaining viable operations are certified under ISO employees have completed the recovery strategies. It recognizes 27001:2005 and SSAE 16. compliance trainings this year. Our Sustainability Products and Services Sustainability is a business imperative today. At HCL, we go beyond traditional service offerings by providing our customers with solutions that not only influence their profits and people but also make a positive impact on their communities, the environment and the planet. HCL’s business transformational solutions are available in our publication CIO Straight Talk, which is available online for all stakeholders at http://www.hcltech.com/i-have-an-idea/straighttalk We have developed in house Green IT solutions that focus on increased efficiency, green compliance and energy management. HCL Green Edge HCL Green Edge Workbench GreenEdge is our Automated address the complete HCL’s Green Design Workbench (GDWTM) is a life cycle to achieve green and sustainable business framework and solution to address the in manufacturing GreenEdge enables industries to sustainability, environmental compliance and other consume minimum energy in their processes and green requirements for sustainable product design, leave minimal carbon footprints through the use of green compliance and energy management renewable and recyclable materials in everyday processes. Our Green IT Solutions HCL Green Logistics Terminal HCL Manage Carbon Green Logistics Terminal is a web-based tool that Manage Carbon, an IT solution based on GHG helps organizations set goals on emissions control Protocol for corporate standard, helps customers to and measure progress on the same. measure and report carbon emissions. This solution uses open source technologies to maintain a low cost footprint 8 Responsible Business HCL AEGIS HCL Green Data Centre Services AEGIS is connected Home Platform providing HCL’s Green Datacentre Services help Enterprise device control and management, security and IT organizations reduce their company’s surveillance for energy management solutions. environmental impact by assessing, planning, and implementing initiatives around their Datacentre environment. A key highlight of our Datacentre Green Quotient framework that offers assessment of the ‘green’ state of an Enterprise Datacenter. Our Green IT Solutions Integrated Smart Energy Analytics Dashboard SP DAIS (Solar Plant Data Analysis Interference/Intervention/ Improvement system) Integrated Smart Energy Analytics Dashboard offers a real-time, intelligent analytics solution that focuses HCL’s SP DAIS is a web-based monitoring grid that on energy efficiency at the demand side of energy analyses performance from an intervention and business spectrum. improvement standpoint. This solution is flexible and customized as per the requirements for solar, wind and biomass energy management. Our infrastructure management business offers a number of sustainability services, especially in the area of remote information management to customers meeting their green, governance and growth requirements. Details of our offerings are available at www.hcltech.com. Case Study 1: Green Computing through Server Consolidation The Client Business Need HCL Solution Key Sustainable Benefits A leading UKBuild an agile, scalable and Outsourced infrastructure • Lower carbon emissions by the equivalent of based media Lean IT infrastructure which management which: 4,305 acres of forest carbon capture per year company would: • Transformed service • Power-efficient virtualization and data center management management saving more than 612 kWh of • Reinvent the company power to thrive in a post• Consolidated data newspaper world centers • Annual reduction in emissions: 3,475 tons of CO2 • Optimize existing IT • Migrated the data center operations platform • Fewer servers, efficient storage, seamless colocation process, energy efficiency and • Replace end-of-life • Co-located the data smooth transition to cloud systems centers Case Study 2: Data Centre Transformation through Sustainability A leading • Optimizing the data • Data center build/ • 15% to 35% reduction in energy cost over a US-based provider center environment to consolidation/ period of three years be more responsive, virtualization of IT storage • Reduced carbon emission by 20% to 30% consolidated and secure • Data center hardware solutions while adopting Green IT • Improved asset utilization by up to 65% transformation • Reduced total cost of ownership through asset • Shared data center consolidation, shared services and flexible services pricing options • Disaster recovery • Scalable and responsive data centers that help services in addressing business challenges in a faster • Data center security and efficient manner • Outsourced • Optimized and transformed IT environment with infrastructure a robust BCP plan management • Customized solutions according to industry compliances and regulations Responsible Business 9 Institutionalizing Innovation through the Ideapreneur Culture At HCL, innovation is not just another word, it is part of our organizational DNA—a journey that VALUE CREATION COUNCIL LEAD GENERATION began in 1976 and continues to power us ahead Grassroots Service Innovation Customer Service Opportunities even today. Our ideapreneurship culture allows employees to innovate as per the unique needs Good Practices of each customer. We encourage employees Conference MAD JAM to ask themselves three questions before they begin work: Why am I doing it? What results will I achieve? Will I be successful? We also FLSLs/Partnerships empower them to implement actions emerging out of these questions by providing them with multiple opportunities to help them innovate and White collaborate efficiently to increase stakeholder Spaces value and transform HCL’s way of working while servicing customers. business-centric ideas that have been implemented. Various platforms including the CEO Connect are Ideas for business improvement are recognized and available for HCLites to share ideas, ask questions rewarded at our Good Practices Conference. Value and debate on key decisions including policies. Portal enables our employees to innovate and render Employees also submit their ideas for service and superior value to our customers. LeadGen offers a unique business improvement on White Spaces. platform for employees to proactively identify customer needs and requirements and map it to a HCL solution. Implementable ideas are further refined by business priorities and through collaboration This culture of ideapreneurship in HCL is creating a with partners where necessary and have great vibrant entrepreneurial atmosphere where employees impact on our service lines and partnerships. are taking the lead in finding solutions and ideas and MADJAM is a centralized platform for celebrating then leading them to fruition. IDEAPRENEURS MAKING A DIFFERENCE ONE IDEA AT A TIME VALUE DELIVERED  32,400+ IDEAS GENERATED  10,200+ IDEAS IMPLEMEMTED  633+MN VALUE DELIEVERED THROUGH VALUE LEADS TO RELATIONSHIP BEYOND $ PORTAL  FASTER DEMAND FULFILLMENT ON 4,100+ THE CONTRACTTM OPPORTUNITIES IDENTIFIED BY 1900+  ACSAT SCORE MORE THAN DOUBLED IDEAPRENEURS THEROUGH LEADGEN FROM 26 IN 2005 TO 58.6 IN DEC 2014  1,300+ IDEA ENTERED IN MAD JAM WITH OVER 3700 PARTICIPANTS 10 Responsible Business Value creation HOW ANUPAM ANAND TOOK THE RELATIONSHIP BEYOND THE CONTRACT SITUATION SOLUTION • The customer is an American multinational software • Anupam gave the idea of a Universal Installer that corporation that develops, manufactures, licenses, will install customer’s search engine as the default and supports a wide range of products and services search engine in all web browsers The Idea related to computing • He created an application, which once implemented created • Company is a global leader that wanted to accelerate was expected to increase traffic to the customer’s the usage of its search engine search engine and thereby increase revenues a business impact of • Anupam from HCL Technologies is helping the software firm accelerate the usage of their search IMPACT $23 mn engine • Anupam’s ideas generated a business impact of $23 Mn PROBLEM • Moreover, the Universal installer fetched the • The software company was missing out on customer 758 Mn unique clicks globally, in tremendous business opportunities because its just one year search engine was configured only for its own web browser Anupam Anand is a Project Manager with HCL Technologies HOW SHILPA KHIRBAT TOOK THE RELATIONSHIP BEYOND THE CONTRACT SITUATION SOLUTION • The client is the second largest provider of mobile • Shilpa gave the idea of an elevated experience of telephones and the largest provider of fixed line self-support section of the website called e-support telephones in all of united states • The ides enabled the customer to go online and get their queries self serviced through the portal The Idea PROBLEM generated a • The client wanted to alleviate user experience and IMPACT value worh therefore improve their Net promoter score and • The idea reduced the number of complaints $100,000 Customer satisfaction reaching the customer care team • There were employees who were constantly serving • E-support also helped reduce call volumes, request 116.6 Mn customers round the clock, which became to call back, and the turn-around time to find an expensive proposition solutions • The client was getting a huge number of calls and was incurring huge costs for live chats Shilpa Khirbat is working with HCL Technologies as a Deputy Manager HOW VIPIN AGGARWAL TOOK THE RELATIONSHIP BEYOND THE CONTRACT SITUATION SOLUTION • The client, headquartered in Dallas, Texas, is an • Vipin’s idea was to migrate the applications to other American major in electric utility that generates a servers and them decommission the low usage majority of its power through coal and nuclear servers from the environment power plants The Idea • Vipin from HCL was working for his client as part of IMPACT created a value the Data Center Management team • The idea in turn reduced the RU count worth tremendously $102,000 PROBLEM • With the help of this idea, the team successfully migrated 92 physical servers to virtual ones • After conducting a detailed report of the services, Vipin and his team realized that there were a few low usage servers that could possibly be removed from the environment Vipin Aggarwal is working with HCL Technologies as a Senior Consultant Responsible Business 11 Value creation HOW NAGENDRAN TN TOOK THE RELATIONSHIP BEYOND THE CONTRACT SITUATION SOLUTION • The client is the world’s largest logistics company • Nagendran enabled an audit trail that would identify and a market leader in sea and air mail the users with failed login attempts and further • Nagendran from HCL was was handling the client’s provided them with proper login details warehouse Management System The Idea IMPACT created a PROBLEM • With the help of the idea the number of locked value worth • Some super users were entering wrong password, accounts went down significantly and it became $207,000 easier to track forgotten accounts continuously, due to which accounts were getting locked and shut down. Nagendran is working with HCL Technologies as a Software Engineer HOW ALKA KATIYAR TOOK THE RELATIONSHIP BEYOND THE CONTRACT SITUATION SOLUTION • The client is an American multinational internet • Alka developed a utility, using which the user could based company in the business of consumer-tonow capture screenshots in multiple browsers consumer products automatically • Alka’s role was to ensure that her client’s website • The utility opens and captures the screenshots of The Idea looked the same across several browsers the webpage given and stores them in the brought a local system value worth PROBLEM $256,000 IMPACT • The client had to check every page-both static and dynamic for every browser, manually • Automation of processes that requires manual • It took Alka’s client 40 hours to test scripts in intervention 6 browsers, per release, per store • Gave the client speed and efficiency • The cost to her client was somewhere to the tune of $16,000 in a year Alka Katiyar is a Test Lead working with HCL Technologies HOW MAMATHA MALLYA TOOK THE RELATIONSHIP BEYOND THE CONTRACT SITUATION SOLUTION • The client is a German global banking and financial • Mamatha came up with the idea of service company with its headquarters in Frankfurt ‘Delivery Industrialisation’ • Mamatha from HCL was responsible for the delivery • Mamatha and her team decided to cross train of client’s several projects people among all the applications so there is The Idea no personal dependency generated PROBLEM a value worh • The client was having trouble handing multiple IMPACT $302,000 vendors and diverse touch point • The idea allowed experts to implement skills • The number of resources to manage and oversee different projects and engineers’ time to be used was mushrooming and vendors were becoming a more effectively possible pain point for the client • This idea of industrialization reflected immediate cost savings Mamatha Mallya is a working with HCL Technologies as a Senior Project Manager 12 Responsible Business Delivering our Services in a Responsible Way We believe that in addition to our stringent corporate governance and sustained innovation, we need to deliver our solutions and customer services in a way that is considerate of our ecological footprint. Our Approach to Green for HCL and our customers. For on server virtualization and example, we have adapted our consolidation to reduce energy IT-based Business Services IT services to the demand of the consumption and reduce carbon virtual world—Cloud, Geographic footprint. In our continued endeavor to maintain a balanced ecosystem, Information system (GIS), Virtual Desktop Infrastructure (VDI), We have adopted a unified our key initiatives are designed to secure infrastructure such as power management tool called conserve the environment and also Office 365, and Data Leakage System Center Configuration grow our ongoing green initiatives Prevention. Manager (SCCM), and messaging to sustain the move towards green tools such as Lync and Remote IT across the world. Our internal department that Management Services that manages the IT needs of the initiate VDI deployment. We have Over the years, we have various businesses strengthened also launched Cloud computing continuously invested our its approach during FY15 to services. In addition, a Unified efforts in creating world-class provide energy-efficient solutions Threat Messaging System was IT infrastructure that improves for our day-to-day operations. This introduced to reduce the need for HCL’s agility to build solutions was done by recycling electronic multiple power consuming boxes for its customers. These efforts products, managing e-waste to manage threats, leading to include investing in technologies disposal responsibly and focusing increased energy efficiency. that reduce carbon footprint both Our Green IT Framework A Green IT Framework IT AS A END USER IT ENTERPRISE IT LIFECYCLE & Attitude EFFICIENCIES EFFICIENCIES PROCUREMENT LOW-CARBON ENABLER Policy Data Centre IT Compliance & Equipment Governance The Desktop Procurement Data Centre Power& Teleworking Environment Practice Business process Mobile Devices Communications Operations Management Technology Distributed & Dept IT Supply Chain Systems Management Printing & Disposal Consumables Outsourced IT Industry-Specific Metrics Systems Efficiencies Responsible Business 13 (i) Activities focused on reducing carbon footprint In line with building a sustainable environment, them into existing campuses. We have consolidated managing and reducing our overall carbon footprint four of our critical data centers into existing premises is an important action item for us. We have leveraged to reduce multiple carbon footprints. every opportunity to make an effort to responsibly manage our existing infrastructure—be it technology Accumulating and disposing e-waste is an important upgrade and refresh for more than 6500 machines greenhouse effect and we are setting up processes for (desktops/laptops) to PBX or server consolidations the same. This year (until May’15), we have disposed via SIP recording for multiple locations. more than 15,000 assets under e-waste and vacated approximately 2700 square feet worth of area for To further reduce our energy consumption, we have reuse. We have taken some key steps to uphold our consolidated 14 office buildings this year and moved efforts in this direction at the design stage: The EHS (Employee HR Services) department has digitized all employee records. An enterprise level content and records management system has been implemented to ingest documents received through different input channels like physical documents, documents and We have set up an forms existing in different applications online paperless claims and already digitized documents process for employees travel, originating from emails, office flexi payments etc. This also productivity tools like MSreduces the cycle time of Office. claim process and increases employee satisfaction. We encourage employees to avail our video conferencing Business services and reduce travel by applications are introducing a check box feature being moved to best-inin the travel application, which class SaaS providers helps them rethink their travel (Kenexa, SFDC, plans and conduct virtual SAP Success Factor). meetings instead. 14 Responsible Business Harnessing Collaboration Technologies We continue to use collaborative HCL’s Private Cloud Service awarded the best under Cloud tools like MS Lync, which serves Computing category, as part of the Global CIO Impact Awards as a unified collaboration tool, Our Go-Mobile! initiative acknowledged as the best in class under functioning across several the Mobility section touch points—Conference, Technology, Tools and Global CIO Impact Awards Infrastructure—to make this ‘virtual town hall’ a big reality. Our Telepresence facility creates HCL’s adoption of Office365 was awarded the Pioneer Investor in an exclusive meeting space for Cloud Services and Solutions engagements and interaction connecting peers and clients Microsoft Award and enabling virtual face-to-face interactions without the hassles of travel. Telepresence (state-ofthe-art facilities are available at all HCL’s adoption to Cloud awarded as Best Project at EMC World main HCL campuses) is steadily Forum making waves as the preferred choice of collaboration in HCL EMC – World Forum due to its ease of use, efforts saved in costs and travel and HCL’s adoption of CLOUD awarded under CIO 100 Cloud the fact that it helps reduce the Conqueror category carbon footprint. All efforts to provide sustainable CIO 100 Award IT support for day-to-day operations by the IT services department have brought us HCL’s BI journey recognized industry wide, in the SAP Insider following recognition during Forum FY15. SAP Insider Forum Infrastructure Development, Supplier and Siting Approach: The location for both leased as industrial zones by the local policies and practices on issues and owned infrastructure/office government for any infrastructure related to employees, human operations are identified based development. We comply with rights and environment apart on multiple parameters—our local laws for infrastructure from legal compliance checks. business model, access to human development and did not record resources including supply chain, any significant fines or nonWe take care to ensure that HCL well-developed communication, monetary sanctions for nonhas no negative impact on the network by road, rail and air— compliance with environmental biodiversity, and our operations and provide ample opportunity to laws and regulations. During any do not have significant water enable us to contribute towards mergers and acquisitions, we discharge or spills that can the development of society. apply a due-diligence process negatively impact receiving We prefer locations identified which covers verification of waters. Responsible Business 15 Direct and indirect employment opportunities created The Company provides indirect Supplier-Vendor a. Period of Establishment: In employment opportunities to local Engagements order to gauge the period of semi-skilled and skilled labor for existence, length of service support staff such as security, Our procurement approach is and experience in the field of facility maintenance, transportation guided by the Purchase Manual, expertise. and travel desk. which is based on our equal b. Promoters: To ascertain the opportunity policy. We do not credentials and reputation of discriminate any vendor based the promoters/directors in the Investments made to develop on gender, nationality, ethnicity, field. the ecosystem religion, disability and others. Vendors that are committed to c. Turnover: At least 3 The Company is committed to upholding human rights and consecutive years’ turnover is to be enquired to understand Go Green in all spheres. Special operate keeping environmental the consistency of the work programs are run to create issues in mind are given preference, being handled by the Vendor. awareness among employees while all other factors relating and involve them in countering to quality and the competitive d. Economic health of the firm: aspects of the quotes remain the Economic health is quizzed the negative impact of climate same as others. and recorded to understand change. In our work area and the soundness of the firm campuses, we focus on investing to withstand any delay in Vendors that are identified to have in green buildings, rainwater unethical practices are removed payment and to keep an unharvesting, new generation from the supplier-vendor list. We interrupted flow of work at lighting and renewable energy. All carried out an audit of vendor site. our systems are energy efficient practices and did not identify e. Major clientele: The firm’s including IT hardware, and we are any vendor who had violated major clientele is also verfied. achieving internal certifications the procurement contractual f. Details of work accomplished: for Environment and Safety from requirements. We audit their The details of previous reputed firms. operations at the time of renewing work accomplished is also the contract including aspects ascertained to understand the The priorities of this focus of right to exercise freedom competencies and capabilities are available in the ‘Renew of expression and collective of the vendor. bargaining as well as benefits that Ecosystem’ section of the report. need to be passed on to their staff. g. Testimonials of the work For FY15, we have not tracked handled: The testimonials the total environmental protection Our vendor evaluation process received by the firm from their expenditures by type as they are takes into consideration all clients for the previous work embedded in the larger facilities aspects, screening based on accomplished is also taken and infrastructure budgets of the parameters as below: into consideration. Company. 16 Responsible Business h. The after sales/post project We procure our IT equipment We ensure that preference is given facilities are also an important and software from vendors to local vendors for outsourcing factor. committed to sustainability. For jobs pertaining to facilities non-IT resources, we strictly management, procurement i. The geographical location monitor the vendors for statutory of materials for infrastructure of the vendor is an added compliance. During FY15, we have development and other operations. advantage. circulated the Whistleblower policy j. Any previous successful to all vendors and have shared Our local procurement by association of the firm with us our commitment on upholding percentage volume stands at 70% or our associate companies. transparency and ethics in all for FY15 and more than 95% of transactions. our vendors are local, creating Vendors go through an appraisal employment and economic process where they are appraised The Administration team monitors opportunities in the locations on the following parameters the vendors for child labor where we operate. like cost, quality, delivery and compliance and there were no sustainability/environment/ violations this year. compliance. Responsible Digital Marketing HCL adheres to a responsible marketing model where digital is at the forefront of our marketing efforts. Digital media’s enhanced reach and effective content consumption makes it an optimum platform to increase awareness about HCL Technologies’ socially responsible initiatives. Our internal systems and controls have been established to ensure compliance to applicable laws and regulations. To conduct our business ethically, our marketing programs adhere to the legal regulations of the countries we operate in. We did not record any significant complaints regarding breach of customer privacy, loss of customer data and non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning the usage of our products and services. FY15 was replete with social awareness campaigns on the digital front. We have a dedicated section in our newly revamped website highlighting our Socially Responsible Business Model. Also, the www.hclfoundation. com was changed into www.hclfoundation.org domain, which is especially utilized by non-profit initiatives. HCL Technologies has a very active presence on digital platforms (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, Google+, websites) with over a million users. Organic digital media campaigns are regularly featured on these digital platforms. Responsible Business 17 Social Media HCL is governed by a Social Media Practice (SMP). We have created an SMP video, which encapsulated a structure and standardized approach to social media participation, both for an individual employee and the business. We rolled out key campaigns though social media and received recognition and awards. Target Campaign Campaign Campaign Objective GeoPlatforms Awards Name Details Achievement graphies #CoolestInter To create employer Global Twitter, 361 million Two DMA International ECHO™ viewEver brand in 32 countries Facebook, GDN impressions, Awards; Silver Award in the Business World's first where HCL operates 266K and Consumer Services Category end-to-end and achieve engagements, and Bronze Award in the Information recruitment engagement of 83% increase in Technology Category campaign on Twitter more than 200K. To Twitter followers, introduce HCL as a 1 million USD W3 2014 Silver Award Winner: digital disrupter by worth national HCL Technologies Ltd creating a first-in class value of media #CoolestInterviewEver Category initiative. earned through Social Content Experimental/ the campaign Innovative Paul Writer’s Award 2015 for #CoolestInterviewEver Abby's Award for Brand Activation and Promotion – Digital – Coolest Interview Ever – Gold Abby's Award for Direct Response – Digital – Coolest Interview Ever – Gold Abby's Award for Digital Abby – Social Media – Crowd Sourcing – CoolestInterviewEver – Bronze. BMA Gold Award for Social Media Twitter Program : Winner: HCL Technologies World's first ever end to end recruitment through Twitter #CoolestInterviewEver 18 Responsible Business Target Campaign Campaign Campaign Objective GeoPlatforms Awards Name Details Achievement graphies LinkedIn App To emphasize how Global LinkedIn, 10,000 usage W3 Silver Award for RBtC LinkedIn HCL ideapreneurs take Twitter, of LinkedIn App App Category General Website Relationship Beyond Facebook across G2000 Categories Social/ NetworkingFY14 the Contract. organizations. To create an engaging 60 million W3 2014 Silver Award Winner: HCL experience using the impressions Technologies Ltd RBtC LinkedIn App LinkedIn App. across various Category General Website digital channels Digital Abby – Social Media Tools – More than Relationship Beyond The Contract 92,000 clicks across various BMA Gold Award for Social Media digital properties LinkedIn Program : Winner: HCL Technologies Ltd. Relationship Beyond the Contract LinkedIn App Hiral Videos This recruitment India YouTube, 175 million Paul Writer’s Award for Best Lead marketing campaign Twitter, impressions, Generation Campaign Innovative was aimed at creating Facebook, GDN 11,000 demand generation campaigns that brand salience and applications at manage the entire process from interest driving applications. a phenomenal to conversion Cost Per Application of BMA Gold Award for Integrated less than USD 4 Marketing Communications Programs USD 1 million – USD 5 million A Mile For Her To empower under Global Twitter, 200 million privilege women Facebook, impressions, through digital literacy GDN 30,000 women To achieve more empowered than 100 million impressions digitally by spreading awareness in more than 60 countries ShortCutsTo First global launch of Global Twitter, 200 million Success video through Twitter Facebook, impressions, Campaign GDN, 26,000+ tweets YouTube 1,000+ participants Graphic Novel To create external India Twitter, 30 million launch at brand salience about Facebook, impressions, ComicCon ideapreneurship Instagram Over 450 user Bangalore culture at HCL generated content received Responsible Business 19 HCL – A LEADER IN DIGITAL MARKETING HCL TECHNOLOGIES: MOST AWARDED DIGITAL MARKETER AMONGST IT PROVIDERS OTHERS [RASBIC, IDMA, PAUL WRITER, AIMA] 14 OTHERS [RASBIC, IDMA, PAUL WRITER, AIMA] OTHERS [RASBIC, IDMA, PAUL WRITER, AIMA] awards 8 awards in INTEGRATED in SOCIAL MEDIA Category 28 4awards Category in MOBILE & CONTENT awards Category in 2 years A MileForHer Campaign Illiteracy is a global problem and and HCL will match your miles IT Services organization. Unmetric, statistics paint a gloomy picture. by empowering under privileged the global social media brand As per UNESCO, there are 775 women through digital literacy intelligence platform, recognized million adults lacking minimum initiatives”. We saw the participation HCL as the #1 brand among the literacy skills and 66% of these are of thousands of people across 60 professional service companies, women. #aMileForHer is a unique countries, which led to the initiation above Ogilvy and Mather, EY, CSR campaign launched by HCL of empowerment of more than Alibaba, McKinsey and Company, Technologies in March 2015 to 100,000 under-privileged women. Deloitte, PwC during the month of engage youth, millennials, global March 2015, when the campaign influencers, and professionals for Launched under the hashtag was live. community support. The campaign #aMileForHer, the campaign extensively leveraged social media was trending on Twitter in India For more details and insights into channels for driving awareness for two days. Global technology HCL’s social media campaigns, about women empowerment influencers from US, Europe, APAC please access the following links: through literacy and the change endorsed the campaign, voicing individuals can bring. The message full support and participation. It LinkedIn App link: that the campaign carried was also helped HCL become the #1 http://rbtc.hcltech.com/ “To celebrate the women in your international brand on Facebook life: Walk, jog or run a mile for her as compared to any other 20 Responsible Business Viral video links: 1) https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7McVQF3a_J4&list=PLDGgSXFgPJZn_9yndVj3wpJxcyBozleLt&i ndex=1 2) https://www.youtube.com/watch?v= ADPzMtoHd5g&index=2&list=PLDGgSXFgPJZn_ 9yndVj3wpJxcyBozleLt 3) https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=X9sRbdTsH-4&index=3&list=PLDGgSXFgPJZn_9yndVj3wpJxcyB ozleLt 4) https://www.youtube.com/atch?v=t31eNRcfLjw&index=4&list=PLDGgSXFgPJZn_ 9yndVj3wpJxcyBozleLt Responsible Business 21 22 Responsible Business REDEFINE WORKPLACE GRI 3.1 PARAMETERS Reported Page Geography G3DMA Description UNGC (C/P/NA) Number Scope DMA LA Disclosure on Management Approach LA 1-19 Aspects Employment C G Labor/management relations Occupational health and safety Training and education Diversity and equal opportunity y Equal remuneration for women and men 1 -19, DMA HR Disclosure on Management Approach HR C G Annexure Aspects Investment and procurement practices Non-discrimination Freedom of association and collective bargaining Child labor Prevention of forced and compulsory labor Security practices Indigenous rights Assessment Remediation Social: Labour practices and decent work Performance Reported Page Geography Description UNGC cIndicator (C/P/NA) Number Scope Employment Procedures for local hiring and proportion EC7 of senior management hired from the local C 7, Annexure G 6 community at significant locations of operation Total workforce by employment type, LA1 employment contract, and region broken down C 7 G by gender Total number and rate of new employee hires and LA2 employee turnover by age group, gender and P 7 G 6 region Return to work and retention rates after parental LA15 13 G leave, by gender Labour Management Relations Percentage of employees covered by collective LA4 C 8-13 G bargaining agreements C Comprehensive • P Partial • NA Not Applicable • G Global • I India 2 Redefine Workplace Performance Reported Page Geography Description UNGC Indicator (C/P/NA) Number Scope Minimum notice period(s) regarding significant LA5 operational changes, including whether it is Annexure specified in collective agreements Occupational Health and Safety Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management, worker health and LA6 C 12 G 1 safety committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, LA7 and absenteeism, and number of work-related C 19 G 1 fatalities by region and by gender Education, training, counseling, prevention, and risk-control programs in place to assist work LA8 C 17 G 1 force members, their families, or community members regarding serious diseases Health and safety topics covered in formal LA9 agreements with trade unions; Training and NA education Average hours of training per year per employee LA10 C 13-14 G by gender, and by employee category Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability LA11 C 14 G of employees and assist them in managing career endings Percentage of employees receiving regular LA12 performance and career development reviews, C 13 G by gender Diversity and Equal Opportunity Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee category LA13 C 7-8 G 6 according to gender, age group, minority membership, and other indicators of diversity Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women CLA14 to men by employee category, by significant P 7 G 6 locations of operation Social: human Rights Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning aspects of human rights HR3 C 19 G that are relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained Non Discrimincation and Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining Security Practices 1,2 Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization's policies or procedures concerning HR8 C 18 G the aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations C Comprehensive • P Partial • NA Not Applicable • G Global • I India Redefine Workplace 3 Performance Reported Page Geography Description UNGC Indicator (C/P/NA) Number Scope Indigenous Rights Total number of incidents of violations involving HR9 NA G rights of indigenous people and actions taken Assessment Percentage and total number of operations that HR10 have been subject to human rights review and/or C 19 G impact assessments Remediation Number of grievances related to human rights HR11 filed, addressed and resolved through formal C 19 G grievances mechanisms C Comprehensive • P Partial • NA Not Applicable • G Global • I India Business Responsibility Report indicators Core Principle Indicators Section Employee wellbeing • No. of employee and contract staff Redefine Workplace • No. of women employees and employees who are Annexure 1: Management Approach and differently-abled Policies • Non-discrimination/ Anti-sexual harassment policy Redefine Workplace Redefine Workplace • Employee grievances/ complaints on sexual harassment/ discrimination • Safety policy and performance • No. of employees provided with skill upgradation and office safety training Human Rights • Human rights policy Annexure I: Management Approach and • Human rights policy for suppliers/ business partners Policies Redefine Workplace • No. of stakeholder complaints on human rights issues Redefine Workplace • No. of stakeholder complaints on human rights issues resolved Policy Advocacy • Trade/ industry association memberships Annexure I: Management Approach and • Issues advocated through these memberships (e.g., Policies, Key Membership Forums & Healthcare reforms, Research and Engagements • Development etc.,) 4 Redefine Workplace Redefine Workplace Ideapreneurs First Report’ showcasing their Top 5 and other issues. While many Passion Indicators. 56% of our companies invest in diversity HCL is a progressive company leaders received reports too. This training, we have this blogging whose policies and strategies exercise allows the managers to forum. are constantly shaped by our understand competencies of their employees whom we call team members and keep track as ideapreneurs. We have Other Channels of the development interventions empowered our employees to they conduct for their teams. Mailers are an important form of participate in our growth, strategy communication to reach out to and vision, by providing various platforms that allow them share, MEME employees and these are sent interact and exchange ideas and through defined channels such This first-of-a-kind social experiences. By inverting the as HR Speak, Experience HCL, networking platform leverages the pyramid, we have enabled our HCL Today and Policy Hub. These collective power of the organization employees to play an intrinsic role channels help us share HCL’s through micro-blogging, social in influencing our actions through networking, content and values in easy-to-understand FY15 and setting goals for FY16. knowledge sharing and open formats. forums. The purpose of MEME is Runway to socialize the business, enable Dialogue Sessions/ Town Halls are single point access for employees, adopted by functional leaders as Runway is an annual employee and improve productivity and a channel of communication to event where the CEO and collaboration. Some of MEME’s appraise employees on HCL’s leadership team share the vision key features include content business performance and HR and strategy of the organization viralling; its ability to integrate updates for the quarter. with employees. Strategic seamlessly with other knowledge decision-making is taken out repositories making it a sustainable Ideapreneur Newsletter provides of a conventional closed-door social learning platform; Anant’s a summary of the key changes, format among a select few and MEME page—a dedicated page to is transformed into an interactive upcoming milestones, events, raise queries/ suggestions to the session where employees engage tools, resources and more. CEO with a quick-turnaround time; directly with the management. dedicated pages for HR-related There are in-depth analyses on responses, employee clubs and specific processes to enhance programs. MEME by Anant (CEO) understanding. Smart Survey and Leaders Scrapbook allow Smart Survey is a platform for leaders to establish direct connect Digital Communication Platforms collating effective, constructive with all HCLites. In FY15, MEME such as My HCL and MEME are and integrated feedback from the recorded over 90,000 registered standpoints. They form the basis employees. This is crucial to the users with 11662 connections, and are the primary tools deployed ongoing development and growth 24 groups and 15 new posts for communicating HCL’s values of the individual, managers and among diverse groups. and mission. the organization at large. Through our self-assessment tool, Smart BlogHer Coffee Chat with Senior Leaders Survey, we identify our employees’ presents an informal setting where passion indicators and the A unique practice at HCL is our employees share their views on individual factors that drive them “BlogHer” forum on our internal to excel at work. organization matters with senior platform called MEME where many leaders and vice versa. aspects on gender neutral policies In FY15, 72,080 employees are discussed. These discussions participated in the Smart are constructive, non-hierarchical Live Connect Chat Sessions enable Survey. There were 51,010 and help both HCL and employees employees to have direct dialog unique participants and 34,246 to demystify work place myths and with the CEO/ CHRO employees received an ‘Individual stereotypes on gender, culture, Redefine Workplace 5 Enabling Employees through the Ideapreneur Culture HCL’s ideapreneurship™ is a employees, we have been creating This unique culture of grassroots distinctive business practice that significant value for our customers innovation stems from our empowers employees to take by tapping into the talent and ideas Employee First philosophy, charge of presenting innovative of our employees in the value providing employees the solutions to customer problems. zone—those who work closely opportunity to ideate and drive Shifting this responsibility from with the customer organization. them to fruition. the top management to our The Ideapreneurship Framework is based on the following a. Employees First: At HCL, the focus is on employees because we believe that they bring strategic value to the organization and are critical to its success in the global marketplace. Therefore, we practice Employees First—a unique articulation, which creates an enabling BELIEFS environment and a culture of innovation. b. Value Centricity: In an industry dominated by volume, we consciously chose a value-centric, nonlinear business model, which is recognized by clients and analysts globally. We believe in delivering value by developing Relationship Beyond The Contract™ with our clients. c. Trust, Transparency and Flexibility: We believe that we are among the most transparent enterprises in the world, today. To us, transparency is vision, confidence, collaboration, flexibility, and trust. BEHAVIORS Behaviors that seed, nurture and harvest ideas with intrapreneurial energy PROGRAMS Behaviors that seed, nurture and harvest ideas with intrapreneurial energy Successful business outcomes further strengthen our culture tenets OUTCOMES We believe that maximum value is created at the employee-customer interface as they interact with client on a regular basis and understand their needs better. It is about the individual taking charge—being self-driven by creating space for growth, expansion and enrichment. 6 Redefine Workplace Diversity among Ideapreneurs Fosters Innovation A positive workplace is one where diversity goes beyond differences that stem from gender, nationality, culture, ethnicity, age, or the differing abilities of individuals. At HCL, we believe that it is about recognizing the differences that exist within our employees, harnessing and synergizing them, and creating an environment that is conducive to bringing out the best in our employees. Our CHRO is the primary custodian We believe that it is important for business section), and has of our Equal Employment to focus on the needs of every enrolment channels for employees Opportunity initiative and the individual and ensure the right to join the Employee Resource Head of Diversity, Inclusion and conditions are in place for each Groups (ERGs). Currently, over Employee Engagement. He is person to achieve his or her full 15,000 employees are part of this responsible for coordinating the potential. network. company’s efforts to implement The Diversity Office at HCL has been Initiatives such as the ERGs are and disseminate the diversity plan. established to further strengthen led and driven by the employees Our recruitment and promotion and reinforce this commitment. We themselves. These groups use a policy is based on meritocracy provide numerous avenues of selfmulti-dimensional approach and and ability to learn, adapt, and empowerment to our employees act as platforms for employees to assimilate to change. As we add as a first step towards creating an anchor organizational change and more employees from diverse engaged workforce. development. backgrounds, we create an As a part of our efforts, we have Such efforts have not only helped inclusive workplace that promotes launched a Diversity Portal. This us to acquire the best talent but new ideas and does not exclude Portal aims to assist and equip also to retain employees. For any individual from participating or employees with resources for selfFY15, our voluntary attrition stands contributing to the growth of our development (learning section), at 16.47%. organization. client interactions (diversity HCL OPERATES IN 31 COUNTRIES WITH 106,107 FULL TIME EMPLOYEES FTE Count by Gender/ Region Country Female Male INDIA 25% 75% USA_LATAM 15% 85% EUROPE 24% 76% APAC_ROW 26% 74% Overall 24% 76% Scope: HCLT, Global Operations, FY15 Total Workforce data across regions Workforce by region FY'15 FY’14 FY’13 FY’12 Our hiring India 78.33% 80.19% 81.11% 81.97% practices are centrally managed and we USA & LATAM 11.02% 10.01% 9.52% 8.77% advocate strong Europe 5.51% 5.01% 5.09% 5.23% employer branding APAC &RoW 5.14% 4.78% 4.28% 4.02% practices. Scope: HCLT, Global Operations, FY15 Redefine Workplace 7 OUR EMPLOYEE RESOURCE GROUPS ADEC ADEC (African Diaspora Employee Council) The African Diaspora Employee Council (ADEC) assists in building and retaining a highly-qualified, diverse workforce by promoting professional and personal development opportunities for its members. It also strengthens linkages to and within our diverse communities and African American-based organizations and markets. During FY15, the group organized inspirational talks with guest speakers as well as celebrated the Black History Month to engage employees in our Cary GDC. Ability Connect This employee network facilitates an environment The Hobby Clubs anchored by the Chargers have that helps advance differently-abled employees by over 32,000 HCLites as members globally. Clubs like suggesting policies and programs to support inclusion Foodies, Bikers, Photographers, Quizzers, Polyglots and growth. Through the network we plan to hire 175 and Toastmasters are famous networks in HCL. differently-abled employees in FY16. Hobby classes are organized within the office premises Chargers to help employees learn more about their interests. In addition to these passion clubs, we have a number The Chargers Program aims to engage with employees of employee engagement events at our various work and provide them with opportunities to pursue their interests in sports, health and wellness, photography, sites. All employees are members of this association dance and music, knowledge and problem solving, but the charter runs with select representatives who and specific hobbies with like-minded employees. form 1% of the total workforce. 8 Redefine Workplace Our Employee Engagement Programs include An annual talent fest at HCL A platform for quiz lovers to The second edition of which allows employees test their business acumen the extempore event was to showcase their talent. across multiple fields. This organized in June this year The performances include year, a total of 550 teams and saw the participation dancing, singing, fashion participated in the quiz. of 300 employees across show, painting, sketching locations. and theatre. Arclights Inquizitive Minds Perspectives This is an annual event This first PAN India running The first ever game organized to commemorate event was organized across development competition the festive season during locations where more than organized in September the months of October and 250 teams (4 members each) saw in excess of 100 teams November. Events and offers participated as part of the participating in the event to were rolled to HCLites both wellness initiative at HCL. showcase their online and offline in October this year. coding skills. SEZathon Funfair @ HCL Game-A-Thon Our photography club organizes activities like photography walks and annual photography contests for employees globally. CLIC Redefine Workplace 9 Family Connect • Sunshine Summer Camp: The camp is organized annually for our employees’ children aged 4-11 years. In 2015, Sunshine completed its fifth year. The activities help the kids make new friends, build confidence and develop life-long skills such as teamwork, leadership, and creative thinking. • HCL FunFair: An event where HCLites and their families can participate in a day of fun and creativity. The program also their parents work but also frolic and understand more provides an insight into ‘gaming’ participated in some exciting about HCL and our culture. and interactions with leaders at events and community initiatives. Representatives from • Young ideapreneur: Similar to HCL. In FY15, over 197 kids the United Way were present the summer camps, we have a participated in the program and shared the importance of 2-day program for the children across Bangalore, Chennai and giving and HCL’s partnership of our employees in the age Noida. with them to reach lives in the community. The children, group of 10-15 years to orient • At our Cary center in USA, parents and volunteers also them to new and upcoming we hosted a ‘Bring your sons got involved by participating in technologies and promote and daughters to work day’. projects to help underprivileged Our employees’ children not exercises in team building and children in the community only had a glimpse of where Heritage Network The Heritage Network comprises employees who play a key role in the conservation of the cultural heritage resources. The intent of creating this affinity network is for like-minded employees who wish to understand different cultures and share knowledge of their own culture. These groups organized a number of Culturati sessions in their locations this year. In our Cary GDC, this group organized Holi celebrations to offer a taste of India. Similar India day celebrations were organized in other locations. Various cultural/ social engagement celebrating with Halloween Day underprivileged children. They also activities were organized by and for and observed November. The year actively organize and participate our employees through the year. came to an end with Christmas in workplace exercise programs, celebrations. The International traditional week programs, family HCL Norway extended the Women’s Day was celebrated with and fun events. celebrations to their families by an inspiring talk by a women leader and HCL Poland Women Connect HCL South Africa kicked off their planning a family day-out, proving Network was also launched. festivities with a series of activities to be a great bonding activity. that sought to include the whole During the festive seasons of Easter family—all HCLites, along with their HCL Poland celebrated Friendship and Christmas, our employees in spouses and children. Activities Day on Aug 14th 2014 by asking included various competitions and employees to share photos with Brazil thought of the less fortunate wound up with a fashion show their friends. They continued and engaged in activities for the titled HCL Indo Afro Fusion Day. 10 Redefine Workplace Redefine Workplace 11 Employees First Council The Employees First Council functions at location, city, and GDC levels at HCL. The council comprises senior managers who represent their business/ department in the EFC. The objectives of EFC include: • To ideate and facilitate programs, and support systems that would improve employee experience and HCL operations • To dialog with employees on HCL business and people programs • To position HCL in local forums The Employees First Council comprises of senior employees who discuss health and safety issues on behalf of employees with the management and help in formulating relevant programs to address these issues. The council came up with approximately 80 different ideas to improve HCL operations and employee experience across India during FY15. 12 Redefine Workplace iBelieve – by Women Connect this year, Our gender neutrality is reflected The HCL Women Connect in which women achievers were in the benefits we give to our invited to speak. male employees through paternity leave. All employees who availed HCL’s Women Connect aims this leave, returned to work. to engage and advance women In addition to Women Connect, through development programs, HCL offers a number of support HCL ensures salary parity for both advocate gender neutral work systems to help women manage women and men who are joining environment by suggesting work and life priorities. These as entry level engineers. appropriate policies and position include life coach support, day HCL as an employer of choice by care in office premises, concierge Community Champions women across the globe. There services through AHA, and policies such as extended maternity leave, This employee network is the are over 130 Women Connect largest and continues to grow office members across the globe work from home, flexi careers and every day. Community Champions who lead “Café coffee” sessions flexi work hours. All these have are a group of community and “Rebalance” events, covering helped young women, especially service volunteers, who lead over 1200 employees, to promote those who take maternity breaks the HCL Foundation activities. a gender-sensitive and inclusive to pursue or resume their careers. Approximately 10,000+ new work place. This group also volunteers joined the network in coaches and counsels aspiring In FY15, 99.87% of women FY15. young women professionals, employees returned to work and shares experiences on after maternity to resume the More details of their work are work-life priorities. There were careers—a marked increase from available under ‘Repay Society’ “Feminispiration” events organized 84.78% in FY14. section of this report. Our Career Development Programs We launched ‘ProgramFirst’ during FY13 which proved to be a significant investment in people practices across HCL. This has enabled us to refresh and integrate our learning, performance, reward and talent management practices. We have also boosted the impact of our workforce operations on business growth, by hiring, developing and deploying individuals within a career architecture that reflects in the roles we perform to engage with our clients. As a part of Program First, we career, goals performance, their career aspirations for the launched iSuccess during FY15. rewards, talent and learning coming year. The remaining This is an integrated platform for management as well as onboarding employees will log on to iSuccess all the employees, providing a processes and corresponding to give and receive feedback in common space where we can listen applications. the coming months when their to each other through meaningful appraisal cycles are initiated. conversations (goal setting During FY15, all eligible employees process), collaborate with each completed their appraisals, In FY15, there were 61,667 other (through linking/cascading and received feedback on their employees who received training goals), build future-ready skills and performance and career growth. through various programs. become ideapreneurs to create value for our clients. 94.06% of our FTEs have received two levels of feedback; 43% of iSuccess is a people practices women employees and 42% of male employees have discussed platform that aims at integrating Redefine Workplace 13 Training Data Job level Band Categorization Female Male Total Executives 11865 25858 37723 Managers 3064 17828 20892 Senior Managers 138 1542 1680 Leadership 52 733 785 Total 15119 45961 61080 Scope: HCLT, Global Operations, FY15 Soft Skills through Learning and Our Leadership Development business leaders, on a sustainable Development Programs basis. It is designed with the primary objective of developing We believe there is no set formula Certified HCL Leaders: The program the right competencies, at the for success and motivate HCLites objective is to facilitate the desired proficiency levels, required to be on a constant journey of transition of first-time leaders for leaders within HCL to be more self-discovery. Learning and for early effectiveness, targeting successful in conducting their dayDevelopment programs give newly promoted middle – senior to-day business. An easy-paced platforms to not only ideate but to managers. The new leaders construct allows for self-learning learn with a focus on sustainable go through a Harvard-certified and application. growth for all employees. During leadership transition program, FY15, 25,384 unique employees which equips them to effectively Women Leadership Development availed various programs for their perform in their new role. Program (ASCEND): This intervention self-development. Based on our is part of the Diversity initiative of internal assessment tools, the HCL Advanced Business Leadership HCL, which mandates increase knowledge gained by the trained Program: This global mini-MBA pilot in the representation of women employees has been 36%. program is offered to identified in our senior management by leaders at senior management multiple ways—including support Domain Skills Training through levels for building the pool of programs, peer mentoring and Our Academies resources for future business coaching (all levels), and providing leadership roles. This 6-7 month platforms to enable women At HCL, employees irrespective of high-touch hybrid program is leaders to learn and exhibit gender, job levels and experience designed with global business transformational leadership. have opportunities to develop their school partnerships to strengthen skills and discover their potential business acumen through crossStepping Stones: Stepping Stones through the various training functional integration and business is a focused career development programs. Our employees across management in the global business program to enable our middle level BSERV and Infra availed various context. women employees to realize their trainings though our academies. In career aspirations and potential and FY15, 61,667 employees received Leadership Crucible: The program help them in their developmental training, of which 22.32% were aims at addressing the learning journey. It focuses on coaching women. needs of the tenured and women who are new mothers and experienced functional and 14 Redefine Workplace require help to manage the new participants an opportunity to As of March 2015, arKMedes expectations at work and home. demonstrate the value of their houses over 15,728 insightful ideas and innovations to a wider artifacts such as case studies, 949 women benefitted from this audience and gain recognition on whitepapers and others. program during FY15. a grander scale. Edna—The Experts Discovery, Feminspiration: This platform • 278% increase in paper Nurture and Actualize Program— is facilitated by HCL Women submissions is a Microsoft Lync-enabled Connect Affinity Network, where instant messaging service. HCL • 46% of the papers centered employees can seamlessly successful women leaders are on innovation and continuous collaborate in real time with invited to address HCLites. This improvement experts 24x7, and ask questions forum has been launched to help and provide answers on any topic. HCLites gain insight into successful • 248% increase in attendance leadership as well as understand (including live streaming perspectives on gender matters. In FY15, Edna witnessed a audience) from GPC-7 whopping 77% increase in the • 63% participation from number of experts identified, Knowledge totaling the expert base to 8,702. mid-managers Management Forums The total number of conversations was 30,499—a 13% increase HCL’s Knowledge Management from the previous year. (KM) initiatives are centered Extending the power of on converging knowledgecollaboration through arKMedes management efforts to create, Our Onboarding Studio is discover and leverage best In addition to GPC, there are a leveraged by employees when they practices. number of platforms for employees move across different projects or to leverage and access infomration career streams. There are currently This year, Good Practices for their day to day project 55 sites that have assisted Conference-8 became an integral 7,450 employees to transition to management. For example, the part of HCL’s ideapreneurshipTM new roles and assignments. program, thus affording the arKMedes platform. Redefine Workplace 15 Employee Reward and Recognition We believe that our employees recognition ceremony in India. customized club kits. We have steer our success through their Nearly 16,000 people including over 18,000 users of the portal. hard work and dedication. So we family members participated in the create the right work environment events held across cities in India. Spot R&R: Feeling the need where employees feel empowered to reward employees on an to deliver their best and where their A new initiative called ‘O Infinity impromptu basis for special efforts efforts do not go unrecognized. Hall of Fame’ was also started from in delivering and supporting their Towards this, we have several 2014 for HCLites who received respective projects, HCL Spot platforms to applaud individuals outstanding rating for more than 6 Awards program was launched. for their spirit of excellence. Some years. 237 HCLites were felicitated There are nine categories in which by CEO Anant Gupta in the maiden awards can be given. Till date, we of these initiatives are: have over 11,500 Spot awardees. year (in offshore location). O Infinity: The O Infinity League is Appreciation Month 2015: an exclusive league formed for XtraMiles: This unique appreciation Appreciation Month at HCL was super achievers in HCL who have forum was launched to inculcate a organized in April, 2015 with received the topmost ratings for culture of expressing gratitude for a various reward programs like two or more consecutive years. job well done by an individual. The XtraMiles and Spot Awards being The O Infinity recognition ceremony online XtraMiles portal empowers rolled out. Special ‘Thank You, is a salute to these employees for employees to appreciate and Team’ and ‘Thank You, Boss’ their commitment to excellence recognize their peers/ reportees/ cards were introduced, and an as well as their families for being colleagues/ managers across Appreciation wall was created on a constant source of support to the organization at the click of a MEME for employees to share them. It is one of the most awaited button. Based on a point-reward their appreciation messages. events in the HCL calendar where system, they can earn “miles” of We also conducted R&R for employees are recognized and different kinds. On accumulation employee support staff, covering applauded in the presence of their of a certain number of miles, they Housekeeping, Security Guards colleagues and family members. In attain the membership of the and Support Staff across HCL 2014, 6,981 outstanding achievers prestigious XtraMiles clubs and India. Over to 43,172 employees were felicitated at the O Infinity are felicitated and recognized with participated in the program. 16 Redefine Workplace Employee Welfare programs Employee Wellness and Wellbeing taken the wellbeing challenge. A number of health camps and health Mobius is the wellness and talks were organized in our offices wellbeing initiative at HCL. The in India. 39,840 employees were objectives of this portal are: covered in the health camps and health talks. The health camps • To ensure all employees have included eye check-up, dental access to healthcare in medical check-up, master health checkemergencies up, cervical cancer vaccination, • To improve employee H1N1 flu vaccination, skin and hair awareness on health and test, thyroid screening, and breast occupational hazards cancer screening. The topics covered in awareness talks by • To provide employees and experts were Cancer in Women, their families a central resource Heart Diseases, Diabetes, General that helps them make healthier Health Awareness, Child Nutrition, lifestyle choices Cervical Cancer, and Ovarian Cyst. • To create and promote a culture In line with the organizations of maintaining healthy lifestyles Occupational and Safety policy, we have trained our employees This initiative is reflective of our in Ergonomics to avoid posture journey to instill a sense of holistic related illness. 56000 employees wellness and greater wellbeing and took the Ergonomics test online on has had a significant impact on our intranet in a span of 4 weeks. our employees and their families. AHA (Assisting HCLites Anytime): 59,621 employees were benefited Life Coach: We also recognize AHA is a first-of-its-kind initiative through the wellness and wellbeing the importance of the emotional that features a range of offerings programs from July’14 to May’15 wellbeing of our employees and are and services AHA (Assisting HCLites committed to helping individuals The key initiative that helped through the Life Coach initiative. Anytime) that HCL employees are revolutionize Mobius in FY14 entitled to. Employees choose We provide 24x7 telephone and was the launch of Medi Assist, online counseling support for the programs/benefits that they our wellness portal partner. The all employees and families. In wish to have implemented in their highlights of the Medi Assist portal addition, employees can meet regions/facilities. AHA offerings are a 24x7 health desk number, the counselors face-to-face at our are categorized under 4 main access to doctors, counsellors and office locations. 19,447 employees categories: work, health, family and lifestyle. The portal is open dietician via web chat, health risk were covered in the life coach each quarter for employees to analysis (HRA), daily health tips, session and floor walks. make their selection. Medibuddy – App-based online medical store, health and diet Day Care Centers: Employees Some of the AHA benefits include coaching, OPD service for booking with children have access to a compressed work hours, 24X7 appointments at any paneled number of referral as well as insecurity for women employees hospitals and diagnostics centers, office day care centers. In FY15, in for NCR and Manesar, 24X7 and 24x7 life-coach service. 110 employees had availed the medical emergency support, onsite day care centers in India. health check-ups, life coach, virtual 16,173 HCLites have registered on blood bank, parenting workshop, the online wellness and wellbeing Emergency Response: Emergency homecare services, discount portal. 5,378 employees have numbers are printed on Employee portals, financial workshops etc. ID cards pan India. The hospitals Redefine Workplace 17 list is available at security desks at guarded by security guards, • Physically Demanding Work all office locations for emergencies. prohibiting the entry of unauthorized Emergency Response Teams (ERT) Worker exposure to the hazards personnel. All premises are under are formed at all office locations. of physically demanding CCTV surveillance. If required and Situations like nationwide strikes tasks, including manual with due permissions, companies or natural disasters will also material handling and heavy are willing to share footage with be managed by ERT. Specific or repetitive lifting, prolonged the police. trainings like First Aid/Selfdefense standing and highly repetitive are rolled out across facilities. or forceful assembly tasks is Our security undergo continuous A virtual blood bank with donor to be identified, evaluated and training given by the instructors details is available on MEME. controlled. A periodic training who come periodically for various 1,500+ HCLites are donors today. focused on safe material trainings. This program covers, Through HCLT Foundation we handling operations and standard instructions, alertness of access support from Red Cross, ergonomics should be provided the guard, turn over etc. Organ Foundations, Cancer Care, to such workers by the service HIVAIDS agencies etc. to support • Emergency Preparedness provider. our employees and their families during medical crisis. We also have Emergency situations and • Machine Safeguarding a doctor on the call and nurses events are to be identified and assessed, and their impact Any machinery (having rotating/ available in all our office locations moving parts) is to be evaluated that have a significant number of minimized by implementing for safety hazards. Physical employees. emergency plans and guards, interlocks and barriers response procedures, including are to be provided and properly We have also made an emergency emergency reporting, employee maintained where machinery helpline 1800 number available notification and evacuation presents an injury hazard to to our employees in India to help procedures, worker training workers. A periodic training them avail medical emergency focused on safe use of power and drills. Service provider shall services. tools, machines, should be be aware and shall implement provided to the workers. all emergency paraphernalia Employee Safety and Security – and exit paths available at site Safe Commuting: Cab facility is Specific focus on Women of work to ensure employees provided to women employees for safety in case of an emergency. night shifts as stipulated by Shops Safety of Women Employees in India: and Establishment Act. Cabs In the wake of a few unfortunate • Occupational Injury and Illness ferrying women workforce are incidences in India against women, monitored using global positioning Service provider to ensure systems (GPS). The transport the National Association of reporting of any occupational team monitors cab speed through Software and Service Companies injury and illness, including GPS and appropriate instructions (NASSCOM) had issued a set are given when found to be over of best practices for companies provisions to: a) encourage speeding or diverting the usual to adhere to. We are committed worker reporting; b) classify route. Some companies have to upholding the safety of all our and record injury and illness even installed the panic button in employees, especially the women, cases; c) provide necessary the cabs in select regions. Most and follow these best practices medical treatment; d) incident routes are worked out in such a across all offices in India. Some investigation and implement manner that a woman employee is of these practices are provided not the first one to be picked up corrective actions to eliminate below: or last one to be dropped as far their root causes; and e) facilitate as possible. In case such a route return of workers to work, is unavoidable, a guard is always Security Arrangements at Office debriefing and post-traumatic provided to escort the women Premises: Office premises are stress procedure. employee. The woman employee electronically and personally signs the trip sheet and has the 18 Redefine Workplace option to endorse her remarks. We to provide on-ground physical Employee Helpdesk and also welcome feedback through support from a trained and Grievance Channels mail. Effective checks and controls professional first response team on the vehicle movement are in within minutes of any emergency We have a number of channels place to check any unwarranted situation. This includes a 24X7 in HCL that employees can use activities of cab drivers, such as command and control center with by to share their feedback on picking up strangers and straying trained and professional incident practices, provide solutions, ask away from the designated routes. managers. for solutions to issues that prevent Breath analyzers are used to carry them from being productive on the out random checks on drivers to Measures for Safe Hiring: Guards job and report grievances and any prevent drunk driving. Disciplinary and drivers are hired from licensed workplace harassment. action and penalties are imposed agencies that maintain diligent on the vendor, if found guilty. records of these employees such Informal discussions: Any employee Tracking of all escort guard routes as recent photograph, name, can meet the respective manager is carried out by the Transport Desk father’s name, mobile number, or HR, share the concerns and get seeking employee confirmation on license details, permanent and actions initiated. safe drop/arrival on her mobile. present addresses, appointment Smart Services Desk (SSD): The transport team maintains a letter, and police verification. This Employees can submit queries daily track sheet of the women ensures that nobody enters the related to policy and support employees who are commuting premises without a valid identity programs to enabling functions late in the evening with all the proof. for immediate action. A total of details such as name, complete 2,62,026 SSD tickets were raised address, mobile number, and Creating Awareness: Self-defense under the umbrella of Smart emergency contact numbers. training, provided by professional Service Desk in FY15. trainers, has been made available Emergency Response Systems: 24X7 to our women emwployees to Listen Hour: Employees can meet emergency helpline numbers equip them to handle emergency enabling functions once a quarter and other important numbers are situations. The Transport Security and share suggestions/questions. displayed in the cabs. Employees team carries out regular briefing are regularly sensitized on the sessions for escort guards and Ask a Leader: Every employee can availability of these numbers which drivers, sensitizing them about write to their business leaders and can be used to report life safety their roles and responsibilities while get their concerns addressed. and security threatening situations. escorting women employees. Ask HR: This is a forum available in All our employees go through MEME where employees can raise In Delhi and NCR regions, we have periodic safety training as a part of HR-related queries. partnered with an external agency our procedures drills. Secure: Employees and contractual Incident/ Accident rate – FY15 staff can report workplace harassment-related grievances and receive confidential support. 104766 248924016 In FY15, there were 5 significant No. Employess No. Working Hrs. cases all of which were resolved. Male Female Whistleblower: Any employee or stakeholder can register ethicsNo. of Injuries & Illness 168 60 related complaints and initiate Incident Rate 0.135 0.048 appropriate action. 33600000 12000000 In FY15, a total of 65,000 employees have undergone the Frequency Rate 0.135 0.048 online module for Prevention and Redressal of Sexual Harassment Scope: HCLT India + 18 GDCs operations taking average yearly at Workplace. employee base as 1,04,766 for the mentioned operations. Redefine Workplace 19 mmy Text: Since its inception in In FY15, there has been an increase of As on March 2015, about 29150 11, HCL Foundation has played an 25% enrollment of youths in children directly benefitted through their egral part in realizing the larger Yuvakendra from last year. Around 80% enrollment in HCL Gurukul (Youth stainable agenda of the company, of candidates enrolled in Yuvakendra Centers). We have trained 19,200 d has reached out to 1,91,800+ are placed in jobs. youths in Digital Literacy modules and ople in its operating areas. Our Women Empowerment Programs around 600 persons were supported (HCL Surabhi) have benefitted 2,290 through the Bridge School program. on March 2015, about 29150 women from less-privileged Around 610 youths have been ildren directly benefitted through their backgrounds through training in rehabilitated from drug and alcohol rollment in HCL Gurukul (Youth employability and entrepreneurial skills, addictions in the communities and nters). We have trained 19,200 and 418 women benefited through 1,700 youths have been covered uths in Digital Literacy modules and sustainable livelihood opportunities in through rehabilitation workshops. ound 600 persons were supported India. More than 2,000 women were Around 3,780 youths have received ough the Bridge School program. covered through various health camps life-skills training with focus on issues ound 610 youths have been and awareness programs in the slums concerning adolescence, relationships, habilitated from drug and alcohol across India. Around 800 children/ nutrition and awareness on HIV/AIDS, dictions in the communities and persons with terminal illnesses career, etc. We have reached out to 700 youths have been covered (HIV/AIDS, TB) were provided with 77,450 children and women through ough rehabilitation workshops. micro-nutrient support. Around 40,000 gender sensitivity trainings. ound 3,780 youths have received people have been covered under health In FY15, around 60% eligible students -skills training with focus on issues from HCL Gurukul were enrolled in ncerning adolescence, relationships, What we’ve higher secondary education. There is trition and awareness on HIV/AIDS, 0% drop out from schools, and 90% reer, etc. We have reached out to achieved in pass out of students in their board ,450 children and women through nder sensitivity trainings. the urban exams with marks higher than the respective state average. There has FY15, around 60% eligible students slums so far…. been a 25% increase in student m HCL Gurukul were enrolled in enrollment in Gurukuls compared to last her secondary education. There is camps (general, eye, dental), year. 70% teachers in the Gurukuls drop out from schools, and 90% awareness campaigns and rallies. have received formal training in new ss out of students in their board Out of the total CSR budget of INR 6.28 teaching methodologies, thereby ams with marks higher than the Cr in FY14-15, 50% was spent on ensuring high learning outcomes in spective state average. There has education-related initiatives which students. Since its inception in 2011, en a 25% increase in student helped in a huge reduction in school HCL Foundation has played an integral rollment in Gurukuls compared to last dropout rates. 20 % of the budget was part in realizing the larger sustainable ar. 70% teachers in the Gurukuls spent towards employment and women agenda of the company, and has ve received formal training in new empowerment which will be scaled up reached out to 1,91,800+ people in its aching methodologies, thereby in the upcoming budget. Close to 20% operating areas. suring high learning outcomes in of the budget was spent towards udents. infrastructure development in the As on March 2015, about 29150 communities. Since its inception in children directly benefitted through their rough our employability training 2011, HCL Foundation has played an enrollment in HCL Gurukul (Youth ogram (HCL Yuvakendra), 2,250 integral part in realizing the larger Centers). We have trained 19,200 uths have been trained and 1,635 sustainable agenda of the company, youths in Digital Literacy modules and ced in jobs in the past 3 years, and and has reached out to 1,91,800+ around 600 persons were supported other 715 are under training currently. people in its operating areas. through the Bridge School program. RENEW ECOSYSTEM GRI 3.1 PARAMETERS Disclosure on Management Approach Reported Page Geography DMA EN UNGC EN (C/P/NA) Number Scope Aspects Materials C 1-13 G Energy Water Biodiversity Emissions, effluents and waste Products and services Compliance Transport Overall Environmental Indicators Performance Reported Page Geography Description UNGC Indicator (C/P/NA) Number Scope Material 8 EN1 Materials used by weight or volume. C 7-8 G 8.9 Percentage of materials used that are recycled EN2 C 12 G input materials, Energy Direct energy consumption by primary energy EN3 C 11 I + 18 GDCs 8,9 source. EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source 11 I + 18 GDCs 8,9 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency EN5 C 8 I + 18 GDCs improvements. Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy-based products and services, and EN6 C 5-7 I + 18 GDCs 8,9 reductions in energy requirements as a result of these initiatives Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption EN7 C 6-7 I + 18 GDCs 8,9 and reductions Water EN8 Total water withdrawal by source C 12 I + 18 GDCs 8 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal EN9 C 12 I + 18 GDCs 8 of water Percentage and total volume of water recycled EN10 C 12 I + 18 GDCs 8,9 and reused Bio-Diversity EN13 Habitats protected or restored. NA 8 Strategies, current actions, and future plans for EN14 P 4 G 9 managing impacts on biodiversity Number of IUCN Red List species and national EN15 conservation list species with habitats in areas NA affected by operations, by level of extinction risk C Comprehensive • P Partial • NA Not Applicable • G Global • I India • GDC Global Delivery Centre 2 Renew Ecosystem Performance Reported Page Geography Description UNGC Indicator (C/P/NA) Number Scope Emissions, effluents and waste Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas EN16 C 8-10 I + 5 GDCs 8 emissions by weight Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions EN17 C 8-10 I + 5 GDCs 8 by weight Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions EN18 C 6-7 G 7,8,9 and reductions achieved Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by EN19 C 8-10 I 8 weight NOx, S0x and other significant air emissions by EN20 P 8 I 8 type and weight EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination P 12 I 8 Total weight of waste by type and disposal EN22 C 13 I + 18 GDCs 8 method EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills C 12 I 8 Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed hazardous under EN24 the terms of Basel Annexure I, II, III and VIII NA 8 and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally Identity, size, protected status and biodiversity value of water bodies and related habitats EN25 C 12 I significantly affected by the reporting organization's discharges of water and runoff Products and Services Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of EN26 products and services, and extent of impact C 4-7 G 8,9 migration Percentage of products sold and their packaging EN27 NA 8,9 materials that are reclaimed by category Compliance Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials used EN29 NA for the organizations operations and transporting members of the workforce C Comprehensive • P Partial • NA Not Applicable • G Global • I India • GDC Global Delivery Centre Business Responsibility Report indicators Core Principle Indicators Section Environment • Environment policy Annexure I: Management Approach and • Environment policy for suppliers/ business partners Policies • Climate change policy and initiative to mitigate/ adapt climate change Responsible Business/ Renew Ecosystem • Environmental risks Renew Ecosystem • Energy efficiency measures and use of renewable energy Renew Ecosystem • E-waste/ office waste disposed Renew Ecosystem Renew Ecosystem 3 Renew Ecosystem We empower our employees to departments managing the Health, based facilities. This shortage provide ideas, run campaigns and Safety and Environment (HSE). The of power has increased implement actions to conserve HSE department ensures process our dependency on Diesel natural resources. We also standardization and continuous Generator sets (DG). encourage them to plant trees improvements by obtaining ISO including indoor plants in the work certifications. The environment • We cater to a large global areas. certifications and resources customer base and hence management are primarily focused International travel by As a part of our Biodiversity on facilities that are companyemployees is a business initiative we have planted 350 owned and house more than 2000 requirement and cannot be native trees in our office sites and employees. avoided totally. would increase this to 1000 by • We participate in benchmarking FY16. Our environmental actions are efforts of the various guided by the following day-to-day agencies and understand Safe and comfortable workoperational challenges/ aspects: the required environmental environment for employees, • We operate from distributed targets for the Information water and indoor air quality, waste disposal from the facilities, office facilities that necessitate and Communications (ICT) reduction in employee travel an approach to achieving industry. and preventive health-care for environmental targets in a Our efforts to educate various employees, all fall under the balanced and incremental stakeholders across the globe Responsible Operations Strategy. manner. have helped us to monitor • We focus on educating and and report data pertaining to Being a services company, there empowering the supply‘Responsible Operations’, from is no direct material consumption chain community including our 18 Global Development in our operations. Resources security, housekeeping, Centers (GDC), during FY15. In consumed including electricity, cafeteria, transport and other India, 21 operational centers have water, physical infrastructure and support staff in managing the been certified for ISO 14001 and off information and commutation, environment goals. OHSAS 18001. technology equipment are auxiliaries which support our • Our efforts to promote and Most of our leased offices outside operations. sustain green operations are India are ‘green-compliant’, limited by the unavailability of especially the Global Development The environmental actions are power from the National Grid Centers (GDC) in North Americas, jointly implemented by the eco which is the primary source which are LEED-certified buildings. councils formed by the employees of power for all our IndiaSince 2009, our focused green along with the functional 4 Renew Ecosystem efforts have helped us reduce the One of the initiatives undertaken but also provided guidance in the per capita carbon emissions. In was to ensure effective utilization organization’s commitment to FY15, we reduced the per capita of our UPS systems. The e-Waste, environment conservation. emissions by 1.54%. hazardous waste and increasing An exercise was conducted to find levels of carbon foot-prints out the over capacity of UPSs at We use 100% green electricity in different locations and shut down generated by IT companies pose most of our Global Development for the energy conservation and an environmental challenge for the Centers outside India. reutilization. Some key actions environment. As the operations are highly dependent on UPS power it were initiated as follows: The data includes environment and employee health aspects: energy, was important to ensure effective • Loading patterns details were UPS utilization and increase its collected. water, waste, incident/accident rates, and disaster/ emergency efficiency from 25% to 40%. • Continuous observation was response and best practices. carried out for a period for Scope: To study the utilization precise load calculation. Case study on Conserving trend of the UPS systems across • Analysis was done to find PAN India locations and to devise out the opportunity for Environment through Effective implementation of UPS a solution which helps in shedding Utilization of UPS Systems downsizing and their further off the wastage and optimize the advantage/savings. Background: Being a responsible utilization with enhanced efficiency social organization, HCL • The proposal for UPS and eco benefits. Technologies through its downsizing activity was Implementation: The special created and shared. “Environmental Policy” has made a commitment to conserve the project team put in efforts to help the organization not only Impact: environment by adopting “Go increase operational efficiency • This exercise has enabled Green initiatives”. the Organization to save USD 87.71 K in FY15 out of the total operational 971.93 expenditure on power. 872.161 • Total savings in terms of units reached 621294 KWH during 703.82 FY15. 621.294 • Total reduction on carbon footprint estimated at 703.80 tCo2 during FY15. • Increase in operational efficiency. • Continual improvement in systems and processes • Opportunity of re-utilization of the assets at different 13-14 14-15 locations. MWH tco2 • 24 UPS systems now available for redeployment. Comparative statistics for FY14 and FY15 Renew Ecosystem 5 Balancing Employee Comfort and Green Infrastructure requirements While designing our buildings, we consider employee comfort as well as green infrastructure requirements to ensure synergy in our construction efforts. At our large campuses, we have embarked on some key initiatives in 2015 to reduce power consumption and water usage. Chennai 3. Underground rainwater A. Building and Architecture storage tank of 1,50,000 liters 1. Roof top solar power capacity is operational. 1. Buildings’ orientation is generation through solar planned such a way to panels at the multi-level car 4. Two open recharge ponds of minimize heat gain through parking, installed in 3 building total capacity 8,43,000 liters façade after extensive sun and 3 terraces. have been created to recharge path analysis. ground water. 2. Solar water heater at Café 2. All open terraces have over/ terraces for water requirements 5. 24 underground recharge wells under deck insulation to save in the kitchen, showers rooms with a total capacity 1,44,000 energy. in the gymnasiums and nap liters have been created to rooms. recharge ground water. 3. High performance glazing 3. Installation of solar panels in 6. Percolation pits are at every system is used to reduce solar 3 buildings and 3 terraces is in 30 meters in the storm water heat gain to interior space and progress. drains to recharge ground have maximum natural light. water. 4. Underground rainwater 4. Shading devices provided for storage tank of 75,000 liters 7. We have set up STP of façade to reduce the heat gain capacity is operational. 562KLD, which caters to to interior space. the HVAC makeup water for 5. Generation of 56KLD through water-cooled chillers and 5. Solar water heater provided to reverse osmosis for complete landscape watering. supply hot water for cafeteria campus drinking water needs. requirement and kitchen requirement. Noida 6. Underground rainwater 6. Plant installation in progress 1. Solar water heater at Café storage tank to harvest water for the generation of 56KLD terraces for water requirements from all building terraces. through reverse osmosis for in the kitchen, showers rooms complete campus drinking in the gymnasiums and nap 7. Open areas are landscaped water requirement and kitchen rooms. with trees, lawns and shrubs to requirement create clean and comfortable 2. Installation of solar panels in atmosphere. Noida Sector 126 office site is Bangalore in progress. 8. All the materials used in the 1. 50KW roof top solar power 3. Towards efficient and effective building construction are generation through solar usage of genset and reduce environment friendly with low panels at the tower 4 building hazardous waste generation, VOC as per acceptable norms. terrace installed and expected Coil Cooler installation is in For e.g., paints, carpets, to be operational by Aug 15. progress. furniture, ceiling material etc. 2. 10KLD solar water heater 4. We maintain and monitor at tower 4 terrace for water effective temperature at server requirements in the kitchen, shower rooms in gymnasiums rooms towards energy saving. and nap rooms. 6 Renew Ecosystem B. Utility and Services c. Lighting 2. Chillers are provided with VFD starter for optimized and a. Water Management 1. LED-based light fixtures used efficient operation. in the campuses. 3. High efficiency VRF air 1. All washrooms are fitted with 2. Entire street and landscape conditioners, which have very sensor taps to optimize water lighting is LED-based. low power consumption and usage. deliver maximum cooling and 3. Day light sensors to use maximum air, are used. 2. All western closets have dual maximum sunlight used in the flush system to minimize water 4. All AHU equipment is designed buildings. wastage. with VFD system for optimized 4. Occupancy based light operation. 3. Sewer treatment plant (STP) switching system used to 5. VAV installed in the ducting is installed within campus to minimize power consumption. system to optimize air treat the sewer water and conditioning based on reuse for flushing, landscaping 5. High efficiency light fittings occupancy requirement. and HVAC make up water. with T5 lamps used. There is no water discharge 6. Heat recovery wheels with from campus. d. UPS system treated fresh air units installed to reduce heat gain to air4. Timer-based automatic 1. UPS systems with IGBT conditioned area. Pumps are controls for water sprinklers technology have been installed installed with VFD to reduce are installed to conserve water for low THD. the energy loss. used for lawn maintenance. 2. High efficiency UPS have been f. Building Management System. b. Waste Management installed to reduce energy loss. 1. Building management system 1. Organic waste converter of e. HVAC SYSTEM to optimize the operation and capacity 1000kgs per day is maintenance of all the utility provided to generate manure 1. Water-cooled chillers are and services in the campus. out of organic waste (from installed for power saving and kitchens, cafeteria, and STP water utilization. garden) generated. TARGETS 2015-16 Target Units Reduction over previous year Energy 1 Reduction in Electricity kWh/FTE/Month 3% 2 Reduction in Carbon Footprint t-CO2/FTE 3% 3 Increase in Renewable Energy use Kwh 2% 4 Increase in Biogas Generation Capacity from Waste Kg Biogas 2% 5 Increase in Solar Water Heater Capacity Liters of Hotwater 10% WATER 6 Reduction in Water Consumption Liters/FTE/Month 2% 7 Increase in Rainwater Harvesting Capacity Kilo Liters 5% Waste 8 Reuse of Treated Sewage Kilo Liters 10% 9 Reduction in Paper Consumption Reams/1000 Employees 5% 10 Increase in Waste Conversion to Manure Kg Manure 2% 11 Reduction in Waste Generation Kg/FTE/Month 5% Scope: HCLT, India Operations – Company-owned facilities Renew Ecosystem 7 Reducing Carbon Footprint GHG emission reporting cover of all emission data will be HCLT HCL’s Pan India and Global India and 5 GDC’s only. In continuation with our Operations across 18 GDCs. commitment to reduce carbon This includes three business The emissions are within the footprint by 20% by FY20, we segments: Software, Infrastructure scope of the Central Pollution procured Green Power amounting Management (Infra) and Business Control Board (CPCB) approved to 11291 MWh for our centers. Process Outsourcing Services. limits and the tests are carried out The source of this power was in (BSERV) and covers data in actuals by certified vendors. biomass, hydro, wind and solarfrom July 2014 – May 2015. Data based electricity. for June 2015 has been derived by Total Ozone Depleting Substance extrapolating from earlier data. (ODS) refilling across IndiaEmission Calculation based locations was 8.56 MT which contributed to ozoneMethodology Emissions Data depletion to the magnitude of We prepare our greenhouse gas The absolute energy consumption 0.193 chloroflurocarbons (CFC) (GHG) emissions inventory in in FY15 is 1064876GJ (direct equivalents. We believe in taking accordance with ‘The Greenhouse and indirect energy combined), precautionary measures and Gas Protocol: A corporate which is 4.35% less than the promote the usage of refrigerants accounting and reporting previous year’s consumption. that are free of Ozone Depleting standard’ and ISO 14064: 2006 The per capita emissions stand at Potential (ODP). All our new – ‘Greenhouse gases, Part 1: 2.54 tCo2/employee, a reduction and big operational centres are Specification with guidance at the of 1.54% from the previous procuring ozone-friendly coolants. organization level for quantification year. Facilities, where there are and reporting of greenhouse gas significant risks, are monitored for For GHG emissions, our emissions and removals’. emissions of DG sets for NOx, SOx operational boundary covers five and other particulate matter at a categories of activity sources The CO2 emissions associated specified frequency. The scope which are listed below: with the activities are noted on the basis of measured or estimated Emission Emissions Emission Scope energy and fuel use, multiplied Source Activity by significant carbon emission Onsite electricity Core Direct DG sets CO2, CH4, N2O factors. Published national factors generation – Diesel fuel (Scope 1) were used to calculate emissions Core Indirect Purchased electricity Facility use CO2, CH4, N2Ow from operations. In the absence (Scope 2) of any such national data, IPCC Optional Indirect Vendor vehicles/ and DEFRA’s Greenhouse Gas Business travel (road) CO2, CH4, N2O (Scope 3) Leased buses Conversion Factors for Company Business travel Optional Indirect Commercial Reporting have been used for the CO2, CH4, N2O (Air – Domestic) (Scope 3) airlines calculation of GHG emissions. Business travel Optional Indirect Commercial CO2, CH4, N2O (Air – International) (Scope 3) airlines All GHG emissions figures in the report are in tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalents (CO2e), which Carbon Emissions by scope (tCO2) include Carbon dioxide (CO2), Activity Name 2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 Methane (CH4), and Nitrous oxide (N2O). Other Perfluorocarbons Onsite electricity generation – 56277.86 45520.38 30468.39 31862.60 Diesel Fuel (Scope 1) (PFCs), Hydrofluorocarbons Purchased electricity (HFCs) and Sulphur hexafluoride (Scope 2) 112992.76 117196.84 138195.58 127178.60 (SF6) emissions have not been Business travel and employee reported since they are not commute (Scope 3) 49650.13 69982.00 68824.83 107257.92 significant to the operations. The scope/boundary of the yearly Scope: Carbon emissions – HCLT India and 5 GDCs, FY15 8 Renew Ecosystem The business travel data is based on only those employees who availed of the company cab/bus facility and also the company-provided air travel. 140000 120000 100000 80000 60000 40000 20000 0 2010-2011 HY 2011-2012 HY 2012-2013 HY 2013-2014 HY 2014-2015 HY Onsite Electricity Generation Purchased Electricity Business Travel and – Diesel Fuel (Scope 1) (Scope 2) Employee Commute (Scope 3) Carbon Emissions by Business (tCO2) Operation Name 2011-2012 HY 2012-2013 HY 2013-2014 HY 2014-2015 HY HCL BPO operations (BSERV) 22559.13 20703.69 21401.30 16273.97 HCL Comnet (Infra) operations 19744.96 16952.97 15179.35 15880.63 HCL Technologies geo's operations (GDC) 423.65 868.45 699.43 151.05 HCL Technologies operations 176193.01 194174.09 200208.72 233993.47 Scope: Carbon emissions – HCLT India and 5 GDCs, July 2014 – June 2015 250000.00 200000.00 150000.00 100000.00 50000.00 0.00 2010-2011 HY 2011-2012 HY 2012-2013 HY 2013-2014 HY 2014-2015 HY HCL BPO operations (BSERV) HCL Comnet(Infra) operations HCL Technologies Geo's operations HCL Technologies operations (GDC) Renew Ecosystem 9 Total Emissions 2011-2012 HY 2012-2013 HY 2013-2014 HY 2014-2015 HY Total Emissions (tCO2e) X 1000 218.92 232.7 237.48 266.29 Scope: Carbon emissions – HCLT India and 5 GDCs, July 2014 – June 2015 Total Emissions (tCO2e) X 1000 266.29 250 237.48 240 232.7 230 218.92 220 210 2011-2012 HY 2012-2013 HY 2013-2014 HY 2014-2015 HY Emission Intensity 2011-2012 HY 2012-2013 HY 2013-2014 HY 2014-2015 HY Emission Intensity (tCO2e/Emp) 3.13 3.1 2.58 2.54 Scope: Carbon emissions – HCLT India and 5 GDCs, July 2014 – June 2015 Emission Intensity (tCO2e/Emp) 4 3.5 3.13 3.1 3 2.54 2.58 2.5 2 2011-2012 HY 2012-2013 HY 2013-2014 HY 2014-2015 HY 10 Renew Ecosystem Direct/ Indirect Energy Activity Name 2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 Direct energy (GJ) (Electricity generated through diesel) 768581 621671 416068 435145 Indirect energy (GJ) (Purchased Electricity) 548636 650466 697323 629732 Scope: Carbon emissions – HCLT India and 18 GDCs, July 2014 – June 2015 800000 700000 600000 500000 400000 300000 200000 100000 0 2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 Direct Energy (GJ ) (Electricity generated through diesel) Indirect Energy (GJ) (Purchased Electricity) HCL also participates in the Carbon Disclosure Project and furnishes its figures in the report every year. CDP comparison YOY Score Score Score Score Category Name 2011 2012 2013 2014 Governance and Strategy 57 65 69 60 Supply Chain Governance and Strategy Average 74 74 74 69 Risks 56 53 63 84 Supply Chain Risks Average 42 38 38 44 Opportunities 51 53 56 84 Supply Chain Opportunities Average 36 33 33 44 Emissions Reporting 87 94 83 76 Supply Chain Emissions Reporting Average 69 67 64 60 Emissions Management 91 81 85 76 Supply Chain Emissions Management Average 61 56 57 60 Stakeholder Engagement 40 40 52 45 Supply Chain Stakeholder Engagement and Verification Average 32 32 38 35 Scope: Carbon emissions – HCLT Global, July 2014 – June 2015 Renew Ecosystem 11 Working Towards Water Neutrality by 2020 We saved approximately 6.1% absolute water consumption this year over the previous year. Our total consumption of water stands at 17,57,245 cubic meters for FY15 (i.e. 5,61,910 cubic meter ground water and 11,95,335 cubic meter purchased water). Water Consumption in X 100000 Cub. Mts 17.572 18 16 14 11.953 12 9.408 7.793 10 8 5.619 4.339 5.069 6 3.741 4.052 4 2 0 FY 12-13 FY 13-14 FY 14-15 Ground Water Purchased Water Total Water Consumped Water Treatment and Reuse Managing e-Waste All large HCL campus facilities in India have Sewage We have organization-wide policy and processes Treatment Plants (STP). The treated effluent from in place for responsibly managing and disposing the STP is tested regularly against various national our e-Waste. We work with licensed vendors who and state effluent standards and recycled for use in are certified by the Pollution Control Board in India washroom flushing and gardening. for removal of e-Waste. We also audit the vendor process on a periodic basis. The e-Waste generated During FY15, we treated and reused 4,71,793.48 at the various HCLT facilities include defunct cubic meters of water across all India Operations. We computers, monitors, servers and allied hardware. also continue with installing Rain Water Harvesting In FY15, 14,889 units of equipment from our India(RWH) plants in all office buildings with significant based offices, amounting to e-Waste, were disposed operations. through authorized handlers and recyclers. This comprised 6081 units of desktops, 5194 monitors, Hazardous Waste 60 printers, 241 laptops and 372 servers from our India office locations Hazardous wastes are disposed of as per the Ministry of Environment and Forests’ (MoEF) Hazardous Diesel Generator Emissions: Waste Handling and Management Rules, through SPM 48 MT MoEF-authorized vendors only. This is overseen in Sox 19.03 MT some states by the local pollution control boards. Nox 171.69 MT Used lube oil (from DG maintenance) is the main Scope – HCLT India hazardous waste material which we have, and total volume figures for the same are 23.36 KL for our Other waste: Units in MT India-based facilities. We did not have any incidents of diesel or waste oil spills in any of our centers this year. 12 Renew Ecosystem Type of Waste Unit Quantity Batteries (number of units x weight of one unit) MT 51 Carton boxes MT 42 DG filters (number of units x weight of one unit) MT 2 Electrical MT 33 Electronic MT 0 Food MT 832 Garden MT 50 Inert waste/ tissues MT 2 Lube oil MT 23 Paper, tissue, cups MT 139 Plastic (polybag and bottle) MT 27 Shredded paper MT 323 Thermocol MT 0 Tin MT 1 Wood MT 14 Scope: Carbon emissions – HCLT India and 18 GDCs Paper Consumption Paper is an operational consumable at HCLT. We have reduced paper consumption by 16.48% in FY15 when compared to previous year’s consumption of 49935 reams. The scope of the data is HCLT and 18 GDCs. Renew Ecosystem 13 ust as much as HCL believes in staff in managing the environment water, waste, incident/accident rates, ngaging with people to create value, goals. and disaster / emergency response and he organization understands that best practices. reserving the planet is a priority. Our • Our efforts to promote and sustain perations, policies and initiatives are green operations being limited by the Best Practices across Global ramed with deep respect for the Earth’s unavailability of power from the Development Centres (GDC) esources. National Grid which is the primary Egham, United Kingdom: To reduce the source of power for all our burden on earth in terms of generation afe and comfortable workIndia-based facilities. This shortage of of EWaste, our Egham centre replaces nvironment for employees, water and power has increased our dependency employee laptops every four years ndoor air quality, waste disposal from on Diesel Generator sets (DG). instead of prescribed 3 years of life. he facilities, reduction in employee ravel and preventive health-care for • We cater to a large global customer Melbourne, Australia: In our mployees, all fall under the base and hence International travel by Melbourne GDC, posters have been put esponsible Operations Strategy. We employees is a business requirement to generate awareness on Water, mpower our employees to provide and cannot be avoided totally. Energy and Paper conservation. Apart deas, run campaigns and implement from this, to promote recycling, ctions to conserve natural resources. • We participate in benchmarking recycled exercise books are ordered for We also encourage them to plant trees efforts of the various agencies and employees. ncluding indoor plants in the work understand the required reas. environmental targets for the Zapopan, Mexico: In our Mexico GDC, Information and Communications we have motion sensors in washrooms he environmental actions are jointly (ICT) industry. for sinks and toilets that lead to saving mplemented by the eco councils of water. Also, individual light switches ormed by the employees along with the Our efforts to educate various are available in each area and room for unctional departments managing HSE. stakeholders across the globe have employees to switch on/off as desired. he HSE department ensures process helped us to monitor and report data tandardisation and continuous pertaining to ‘Responsible Operations’, Tokyo, Japan: In our Japan GDC, we mprovements by obtaining ISO from the four Global Development have replaced conventional tube-lights ertifications. The environment Centres (GDC), during FY 2015 to 18 to CFL luminaries and also have ertifications and resources GDCs this year. In India, a cumulative of minimized use of halogen and other management are primarily focused on 21 operational centres have been energy intensive lighting. Also CRT acilities that are company-owned and certified for ISO:14001 and OHSAS monitors have been replaced with LCD ouse 2000+ employees. 18001 out of a total of 54 centres. monitors to reduce the consumption of ur environment actions are guided by Most of our leased offices outside India is partnering with building management he following day-day operational are ‘green compliant’ especially the to get environmental certification for the hallenges / aspects: Global Development Centres (GDC) in North Americas are LEED certified We operate from distributed office buildings. Since 2009, our focused facilities that necessitate an approach green efforts have helped us reduce the to achieving environmental targets in per capita carbon emissions. In FY a balanced and incremental manner. 2015, we reduced the per capita emissions by 10.54% for the same Our necessity to educate and period. empower supply-chain community including security, housekeeping, The data includes environment and cafeteria, transport and other support employee health aspects: energy, REPAY SOCIETY GRI 3.1 PARAMETERS Disclosure on Management Reported Page Geography DMA SO UNGC Approach SO (C/P/NA) Number Scope Aspects Local communities C 1-14 G Corruption Public policy Anti-competitive behavior Compliance Social: Society Performance Page Geography Description Reported UNGC Indicator Number Scope Indirect Economic Impact Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services provided primarily for EC8 C 5-12 G public benefit through commercial, in-kind, or pro bono engagement Local Communities Percentage of operations with implemented local SO1 community engagement, impact assessments, C 1-14 G and developments Operations with significant potential or actual RB – 15 SO9 C G negative impacts on local communities Annexure Public Policy Public policy positions and participation in public SO5 C Annexure G policy development and lobbying C Comprehensive • P Partial • NA Not Applicable • G Global • I India • RB – Responsible Business Business Responsibility Report indicators Core Principle Indicators Section Inclusive growth • Community development/ CSR initiatives Repay Society • Impact assessment of community development/ CSR Repay Society initiatives • Community development/ CSR expenditure Repay Society • Initiatives for improving financial literacy and access to Repay Society financial resources for the poor and marginalized groups 2 Repay Society Repay Society The focus of HCL Foundation is a the largest number of migrant On the rural development front, two-pronged integrated strategy population, and therefore the we spent FY15 in evaluating the which focusses on the all-round social issues are also diverse demography and social issues in development of communities. and dynamic in nature. During the 100+ villages of Uttar Pradesh, FY15, we deepened our efforts to where we plan to invest and HCL focus on community involve local stakeholders such as enable the local communities in development in India is two-fold: community leaders, existing NGOs, (1) Inclusive development of urban FY16. We also identified partners and Government authorities and and governmental agencies, who slums through strengthening prioritized the social indicators. can support us in this journey. education, providing skills We evaluated the outcome training, enabling livelihoods and which has been captured in the Outside India, we focus largely empowering women (2) Rural respective section of the summary on education and employability, upliftment through Samuday project focusing on holistic of activities (refer to Tables 1.2, and the countries include those development of villages. 1.3 and 1.4), and developed new where we have significant number indicators for FY16. Our targets for of employees, as well as those Over the last three years, HCL FY16 are to scale what we have where there is local government Foundation has been investing started as sustainable actions need for developmental efforts in resources to understand the in education, employability and such as USA, Poland, UK, and issues of urban slums and to women empowerment. The total South Africa. Details of these are prioritize the social issues for CSR spend for the financial year available in this report. action. Urban slums in India have 2014-15 was INR 6.17 crore. The materiality and the mapping of these to the millennium development as well as the sustainability development goals are provided below: Table 1.1 Translating MDGs and SDGs to HCL Foundation Action Millennium HCL Foundation Actions on Sustainable Development HCL Foundation Actions Goal Development Goals Goal MDGs Goals (SDGs) on SDGs (MDGs) Livelihood and employment Eradicate extreme programs to increase End poverty in all its forms, 1 1 poverty and hunger workforce and sustainable everywhere income generation. After-school coaching program, counseling, bridge End hunger, achieve food Achieve universal school, mentoring, sports security and improved 2 2 primary education and arts in HCL Gurukuls to nutrition, and promote achieve the goal of universal sustainable agriculture primary education. Livelihood and employment programs • All our Gurukuls, to increase workforce employability training and sustainable income programs are inclusive and generation. gender-sensitized. Promote gender • We reach out to the Ensure healthy lives and 3 equality and community, schools and 3 promote well-being for all, at empower women the general public through all ages awareness videos such as Break the Silence, Rehabilitation camps (Night Vigil camps), and through iTeach program. Repay Society 3 Millennium HCL Foundation Actions on Sustainable Development HCL Foundation Actions Goal Development Goals Goal MDGs Goals (SDGs) on SDGs (MDGs) Community giving program, After-school coaching Ensure inclusive and meals on roads, microprogram, counseling, Reduce child equitable quality education 4 nutrition program are focused 4 bridge school, mentoring, mortality rate and promote lifelong on reducing child mortality sports and arts in HCL learning opportunities for all rate. Gurukuls. All our Gurukuls and employability training programs are inclusive and gender-sensitized. Women health is the priority in women empowerment. Achieve gender equality We reach out to the Improve maternal Improvement of maternal 5 5 and empower all women community, schools and health health is facilitated through and girls general public through medical camps, nutrition program and blood camps. awareness videos such as Break the Silence, Rehabilitation camps (Night Vigil camps), and through iTeach program. Preventive health, awareness Majority of our community Combat HIV/AIDS, on malaria, illicit usage of Ensure availability and centers is provided with 6 malaria and other alcohol and drugs, cancer 6 sustainable management of safe drinking water and diseases disease through integrated water and sanitation for all sanitation is ensured. programs. Ensure Tree plantation drive, Ensure access to affordable, We have encouraged solar 7 environmental awareness on safeguarding 7 reliable, sustainable and and renewable energy in sustainability tress and world environment. modern energy for all all our programs We have partnered with governmental, regional, Promote sustained, inclusive Through our employability Develop a global national, international and nonand sustainable economic training and livelihood 8 partnership for governmental organizations 8 growth, full and productive training programs, we development like UNICEF, Aide et Action employment and dignified work for sustainable and for various development work for all productive employment. programs. We have created scope Build resilient infrastructure, to materializing the goals promote inclusive and 9 through employability and sustainable industrialization livelihood program in and foster innovation FY16. Inclusive and integrated Reduce inequality within and 10 development is prioritized among countries in all our programs. Majority of our programs’ focus is on urban slums Make cities and human and sustainable, inclusive 11 settlements inclusive, safe, settlement through resilient and sustainable development, rehabilitation process. It is in practice by Ensure sustainable recycling the waste and 12 consumption and products through our production patterns social recycling drive program. 4 Repay Society Millennium HCL Foundation Actions on Sustainable Development HCL Foundation Actions Goal Development Goals Goal MDGs Goals (SDGs) on SDGs (MDGs) Take urgent action to 13 combat climate change and its impacts* Conserve and sustainably use the oceans, seas 14 and marine resources for We have created scope sustainable development to materializing the goals Protect, restore and through employability and promote sustainable use livelihood program in FY16 of terrestrial ecosystems, sustainably manage forests, 15 combat desertification, and halt and reverse land degradation and halt biodiversity loss Promote peaceful and inclusive societies for sustainable development, 16 provide access to justice We have partnered with for all and build effective, government and regional, accountable and inclusive national, international institutions at all levels non-government organizations like UNICEF, Strengthen the means Aide et Action for various of implementation and development programs. 17 revitalize global partnerships for sustainable development URBAN SLUMS DEVELOPMENT – FOR A BETTER TOMORROW 1. Education and Holistic Development of Youth – HCL GURUKUL Enhancing the quality of learning and development due to impoverished, non-viable circumstances. The in children and youth aged between 11 18 centers provide counseling, digital literacy, water and years, through a number of education projects sanitation and other psycho-social supports with the in India and abroad is the foremost objective of defined indicators and targets. As on March 2015, the HCL Foundation. Our youth centers, we call 29,150 children benefited from the HCL Gurukul Gurukuls, function in urban slums and Government/ program. In FY15, 4,955 children enrolled in Gurukul, Government-aided schools to aid the education of 2,930 youths were trained in digital literacy and 1,900 student who may be at risk of discontinuing schooling youths received life-skill training. Target Sheet 2014-15 Pillar Indicators Targets FY15 Achieved 60% eligible students from HCL Gurukul are enrolled in higher secondary education 1800 2610 Pass percentage of 100% in grade 10 and 90% in primary education 2600 3374 0% of students enrolled in Gurukuls dropped out of school 3700 4955 Gurukul 0% of students enrolled in Gurukul's digital literacy program dropped out of school 2800 3850 25% increase of enrolment in Gurukuls 4000 4955 Grand total of enrolled beneficiaries of Gurukul 4000 4955 Repay Society 5 Target Sheet 2015-16 Pillar Indicators Targets FY15 Achieved To maintain pass percentages of 100% in grade 10 and 90% in primary education 2610 To ensure 0% of students enrolled in Gurukul drop out of school 6200 3374 To ensure 0% of students enrolled in Gurukul’s iTeach program drop out of school 5000 4955 To provide 100% training to teachers in all the Gurukuls 200 centers 3850 Gurukul 4955 To ensure that 80% of youths have access to Digital literacy and Life Skill programs 5000 To ensure that all Gurukuls and local schools will have functional toilets, access to safe and clean drinking water 200 centers 4955 To achieve 25% increase of enrolment in Gurukuls 6200 Grand target of beneficiaries under Gurkul 11000 • Lead indicators are the definite targets beneficiaries with prospective goals aligned with Pillars to be achieved directly through NGO-partners and other training partners. Specialized services provided for children Impact of Gurukul and youths: Gradual increase of scores in board exams namely Academic coaching: HCL Gurukuls provide after-school HSC and SSLC conducted by the Government of coaching services for less-privileged children in slums in the Tamil Nadu Directorate of Government examination evenings. An exclusive teacher and coacher are placed in and the attendance in schools. All Gurukuls are all centers for thorough coaching on different subjects and gender responsive in every function. academic programs. Case Study 1 Digital Literacy: Being an IT themselves. The program is to be company, our core CSR agenda launched in the FY16, bringing Showing the Way Forward helped to close the information about robust changes through through Education. and communication skills gap in various stakeholders at different communities, by enabling children levels. The objective of the My Seventeen-year-old Hema* hails from a slum in Chennai. Her and youth from disadvantaged School Project is as following; father is a petty shop owner and communities to access technology and training through digital literacy • To reach out to 100 schools mother, a housewife. Though Hema grew up with big dreams programs. We offered courses through 100 employees every about her career and studied on computer education support year, by making the best hard at a Government school, and Internet connectivity and use of resources built by the the family’s modest income did Foundation for educational established more than 90 IT lab not afford coaching or any other purposes academic support for Hema and centers across India. Volunteers her three sisters. conduct regular sessions in MS • To provide a platform for Office and other important digital employees to share resources Two years ago, she enrolled skills like using the Internet and and build capacities in their for after-school coaching at the industrial visits are also organized. own schools HCL Gurukul in her slum. She regularly attended the special • To better integrate and engage classes offered for students My School Project – 100 Employee communities and schools in appearing for board exams, and commit to developing 100 schools providing learning solutions learnt new and very interesting study techniques. The efforts One of the highlights of FY15, • To engage employees have paid off. Hema has scored was the framing of My School meaningfully by nurturing their 93% in her Class 12 board Project, an innovative project passion for giving back to the exams, and is all set to pursue to develop schools that are in society her graduation in engineering. need. A total of 100 schools pan *name changed India was selected by employees 6 Repay Society Life Skills Development: The of sports activities. Youth with Rehabilitation and Vigil Camps: volunteers and the further trained skills are identified and trained in HCL Gurukul also provides field officers, community mobilisers activities like singing, dancing, rehabilitation programs for the and local youths are now sharing youth that focus on value systems, painting and various other forms by their skills and knowledge with gender sensitization, healthy living, thousands of beneficiaries in the HCL Art Box group (an employee life skills, psycho-social counseling, local community, with focus on affinity network) and community which focus on rehabilitating youth adolescence issues, relationships, service teams. More than 1,500 and to enable them to pursue nutrition and awareness on HIV/ children have performed in various education without dropping out AIDS through this program. of school and to pursue higher public events including the HCL’s studies for employment. Night Vigil Training in Sports, Arts and Culture: Annual Spring Fest held in AprilCamp is a structured rehabilitation HCL Gurukuls are hubs for sports May 2015. The best performers program in project areas between activities for students. Our Gurukul are awarded scholarships to 5 pm to 7 am during summer students have represented at pursue professional coaching. In vacation. Our life skills volunteers, international chess events, and trained by UNICEF, take part in the December 2014, we launched other events at national, district, overnight camp, and interact with and state levels. Regular coaching boxing clubs exclusively to train the youths on various issues such by professional trainers is provided deserving girl students from our as sexual abuse, drugs, cigarettes, for the students in different forms Gurukuls. gender, alcohol and other topics. Bridge School Program: HCL Case Study 2 Gurukuls run open school Reliving Youth through Night Vigil Camps programs to enable youths who have dropped out of schools to Vijay* and his four-member family live in a slum in Chennai. Son of complete their education. Under a watchman and a housewife, he dropped out of school before he this special program, students entered higher secondary, and began to do odd jobs to support his are psychologically, socially and family. Before long, addiction to alcohol and tobacco got the better of him, rendering him unfit for work. morally supported. Through NGOs, students from the slums Through friends in the HCL Gurukul in his slum, Vijay attended a Night are identified, assessed and then, Vigil Camp conducted by HCL Foundation. The session on Tobacco placed in these schools. The and Alcohol consumption was an eye-opener and with the help of HCL bridge school has imbibed a keen volunteers, he was given proper guidance and was able to step out understanding of the issues that into the world of opportunities. Vijay is now a housekeeping supervisor this group faces as well as the at a clothing store. He visits the slum regularly and interacts with other opportunities that can be available youths and guides them towards forming a tobacco-free society. (* name changed) to them if they complete their education. Repay Society 7 Campaign against Child Sexual Case Study 3 Abuse: HCL Gurukuls are very Bridging the Gap in Learning active with “Break the Silence” and Living campaign, an intensive awareness campaign on child sexual abuse Priya* (35 years) is a housewife and gender equality. It includes and her husband, a painter. interaction with children about 1) Equipping Youth with Skills for The couple was married at a their right to safety. Break the Employment – HCL YUVAKENDRA young age and they do not have Silence, an educational film on safe and unsafe touch is screened Employability training, skills children. With no education, in schools and communities, development and creating employment and with no followed by a discussion with child sustainable livelihood opportunities children to focus her attention rights professionals/psychologists. have been prime focus areas of the on, Priya became depressed at HCL Foundation towards creating one point in life. Improving Water, Toilet and strong and self-reliant individuals Sanitation Facilities: HCL and communities. Through skill Two years ago, she came to Foundation is committed to development centers (called HCL know of HCL Foundation’s improving access to clean drinking Yuvakendras in India locations), Bridge School program and water through activities such as we focus on promoting livelihood joined it. Despite her initial installation of RO plants in schools education among the youth from self-doubts, she successfully and communities, rainwater less privileged communities, passed Class 10. She showed harvesting and large-scale tree and those with low educational keen interest in teaching plantation drives to increase the qualifications through short-term children and was hired as an ground water level and to provide trainings in specific skills including intern in the HCL Gurukul and safe drinking water in all our computer skills, IT, BPO, healthcare Balwadi project. She now also Gurukuls and improving sanitation/ and retail services, customer teaches basic mathematics in toilet. 100% of the children relations, etc. Eligible candidates her community and gives tuition enrolled in Gurukuls and local are either absorbed into the HCL classes for children till Class 2. Government schools have been workforce or facilitated with jobs She is not only supporting her covered under our Health, Hygiene in other organizations through family financially but has also and Nutritional program. HCLF special recruitment drives and adopted a girl child from her joins hands with HCL employees, career fairs in the communities. community, thanks to a change customers, supply chain and local In FY15, 2,250 youths enrolled in the attitude and mind brought communities in taking action to in HCL Yuvakendra program. In about by education. (* name protect our environment at all FY16, 1615 youths have been changed) levels. trained and placed in jobs. Table 1.3 Employability Training and Livelihood Program – Lead indicators and Summary of achievements in FY15 with targets for FY16 Pillar Indicator Target for FY15 Achieved 70% enrolled in Yuvakendra placed in jobs 1015 1350 Yuvakendra Ensure increase of 25 % enrolment in Yuvakendra 1450 1635 Grand total of enrolled beneficiaries of Yuvakendra 1450 1635 Pillar Indicator Target for FY16 Target Sheet To increase job placement through Yuvakendra to 80% 2250 2015-16 Yuvakendra To achieve 25% increase of enrolment in Yuvakendra 2800 Grand target of beneficiaries under Yuvakendra 2800 By equipping more number of youths with skills, we strive to create increased employment opportunities, higher income and economic development, and increased socio-economic conditions. 8 Repay Society Training in Japanese Language Case Study 4 Proficiency Test (JPLT) Giving Wings to their Dreams This first-of-its-kind program was Sajan* (36 years) resides in a small town in north India in Noida. Father launched by HCL Foundation with of two children, Sajan was constantly struggling to make ends meet, support from the HCL Diversity team. despite having a basic training in computers. In July 2014, Sajan Through this program, rigorous training enrolled for a course in Computer Hardware and Networking at a HCL in Japanese Language proficiency is Yuvakendra. With the encouragement and guidance from the trainer, Sajan opened a computer/laptop hardware store in a nearby town at provided and placement of candidates a place where customer demand for hardware items was high. He has takes place at various levels by a also employed two other youths in his shop and trained them. Sajan is Japanese-based company. Out of 20 now is confident of providing his children with good education and all trained youth, 16 beneficiaries have the basic amenities in life, thanks to the vocational training he received been placed in high profile companies at HCL Yuvakendra. *name changed including HCL. 2) Empowering Women through Case Study 5 Opportunities for Sustainable Breaking Stereotypes – Japanese Language Training Livelihood HCL SURABHI Twenty-four-year-old Suresh* joined the HCL Youth Center in Women empowerment is the Arumbakkam, Chennai in Class 7. A hardworking student, Suresh HCL Foundation’s area of made good use of the resources at the center (which was initially run interest for inclusive community by the Police department), and performed well in Class 10 and 12 development. HCLF’s women board exams. After completing his schooling, he became the center’s empowerment programs focus on creating opportunities for caretaker and completed his Bachelors in Engineering with good marks. livelihood sustainability for women However, lack of opportunities and the urgent demands of taking care through career development, and of his family, forced him to work as a daily wage laborer. Suresh’s have helped hone career skills life took a compete turn, when he got an opportunity to undergo a and essential life skills, including training in Japanese Language, facilitated by HCL Foundation. After six personality development, goal setting, effective communication, months of training and mentoring by Japanese language experts and SWOT Analysis, motivation, etc. HCL volunteers, Suresh cleared the Japanese Language Proficiency Training (JLPT) exams and was placed in HCL Technologies. The Foundation also provides entrepreneurial training and It is a fine example of how a new skill—in this case, proficiency in a awareness sessions on various foreign language—can provide youth from difficult backgrounds with income generation opportunities and has helped them to set up confidence and expand employment opportunities to reach their full self-help groups to enable the potential. women from vulnerable sections of the society to become self-reliant. (* name changed) In FY15, 2,290 women benefited through the employment and livelihood program and various other health and awareness program. Repay Society 9 Table 1.4 – Women Empowerment Lead indicators and Summary of achievements in FY15 with targets for FY16 Pillar Indicator Target for FY15 Achieved To ensure 80 % enrolment of targeted Women for Digital 1300 1295 Literacy Women 60 % Women in age group 18 to 35 will be covered under 1850 2290 Empowerment Health and Sanitation program Grand total of enrolled beneficiaries of Women 1850 2290 Empowerment Pillar Indicator Target for FY16 To ensure 100 % enrolment of targeted women for Digital 16000 Literacy Target Sheet To facilitate and support self-help groups 3000 2015-16 Women 70% women in age group 18 to 35 will be covered under Health Empowerment 11500 and Sanitation Program Grand target of beneficiaries under Women 20000 Empowerment Digital Literacy for Women Case Study – 6 Power to the Women through Self Help Groups With the view to bridge the gap in information and Kavita* was first introduced to the concept of Self communication among women, HCL established Help Groups through a few sessions organized Digital Literacy Centers for women to providing by HCL Foundation and was fascinated by how women in the age-group 14 to 45 years with the SHGs could enhance their lives. Through Kavita’s ability to access technology and training. The aim is efforts, an SHG was formed with the women to enable women to take advantage of opportunities from the community who mostly belong to low to become economically active with no fee-cost. income families and their only source of income The project has improved the quality of living by was through their husbands. The group began to providing IT skill training and tapping market-driven make, market and sell festival items such as rakhi employment opportunities for the women. While bands, eco-friendly holi colors, kites, and cosmetic some of the women have taken up jobs which help to items, etc. and put up holi and rakhi kiosks in HCL them supplement their family incomes, many of them facilities and made good profits. are now better equipped to perform transactions Thanks to her efforts, there is a positive change online and to manage their children’s education in an in the lives of the other women in her community assertive manner. who were mostly confined to the four walls of their house. Thanks to training, skill development and In March 2015, HCL Foundation campaigned for mentoring from a local woman role model, these women empowerment through digital literacy and actively engaged women, men, youths and children women have gained the confidence to earn for from the communities in HCL’s A Mile for Her. See themselves and lead a dignified life which was only Redefine Workplace section for more details on the a distant dream a year ago. campaign. (*name changed) 10 Repay Society COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENTS OUTSIDE INDIA Case Study – 7 The United States of America: South Africa: The CSR focus in Focusing on both education and South Africa is to bridge the ICT Empowering CRPF Women with women empowerment in the US, divide, by investing in technology Digital Literacy HCL is supporting a program partners and the community at called GirlSTRIDE. The project large. We are setting up community Using electronic gadgets and supports and enables 175 local IT centers, donating computers, working on computers was girls to improve their academic providing internet connectivity, only a dream for 30-year-old performance and to set them on installation and activation, Tina*, wife of a CRPF Jawan, the path of graduation through driving students entrepreneurial academic instruction, tutoring, skill program (ICT training), and a home maker. When community service, mentoring, building ramps for students with HCL Foundation started an young women-specific topical disabilities, facilitating computer IT Skills Development Center discussions, college tours, training programs, enabling job for members of the women computer access for families, and creation for unemployed youth, battalion of the Central Reserve parental engagement. We are also and facilitating IT installations actively promoting employability to create labs for homeless Police Force (CRPF) and the training and skills development residents in Cape Town Shelters. wives/daughters of slain soldiers for youth and war veterans in the We are enabling disadvantaged and CRPF personnel posted US by training, imparting IT skills, persons with the ability to access out of town, Tina enrolled and facilitating internships, job technology and training so that for a course in the basics of placements, alumni activities, and they can leverage opportunities to technology skills development by become economically active. Information Technology for a harnessing the power of the tech period of 4-6 months at the community. We also provide free Philippines: HCL has launched an center. Personality development training to disadvantaged youths initiative to provide sustainable courses were also offered to and veterans, equipping them to livelihood opportunities to 500 the candidates to improve their take on meaningful roles in the unemployed single mothers and tech industry, and also through its young girls on the streets, in confidence levels. skills-based volunteer program. the Philippines through capacity Now Tina operates the building on market-driven computer and a multimedia The United Kingdom: In the UK, opportunities for employment and HCL is supporting the training and entrepreneurship. The training touch phone with confidence. development of 110 disadvantaged also covers the children of single She uses the internet to check local youths to make them mothers enrolled in this program her children’s school results employable. HCL volunteers guide through early childhood care and and fills up online forms for and inspire the students’ individual educational support. them, pays bills and does all her journeys into a career through academic instruction, tutoring, shopping online, independently. community service, mentoring, (* name changed) topical discussions, education tours, computer access and parental engagement. Repay Society 11 Employee-driven Community Transformation Symbiotic relationship is sustained between HCL employee volunteers and the community. Being an “Employees First” company, the unique aspect of HCL’s CSR framework and the fundamental factor for sustainable growth and goals are materialized and driven by the active engagement, enablement and empowerment of every HCLite. One such unique way of participation in HCL Foundation activities is through Power of One (Po1) program. The Power of One (Po1) Over Over 38,000 20,000 11,000 employees employees donated INR. 1 a day employees volunteers for Po1 volunteered participated Programmes so far in FY15 Sparked by the spirit of ideapreneurship, HCLites share their dreams for a better society through the ‘Power of One Dream’, the corporateEnabling a Symbiotic Relationship level structured volunteering and payroll-giving program that enables Between HCLites and the employees to spend a day, every week or month or year or even one Community hour every day for community service. “I alone cannot change the world, It ensures HCL employees engage in humanitarian and developmental but I can cast a stone across the projects, while HCL Foundation and Community Champions enable waters to create many ripples.” employees to realize their dreams into implementable projects and Mother Teresa activities through the Power of One program. Symbiotic Relationship Process Flow between HCL Volunteers AWARDS AND RECOGNITIONS and the Community to Support HCLF agenda and targets HCL has repeatedly been honored for its excellence in community action through the Power of One philosophy. Some of the recent HCL Foundation awards are: connects community youths with HCL • Aerospace and Defense Award 2015 – employees Outstanding Contribution in the Field of CSR – February 2015 • HCL ranked 9th among 100 companies Volunteers involve themselves as teachers, by Channel NewsAsia for Sustainability Volunteers help to counselors and mentors and community development – in academic coaching, develop leadership skills mentoring programs, September 2014 and team spirit. life skill development training, organizing • NHRDN Award for ‘National CSR creative programs Case Contest 2014 – CSR Initiatives – A key Differentiator’ in recognition of Youths inspired HCL Foundation’s work in the field of by the employee volunteers for the education – August 2014 in the community in terms of education • HCL Foundation honored by the Tamil and also for a Nadu Udavikkaram Association for the better career. Welfare of Differently-abled – April 2014 12 Repay Society Repay Society 13 14 Repay Society Repay Society 1 Annexures Sr. No. Contents Content Description Page No. Annexure I Management Approach Equal Employment Opportunities 2 and Policies and Human Rights Employee First Philosophy 2 EFCS at work 2 Diversity Plan 2 Corporate Governance Policies 2 COBEC & ABAC Policies 3 Whistle Blower Policy 3 Equal Opportunity Employer 3 Prevention and Redressal of Sexual 3 Harassment at workplace Policy Procurement Policy 4 Siting Policy for setting up operations 4 Occupational Health & Safety Policy 4 Environment Policy 5 Prevention of Pollution 5 E-Waste disposal 6 Information Security Policy 6 Key Membership Forums & Engagements 6 7 7 Annexure II CSR Policy CSR at HCL Technologies 9-10 GRI 3.1 indicators Annexure III Profile indicators 11-12 mapped to Annual Report Economic Information mapped to GRI Annexure IV Economic Information 13-17 clauses BRR Principle mapping to Annexure V BRR Principle mapping to HCL Policies 18-19 HCL Policies 2 Annexure Annexure I: Management Approach and Policies This Annexure contains a snapshot of all our Policies which is available in our Policies Portal. For more information on our policies please write to sustainablility@hcl.com Equal Employment to the management. EFCS is not orientation, religion or ethnicity Opportunities and Human about making employees happy for hiring, pay and career Rights or comfortable. We don’t think advancement. We follow a local that employee ‘satisfaction’ is hiring strategy based on business The ‘Employees First’ philosophy something a company should strive needs and local government upholds all our actions in providing for. Satisfaction is a passive state policies. We comply with local laws equal opportunities, empowers and it may not produce change and regulations for determining the and enables our employees to be or improvement or innovation or compensation, employee notice leaders of change. much of anything. As for employee period and other requirements. ‘engagement’, isn’t that much Currently, we focus only on Employee First Philosophy better than satisfaction! EFCS’ idea promoting work place diversity is that employees who are alert and and have specific supplier vendor The philosophy is about putting are paying some attention to what diversity programmes on need our employees first to activate the they do, would be better engaged. basis. value zone the place where the All actions that have emerged from frontline employees interact with this philosophy are available in the Our Equal Employment Opportunity customers and create real value ‘Redefine Workplace’ section of policy and approaches are made for them. This recognizes the this report. available to employees and key employees as strategic elements, stakeholders through HCLT’s turns the management structure website, diversity portals and Diversity Plan upside down, democratizes campaigns. All our job openings HCLT’s functions and ways of HCLT believes in ensuring respect are posted internally and made working. for each individual and creating available in our website as well a sense of ownership among as other established channels employees across the globe. Our such as newspapers for eligible EFCS at work ‘Employees First, Customers candidates to apply. Whenever We create value in one very Second’ (EFCS) guides all we have operational changes, we specific place: the interface our actions. This philosophy give sufficient notice period for between our employees and our drives us toward creating a employees to relocate or shift their customers. We call this the ‘value unique employee organization; base location of work. We provide zone’. Every employee who works creating and sustaining an support for employees to relocate, inverted organisational structure; based on business requirements. in the value zone is capable of ensuring trust, transparency and creating high or low value. The accountability in all that we do; The CHRO is the Custodian of whole intent of ‘Employees First’ and encouraging a value-driven Equal Employment Opportunity. is, to do everything that we can organization culture. The Principal Diversity Officer is do to enable those employees to create the highest possible value. responsible for coordinating the Our recruitment and promotion This has led us to take a number of Company’s efforts to implement policies are based on meritocracy actions to invert the organisational and disseminate the diversity plan. and ability to learn, adapt and pyramid. In other words, we want Any employee who feels they have assimilate change. We ensure management to be as accountable been subjected to discrimination, equal opportunities for gender, to the people in the value zone as can write to our Ethics Committee. nationality, disability, sexual the people in the value zone are One can also use the Whistleblower Annexure 3 policy to report on incidents of COBEC & ABAC Policies modest scale is an accepted harassment or unethical practices. social norm in the business world. All complaints are handled with COBEC and ABAC Policies are a The fundamental principle is that highest level of confidentiality. We set of ethical standards that need business gifts/ entertainment provide all details pertaining to to be understood and imbibed should not be given or received, to remain above reproach at all if the same were to influence a harassment and discrimination in times. Although it is not possible to decision, obtain any favour, or, the employee handbook. Diversity anticipate every business situation receive any kind of preferential parameters are tracked in the HCL or decision we might face, these treatment. This Policy applies to Technologies Human Resources all individuals worldwide working policies will serve as a consistent score card. Our Employees First for all affiliates and subsidiaries guideline for working with our Governing Council, comprising of of HCL Technologies Limited at clients, colleagues, vendor Function Heads hold Town Halls, all levels and grades. However, partners and other communities. meetings etc. and collectively These principles are intended to a business gift/ entertainment is address all employee questions never permitted, if: Offered directly help each of us understand our and issues. This approach or indirectly to any Third Party, with responsibilities and make the right empowers employees to question an intention to influence a decision, choices. They are also meant to the Management and become obtain favour or get preferential stimulate awareness of ethical treatment or made in violation of owners of change. issues that we may encounter in the ABAC Policy; Is in the form of our daily business activities. Doing cash, cash equivalent (store cards/ Corporate Governance Policies the right thing begins with basic gift cards or vouchers) or precious honesty and integrity. More than metals or jewellery; Prohibited by We continue to focus on good ever, it also depends on our good law or regulation; When it is known Corporate Governance, in line with judgment and sensitivity to the way to us to have been prohibited local and global standards. Our others see us and how they may by the employer of intended primary objective is to create and interpret our actions. recipient; When disclosed publicly, adhere to a corporate culture of would not be in the best interest conscience and consciousness, In case anyone witness any of HCL or would be cause of an integrity, transparency and violation of these polices, you embarrassment for HCL (e.g. accountability, for the efficient can immediately report the details “adult” entertainment of any sort and ethical conduct of business to whistleblower.hcl@tari.co.in. or any entertainment which could for meeting its obligations All investigations will be kept be viewed as “excessive” by any confidential and managed by the reasonable third party). towards shareholders and other stakeholders. office of Principal, Diversity and Sustainability. Whistle Blower Policy In addition to complying with The principles of Trust through the statutory requirements, Business Gifts and Transparency and Accountability effective governance systems Entertainment Policy are at the core of HCLT’s existence. and practices have been created To ensure strict compliance with towards improving transparency, HCL places great emphasis on ethical and legal standards across disclosures, internal controls and strong corporate governance and the company, the Whistleblower a work culture that is inclusive, policy has been created. The promotion of ethics at work place. positive and productive. HCL protected disclosure can be made HCL Technologies recognises practices transparency and in any of the following methods: that good governance is a integrity in all activities across its continuing exercise and reiterates operations. Corporate Governance The report can be submitted to its commitment to pursue the is an embodiment of the principles Whistleblower Committee, CEO’s highest standards of corporate of integrity, transparency and Office-HCLT, A-9, Sec.3, Noida, governance in the overall interest accountability. and U.P. India. An e-mail complaint of all its stakeholders. can be sent to the Whistleblower Offering and accepting business Committee at whistleblower.hcl@ gifts and entertainment on a tari.co.in 4 Annexure Equal Opportunity Employer For any grievances, employees and environmental performance must write to secure@hcl.com extends to our supply chain by Our Equal opportunity and/or report harassment to a sharing our expectations with our employer policy emphasises supervisor or HR representative suppliers from time to time. We also to treat employees without any or members of the SGC. In intend to procure 5% of our goods discrimination with regard to their accordance with local laws from marginalized and vulnerable race, religion, sex, colour, age, governing such workplace sections of society eg. women and national origin, pregnancy, sexual harassments and company people with disabilities. We have orientation and physical ability. procedure, all complaints will circulated the Whistle blower policy This policy governs all areas of be investigated fairly and any to all our vendors and have shared employment, including: recruiting, misconduct, intentional or our commitment on upholding hiring, training, promotions, otherwise will attract reformative transparency and ethics in all compensation, benefits, discipline, and and disciplinary action, including transactions. The Ethics Dialogue and up to termination of contract forum is also available to vendors Terminations and includes to share with us their concerns and apprenticeship, pre-apprenticeProcurement Policy best practices. ship, and/ or on the job training. Our procurement approach is Siting Policy for setting up At HCL, we ensure adherence to guided by our Purchase Manual. operations the laws of the land with regard We adhere to fair and equitable to the employment norms and will dealings. Vendors who are 1. Responsible siting of not indulge in practices such as identified to have any unethical infrastructure/offices employing child labour, bonded practices are removed from the requires an understanding of labour etc. supplier-vendor list. Our emphasis interactions with permitting is on prioritising the environment. Vendors committed to upholding agencies, the public, wildlife, Prevention and Redressal human rights and operate keeping and surrounding land used of Sexual Harassment for our operations. This policy environmental issues in mind are at workplace Policy given preference, while all other defines the guidelines that HCL Prevention and Redressal of factors relating to quality and and its subsidiaries adhere to Sexual Harassment at workplace the competitive aspects of the during selection of a site. This Policy: applies to all employees in quotes remain the same as others. policy is applicable to all leased relation to other employees of HCL We ensure that the preference and owned infrastructure/ as well as others like contractual is given to local vendors for office(s) of HCL Technologies staff, vendors, clients, consultants, outsourcing jobs pertaining to facilities management, Ltd and all its subsidiaries trainees, visitors. Any complaints procurement of materials for located in any geography. brought for harassment of an employee by any of the others infrastructure development and or of any of the others by an other operations. More than 95% An organisation and its area over a employee will be treated under of our vendors are local, thus period of time may cause significant this policy. We have set up a majority of our spent is on local damage to the surrounding Secure Governing Council (SGC) vendors thus creating employment environment and ecological with senior employees under the and economic opportunities in the features due to the cumulative leadership of the HeadHuman locations that we operate from. emissions or waste generated Resources (HR) to look into this We procure our IT equipment and software from vendors committed in the zone. They are, therefore, matter. This committee also has to Sustainability. For non IT required to be sited, striking a an external expert to provide objectivity in all its proceedings, resources, we strictly monitor the balance between economic and and will also take local help in the vendors for statutory compliance environmental considerations. countries in which we operate on and audit their operations at the HCL always identifies the location consultation basis. time of renewing the contract(s). We for both leased and owned ensure that our company’s social Annexure 5 infrastructure/office operations HCL Technologies is committed HCLT commits itself to confronting based on multiple parameters like: to achieve Occupational Health & these challenges by assuming business model, access to human Safety excellence within areas of a leadership role in fostering a our operations by; sustainable environment and resources including supply chain, responding appropriately to the well developed communication, • Ensuring the Health and risks posed by Environment network by road, rail and air. Safety of its Employees, degradation. HCLT will strive to Contractors, Visitors and other achieve Excellence in Environment HCL prefers locations identified Stakeholders affected by its Management in its area of as industrial zones by the local operations. operations by: government for any infrastructure • Meeting all applicable • Integrating Environment development and is also considerations into our all Occupational Health & Safety compliant with local laws for Statutory requirements of the areas of operations, taking infrastructure development. land and other requirements into account our Environment The organisation applies a due risks, responsibilities and applicable to the organization. organizational capability. diligence process during any • Taking suitable measures to mergers and acquisitions, which • Meeting all applicable prevent Occupational injuries Environment laws of the covers verification of policies and illness, and to provide land and other requirements and practises on issues related a safe and healthy working applicable to the organization. to employees, human rights and environment to its Employees environment along with legal • Reducing our Ecological and other affected by its foot print through optimized compliance checks. operations. utilization of natural resources • Ensuring robust Management including land, water and At HCL we ensure that there is of our OH&S Activities like by ensuring the responsible no negative impact on the bio use of energy throughout any other critical business diversity, and the operations do not our operations including activity; by incorporating have significant water discharge conserving energy, improving appropriate safety and health or spills that can have significant energy efficiency, and giving considerations into our preference to renewable impact on local water bodies. business decisions. over non-renewable energy Indirect employment opportunities • Consulting with Employees wherever feasible. are provided to 69. in a meaningful and effective • Introducing more sustainable manner on OH&S issues and green procurement Occupational Health & Safety to enable each concerned approaches. Policy Employee to contribute to • Preventing pollution and decisions that may affect their minimizing all type of waste, As an ‘Employee First’ organization, health, safety and wellbeing at including E-Waste by adopting at HCL Technologies, we believe work. Reduce-Reuse-Recycle that Human Capital is our greatest Philosophy. strength being in the business of Environment Policy • Being an Environmentally IT services, business solutions and As a responsible corporate, at responsible neighbour in outsourcing and in accordance the community where we HCLT we believe that we have with that Health, Safety and operate, and correct incidents accountability towards the future Wellbeing of our Employees and or conditions that endanger and – also an imperative role other Stakeholders are essential the environment and by to play in addressing global element of a successful and committing ourselves to open challenges such as climate change sustainable business. and constructive engagement and environment Sustainability. with communities surrounding our operations on Environment matters. 6 Annexure Prevention of Pollution E-Waste disposal • The Confidentiality, Integrity and Availability of all such • Compliance of Environmental Strictly follow guidelines of the information, whether acquired Laws and Regulations respective pollution boards and permanently or in transit, promulgated by Central ministry of environment and forests provided or created, is and State Governments for disposing and managing ensured at all time. Assessing and minimizing wastes impacts of business activities • Information Risk Assessment on Environment by optimizing All hazardous wastes like used will be carried out and criteria or in minimising Power and oil, PCs, monitors, batteries are established for evaluation Energy consumption, reducing disposed through re-cyclers and acceptance of risks and Carbon Footprints, conserving authorised by Pollution Control acceptable levels of risks Natural Resources and Board defined. This will be reviewed promoting Green Initiatives. periodically and whenever • Minimizing waste generation Information Security Policy necessary. and disposing waste that Our Information Security Policy • Any security incidents, security includes, but not limited to is in compliance with ISO 27001 weaknesses and infringement waste Water, Paper and standard and it includes, but is of the policy, actual or E-waste in an environment not limited to, electronic/ print suspected, are reported, friendly manner, and through information etc on servers, investigated by the designated authorized and certified disposal agencies workstations, laptops, networking Chief Information Security and communication devices, Officer and appropriate • Encouraging and creating tapes, CDs and information corrective and preventive awareness amongst all printed or written on paper or action initiated. employees in understanding transmitted by any medium. The and fulfilling their environ • Business Continuity Plan is Policy ensures that: mental responsibilities and developed, maintained and those of the company • Information is protected from tested. Awareness programs unauthorized access, use, on Information Security are • Communicating the disclosure, modification, available to all Employees and Environmental Policy to disposal or impairment, wherever applicable to third both internal and external whether intentional or parties viz, Subcontractors, stakeholders unintentional, through Consultants, Vendors etc and The Management commits itself appropriate technical and regular training imparted to to compliance with the ISO 14001 organizational security them. and OHSAS 18001 standards. measures. The details of all the above mentioned policies can be made available on request. Annexure 7 Key Membership Forums & Engagements −− A project that HCL has been part of for the past couple of year is New Energy Many of our senior leaders play key roles in the Architecture advisory councils and steering bodies for promoting Diversity and Sustainability. These include prestigious • HCL supports the following two communities forums, some of which are captured herewith: −− Young Global Leader WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM: HCL is a strategic partner at the forum, which is the highest level of −− R Srikrishna, Executive Vice President partnership available for any organization across the and Global Head of Infrastructure globe. The Forum has defined industry clusters and Services and Healthcare Services, HCL, communities that partner companies can participate/ has been nominated as a Young Global support throughout the year. Leader at the Forum for his contribution in developing the Infrastructure Services • HCL is a part of Information and Communication Industry Technology Industry (ICT) −− Schwab Foundation for Social Entrepreneurs −− Within this Industry Cluster HCL supports is a part of a forum initiative on Partnering −− HCL extends its own entrepreneurial For Cyber Resilience, whereby HCL has DNA within this community to help committed to improve cyber resilience, raise identify the best social entrepreneurs business standards and to contribute to a across the world. safer and stronger connected society. NASSCOM CII HCL has been a member of National Association HCL has been a member of the Confederation of of Software Services Companies ever since HCL India Industries (CII) ever since HCL Technologies Ltd Technologies Ltd was incorporated in 1999. HCL was incorporated in 1999. HCL abides by all rules, abides by all rules, regulations, guidelines and best regulations, guidelines and best practices prescribed practices prescribed by this apex body of all technology by this apex body of all corporations in India. and information service provider companies in India. In fact HCL has been instrumental in starting the Remote Infrastructure Management Industry Forum at NASSCOM. HCL is also an active member of the Diversity and Inclusivity Initiative of NASSCOM… and HCL was recognized as the best Glocal company (NASSCOM HR Awards the Glocaliser category) amongst all NASSCOM members. 8 Annexure Annexure II CSR Policy HCL TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY POLICY 1. Objective v. Protection of national heritage, art and culture including restoration of buildings and The objective of the Corporate Social Responsibility sites of historical importance and works of (CSR) policy (“Policy”) of HCL Technologies Limited art, setting up public libraries, promotion (“HCLT” or “Company”) is to lay down guidelines for and development of traditional arts and proper execution of CSR activities of the Company handicrafts; so as to support the sustainable development of the society. vi. Measures for the benefit of armed forces veterans, war widows and their dependents; 2. CSR Activities, Projects and Programmes vii. Training to promote rural sports, nationally (a) The CSR activities, projects and programmes recognized sports, Paralympics’ sports and that will be undertaken by the Company shall be Olympic sports; and those as may be approved by the committee that will be constituted/ reconstituted by the Board viii. Rural development projects. of Directors of the Company in this regard (CSR Committee). The CSR Committee wwill approve (b) The Committee, at its discretion, approve a the undertaking of such activities, projects and contribution to the Prime Minister’s National Relief programs as are covered under the following Fund or any other fund set up by the Central areas set out in Schedule VII of the Companies Government for socio-economic development Act, 2013: and relief and welfare of the Scheduled Castes, the Scheduled Tribes, other backward classes, i. Eradicating hunger, poverty and malnutrition, minorities and women. promoting healthcare including preventive health care and sanitation and making (c) The Committee, at its discretion, may approve available safe drinking water; a contribution to technology incubators located within the academic institutions approved by the ii. Promoting education including special Central Government. education and employment enhancing vocation skills especially among children, (d) While approving the CSR activities, the Committee women, elderly and the differently abled and shall give preference to the local area where the livelihood enhancement projects; Company operates, for spending the amounts earmarked for CSR activities. iii. Promoting gender equality, empowering women, setting up homes and hostels for 3. Qualifications and Exclusions women and orphans, setting up old age homes, day care centers and such other a. Activities undertaken in pursuance of normal facilities for senior citizens and measures for course of business of the Company shall not be reducing inequalities faced by socially and considered as CSR activity under the Policy. economically backward groups; b. Contributions of any amount directly or indirectly iv. Ensuring environmental sustainability, to any political party shall not be considered as ecological balance, protection of flora CSR activity under the Policy. and fauna, animal welfare, agro forestry, conservation of natural resources and c. Only those CSR activities, projects or programs maintaining quality of soil, air and water; that are undertaken in INDIA shall qualify as CSR activities under the Policy. Annexure 9 d. Activities, projects or programs that benefit only 5. Implementation and Monitoring the employees of the Company and their families shall not be considered as CSR activity under the a) The implementation schedule for each approved Policy. activity, project or programme shall also be approved by the CSR Committee and all such e. One-off events such as marathons/ awards/ activities, projects and programmes will be charitable contributions/ advertisements/ accordingly monitored by the CSR Committee. sponsorships of TV programmes etc., shall not be considered as part of CSR expenditures under b) A report on a periodic basis, as may be desired the Policy. by the Board, shall be provided to the Board by the CSR Committee. f. Expenses incurred for fulfilling the requirements of any statute, shall not be counted as CSR 6. Treatment of Surplus expenses under the Policy. Any surplus that may arise out of the approved CSR 4. Modalities for execution activities, projects and programmes that are carried out shall not form part of the business profits of the The approved CSR activities, projects and Company and such surplus shall be dealt with in the programmes shall be carried out in any of the following manner deemed appropriate by the CSR Committee. ways as the CSR Committee in its absolute discretion may decide. The CSR Committee may decide to use 7. CSR Expenditures any one or all or a combination of any of the following ways to undertake the said CSR activities, projects The CSR expenditures shall include all expenditures, and programmes: including contribution to corpus on the activities, projects or programs as are approved by the CSR a) By the Company directly; Committee and shall not include expenditures on any item not in conformity with the activities specified in b) Through HCL Technologies Foundation, a Trust Paragraph 2 hereinabove. However, contributions that has been established by the Company; to the corpus of a Trust/ Society/ Company set up and/or under Section 8 of the Companies Act, 2013 will qualify as CSR expenditure as long as (a) the entity c) Through any other registered trust/ any registered is created exclusively for undertaking CSR activities society/ any other company that is qualified to or (b) where the corpus is created exclusively for a undertake CSR activities in terms of the provisions purpose directly relatable to a subject covered in of the Companies Act, 2013. Schedule VII of the Act. Salaries paid to regular CSR staff and to volunteers of the Company (in proportion In the event the CSR activities are undertaken by the to time/hours spent specifically on CSR activity) will entities listed in (b) and/or (c) above, the Committee also be factored into CSR project cost as part of the shall specify the activities, projects or programs that CSR expenditures. are to be undertaken, the modalities for utilization of funds on such projects and programs and the monitoring and reporting mechanisms to be followed in that regard. 10 Annexure Annexure III GRI 3.1 indicators mapped to Annual Report Profile Disclosure Description 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. Governance structure of the organization, including committees under the highest governance 4.1 body responsible for specific tasks, such as setting strategy or organisational oversight 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer For organizations that have a unitary board structure, state the number and genders of the 4.3 highest governance body that are independent and or non executive members Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations or direction to the 4.4 highest governance body Linkage between compensation for members of the highest governance body, senior managers, and executives (including departure arrangements), and the organization's 4.5 performance (including social and environmental performance) 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided Process for determining the composition, qualifications, and expertise of the members of the highest governance body and its committees, including any considerations of gender and 4.7 other indicators of diversity Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organisation's identification and management of economic, environmental, and social performance, including relevant risks and opportunities, and adherence or compliance with internationally agreed standards, 4.9 codes of conduct, and principles Processes for evaluating the highest governance body's own performance particularly with 4.10 respect to economic, environmental, and social performance DMA EC Disclosure on Management Approach EC EC3 Coverage of the organization's defined benefit plan obligations. EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government Annexure 11 Annexure IV Economic Information GRI Requirement Information clause no. 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks Management disclosure and analysis report and opportunities 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal HCL Technologies Limited is a Public Limited Company. It is listed with the form. Indian Stock Exchanges viz. BSE and NSE. 4.1 Governance structure of the The highest body of the Company’s Governance Structure is the Board of organization, including committees Directors which consist of eleven members. The Company appoints both under the highest governance Executive as well as Non-Executive Directors after taking into consideration body responsible for specific various aspects such as knowledge, expertise and experience. tasks, such as setting strategy or There are seven Board Committees of the Company constituted to perform organizational oversight. their specific assigned tasks. The Committees are: 1. Audit Committee 2. Compensation Committee 3. Nominations Committee 4. Risk Management Committee 5. Finance Committee 6. Shareholders' Committee and 7. Employees' Stock Options Allotment Committee. The members of all the Committees are appointed as per their special knowledge and experience. For example: • The Audit Committee consist of four members and all of them are experts in the finance and accounting. • The directors expert in the human resource and management are the part of Compensation Committee. Details of the roles of all the Committees are provided in the Corporate Governance Report. The Board of Directors are responsible for all the tasks performed by the committees and all the committees submit their report and recommendation on quarterly basis. 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the The Chairman of the Board of Directors is the promoter director who is highest governance body is also designated as Chairman and Chief Strategy officer of the Company. an executive officer. 4.3 For organizations that have a The highest Governance Body of the Company is the Board of Directors unitary board structure, state the consisted of eleven members. number and gender of members Out of eleven directors, two directors are the Executive Directors and nine of the highest governance body directors are Independent Non-Executive Directors including one women that are independent and/or nondirector. executive members. 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders Mechanism for shareholders: and employees to provide 1. The shareholders can give their recommendation/ directors in the general recommendations or direction to meetings in which they directly interact with the Board of Directors. the highest governance body. 2. There is a designated email id viz. investors@hcl.com in which investors can send their request/recommendation/direction/query/observation etc. directly to the compliance officer of the Company. 3. The Shareholders can write the letters to the compliance officer in case they want to send their recommendation/direction/observation etc. in regard to the Company. 12 Annexure GRI Requirement Information clause no. 4.5 Linkage between compensation The Company always tries to link between the compensation of members for members of the highest of the highest governance body, senior managers, and executives with the governance body, senior organization's performance (including social and environmental performance. managers, and executives The evaluation of the Directors’ is not done on an individual basis. The Board (including departure evaluates its performance on a collective basis. Any decisions taken by the arrangements), and the Board are reviewed it by it on periodical basis to determine the effectiveness of organization's performance its decision making. For e.g. if a board takes any decision to acquire a particular (including social and environmental business/ entity, the performance of that business/ entity is regularly monitored performance). and reviewed by the Board which gives the Board a fair idea on the decision taken by the Board. Remuneration criteria for Executive Directors: The Remuneration criteria for Executive Directors of the Company are recommended by the Compensation Committee to the Board. After evaluating various factors the Compensation Committee recommends the compensation to the Board and the Board considers and approves the remuneration subject to the final approval of the shareholders. The Compensation Committee of the Company also grants stock options to the Employees (including Directors). Remuneration criteria for Non-Executive Directors: The Company pays sitting fee to its Non-Executive Directors for attending the meetings of the Board of Directors, Audit Committee and Finance Committee of the Company. The Company pays commission to its Non-Executive Directors as approved by the Board within the limits approved by the shareholders of the Company. The said commission is decided each year by the Board of Directors and distributed amongst the Non-Executive Directors based on their attendance and contribution at the Board and certain Committee meetings, as well as the time spent on operational matters other than at meetings. Remuneration of Corporate Officers The remuneration of the corporate officers are finalized by the Compensation Committee. 4.6 Processes in place for the highest The Directors of the Company disclose to the Board on a periodic basis, their governance body to ensure nature of interest in other entities. The Company also receives the annual conflicts of interest are avoided. certification from the directors/senior management that they have not entered into any material transaction with the Company in which they had or were deemed to have any personal interest that may have a potential conflict with the interest of the Company. In case any resolution is proposed before the Board, for entering into any transaction with the Companies in which any Directors are interested, that Director who is interested, do not participate in the discussion so that there is no conflict of interest. Annexure 13 GRI Requirement Information clause no. 4.7 Process for determining the Appointment of Board Members: composition, qualifications, and Executive directors are appointed by the shareholders for the tenure of expertise of the members of the a maximum period of five years, and are eligible for reappointment upon highest governance body and completion of their term. The tenure of Non-Executive, Independent Directors its committees, including any on the Board of the Company shall be 9 years. consideration of gender and other The Company also appoints both Executive as well as Non-Executive Directors indicators of diversity. of the Company after taking into consideration various aspects such as knowledge, expertise and experience. Appointment of Board Committees Members: The Board Committees are constituted taking into consideration the regulatory/ business requirements. The constitution of Committee’s is decided by the Board on the basis of their knowledge, expertise and experience of the member for that Committee. 4.9 Procedures of the highest Economic performance: The Audit Committee of the Company reviews the governance body for overseeing economic performance of the Company on quarterly basis and submit to the the organization's identification Board with its recommendation. and management of economic, Environmental, and social performance: The Company has a dedicated environmental, and social team which work toward the Sustainability includes environmental and social performance, including relevant performance. risks and opportunities, and The Company has a whistleblower policy which is based on the principles of adherence or compliance with Trust through Transparency and Accountability.. To ensure strict compliance internationally agreed standards, with ethical and legal standards across the company, the Whistleblower policy codes of conduct, and principles. has been created. Employee can report any incident pertaining to ethics, unacceptable activity, discrimination or any violation of rules/policies of the Company to the Ethics Committee. All complaints are handled with highest level of confidentiality. Risk Management: At HCL, the philosophy of Risk Management is that, every employee of HCL, either directly or indirectly, is responsible for managing risks. The Company has a Risk Management Committee to: • Review key risks and their mitigating strategies with the management. • Assist the Board in fulfilling its corporate governance responsibility in reviewing the activities with regard to the identification, evaluation and mitigation of operational, strategic and external environmental risks. • Review and approve the Risk management policy and associated framework, processes and practices of the Company. Compliance with internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct, and principles: Code of Business Ethics and Conduct: The Board has prescribed a Code of Conduct that provides for transparency, behavioral conduct, a gender friendly workplace, legal compliance and protection of Company's property and information. The code covers all employees, Directors, third party vendors, consultants and customers across the world.. A declaration to this effect is signed by the CEO and Chairman & Chief Strategy Officer. The Company reinforced its responsibility towards balanced governance with the dissemination of the Code of Business Ethics and Conduct (COBEC); Antibribery and Anti-corruption (ABAC) Policy; and Business Gifts and Entertainment Policy (BGEP). 14 Annexure GRI Requirement Information clause no. Code for Prevention of Insider Trading: The Code for prevention of Insider Trading inter-alia prohibits purchase/ sale of shares of the Company by employees/directors while in possession of unpublished price sensitive information in relation to the Company. The Company within two working days of receipt of the information under them Initial and Continual disclosures from Directors shall disclose the same to all the Stock Exchanges, where the shares of the Company are listed. Anti-Briber Anti Bribery and Anti Corruption Policy To ensure the Company’s policy for conducting its business activities with honesty, integrity and highest possible ethical standards and company’s commitment towards prevention, deterrence and detection of fraud, bribery and other corrupt business practices, the Company has introduced and Anti Bribery an Anti Corruption Policy that applies to the employees at all levels, directors, consultants, agents and other persons associated with the Company, its affiliates and ssubsidiaries. Prevention of Sexual Harassment Policy In order to ensure an additional available mode for the employees, under the Sexual Harassment Policy, to voice their concern and bring it to the organization’s notice, a mechanism is in place for employees to report any issues, abuse, etc. to a Council formed for this purpose. Any employee dissatisfied with the decision has a direct access to the CEO of the Company. 4.10 Processes for evaluating the The evaluation of the Directors’ is not done on an individual basis. The Board highest governance body's evaluates its performance on a collective basis. Any decisions taken by the own performance, particularly Board are reviewed it by it on periodical basis to determine the effectiveness of with respect to economic, its decision making. For e.g. if a board takes any decision to acquire a particular environmental, and social business/ entity, the performance of that business/ entity is regularly monitored performance. and reviewed by the Board which gives the Board a fair idea on the decision taken by the Board. Annexure 15 Annexure V BRR Principle mapping to HCL Policies Principle-wise (as per NVGs) BR Policy/policies (Reply in Y/N) S. No. Questions P1 P2 P3 P4 P5 P6 P7 P8 P9 1 Do you have a policy/policies for P1 to P9 Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Has the policy being formulated in consultation with the 2 Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y relevant stakeholders? Does the policy conform to any national /international 3 Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y standards? Has the policy being approved by the Board ? Is yes, has it 4 Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y been signed by MD/owner/CEO/appropriate Board Director? Does the company have a specified committee of the Board/ 5 Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Director/Official to oversee the implementation of the policy? 6 Indicate the link for the policy to be viewed online? Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Has the policy been formally communicated to all relevant 7 Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y internal and external stakeholders? Does the company have in-house structure to implement the 8 Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y policy/policies. Does the Company have a grievance redressal mechanism 9 related to the policy/policies to address stakeholders’ Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y grievances related to the policy/policies? Has the company carried out independent audit/evaluation of 10 Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y the working of this policy by an internal or external agency? All policies are available in the Annexure section of this report. 16 Annexure S. No. Policy Name Principle Mapping 1 Employee Code of Business Ethics and Conduct P1 2 Equal Opportunity Employer P4, P5 3 Environment Policy P6, P2 4 Occupational Health and Safety Policy P3, P5 5 Anti Bribery and Anti Corruption Policy P1 6 Prevention and Redressal of Sexual Harassment P3, P5 7 WhistleBlower Policy P1, P5 8 Procurement policy P2 9 Siting Policy P8 10 Social Media Policy P7 11 Supplier Diversity Policy P4 12 Stakeholder Engagement framework P4, P9 13 Business Gifts and Entertainment Policy P1 P No. BRR Principles 1 Businesses should conduct and govern themselves with Ethics, Transparency and Accountability Businesses should provide goods and services that are safe and contribute to sustainability throughout 2 their life cycle 3 Businesses should promote the wellbeing of all employees Businesses should respect the interests of, and be responsive towards all stakeholders, especially those who 4 are disadvantaged, vulnerable and marginalized 5 Businesses should respect and promote human rights 6 Business should respect, protect, and make efforts to restore the environment 7 Businesses, when engaged in influencing public and regulatory policy, should do so in a responsible manner 8 Businesses should support inclusive growth and equitable development 9 Businesses should engage with and provide value to their customers and consumers in a responsible manner Annexure 17 Glossary GLOSSARY AA Account Ability ABAC Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption ADEC African Diaspora Employee Council APAC Asia Pacific APELA Asia Pacific Enterprise Leadership Award ASHRAE American Society of Heating Refrigerating and Air Conditioning Engineers BGEP Business Gift and Environment Policy BPO Business Process Outsourcing BRI Business Ready Infrastructure BRR Business Responsibility Reporting CAC Customer Advisory Council CCTV Closed Circuit Television CDO Chief Delivery Officer CDP Carbon Disclosure Project CEO Chief Executive Officer CFC Chloro-Fluoro Carbon CFL Compact Fluorescent Light CGT Consumer Goods Technology CHRO Chief Human Resource Officer CII Confederation of Indian Industries CIO Chief Information Officer COBEC Code of Business Ethics and Conduct CoP Communities of Practice CPCB Central Pollution Control Board CRT Cathode Ray Tube 18 Annexure GLOSSARY CSAT Customer Satisfaction CSC Catalyst for Social Change CSR Corporate Social Responsibility DCIP Data Centre Improvement Project DEFRA Department for Environment Food and Rural Affairs DG Diesel Generator EFC Employee First Council EFCS Employee First Customer Second EPA Environment Protection Agency EPIC Employee Passion Indicative Count EPS Earnings Per Share ERT Emergency Response Team FSC Forest Stewardship Council FY Financial Year GDC Global Delivery Centre GHG Green House Gases GJ Giga Joules GPC Good Practices Conference GPS Global Positioning System GRI Global Reporting Initiative GSPR Global R&D Service Providers' Rating HCFC Hydro Chloro Fluoro Carbon HSE Health Safety and Environment HVAC Heating Ventilation and Air Conditioning IAOP International Association of Outsourcing Professionals Annexure 19 GLOSSARY ICSI Institute of Company Secretaries of India ICT Information Communication Technology INR Indian National Rupee IPCC Inter-Governmental Panel on Climate Change IPR Intellectual Property Rights ISO International Standard Organisation IT Information Technology KM Knowledge Management LATAM Latin America LCD Liquid Crystal Display LEAD Latino Employee Alliance for Diversity LED Light Emitting Diode LEED Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design MAD JAM Make A Difference Jamboree MAD LTD Make A Difference, Lead The Difference MAT Minimum Alternative Tax MDG Millennium Development Goals MoEF Ministry of Environment and Forests MW Mega Watt NASSCOM National Association of Software and Service Companies NCR National Capital Region NGO Non-Governmental Organisation ODP Ozone Depleting Potential ODS Ozone Depleting Substance OHS Occupational Health and Safety OSHAS Occupational Health and Safety Audit System PBIT Profit Before Interest and Taxes 20 Annexure GLOSSARY PBT Profit Before Taxes PUMA Providing Users Mobile Access PwD Person with Disabilities RBTC Relationship Beyond the Contract R&D Research and Development ROCE Return on Capital Employed RoW Rest of the World RWH Rain Water Harvesting SCCM System Centre Configuration Manager SEBI Securities and Exchange Board of India SEZ Special Economic Zone SHG Self Help Group SLA Service Level Agreement SPOF Single Point of Failures SSD Smart Service Desk SSON Shared Services and Outsourcing Network STP Sewage Treatment Plant TB Tera Byte TechCEED Technical Competency Enhancement for Enabling Development TTT Train The Trainer UNGC United Nations Global Compact UNICEF United Nations Children's Fund USA United States of America UV Ultra Violet VDI Virtual Desktop Infrastructure WEP Women's Empowerment Principles Hello there! I am an Ideapreneur. I believe that sustainable business outcomes are driven by relationships nurtured through values like trust, transparency and flexibility. I respect the contract, but believe in going beyond through collaboration, applied innovation and new generation partnership models that put your interest above everything else. Right now 110,000 Ideapreneurs are in a Relationship Beyond the Contract™ with 500 customers in 31 countries. How can I help you?
