2O CELEBRATING 20 YEARS OF DELIVERING EXCELLENT CUSTOMER EXPERIENCE Annual Report 2014 Creating Leadership in Customer Experience Comments from the CEO CONTENTS T ­ ranscom’s positive profitability trend Key highlights 2014 1 continued in 2014, and we are entering 2015 with strong operational and financial Comments from the CEO 2 momentum. See page 2. ­Transcom in brief 6 Celebrating 20 years in business 8 Markets and trends 10 Markets and trends Business model and value creation 12 The global customer care outsourcing industry is growing at an attractive rate. Client cases 18 At the same time, customer requirements Regional overview 20 are changing fast. See page 10. Our people and sustainability 22 Corporate Governance Report 28 Risk management 36 Business model and value creation T ­ ranscom’s customer experience frameBoard of Directors 38 work is founded on solid business intelliExecutive management 40 gence. The insight we gain through analytics enables innovation and also drives The ­Transcom share and shareholders 43 efficiency and cost savings through process optimization. See page 12. Annual Report Administration report 44 – Financial overview 49 People and sustainability T ­ ranscom’s CSR focus areas are people Consolidated financial statements development, equality & diversity, and and notes 50 ­community engagement. See page 22. Parent Company financial statements and notes 80 Signatures of the Board of Directors 95 Audit report 96 Financial calendar 97 The formal annual accounts and the consolidated accounts comprise pages 44–95. This is a translation of the original Swedish Annual Report. In the event of differences between the English translation and the Swedish original, the Swedish Annual Report shall prevail. This integrated annual and CSR report serves as HUMAN RIGHTS ENVIRONMENT ­Transcom’s Communication On Progress to the UN Principle 1–2: Principle 7–9: pages 5, 22–27, 35–37 pages 6, 22–27, 46–48 Global Compact and is for the first time prepared in accordance with the International Integrated Reporting LABOR ANTI-CORRUPTION Council’s Framework Principles. Principle 3–6: Principle 10: UN Global Compact principles are ­primarily pages 5, 22–27, 35–37, pages 5, 22–27, 35–37, ­addressed on the following pages, but also in other 46–48 46–48 parts throughout the Annual Report. ­Several other COP POLICY AND PROCEDURES can be found on pages: issues of importance, such as ­supply chain manage2, 4, 5, 22, 28–42, 47–48 ment, are also described in our Code of Business Conduct, Supplier Code of Business Conduct and on our website, www.transcom.com. Key highlights 2014 STRATEGIC REVIEW OF CREDIT MANAGEMENT TWO NEW SITES OPENED IN EASTERN EUROPE SERVICES (CMS) COMPLETED T ­ ranscom opened two new contact centers in Eastern Europe In 2014, a number of CMS country units were divested. Other in 2014, in Hungary and Serbia, in order to expand near shore CMS units have been restructured in order to be integrated with delivery capacity in Europe. ­Transcom’s core customer care operations. ­Transcom is now able to direct all organizational resources towards strengthening its position in the core business – outsourced customer manage-­ NORTH AMERICAN OPERATION ment solutions. RETURNED TO PROFITABILITY Cost reductions and efficiency improvements returned the North American operation to profitability in 2014. At the same RE-DOMICILIATION TO SWEDEN COMPLETED time, the positive trend in Asia Pacific continued during the year. In November 2014, a re-domiciliation of the Parent Company of the ­Transcom Group from Luxembourg to Sweden was executed, aligning the legal domicile of the company with that of the majority MAJOR IMPROVEMENTS IN NORTH EUROPE of its owners. General meetings of the shareholders will now be In 2014, significant performance improvements were realized held in Sweden rather than in Luxembourg, facilitating shareholder in the North Europe region, both in terms of profitability as well participation. T ­ ranscom is no longer bound by dual legal systems, as greater stability and financial predictability. which will lower costs and simplify the execution of corporate actions. The listing structure is simpler and less costly, as the Swedish Depository Receipt (SDR) system has been abandoned. NEW BUSINESS WON WITH DOMESTIC ­Transcom now has one single class of listed ordinary shares, CLIENTS IN LATIN AMERICA directly admitted to trading in the Mid Cap segment of the Nasdaq In Latin America, we have won new business with domestic clients, Stockholm exchange. in line with ­Transcom’s strategy to expand in Latin American markets, complementing the offshore services delivered from Latin American centers on behalf of clients in Spain. The focus in 2015 is on further improving capacity utilization in Latin America, which is still insufficient. Key financial highlights Revenues Gross profit and EBIT KPI development vs. previous year EUR million EUR million 800 150 Key performance driver Trend vs. 2013 2014 vs. 2013 131.1 EBIT (reported) 127.6 653.2 616.8 120 111.9 111.8 Average Seat 605.6 600 589.1 554.1 95.8 Utilization ratio 88 % vs. 87 % 90 Share of revenue generated offshore 23 % vs. 22 % 400 60 Average Efficiency ratio slight negative 30 (­billable over worked hours) ­development 200 Monthly staff Decreased attrition – 0 attrition positive development 0 -30 10 11 12 13 14 10 11 12 13 14 ■ ■ Gross profit EBIT Transcom Annual Report 2014 1 Comments from the CEO Beginning the next phase T ­ ranscom’s positive profitability trend continued in 2014, and we are now transitioning out from the turnaround phase that we initiated at the end of 2011 in order to improve operational and financial stability. During the year, we also established a more approp­ riate corporate structure by executing a re-domiciliation to Sweden. In addition, we ­concluded the strategic review of our Credit Management Services operations, and are now directing all organizational resources towards strengthening ­Transcom’s position in our core business – outsourced customer management solutions. We have a solid foundation from which to take the next steps in our development, and are entering 2015 with strong operational and financial momentum. THE POSITIVE PROFITABILITY Europe region, we realized major improvements, both in terms of TREND CONTINUED IN 2014 profitability and greater stability and predictability in our operaIn 2014, we made significant headway on several strategic initiations. Finally, in Latin America, we have won new business with tives and business priorities, which is also reflected in ­Transcom’s domestic clients, which will contribute to higher capacity utilization continued positive profitability trend. Our EBIT margin improved by and margin expansion in our Latin American operations. 1.1 percentage point to 3.5 percent in 2014. The fourth quarter was particularly strong from a profitability standpoint, with an EBIT WE HAVE ESTABLISHED A MORE APPROPRIATE margin reaching 5.8 percent. Like-for-like growth was a modest CORPORATE STRUCTURE, FOCUSED ON OUR CORE 0.5 percent in 2014 as a result of our strong focus on enhancing CUSTOMER CARE OUTSOURCING BUSINESS profitability during the year. As we are now starting the next phase In 2014, we also made important progress in terms of simplifying in ­Transcom’s development, we are refocusing our efforts on reveand focusing the organization on ­Transcom’s core customer care nue expansion as well. In the fourth quarter, we delivered 3.8 perbusiness. cent like-for-like growth compared to the same period last year. First, we completed the strategic review of our former Credit All our regions contributed positively to this increase. Management Services (CMS) business, which largely operated as As we entered 2014, I highlighted three issues that we needed a separate and distinct entity with its own business model. This to successfully address in order to complete the turnaround of the means that we are now able to direct all organizational resources company: improved efficiency and growth in the North America and towards strengthening ­Transcom’s position in our core business – Asia Pacific region, operational performance improvements and outsourced customer management solutions. In 2014, we divested better financial predictability in the North Europe region, and driving a number of CMS country units: CMS Czech, CMS Poland, and efficiency and growth in Latin America. While we are still facing CMS Austria. CMS Germany was sold in 2013. We have restrucchallenges in Latin America in terms of insufficient volumes and tured other CMS units in order to integrate them with our customer efficiency, I am confident in my declaration that ­Transcom is now care operations: CMS UK, CMS Sweden, and CMS Norway. The transitioning out from the turnaround phase that we initiated at the parts that have been incorporated with our CRM operations are end of 2011 in order to improve financial and operational stability. characterized by services that can be efficiently delivered within the We successfully returned our North American business to profcontext of our core CRM business model. Finally, CMS Denmark will itability in 2014, and are now focusing on further improving capaccontinue to be managed and further developed within ­Transcom. ity utilization, and on driving future growth. In parallel, performance Second, in November 2014, we executed a re-domiciliation of in Asia Pacific continued to improve during the year. In our North the Parent Company of the ­Transcom Group from Luxembourg to 2 Transcom Annual Report 2014 Comments from the CEO “ ­Transcom now has a solid foundation from which to take the next steps in our development, and we are ­entering 2015 with strong operational and financial momentum.” Sweden, with some important benefits for the Group and our TAKING THE NEXT STEP shareholders. This change means that we have aligned ­Transcom’s T ­ ranscom now has a solid foundation from which to take the next legal domicile with the domicile of its owners, as the majority of the steps in our development, and we are entering 2015 with strong company’s shareholders are Swedish. General meetings of the operational and financial momentum. Our objective is to increase shareholders will now be held in Sweden rather than in Luxemrevenue organically, while continuing to improve our operational bourg, facilitating shareholder participation. In addition, ­Transcom efficiency in order to strengthen margins. As previously disclosed, is no longer bound by dual legal systems, which will lower costs ­Transcom has adopted a set of mid-term financial targets: like-forand simplify the execution of corporate actions. We also have a listlike revenue growth of at least 5 percent per year, an EBIT margin ing structure that is simpler and less costly, as we have abandoned of at least 5 percent, and a net debt/EBITDA ratio of maximum 1.0. the SDR system. ­Transcom now has one single class of listed ordiProvided that the net debt/EBITDA target is met, ­Transcom would nary shares, directly admitted to trading in the Mid Cap segment of be in a financial position to start paying a dividend in 2016, i.e. for the Nasdaq Stockholm exchange. the 2015 financial year. Our strategic priorities in order to achieve these goals are informed by our vision of being recognized as a global leader in customer experience. Transcom Annual Report 2014 3 Comments from the CEO First, we aim to grow together with our clients, further strengthLastly, we will make sure that ­Transcom has a competitive operening ­Transcom’s position as a strategic partner, while also creating ational platform, i.e. that our global business operations are effia more balanced industry and client portfolio. cient and effective and that the Group’s resources are managed in Second, we will continuously improve our service offering, the best possible way. One particular area of focus during 2015 is focusing on advanced, value-added services. Our industry is to drive margins through maximizing our process and technology changing fast. Customer needs are evolving and client requirescalability, not least by increasing the degree of process and sysments are shifting from a transactional focus towards quality and tem standardization across our global operations. value, e.g. empowered agents, high value-added services, analytics The key areas I describe above are of vital importance to the and vertical solutions. We also see rapid growth of non-voice multicompany’s continued success. Therefore, as previously announced, channel and automated services, requiring more advanced techwe are strengthening our management team in order to increase nology platforms as well as process innovation. focus and accountability in all of them. ­Transcom’s Group execuThird, we will seek to strengthen ­Transcom’s global footprint, tive management team will now include a Chief Operating Officer not least in the United States, which is the largest customer care (COO), a Chief Commercial Officer (CCO) and a Group HR Direcoutsourcing market in the world. Latin America is also an attractive tor. Our COO will be responsible for ­Transcom’s Group-wide operfuture growth area. We are seeking to expand in domestic Latin ational processes, and ­Transcom’s new CCO will have a key role in American markets, complementing the offshore services we meeting our future growth objectives, strengthening ­Transcom’s deliver from our Latin American centers on behalf of clients in position as a strategic partner for our clients. ­Transcom’s Group HR Spain. Our objective is to grow in new attractive markets, diversify Director is responsible for implementing our human resources our client base, and raise our seat capacity utilization as we increasstrategy and values by planning and managing human resources ingly serve clients across several time zones from our centers in programs across our global organization. People truly make all the Latin America. In addition, there are also attractive opportunities difference in our business. An engaged, skilled and motivated for ­Transcom to continue growing in our core European market. For workforce is key to meeting our ambitious goals. During the year, example, we opened two new contact centers in Eastern Europe in one important priority in the HR area was the implementation of 2014, in Hungary and in Serbia. ­Transcom’s strengthened Talent Management Program, with the aim of ensuring the provision of future leaders and specialists. Strategic priorities GROW TOGETHER WITH OUR CONTINUOUSLY IMPROVE CLIENTS, WHILE CREATING A OUR SERVICE OFFERING, MORE BALANCED INDUSTRY FOCUSING ON ADVANCED, AND CLIENT PORTFOLIO VALUE-ADDED SERVICES STRENGTHEN ­TRANSCOM’S COMPETITIVE OPERATIONAL GLOBAL FOOTPRINT PLATFORM 4 Transcom Annual Report 2014 Comments from the CEO ­TRANSCOM CARES At ­Transcom, we have chosen to focus our corporate social responsibility (CSR) efforts on people, which is reflected in the focus areas of our CSR governance program, ­Transcom Cares. We focus on people development, equality & diversity and on community engagement. In 2014, we continued our stakeholder dialogues, which supported the overall orientation of our CSR programs. I invite you to read more about ­Transcom Cares on pages 22–27 of this Annual Report, and also on blog.transcom.com, where we regularly post stories about our ­Transcom Cares initiatives. In addition to the CSR focus areas we have defined in our ­Transcom Cares program, ­Transcom fully supports the ten principles of the UN Global Compact with respect to human rights, labor rights, environmental care and anti-corruption work. These principles are an integral part of our corporate strategy, business culture and day-to-day operations. Therefore, as part of our on-going pledge to deliver an outstanding customer experience in a global sustainable society, ­Transcom is a signatory of the UN Global Compact. We are whole-heartedly committed to ensuring that we comply with the UN Global Compact and its principles. Let me take this opportunity to thank all our 30,000 employees for your hard work, commitment and dedication during 2014. Stockholm, April 20, 2015 Johan Eriksson President & CEO of ­Transcom Transcom Annual Report 2014 5 ­Transcom in brief A global customer experience specialist ­ ranscom is a global customer experience specialist, providing customer care, sales, tech­ T nical support and collections services through our network of 54 contact centers and work-at-home agents across 23 countries on five continents. ­Transcom’s principal role is to positively impact customer loyalty and, thus, revenue through making service and ­support interactions as effortless and enjoyable as possible for our clients’ customers. •T ­ ranscom is a GLOBAL customer experience SPECIALIST, providing outsourced ­customer care and collections services • Established in 1995 and listed on Nasdaq Stockholm since 2001 • EUR 616.8 MILLION revenue in 2014 • 30,000 PEOPLE representing over 100 NATIONALITIES • 400+ CLIENTS in various industry sectors • 54 onshore, near shore and off-shore CONTACT CENTERS across 23 COUNTRIES • Delivering services in 33 LANGUAGES AN EXTENSIVE GLOBAL FOOTPRINT As a global player with operations in 23 countries across five Whether onshore, offshore or near shore, ­Transcom’s people are continents employing 30,000 people, ­Transcom can provide focused on delivering outstanding customer experiences, helping service wherever our clients have customers. our clients drive satisfaction, brand loyalty and additional sales. Domestic Near shore Offshore Domestic Near shore Offshore Country delivery delivery delivery Country delivery delivery delivery Sweden ✓ ✓ Croatia ✓ ✓ Norway ✓ Serbia ✓ Denmark ✓ Tunisia ✓ Netherlands ✓ Spain ✓ Estonia ✓ ✓ Portugal ✓ Lithuania ✓ ✓ Chile ✓ Latvia ✓ ✓ Peru ✓ ✓ ✓ Germany ✓ Colombia ✓ ✓ ✓ United Kingdom ✓ USA ✓ Italy ✓ Canada ✓ ✓ Hungary ✓ ✓ Philippines ✓ ✓ Poland ✓ ✓ 6 Transcom Annual Report 2014 ­Transcom in brief MARKET DEFINITION – WHAT BUSINESS ARE WE IN? Customer management comprises the processes Help Desk outsourcing involves firstand ­second-­ linking an organization with its existing and potential level help desk support for information techno­logy ­customers, and includes four sub segments: customer ­services, both for internal stakeholders in an organization selection, ­customer acquisition, customer retention and and external customers. customer extension. Services are delivered via four ­primary ­channels: • Telephony, including voice and interactive voice response (IVR) self-service • Email response management • Web chat • Knowledge management for web-based self-service Read more about ­Transcom’s service portfolio on pages 12–17. REVENUES BY REGION NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES CMS, 2 % North America North Europe, 17 % & Asia Pacific, 20 % North Europe, North America 34 % & Asia Pacific, 38 % Central & South Europe, 23 % Iberia & Latam, 20 % Central & South Europe, 24 % Iberia & Latam, 22 % Transcom Annual Report 2014 7 20 years ­Transcom celebrates 20 years in business In 2015, ­Transcom celebrates 20 years in business. From its beginnings in 1995, the company has gradually evolved from a single-country operation into a global organization spanning 23 countries. European expansion Diversification and 1995–2001 ­acquisitions 2002–2010 ­ ranscom AB was originally set up in 1995 to provide customer T In 2002, ­Transcom started to diversify its business, both in terms service for Comviq’s mobile telephony customers in Sweden. of services offered and the company’s geographical presence. ­Subsequently, ­Transcom Europe was formed to support expansion The debt collection business was entered through acquisitions in a into new European markets. These two parallel ­Transcom organinumber of countries, establishing the Credit Management Services zations grew rapidly, and were merged in the year 2000 to form (CMS) business unit. ­Transcom also made acquisitions to expand ­Transcom WorldWide. its core customer care outsourcing business in new geographies, • ­Transcom founded in Sweden in 1995 not least in North America and Asia. • Focus on organic growth; European expansion began in 1997 • Acquisition-led growth started in 2002 with the ­purchase of ­Gestel, a Spanish CRM operator • Presence in 15 European countries at the end of 2001, the widest geographical coverage of any customer contact center organiza• Diversification into debt collection business through acquisitions tion in Europe at the time in several European countries. • ­Transcom’s shares were listed in September 2001 • Expansion of near-shore services, serving high-cost countries from low-cost locations • Establishment of centers in Latin America to serve Spanish ­clients • Expansion into North America and Asia via acquisition of Cloud10 and NuComm EVOLUTION SINCE PUBLIC LISTING IN 2001 NO. OF SITES NO. OF EMPLOYEES SALES EUR M 77 617 26 54 589 30,000 2001 2010* 2014 23,800 NO. OF COUNTRIES 15 27 23 6,000 215 2001 2010* 2014 2001 2010* 2014 2001 2010* 2014 * Includes since-divested CMS units. 8 Transcom Annual Report 2014 20 years Turnaround Leadership in customer 2011–2014 experience 2015– In 2011, ­Transcom entered a turnaround phase. In the following We are now exiting the turnaround phase with strong operational years, the company executed a number of restructuring actions and financial momentum. ­Transcom’s fundamental objective is to which have improved financial and operational stability, creating create shareholder value through profitable growth. Our strategic a solid foundation for future profitable growth. The CMS business priorities going forward are informed by our vision of being recogunit was divested, in line with ­Transcom’s strategy to focus on its nized as a global leader in customer experience. We aim to core customer care business. increase revenue organically while continuing to improve our • Restructuring program in order to strengthen ­competitiveness ­operational efficiency in order to further strengthen margins. and improve profitability • Growth with clients, while creating a more balanced industry • Focus on growth in prioritized geographies; divestment of and client portfolio a ­number of smaller country operations • Continuously Improving service offering, focusing • Divestment of Credit Management Services (CMS) on advanced, value added services in order to focus on core customer care business • Strengthen global footprint supporting the European core market • Re-domiciliation to Sweden from Luxembourg ­completed • Competitive operational platform CELEBRATING 20 YEARS OF DELIVERING EXCELLENT CUSTOMER EXPERIENCE Transcom Annual Report 2014 9 Markets and trends A rapidly changing and growing industry The global customer care outsourcing industry is growing at an attractive rate. At the same time, customer requirements are changing fast. In order to capitalize on growth opportunities, industry players need the capability to bring together innovative solutions, process changes and technology with people. Customer care outsourcing Customer management BPO markets Helpdesk USD million – an expanding industry 40000 USD million 41,318 40000 The customer care outsourcing industry is growing at a healthy Other rate, exceeding global GDP growth. Looking ahead, this develop32,060 Emerg 30000 ment is expected to continue. Based on external research, 30000 ­Transcom anticipates that the global outsourced customer contact Matur center market will grow at an average annual rate of five to six per20,432 20000 20000 18,270 Easter cent in the next five-year period. While we expect to see expansion in all our key markets, growth Weste patterns differ quite significantly across regions, with the highest 10000 10000 Latin A numbers expected in emerging markets in the Asia Pacific region (up to 20 percent or more) and Latin America (around 10 percent). North 0 While growth rates are lower in Europe (around 3 percent) and the 0 2013 2018e 2013 2018e United States (5–6 percent), the larger size of these mature 2013–18 CAGR 2013–18 CAGR ­markets means that the bulk of the global industry increase in Customer management BPO Helpdesk the next five years will be generated there. 5.5 % North America 2.7 % North America A growing middle class and an increased penetration of smart9.4 % Latin America 2.5 % Latin America phones and mobile technologies in emerging markets will drive the 2.7 % Western Europe –4.6 % Western Europe need for services in native (non-English) languages. This domestic 0.6 % Eastern Europe –0.9 % Eastern Europe 0.2 % Mature Asia/Pacific 0.8 % Mature Asia/Pacific expansion will generate new growth opportunities for customer care Source: Gartner 21.0 % Emerging Asia/Pacific 14.2 % Emerging Asia/Pacific outsourcing companies, and we are seeing traditional offshore loca9.5 % Other 10.0 % Other tions developing into delivery centers for domestic clients as well. 5.2 % Total 2.3 % Total Consolidation ­Transcom Large Providers trend continues Revenue EUR 350m – EUR 700 m Mega Providers Customer care outsourcing is a fragmented industry with many Revenue over Midsize Providers EUR 700 m small and medium-sized players that operate locally or regionally. Revenue under EUR 350 m However, a number of mergers and acquisitions in the last two years have increased the industry concentration level. Gartner estimates that the top ten global players accounted for approximately 50 percent of the total market at the end of 2013. The consolidation trend will likely continue in the years to come, Large number of pro­ Relatively few providers Still relatively fragas industry players seek to expand, realize superior economies viders with a variety of in the large segment mented landscape with ­different niche strategies, between mega and several providers larger of scale, acquire capabilities or new technology, and enter new Source: Gartner e.g., IT-focus, geo­ ­midsize. than EUR 700 m. ­service or geographical markets. graphical focus. 10 Transcom Annual Report 2014 Markets and trends New services and increased use of technology Voice-based services, i.e. phone, still accounts for the bulk of ­customer care outsourcing companies’ revenue. However, this is changing rapidly, as shifting customer behavior is driving the adoption of new multichannel and automated services. Digital natives expect customer service to be accessible at all times, and they want to be able to resolve their issues via the channel of their choice. Gartner expects that non-voice services will overtake the voice channel in 2017, with the highest growth in the web, chat, SMS and mobile app channels. While we see a rapid move to non-traditional service channels, many customers will still prefer voice calls for more complex issues. This will be even truer in the near future, as voice interactions are increasingly enhanced by the use of video. Gartner expects that 20 percent of the 500 largest global businesses will introduce ­video-based chat by 2018 for customer-facing interactions. The rapid increase of the amount of data available to a contact center agent will also make technology more important as a competitive differentiator. Obtaining a single view of the customer is becoming ever more challenging, and requires investments in technology to enable the provision of real-time, contextual information that can be used to improve ­customer experience. Customer management While technology is a key factor BPO markets by channels in the future evolution of the indus100 try, customer experience ultimately Nonvoice 25 % comes down to people interacting 80 with people. To succeed, companies 50 % need to train and empower their 60 PRIMARY CHANNELS USED: agents to deliver excellent customer • Telephone, including voice and interactive voice 75 % response (IVR) self-service experience. The ability to provide an 40 environment that brings together Voice • Email response management 50 % solutions, process changes and 20 • Web chat technology with people will be a • Social media monitoring and response fundamental competitive differen­ 0 • Knowledge management for Web-based s­ elf-­service 2014 2017 tiator in the years ahead. Source: Gartner Transcom Annual Report 2014 11 Business model and value creation Value proposition and service portfolio Delivering outstanding customer experience As a global specialist of outsourced customer care solutions, we their service-based strategies to increase loyalty, retention and have an important role in helping to make sure that end-customers customer sales. This is why they partner with ­Transcom, whose form positive perceptions of their interactions with the companies core business is to deliver excellent multi-channel customer that ­Transcom supports. To many of our clients, the quality of their ­service and support. customer care operations is fundamental to their ability to execute Our vision: Our mission: Recognized as a global leader in T ­ ranscom enables companies to enhance • Innovative technology for capturing, ­customer experience their business performance by improving processing and ­analyzing customer the experience of their ­customers. intelligence • Continuously improved processes, We accomplish this through: working methods and ­systems, for • Talented, experienced and committed serving customers and advising clients people, who deliver outstanding cus• Deep understanding of customer tomer experiences across a multitude trends, needs and behavior of channels “­Transcom’s business is to help make sure that ­cust­omers form positive perceptions of their inter­ actions with our clients.” 12 Transcom Annual Report 2014 Business model and value creation Services that increase loyalty, customer retention and sales ­ ranscom’s service portfolio is designed to enable the creation of T Our services are delivered through a structured and proven outstanding customer experiences, while also reducing cost and process with rigorous quality controls. Continuous improvement helping to drive growth for our clients. practices, focused on strengthening service quality and enhancing Our suite of services includes customer care, sales, technical operational efficiency, are embedded into our daily operations. We support and collections services, delivered through our extensive constantly validate the impact of our service delivery on customer network of contact centers and work-at-home agents. Our customer experience, e.g. through Customer Satisfaction, Customer Effort, experience specialists engage with our clients’ customers in multiple and Net Promoter indices. channels, including phone, e-mail, chat and social media networks. Customer service Customer acquisition Crossand upselling Customer experience specialists Acquiring new customers Building relationships and identitrained to support best-in-class cost-efficiently, and building fying customer needs during any product, service and brand expestrong customer relationships as type of interaction, and taking riences for our clients’ customers. a basis for future interactions. appropriate action to satisfy the customer’s need. Customer retention Technical support Collections services Preventing defection and maxiTiered support models, from the Early collections services, e.g. mizing the lifetime of a customer. simplest questions to more compayment reminder calls. plex support scenarios. Transcom Annual Report 2014 13 Business model and value creation Delivering value to our clients and their customers ­ ranscom’s principal role is to positively impact customer loyalty T conditions and client requirements can change quickly. Also, the and, thus, revenue through making service and support interacproliferation of new channels and technologies requires us to contions as effortless and enjoyable as possible. Our clients expect us stantly innovate and refine best practices together with our clients to deliver service to their customers in a reliable, consistent, and in order to remain competitive. cost-effective way. At the same time, it is essential to stay agile as CUSTOMERS TRANSCOM CLIENTS VALUE FOR OUR CLIENTS’ ­CUSTOMERS TRANSCOM VALUE FOR OUR CLIENTS • Ability to get information, or resolve an •T­ ranscom’s operations add value to our • Improved customer experience, leading issue, quickly and with minimal effort clients’ businesses by supporting the to higher loyalty • Ability to use voice and non-voice ­creation of outstanding customer experi• Increased sales ­channels as required ences, while reducing cost and helping • Lower cost and improved quality of • Receive attractive, personalized offers, to drive growth ­business processes based on an understanding of potential • Access to technology and best practices needs • Analytics capabilities, improving ­customer understanding f Service and support in multiple channels Companies have to invest in, and consistently engage with customers, in an ever-growing number of channels. ­Transcom can assist clients in providing a consistent, customized customer experience that can move seamlessly across voice and nonvoice channels as the customer requires. Primary channels used: • Telephone, including voice and interactive voice response (IVR) self-service • Email response management • Web chat • Social media monitoring and response • Knowledge management for web-based self-service 14 Transcom Annual Report 2014 Business model and value creation How T ­ ranscom contributes to a better customer experience Besides cost savings, the most important reasons for outsourcing ­ ranscom’s approach is built on the collection and analysis of T customer care are to improve business processes and create a betsound and solid data. The insight we gain together with our clients ter customer experience. enables innovation and also drives efficiency and cost savings through operational process optimization. ANALYTICS – THE KEY TO ONGOING PROCESS IMPROVECONTINUOUS ­HAVING REAL IMPACT ON MENTS, DRIVING EFFICIENCY INNOVATION IN ORDER ­CUSTOMER EXPERIENCE AND COST SAVINGS TO STAY AHEAD At ­Transcom, business intelligence and anaGiven the high level of complexity in Innovation, agility, and best practice implelytics is all about understanding how to max­successfully managing a contact center, mentation are some of the most important imize the positive impact we have on our coupled with the rapid pace of change, things our clients say they expect T­ ranscom ­clients’ organizations. Data collection and effective process management is vital. to bring to their customer service organizaanalysis is becoming more critical as our cliStreamlining and standardizing basic tions. They want us to push them to stay ents expect us to play an ever-greater role in aspects of service delivery, and ensuring ahead and to help put them in a position improving customer loyalty. Also, analytics quality control, is fundamental. from which they are able to benefit from is being applied to an increasing number of We are continuously investing in the unrelenting change that characterizes areas, both to improve customer experience ­processes, methods and tools that help many industries today. Multichannel soluand create efficiency improvements. our people deliver better services with tions are an area which has been in particulower risk, higher consistency and better lar focus in recent years. The share of nonefficiency. voice in ­Transcom’s overall service mix continued to increase in 2014, and we expect this development to accelerate in the coming years. ­Transcom’s customer experience framework BUSINESS INTELLIGENCE PROCESS IMPROVEMENT AND ANALYTICS • Continuous Improvement • Data Mining –Process Development • Reporting and Information Accuracy –Process Implementation • Analytics –Process Audit and Control –Operational Efficiency BUSINESS PROCESS –Change Management –Business Process Improvement INTELLIGENCE IMPROVEMENT • Performance Management AND ANALYTICS How we deliver –Operational Insight customer experience INNOVATION • Knowledge Management • Web/self-service design • Social Media INNOVATION • System Development • Marketing and Promotion –Portfolio Management –Cost Benefit Analysis Transcom Annual Report 2014 15 Business model and value creation Customer care – a real-time business The continuous balancing of cost efficiency and productivity with skills, at the right time. A multitude of factors have a direct impact the delivery of great customer experience is a challenge that on the volume of customer inquiries a company can expect to ­Transcom helps its clients face up to every day. Success hinges on receive at any given point in time. In order to estimate future cuscontinuous real-time resource management, and a client-vendor tomer service staffing requirements, a volume forecast is created, partnership that is characterized by trust, open communication, based on an aggregate view of known factors, e.g. planned camand collaborative decision-making. paigns, new product launches, invoicing changes, recent volume trends, seasonality factors, etc. However, the target is continuously CONTINUOUS REAL-TIME MANAGEMENT moving as various hard-to-predict events influence the actual ­ESSENTIAL IN ORDER TO MANAGE VOLATILITY number of customer contacts that need to be responded to, e.g. The customer care business truly runs in real time. A high degree weather conditions, service changes or interruptions, delays in of flexibility and responsiveness is vital as the volume of customer sending out invoices, etc. At the same time, changes in staffing interactions can vary significantly, both during the course of a availability can occur, e.g. due to sickness or staff attrition. ­single day and from month to month. Even though self-service ­Transcom’s capability to successfully manage this inherent channels are on the rise, a significant share of customer contacts ­volatility in customer care management operations is fundamental is handled by people interacting directly with people using various to delivering a great customer experience while at the same time communications channels. keeping costs under control and generating a profit. An effective Ensuring a consistently high service level, at a justifiable cost, partnership with clients is critical to success, with close collaboradepends in large part on the ability to make available the approprition on important issues such as volume forecasting and process ate number of customer service representatives with the right improvements. My ­Transcom Experience To learn more about how ­Transcom works together with our ­clients to enhance their business performance, please visit our blog at blog.transcom.com. Our goal with this site is to open a window into our company, culture and day-to-day operations. We would like to let ­people take a look inside ­Transcom, and give visitors the opportunity to interact with us. 16 Transcom Annual Report 2014 Business model and value creation THE PRICING MODEL – AN IMPORTANT TOOL The pricing model used also has important implications for IN STRIKING THE RIGHT BALANCE T ­ ranscom in terms of financial predictability and stability. For The commercial model, governing the relationship between example, models based on a price per customer contact or per ­Transcom and our clients, is an important factor in striking the right minute spent resolving a customer issue, imply a higher exposure balance between revenue, service levels and cost. This balance to the accuracy of volume forecasts than a contract based on an varies, e.g. depending on the industry, the type of customer conagreed staffing level (price per hour worked). ­Transcom’s target is tacts, and client priorities. The pricing models that ­Transcom uses to achieve an appropriate mix of pricing models used in all regions, with its clients generally fall into four key categories, as outlined in in order to avoid excessive financial risk associated with poor forethe table below. Although the basic terms are usually set out in cast accuracy. Irrespective of the commercial model used, effective multi-year frame agreements, the models are regularly reviewed workforce management is fundamental to successfully operating and adjusted, as our partnerships evolve over time and our clients’ a contact center, not least in order to manage volatile demand. priorities shift. Therefore, workforce optimization is at the very core of ­Transcom’s Each pricing model has its own tradeoffs in terms of cost, qualclient proposition, and is an integral part of our Customer Experiity, and predictability for ­Transcom and our clients. For example, a ence Management framework. cost-per-contact unit rate creates an incentive to reduce handling times, in contrast to a cost-per-minute model. This can, in turn, have implications in terms of customer service quality and, ultimately, customer loyalty. Therefore, various KPIs are used in order to manage quality, e.g. first-call resolution and customer satisfaction scores. Performance against these KPIs is usually tied to bonuses or financial penalties. PRICING MODEL KEY CHARACTERISTICS Price per transaction • ­Transcom gets paid for each transaction, e.g. each call taken (e.g. call or data entry) • Time spent per transaction is capped – critical to balance quality and time spent on each transaction • Accuracy of volume forecast is key to planning and profitability Price per activity •T  ypically used for back-office tasks/processes •T  ime spent per activity is capped – important to balance quality and time spent on each task •T ­ ranscom uses client systems and pre-defined processes •B  ack-office tasks usually take longer to complete than the typical call Price per minute • ­Transcom gets paid based on the time the agent spends with each customer (usually no cap) •A ccuracy of volume forecast is key to planning and profitability, but less risk than in price per call models Price per hour • Provides a greater degree of financial predictability and ­stability Transcom Annual Report 2014 17 Client cases The cases below are just a few examples of how ­Transcom’s services and solutions enhance customer loyalty and improve process efficiency. The key to success is ­partnering with our clients to create an environment that brings together people with innovative solutions, processes and technology. A STRUCTURED APPROACH TO CREATING ­OUTSTANDING CUSTOMER EXPERIENCE CLIENT SITUATION OUR SOLUTION Our client is a leading online media company, broadcasting TV T ­ ranscom established a special organization dedicated to this shows, movies and other content over the internet. They have client, with one overriding goal: creating outstanding customer ambitious goals in terms of service quality and customer satisexperience. All aspects necessary to meeting the overall objecfaction, but were unable to reach them together with their pretive were analyzed in depth. Based on this analysis, a structured vious partners. The results achieved were in line with the indusmethodology was put in place in order to manage towards the try average. Given our client’s aim to provide an above-average identified key performance indicators. service, a change was necessary and they decided to partner with ­Transcom. RESULTS • The key objectives agreed on with the client were reached within a few months, and the results achieved are above expectations on all measures • Significant increase in customer satisfaction scores (CSAT), with an eight percentage-point improvement in the first three months. In some areas, CSAT has reached levels as high as 96 percent. • Efficiency has improved and continues to develop positively PARTNERSHIP TO DRIVE INCREASED CROSS-SELLING IN BANKING CLIENT SITUATION RESULTS ­ ranscom has handled all customer relations for this major T • Very high conversion ratio European bank since 2007. Cross-selling has been introduced • Client acknowledges ­Transcom’s key role in creating new as a key objective for the partnership, and ­Transcom is evaluopportunities across their business ated in terms of how well we support our client’s business • For the past five years, ­Transcom has received the “­Contact ­strategy. Center Efficiency in Banking Operations Award” • For the past three years, ­Transcom has been awarded the by OUR SOLUTION the CRC as a top outsourcer in banking and financial services Agents in two contact centers manage a significant volume of customer contacts in several different languages via multiple channels, including voice, email, chat, Facebook and Twitter. Cross-selling is an integrated feature of the service, and ­Transcom’s agents are adept at building relationships, identifying customer needs during any type of interaction, and taking appropriate action to satisfy the customer’s need while maximizing cross-sales for our ­client. 18 Transcom Annual Report 2014 Client cases STRATEGIC PARTNERSUPPORTING SHIP TO IMPROVE ­EXPANSION INTO ­CUSTOMER RETENTION NEW ­MARKETS CLIENT SITUATION CLIENT SITUATION Our client, a North American Cable TV, Phone and internet Our client, a fast-growing online travel services provider, was experiencing elevated customer operator, needed a partner that had the ability to support churn in parts of their business due to intense competition. the company’s expansion into new markets. ­Transcom was The company needed a partner to help them improve cusselected as the company’s sole strategic partner, primarily tomer retention. They chose ­Transcom. because of the ability to manage international growth. OUR SOLUTION OUR SOLUTION T ­ ranscom created attractive offers that were competitive ­ ranscom’s solution is based on a nearand offshore busiT across the market, while achieving a high level of consistness model that ensures cost-effectiveness while delivering ency in how they were presented to customers. ­Transcom put together a team of skilled Retention Agents who were high service standards. Our multilingual contact centers extensively trained and continuously coached in order to enable the addition of more languages as the operation effectively communicate offers to our client’s customers. expands to new geographical areas. Being able to serve a In addition, ­Transcom tracked and reported on the top reaglobal operation with a single customer care partner has sons for customer churn. This enabled the client to calibrate been a bonus for our client that runs a lean, virtual business its offers in order to compete more effectively in the changoperation. ing market place. RESULTS RESULTS • Significant reduction in client’s operating costs despite • The customer retention rate rapid growth in bookings improved by 22 percentage points • Successfully supporting year-on-year sales growth of up in six months. to 200 percent, and expansion into new global markets. INNOVATIVE HOME AGENT SOLUTION CLIENT SITUATION model, based on agents working from home, allowed us to tap Our fast-growing consumer electronics client needed an into a much larger talent pool than would have been possible approach to efficiently and cost-effectively recruit, train and using a conventional contact center-based approach. The manage technical support agents assisting customers in home agent concept enabled us to recruit agents with the right ­several different Nordic languages. Recruiting at the scale and profile across a large geographical area. State-of-the-art tools speed required was very challenging for our client due to the and technology allow us to manage and coach all agents from language and technical skills requirements, and the resulting a single location, ensuring consistency and efficiency. lack of suitable candidates in any one single region or area where a contact center was located. RESULTS • Consistently high levels of service ­quality and customer OUR SOLUTION ­satisfaction T ­ ranscom’s work-at-home agent concept proved to be ideally • Cost efficient for client and ­Transcom suited to addressing this particular client’s needs. The virtual • Highly scalable and flexible model Transcom Annual Report 2014 19 Regional overview An extensive global footprint As a global player with operations in 23 countries employing 30,000 people, ­Transcom can provide service wherever our clients have customers. Our global ­delivery network with 54 sites across five continents is one of the most extensive in our industry. We deliver services from onshore, near shore as well as from offshore contact centers. Our wide geographic presence means that we can offer our clients flexibility with regards to sourcing options and devise solutions that are well-adapted to clients’ needs. ­Transcom’s global business is managed within four units. NORTH EUROPE CENTRAL & SOUTH EUROPE Share of total revenue 34% Share of total revenue 24% Services delivered from Sweden, Norway, Denmark, ­Latvia, Services delivered from Croatia, Germany, Hungary, Italy, ­Lithuania, Estonia, and the Netherlands. Poland, Serbia, Tunisia and the United Kingdom. Highlights 2014 Highlights 2014 • Focus on strengthening operational efficiency • New sites opened in Hungary and Serbia, expanding • Continued implementation of new price model with large near shore delivery capacity in Europe client, enhancing financial predictability and stability • Growth with existing and new clients • Increased efficiency in Italy, Germany and Poland Focus 2015 Focus 2015 • Continued margin improvements • Further develop multilingual near shore delivery capacity • New business development • New business development 2014 2013 2014 2013 EUR million Jan–Dec Jan–Dec EUR million Jan–Dec Jan–Dec Revenue 207.7 216.7 Revenue 149.5 150.1 Gross profit 38.7 37.0 Gross profit 28.5 28.6 Gross margin 18.6 % 17.1 % Gross margin 19.0 % 19.0 % EBIT 11.0 8.2 EBIT 5.0 4.3 EBIT margin 5.3 % 3.8 % EBIT margin 3.3 % 2.9 % 20 Transcom Annual Report 2014 Regional overview IBERIA & LATAM NORTH AMERICA & ASIA PACIFIC Share of total revenue 20% Share of total revenue 20% Services delivered from Chile, Peru, Portugal, Spain Services delivered from Canada, the Philippines and Colombia. and USA. Highlights 2014 Highlights 2014 • Gradual ramp-up of volumes at our new contact center • Significant performance improvement, both through new in Cali, Colombia ­business development, increased operational efficiency and • Focus on increasing capacity utilization and efficiency in Chile cost reductions • We have won new business with domestic clients, but volumes • The North American operation is now profitable, and the positive in Latin America are still too low development in Asia continues Focus 2015 Focus 2015 • Improving capacity utilization and efficiency in Latin America • Focus on further improving capacity utilization • Expansion with local clients in Latin America in North America • Explore near shore opportunities to the United States • New business development • New business development 2014 2013 2014 2013 EUR million Jan–Dec Jan–Dec EUR million Jan–Dec Jan–Dec Revenue 124.1 130.9 Revenue 123.2 122.7 Gross profit 21.6 25.2 Gross profit 34.4 30.4 Gross margin 17.4 % 19.3 % Gross margin 27.9 % 24.8 % EBIT 1.1 3.1 EBIT 4.3 –1.4 EBIT margin 0.9 % 2.3 % EBIT margin 3.5 % –1.1 % Transcom Annual Report 2014 21 Our people and sustainability People development – an essential part of building a sustainable business Every day, our 30,000 customer experience specialists handle a multitude of interactions with our clients’ customers in more than 33 languages all over the world. People truly make all the difference in our business. Our ambition to deliver a great customer experience in every single interaction depends on an engaged, skilled and highly ­motivated workforce. Our ability to attract people with the right attitudes and mindset, in combination with efficient training methods and processes to drive performance, is essential to achieving our goals. MOST IMPORTANT ASPECTS TO EACH STAKEHOLDER GROUP Employees • Be an equal opportunity employer Equity • Be transparent with financial reporting • Be transparent with financial reporting ­analysts • Focus on fair working conditions for employees • Work proactively with anticorruption • Be an equal opportunity employer Owners • Provide continuous training for employees ESG • Focus on fair working conditions for employees • Be transparent with financial reporting ­analysts • Uphold freedom of association and right to collective bargaining • Have fair and transparent recruitment practices • Ensure high degree of customer satisfaction Investors • Provide continuous training for employees Clients • Have fair and transparent recruitment practices • Focus on fair working conditions for employees • Be an equal opportunity employer • Ensure high degree of customer satisfaction • Focus on fair working conditions for employees • Focus on health and safety management for employees MATERIALITY ANALYSIS RESULT Perceived degree of importance to T ­ ranscom’s business ECONOMIC A Be transparent with financial reporting B Work proactively with anticorruption C Conduct sustainability risk assessments on emerging ­markets High importance to D Source from local suppliers ­Transcom’s business F E Ensure a sustainable supply chain F Ensure high degree of customer satisfaction A G Have a great customer experience brand EXTERNAL STAKEHOLDERS O M L I J SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL N B G H Increase our commitment to community engagement I Uphold freedom of association and right to collective ­ E bargaining for employees C K J Have fair and transparent recruitment practices H K Recruit from the local communities P D L Be an equal opportunity employer M Provide continuous training for employees N Focus on health and safety management for employees O Focus on fair working conditions for employees P Reduce our CO2 emissions Low importance to INTERNAL High importance to ­Transcom’s business ­Transcom’s business STAKEHOLDERS 22 Transcom Annual Report 2014 Our people and sustainability In a people-intensive business like ours, where long-term success ­Transcom Cares is the overarching governance program for largely depends on the ability to attract and develop the right T ­ ranscom’s CSR activities, which are an integral part of our day-to­people, we believe it makes sense to focus our Corporate Social day business. ­Transcom Cares was initially started several years Responsibility (CSR) efforts on people as well. Our stakeholder ago as a concept for our com­munity engagement activities in the ­dialogues, which continued in 2014, have verified this view. Philippines. In 2013, ­Transcom Cares was established as a global In previous years, ­Transcom conducted a number of materiality program with a broadened scope in order to provide strengthened analyses in order to identify which sustainability aspects are congovernance and coordi­nation for all of ­Transcom’s CSR focus sidered to be most material and to prioritize amongst these in areas: people development, equality & diversity, and community order to allocate adequate resources to achieve the highest impact. engagement. The process began in 2012 and continued in 2013 and 2014. Regular dialogues are conducted with investors to keep them informed FOCUS ON PEOPLE DEVELOPMENT of our performance, challenges and opportunities. People development is one of the most important aspects in This year, ­Transcom conducted specific stakeholder dialogues attracting new employees and retaining our talents. ­Transcom’s though web-based surveys and feedback meetings on significant ability to attract and develop top talents is business critical. In order CSR aspects with employees. In addition, at the recent meeting to ensure that we are successful in finding the right people, the with the European Workers Council (EWC), CSR was a focus area. company has a clear goal of becoming an employer of choice in At this meeting, the employee representatives listed the following our industry. Besides offering a stimulating working experience, items as being most critical: Ensure a high degree of customer satcompetitive compensation and robust training, the opportunity for isfaction, a great customer experience brand, focus on fair working career development is one of the key factors that attracts new talconditions for employees, in addition to being an equal opportunity ents to the company. employer. At ­Transcom, we truly believe in developing our people and we The result can be seen in diagram on page 22, which shows offer unique opportunities for our employees to develop in their how our internal and external stakeholders rate the importance roles. There is a clearly defined career progression, either as a line and relevance of different sustainability issues. The materiality manager or in a specialist role. There are hundreds of examples of analysis is regularly updated. Given the relatively low environmensenior leaders at ­Transcom who started out as agents or in junior tal impact of ­Transcom’s operations, both internal and external support roles. groups rated environmental issues the lowest. This does not imply The absolute majority of our first line management positions, that they are unimportant, but simply that they are considered to as well as functional specialist roles, are filled by internal candibe the least material sustainability aspect for ­Transcom. In previous dates. All of our Business Managers, and five out of six Team years, we reported performance on one environmental KPI, i.e. ­Leaders, are internally recruited. When recruiting externally, many business travel, but in 2014 we started to disclose information on candidates come to us through referrals from employees. energy consumption at our sites as well. The issues considered to be most material are: being transparent with financial reporting, being an equal opportunity employer and to ensure a high degree of customer satisfaction. The external Country Manager Support and internal ratings were very similar with no major discrepancies. Functions e.g.: Contact Center Manager – IT T ­ RANSCOM’S GLOBAL CSR PROGRAM, Business Manager – Quality “­TRANSCOM CARES”, IS ALL ABOUT PEOPLE – Operations At ­Transcom, Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) means that we – HR Team Leader – Finance always do our utmost to do the right thing by our clients, our people and our communities. We are convinced that our commitment to Agent sustainability also helps us to attract, retain and develop the best people, which is critical to our long-term success. Please visit blog.transcom.com for stories about people who have chosen to build their careers with us. Transcom Annual Report 2014 23 Our people and sustainability WORKING WITH OUR TALENTS new graduates. In many countries, we are a top employer of people Our talents are one of ­Transcom’s most valuable assets. Therefore, aged 18–26. Our agents learn about direct client interaction in a in order to become better at identifying and developing high-­ dynamic environment, strengthening their communication and potential employees, we recently launched a new Talent Managetechnology skills; they become product specialists, handle conflicts ment Program, which was implemented throughout the organizaand, in turn, are rewarded for a job well done. Transom is proud of tion in 2014. This program aims to identify potential future leaders the role we play in the lives of our current and former employees. on all levels in the organization. Our talents are evaluated thoroughly and assigned an individual development plan. An important UN GLOBAL COMPACT benefit of the Talent Management Program is that future potential In addition to the three ­Transcom Cares focus areas described successors are identified, helping ­Transcom to ensure the provision above, ­Transcom fully supports the ten principles of the UN Global of future leaders and specialists. The program is an ongoing activCompact with respect to human rights, labor rights, environmental ity and will continue in 2015 and beyond. care and anti-corruption work. These principles are an integral part of our corporate strategy, business culture and day-to-day operaEQUAL OPPORTUNITIES tions. Therefore, as part of our on-going pledge to deliver an out­ ranscom is focused on attracting top talent and retaining people T standing customer experience in a global sustainable society, to build a truly global company that is prepared to meet and deliver ­Transcom is a signatory of the UN Global Compact. We are towards diverse business cultures in all corners of the world. We whole-heartedly committed to ensuring that we comply with strive for gender equality on all levels, and are dedicated to showthe UN Global Compact and its principles. ing that equal opportunity employment is part of our DNA. DiverRead more about our CSR governance in the Corporate sity of cultures and languages is fundamental to our service deliv­Governance report on pages 28–42. ery capability, e.g. in our multilingual near shore centers. The gender distribution among managers is good overall, with women making up 52 percent of managerial employees. Our target is to improve this number even more. A unique position that ­Transcom is proud to fill in many markets is that of a platform for career development for young people and Number of employees by region, December 2014 Gender distribution, Gender distribution, all employees, 2014 managers, 2014 North 5,363 Central & South 6,802 Iberia & Latam 6,465 North America & Asia Pacific 11,394 43 % 48 % 57 % 52 % CMS 183 TOTAL 30,207 ■ Men ■ Women ■ Men ■ Women Full-time employees and temporary staff, December 2014 Full-time employees 25,780 Temporary staff 4,427 TOTAL 30,207 24 Transcom Annual Report 2014 Our people and sustainability Frost & Sullivan Awards Transcom In 2014, Transcom was awarded the Frost & Sullivan Philippines Contact Center Outsourcing Growth Excellence Leadership Award, as well as the Peru Frost & Sullivan Award for Growth Excellence Leadership. More recently, Transcom received the Frost & Sullivan 2015 Visionary 2015 Innovation Leadership Award in Europe. The Award report states: “With its strong overall performance and ­forward-thinking initiatives in Europe, Transcom has earned Frost & EUROPEAN ­Sullivan’s 2015 Visionary Innovation Leadership Award for that region VISIONARY CONTACT C ENTER OUTS INNOVATIO OURCING of the world.” N LEADERSH IP AWARD Transcom Annual Report 2014 25 Our people and sustainability Environmental care at T ­ ranscom At ­Transcom, we strive to reduce the environmental impact of our Carbon emissions 2014 2013 operations, with a particular focus on limiting business travel and CO2 emission, business travel (tonnes) 1,575 1,827 decreasing energy consumption in our facilities. CO2 emissions, per employee We conduct training and support local initiatives with our (tonnes/employee) 0.055 0.065 employees in order to encourage greater environmental responsiCO2 emissions, by Revenue bility in our workplaces. Our employees are committed to minimiz(tonnes/million euros) 2.56 2.80 ing the impact and to working together to contribute to a better environment. Our environmental policy that includes respect for T ­ ranscom continues to make efforts to minimize our carbon emisthe precautionary principle guides us in lowering emissions from sions, e.g. by reviewing the meeting needs in the company and air travel, supports us in selecting goods and services produced ­creating suitable alternatives to travel. We know that what gets with respect for the nature and is a tool to push our environmental measured gets done, which is why we closely track our environdemands throughout our supply chain. mental expenditures. During 2014, our energy costs decreased We also promote environmentally friendly technologies by EUR 1.4 million. and equipment. During 2015, ­Transcom will move all its employees We are committed to encouraging, educating and promoting to the Google Apps for Work platform. We expect that this move a sustainable business model that keeps environmental impact will also be beneficial from an environmental standpoint. It will be at a minimum and reduces the carbon emissions at a steady pace easier for all our people to collaborate across teams and geographfor us today and, most importantly, for generations to come. ical locations, thereby reducing the need for travel. In addition to this, Apps is powered by Google’s energy-efficient data centers, less energy and carbon-intensive than on-premise servers. Community engagement Local community engagement is how ­Transcom Cares started. to operate in the markets where we choose to compete. People want to work for a company that has a sustainable ­Transcom also runs programs to make life easier for our approach to business and that contributes to building communities. employees. On-site child care centers, pharmacies, and employee Many of our community engagement activities depend on our microloans are some examples. employees’ passion to contribute their time and energy. It is clear Visit our blog to stay informed about ­Transcom Cares activities that these activities support recruitment and staff retention. and other news from ­Transcom! Our goal for the blog is to open ­Getting involved in the communities in which we operate not only a window into our company, culture and day-to-day ­operations. strengthens our employer brand, but also maintains our license blog.transcom.com 26 Transcom Annual Report 2014 Our people and sustainability Sustainable supply chain management During the past year, we have focused on further strengthening ­Transcom’s supply chain management practices. Key areas include the implementation of sustainable practices in our procurement process, evaluating the sustainability performance of our suppliers, and reviewing anti-corruption controls. CSR IN THE PROCUREMENT PROCESS If necessary we continue with a supplier site visit to ensure Our top procurement areas are IT equipment and human ­compliance and comprehension of the supplier code of conresources related services. We have assessed the inherent duct. If major non-conformities are detected, these must be overall CSR risks at a medium level from a value chain peraddressed within three months. For minor non-conformities we spective based on respect for human and labor rights, anti-correquest a change within the coming year. If, at the end of this ruption practices and environmental protection. As our agents period, the ­supplier still does not comply with ­Transcom’s Supare key assets, whether they are temporary or permanent plier Code of Business Conduct, we initiate a process of exiting employees, it is a top priority that equal and fair working condithe cooperation with this partner, as our commitment to a sustions are given to all employees. Therefore, we are extending tainable value chain is critical to our license to operate in society. the scope to include all staffing agencies, regardless of size. In order to further strengthen our procurement process, ANTI-CORRUPTION PRACTICES a central Purchasing Manager will be appointed. To combat all forms of corruption, we have the following governing documents in place: Supplier Code of Business ConEVALUATING SUSTAINABILITY duct, Code of Business Conduct for employees and our WhisA detailed CSR assessment of our key vendors was carried out tleblower reporting policy & mechanism. We enforce periodic in 2014 by a third party through web-based self-assessments mandatory and refresher training on Whistleblower reporting covering all ten principles of the UN Global Compact on and the Code of Business Conduct. Furthermore, the awareHuman rights, labor rights, environmental care, anti-corruption ness of the Code of business conduct is evaluated during interand information on their implementation of ethical governance nal audits. practices. A systematic evaluation of the responses is done to ­Transcom has decided to formalize the refresher-training ensure a fair judgment on the replies against internationally schedule, ensuring that training is conducted frequently, and to ­ratified conventions and declarations and OECD guidelines for continue with communication activities to increase awareness multinational companies. among all our employees. We have received positive feedback The impartial and immediate judgment regarding the perfrom the investor community, our employees and our partners formance of our suppliers enables us to take quick action if any on our dedicated efforts to uphold the highest ethical standards ­malpractice or breach of our Supplier Code of Conduct is idenin our operations and to push the boundaries of responsibility tified. Our escalation process consists of three main steps; throughout our full value chain. In the coming years, we will ­dialogue and learning, visits and relationship building and, as strive to be recognized as one of the most sustainable global a last step, contract termination. customer experience specialists on the market. Sustainability To begin with, we engage in discussions regarding the app­ at ­Transcom is an integral part of safeguarding not only our valropriate corrective action plan (CAP) for the supplier. At this ues but also the reputation of the clients that choose to partner stage, we focus on assessing the management process and with us. evidence of genuine understanding of the impact of the area of concern. Transcom Annual Report 2014 27 Corporate Governance Report Corporate Governance Report 2014 OVERVIEW standing and monitoring of key developAB is the surviving entity of the Merger and T ­ ranscom WorldWide AB (publ) ments in the company by its stakeholders. is the new listed Parent Company of the (“­Transcom’’ or the “Company’’) is a ­Transcom’s Corporate governance frame­Transcom Group. The decisions taken by ­Swedish public limited company, and its work further supports ­Transcom in ensurthe shareholders in order to implement the shares are listed on the Nasdaq Stockholm ing that it is an ethical corporate citizen. Merger and the Re-domiciliation are outexchange. The governance structure below reflects lined further down in the section EGM ­Transcom recognizes the importance of, previously disclosed changes to ­Transcom’s (as defined below). and is committed to following Corporate Executive Committee. ­Transcom adheres to principles of Corgovernance standards. The Company’s In 2014, ­Transcom initiated a process of porate governance found in both internal and governance framework encapsulates key re-domiciliation from Luxembourg to Sweexternal rules and regulations. Prior to the principles which govern the relationship den (the “Re-domiciliation’’). The Re-domiRe-domiciliation Date, the Corporate governbetween the numerous stakeholders of ciliation became effective on 26 November, ance within ­Transcom WorldWide S.A. was ­Transcom. It further includes an internal 2014 (the “Re-domiciliation Date’’), and was based on the Luxembourg law, in particular framework for decision making, and assignexecuted by way of a cross-border merger the “Ten Principles of Corporate governance’’ ment of responsibility for the company’s of the former Parent Company of the of the Luxembourg Stock Exchange, as pubmanagement, administration and internal Group, ­Transcom WorldWide S.A. with its lished in May 2013, the Luxembourg law on control. Transparent reporting is one of the ­wholly-owned Swedish subsidiary, commercial companies dated 10 August cornerstones of Corporate governance at ­Transcom WorldWide AB (the “Merger’’). 1915, as amended, and the listing require­Transcom, in that it facilitates the underFollowing the Merger, ­Transcom W ­ orldWide ments of Nasdaq Stockholm. ­TRANSCOM’S CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE Shareholders Independent Opinion Vote at General meetings Proposal for Board Elects Nomination Committee General Meeting External Audit Results of self evaluation Elects Board Audit reporting Charters & Charters & instructions instructions Remuneration Committee Board of Directors Audit Committee Reporting, Appointment, Reporting, Reporting, Internal Audit Reporting, Updates Instructions, Updates Updates plan, Charter Updates Strategy & Instructions President & CEO Internal Audit Internal steering Reporting, Internal steering documents documents Updates Group HR Group COO* Group CCO* Group CFO ­Director* Reporting, Reporting, Reporting, Reporting, Updates Updates Updates Updates Regional General Managers Respective business functions * Implemented 2015 28 Transcom Annual Report 2014 Corporate Governance Report After the Re-domiciliation Date, CorpoThe governance framework adopted by ties, the shares and share capital of the rate governance is no longer subject to Transcom WorldWide S.A. was in principle Company and contain rules with respect to ­Luxembourg laws; instead, as a Swedish compliant with the Swedish applicable regthe shareholders’ meetings. The Articles of public limited company listed on Nasdaq ulations in particular the ones contained in Association do not contain any limitations Stockholm, ­Transcom is subject to the the Code, subject to the key deviations as to how many votes each shareholder Swedish Companies Act and the Annual mentioned below. may cast at shareholders’ meetings, nor Accounts Act, as well as the Rule Book for Instead of rule 1.5 and 1.7 of the Code, any provisions regarding the appointment Issuers of Nasdaq Stockholm and the the shareholders’ meetings were conand dismissal of Board members or Swedish Corporate governance Code (the ducted in English; the related material preamendments to the Articles of Association. “Code’’). The Code provides that compasented at such meetings and the minutes The Articles of Association can be found at nies whose shares are admitted to trading were also in English. English was the official http://www.transcom.com/en/About-­ on a regulated market are to apply the language of the Company and the only Transcom/Organization-and-Governance/ Code as soon as possible and no later than ­language comprehensible to all key shareArticle-of-Association/. the date of the first annual general meeting holders given that ­Transcom ­World­Wide held after the stock exchange flotation i.e. S.A.’s place of registration and stock marSHARE AND SHAREHOLDERS 12 May 2015 in the case of ­Transcom. ket listing were in different countries. Prior to the Re-domiciliation Date, the share This report is prepared in accordance Instead of rule 6.1 of the Code, the Chaircapital of ­Transcom WorldWide S.A. conwith the Swedish Annual Accounts Act and man of the Board was elected by the Board sisted of class A shares carrying one (1) the provisions of the Code. Since Luxemof Directors at the statutory board meeting vote each and class B shares entitling the bourg Law was the main applicable jurisfollowing the AGM. This was in line with the holder to, amongst other, a preferential right diction for the greater part of 2014, this Luxembourg law, Transcom WorldWide to dividends and carrying in general no votreport also refers to events of the former S.A.’s articles of association and the recoming rights except in certain circumstances Parent Company ­Transcom WorldWide mendation 2.4 of the Ten Principles of Corand/or for certain material resolutions as S.A. and the situation before the Re-domiporate governance. set out in Luxembourg applicable laws. ciliation Date, where deemed fit. During the period between the date of As part of the Re-domiciliation process 2014 AGM (as defined below) and the and after the Re-domiciliation Date, the EXPLANATION FROM THE appointment of the Nomination Committee share capital of ­Transcom was modified ­COMPANY OF ITS DECISION in Q3 2014 ­Transcom WorldWide S.A. was several times and as at 31 December 2014 RELATING TO CORPORATE GOVnot compliant with rule 2.4 of the Code, it is composed of ordinary shares and class ERNANCE AND KEY DEVIATIONS since board members until that point C shares. As previously disclosed, ­Transcom FROM THE SWEDISH CORPO­constituted a majority of the Nomination WorldWide AB (publ) has assumed obligaRATE GOVERNANCE CODE Committee. The reason for the deviation tions to participants under long-term incenPrior to the Re-domiciliation Date was that this was customary under­ tive plan (LTIP) agreements for 2012, 2013 The Corporate governance within ­Luxembourg law. This noncompliance was and 2014, entered into by ­Transcom ­Transcom WorldWide S.A. was based on remediated as of the appointment of the ­WorldWide S.A., the Group’s former Parent Luxembourg law and ­Transcom WorldNomination Committee in Q3 2014. Company, and has therefore issued and Wide S.A. followed the “Ten Principles repurchased 649,372 class C shares for of Corporate governance” issued by the As of the Re-domiciliation Date potential delivery to LTIP participants. ­Luxembourg Stock Exchange, except as T ­ ranscom’s Corporate governance is no The holders of the ordinary shares have described below. longer subject to Luxembourg laws and one (1) voting right each. Instead of recommendation 4.2 and the ­Transcom is following the Code with no ­Transcom’s share ownership is disassociated recommendations related to deviation. closed on page 43 under “The ­Transcom structure of nomination committee of the share and shareholders” section of this Ten Principles of Corporate governance, ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION Annual Report. All other significant relathe Nomination Committee of the ComT ­ ranscom’s Articles of Association (as tionships between ­Transcom and its major pany is made up of representatives of defined below), which form the basis of the shareholders, in so far as it is aware of major shareholders and two out of three governance of the Company’s operations, them, are described in note 26 “Related representatives are not members of the set forth the Company’s name, the seat of Party Transactions”. Board of the Directors. the Board, the object of the business activiTranscom Annual Report 2014 29 Corporate Governance Report Corporate governance principles in Luxembourg and Sweden – Key differences For the benefit of stakeholders who may not be familiar with the Swedish Corporate governance requirements, the table below outlines some key ­differences vis-à-vis the requirements in ­Luxembourg: Aspect Luxembourg Sweden Shareholders/ • Right to participate if you are registered as a shareholder • Right to participate if you are registered as a shareholder five days Shareholder’s meeting as of the date of meeting. before the general meeting and you have notified ­Transcom regarding your intention within the timelines specified in the notice. • Recommended to have majority of directors ­present. • Directors shall be present at general meetings of shareholders in such ­number that the Board quorum is met, including the Chairman. Also the CEO is to attend. One member of the company’s nomination ­committee, at least one of the company’s auditors. • Proxy can be valid up to five years from the date of issuance. • Notice – Two notices with a minimum ­interval of eight days • Notice – minimum three weeks in advance (if articles will not be and eight days before meeting. amended in the meeting). Nomination Committee • The Board of Directors establishes a Nomination Committee • Nomination Committee is made up of representatives of major sharefrom amongst its members. holders. Members of the Board of Directors may be members of the nomination committee but may not constitute a majority thereof. ­Neither the company chair nor any other member of the board may chair the nomination committee. Board of Directors • Can be appointed for a maximum of six years. • Shall be elected for one year at a time. Swedish trade unions have the right to appoint two additional directors in all companies with at least 25 employees in Sweden. • The Chairman is appointed by the Board of Directors. • The Chairman of the Board of directors shall be elected by the share­ holders’ meeting. • Shall include the shareholders’ representatives, and must • The majority of the directors are to be independent of the company include an appropriate number of independent directors. and its executive management. At least two of the members of the There must be at least two independent directors. board who are independent of the company and its executive management are also to be independent in relation to the company’s major shareholders. Audit Committee • Shall consist exclusively of non-executive directors, of which • Minimum of three board members whereas: at least half shall be independent directors. Shall be chaired –The majority of the members are to be independent of the company by an independent director. and its executive management. –At least one member who is independent of the ­company and its executive management is also to be independent of the company’s major shareholders. External Auditor • One or more auditors may be elected by the general meeting • At least one auditor to be appointed. Such appointment shall be valid of shareholders who will also determine their number and until the close of the general meeting which is held during the first duration of appointment for a period of maximum six years. financial year after the election as auditor, unless provided otherwise in the articles of association. To know more about the requirements, please visit the website of the Swedish Corporate Governance Board The 2014 EGM – New Parent (as defined shareholders are entitled to participate adopt resolutions, the shareholders’ rights below) authorized, in relation to the respecand exercise their right to decide on issues and how these rights are exercised are all tive incentive plans, the issuance and repuraffecting ­Transcom and its operations. regulated by law or other statutory instruchase of class C shares. During 2014, the In 2014, the following shareholder meetment. Please refer to the table above. board of ­Transcom WorldWide S.A. had ings were held: authorization to repurchase shares under a. An annual general meeting of share­ 2014 AGM the share repurchase plan approved at the holders (“AGM’’) of ­Transcom WorldPrior to the Re-domiciliation Date, the 2012 AGM. This authorization of ­Transcom Wide S.A. (“2014 AGM’’) and AGM had the rights conferred by LuxemWorldWide S.A. (former Parent Company) b. An extraordinary general meeting of bourg laws and the operating processes of was not utilized during 2014, whereas shareholders (“EGM’’) of ­Transcom the AGM were in line with the applicable ­Transcom (new ­Parent Company) issued S.A. (“2014 EGM’’) and ­Luxembourg laws. In 2014, the statutory and repurchased class C share accordingly. c. An extraordinary general meeting AGM was held on 28 May 2014. At the of shareholders of ­Transcom meeting, shareholders representing SHAREHOLDERS’ MEETING (“2014 EGM – New Parent’’). 57.26 percent of the total number of class The Shareholders’ meeting is the highest A shares were present either personally or decision-making body for T ­ ranscom and The function of the Shareholders’ meeting, by proxy. Shareholders exercised their it is at the shareholders’ meeting where all the general meeting’s primary authority to rights to decide on the key affairs and the 30 Transcom Annual Report 2014 Corporate Governance Report following resolutions were adopted by • Approval of the Merger Plan and the attend the AGM must notify ­Transcom of the AGM: Merger. his or her intention to attend. All relevant •Approval of the annual accounts and the • Granting of full discharge to the directors instructions in relation to the participation at consolidated accounts for the financial of ­Transcom WorldWide S.A. the AGM shall be included in the convening year ended 31 December 2013. notice to the AGM. • Allocation of the results as of The EGM further noted that an approval of The AGM for the financial year 2014 will 31 ­December 2013. the Merger as set out in the Merger Plan be held on 12 May 2015 in Stockholm (the • Discharge of the liability of the members would also mean an approval of the inten“2015 AGM’’). of the Board of Directors of the Company tion of ­Transcom to resolve to execute a (the Board of Directors) for, and in conreverse split of the ordinary shares of NOMINATION COMMITTEE nection with, the financial year ended ­Transcom, whereby fifty (50) existing ordiThe Nomination Committee is formed each 31 December 2013. nary shares of ­Transcom would become year in October in consultation with the • Re-election of some existing Directors one (1) new share of the same class of largest shareholders of ­Transcom as per and election of new Directors for the shares of ­Transcom (the “Reverse Split’’). 30 September each year (the “Nomination period until the close of the next AGM. Further details and minutes of the 2014 Committee’’). The nomination committee • Election of external auditors. EGM are available on ­Transcom’s website. will consist of at least three members • Determination of Directors’ fees. appointed by the largest shareholders of • Approval of the procedures for the Nomi2014 EGM – NEW PARENT ­Transcom (given that they elected to nation Committee. T ­ ranscom also held the EGM on 4 Sep­ appoint a member). • Approval for guidelines on remuneration tember 2014 in order to, amongst other, A majority of the Nomination Commitof Senior Executives. approve (i) the Merger Plan and the issutee of major shareholders in ­Transcom has • Approval of a long term incentive plan for ance of the merger consideration as probeen formed in accordance with the resoluexecutive management of ­Transcom for vided for in the Merger Plan, (ii) the Reverse tion of the 2014 Annual General Meeting. 2014–2017. Split, (ii) the amendment of the articles of Due to a shareholding change at ­Transcom, association of ­Transcom accordingly. Furthe Nomination Committee changed at the The minutes of the AGM 2014 are available thermore, it was approved that ­Transcom end of March 2015 and is now comprised on T ­ ranscom’s website. will undertake the obligation of ­Transcom of Jesper Eliasson representing Altor Fund WorldWide S.A. owed under the incentive Manager AB, Daniel Nyhrén representing 2014 EGM programs as listed in the Merger Plan. Creades AB, Cristina Stenbeck representThe 2014 EGM was held on 4 September ing Investment AB Kinnevik, and Arne Lööw 2014, when shareholders exercised their 2015 AGM representing The Fourth Swedish National rights to decide, amongst others, the folAs of the Re-domiciliation Date the authorPension Fund (Fjärde AP-fonden). Jesper lowing items: ity and work of the AGM have primarily Eliasson has been appointed Committee • Acknowledgement of the merger plan been based on Swedish law, in particular the Chairman. The members of the Nominaadopted by the Board of Directors. Companies Act and the Code as well as on tion Committee do not receive any remu• Acknowledgement of the reports on the the articles of association of ­Transcom (the neration for their work. The Re-domiciliamerger plan prepared by the independent Articles of Association). The AGM shall be tion did not affect the composition of the auditor of ­Transcom WorldWide S.A. held within six months after the end of the Nomination Committee. • Acknowledgement of the date of the financial year. Shareholders wishing to have effectiveness of the Merger as being on matters considered at the AGM should subThe Nomination Committee’s tasks include: the date of the final registration of the mit their proposals in writing at least seven • Evaluation of the Board of Directors’ work Merger with the Swedish Companies weeks before the AGM in order to guaranand composition; Registration Office. tee that their proposals may be included in • Submission of the proposals to the AGM • Acknowledgment of the fact that, as a the notice to the AGM. Details on how and regarding the election of the Board of result of the Merger, ­Transcom Worldwhen to submit proposals to ­Transcom can Directors and the Chairman of the Board; Wide S.A. would cease to exist by dissolube found on ­Transcom’s website. Share• Preparations of the proposals regarding tion without liquidation by way of the holders who wish to participate in the AGM the election of auditors in cooperation transfer of all assets and liabilities of must be duly registered as such with Eurowith the Audit Committee (when appro­Transcom WorldWide S.A. to ­Transcom clear Sweden AB. The shareholders may priate); in accordance with the Merger Plan and then attend and vote at the meeting in perapplicable laws. son or by proxy. A shareholder wishing to Transcom Annual Report 2014 31 Corporate Governance Report • Preparations of the proposals regarding In the 2014 AGM, Mia Brunell Livfors and (the “Rules of Procedure’’). The work of the the fees to be paid to Board Directors John C. Freker Jr. were elected as new Board is also governed by rules and regulaand to the Company’s auditors; directors whereas Laurie Bowen and tions which include the Swedish Compa• Preparations of the proposals for the ­Dermot Jenkinson declined re-election. nies Act, the Articles of Association, and Chairman of the AGM, and Henning Boysen, Stefan Charette, Mikael the Code. • Preparations of the proposals for the Larsson, Alexander Izosimov and Roel In order to carry out its work more effecadministration and order of appointment of ­Louwhoff were re-elected as directors. For tively, the Board of Directors has created the Nomination Committee for the AGM. summary curriculum vitae for each director, a Remuneration Committee and an Audit the list of paid positions held by them in Committee. The Rules of Procedure specify The Nomination Committee invites proposother companies, remuneration, attendance the duties that the board has delegated to als from shareholders wishing to propose in Board and committee meetings, refer to Remuneration and Audit Committee and candidates for election to the Board of the table on pages 38–39 of this report. how the committees are to report to the Directors. The Nomination Committee will board. These committees handle business submit a proposal for the composition of Remuneration of the within their respective areas and present the Board of Directors; remuneration for Board of D ­ irectors recommendations and reports on which the Board of Directors and the auditor; and The remuneration of the members of the the Board of Directors may base its decia proposal on the Chairman of the 2015 Board of Directors is proposed by the sions and actions. However, all members AGM, which will be presented to the 2015 ­Nomination Committee and approved by of the Board of Directors have the same AGM for approval. The Nomination Comthe AGM. The Nomination Committee proresponsibility for decisions made and mittee met three times during 2014: posal is based on benchmarking of peer actions taken, irrespective of whether Meetings attended group company compensation and comissues have been reviewed by such company size. The members of the Board of mittees or not. Mia Brunell Livfors 2/2 Directors do not participate in the Group’s Stefan Charette 2/2 incentive schemes. Furthermore, ­Transcom In 2014, the Board addressed and discussed Arne Lööw 3/3 did not grant any loan to any member of its the following (apart from regular matters in the Board of Directors. annual Board work cycle): Cristina Stenbeck 1/1 • Continuous work relating to strategic plans The total amount of remuneration and Daniel Nyhrén 1/1 and direction other benefits granted directly or indirectly • Review and approval of new sites and other by the Company to the members of its investment proposals BOARD OF DIRECTORS Board of Directors is provided in note 4. • Corporate social responsibility • Compliance As per the applicable Luxembourg laws • Organizational design and alignment and the Swedish laws respectively, the Responsibilities and duties of the •E xecutive Committee’s updated risk assessment. Board of Directors is elected by shareholdBoard of Directors • Re-domiciliation ers’ meetings, and can be removed at any The Board of Directors is in charge of the The Board held eleven meetings during 2014. time, with or without cause, by a resolution overall governance and strategic direction For details of attendance see pages 38–39. in shareholders’ meetings. The Board of of the Company. The Board of Directors Directors of the Company (the “Board of provides effective support for, and control Directors’’) is ultimately responsible for the of, the activities of the Executive CommitEvaluation of the Board and organization of ­Transcom and the managetee. It is responsible for the performance its ­Committees ment of its operations. of all acts of administration necessary for The Board of Directors carries out an accomplishing the Company’s purposes, annual assessment wherein the Board of Composition of the Board of Directors except for matters reserved by Directors evaluates its own performance of the Company ­Luxembourg law and/or Swedish law and the performance of its committees. The Board of Directors as at 31 December respectively to the general meeting of As part of the evaluation process, the 2014 is comprised of seven directors shareholders. Chairman of the Board of Directors carried whereof: The Board of Directors has adopted out one-on-one feedback sessions with • Four directors are independent vis-à-vis rules of procedure for its internal activities board members, which also included feedmajor shareholders and which include rules pertaining to the numback on performance in committees. This • Six directors are independent vis-à-vis the ber of Board meetings to be held, the matannual assessment process also entails a management. ters to be handled at such regular Board review of competencies, board process and meetings, and the duties of the Chairman internal communication within the board. 32 Transcom Annual Report 2014 Corporate Governance Report A summary of the evaluation is also pre•E  nsuring quality and correctness in the EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE sented to the Nomination Committee. Company’s financial reporting The President and CEO, appointed by the •R  eviewing and monitoring the impartiality Board of Directors, is responsible for hanREMUNERATION COMMITTEE and independence of the External auditor dling the day-to-day management of the At the statutory Board of Directors meeting •A  ssisting the Nomination Committee to Company in accordance with instructions following the 2014 AGM, the Board of prepare for the election of auditors at from the Board of Directors. The President Directors decided that the Remuneration the AGM and CEO is supported by the Executive Committee be comprised of Henning •R  eviewing the process for monitoring Committee appointed by the Board of ­Boysen, Mia Brunell Livfors, Alexander compliance with laws and regulations Directors. In 2014, the Executive Commit­Izosimov, and Stefan Charette. Mia Brunell affecting financial reporting and Code tee included President and CEO, Group Livfors was elected as its Chairman. The of Business Conduct CFO, CIO, Operations and HR Director and same Remuneration Committee was •E  valuating the overall effectiveness of Regional General Managers (the “RGMs’’). adopted by the new Parent Company. the internal control and risk management The Company has made some changes to frameworks its Executive Committee thereafter, in order The responsibilities of the Remuneration •E  valuating the effectiveness of the interto strengthen it further and to increase Committee include: nal audit function focus and accountability in important areas. • Issues concerning principles for remunera• Monitoring and securing the quality and A full list of its members is provided on tion, remunerations and other terms of em­­ fairness of transactions with related parpages 40–41. ployment for the Executive Management; ties, when applicable The CEO, along with the rest of the • Monitoring and evaluating programs for No specific decision-making authority Executive Committee, is responsible for the variable remuneration for the Executive has been delegated to the Audit Committee. adherence to the Group’s overall strategy, Management; The Audit Committee held seven meetfinancial and business control, financing, • Reviewing performance of Executive ings during 2014. For details of attendance, capital structure, risk management and Committee and of the individual execurefer to the table on pages 38–39. The acquisitions. Among other tasks, this tives at least once a year; CEO, CFO, External auditor, Head of Interincludes preparation of financial reports, • Ensuring that the Executive Management nal Audit, Group Financial Controller, Head capital markets communication and other Team has an updated succession plan of Group Tax, etc. were called to the meetissues. with identified emergency cover; and ing as required. The Audit Committee met • Ensuring the Company has a Talent once in 2014 with the statutory auditors, Executive Committee remuneration ­Management Program in place and an indiwithout the presence of the management. The guidelines for remuneration for memvidual development plan for key leaders. bers of the Executive Committee were EXTERNAL AUDITORS approved by the 2014 AGM. Refer to the No specific decision-making authority has The registered audit firm Ernst & Young AB, 2014 AGM minutes on ­Transcom’s website been delegated to the Remuneration with the authorized public accountant Erik for details. The total amount of remunera­Committee. Åström as auditor-in-charge, was elected as tion and other benefits granted directly or The Remuneration Committee held auditor in an EGM of ­Transcom Worldwide AB indirectly by the Company to the members five meetings during 2014. For details of held in January 2012, for the period ending at of its Executive Committee is provided in attendance, refer to the table on pages the close of the annual general meeting held note 4. 37–39. during the fourth financial year after the ­Transcom did not grant any loan to any appointment, whereas ­Transcom member of its Executive Committee. AUDIT COMMITTEE ­WorldWide S.A. has been audited by Ernst At the statutory Board of Directors meeting & Young S.A. Cabinet de Révision Agree with INTERNAL CONTROL following the 2014 AGM, the Board of Olivier Lemaire as auditor-in-charge. FollowThe Board of Directors has overall responDirectors decided that the Audit Committee ing the Re-domiciliation, the consolidated sibility for ­Transcom’s risk and internal conbe comprised of Mikael Larsson, Stefan financial statements are accordingly reviewed trol systems and for monitoring their effecCharette, Alexander Izosimov and Henning by the auditor of ­Transcom ­WorldWide AB. tiveness. The Board of Directors monitors Boysen. Mikael Larsson was elected as its During 2014, the external auditors the ongoing process by which critical risks Chairman. The same Audit Committee was ­performed services besides the ordinary to the business are identified, evaluated and adopted by the new Parent Company. audit assignments, with regard to Re-domimanaged. The responsibilities of the Audit Comciliation and also provided some forensic mittee include: services. Transcom Annual Report 2014 33 Corporate Governance Report ­Transcom’s internal control systems are Control environment the Company to identify any shortcomings designed to manage, rather than eliminate The Board of Directors reviews and in internal controls. Group Internal Control risks that might affect the achievement of approves the annual budget and three-year reports directly to the CFO and to the Audit its objectives, and can only provide reasonplan which includes a quantified assessment Committee. able and not absolute assurance against of planned operating and financial performaterial misstatement or loss. In assessing mance for the next financial year for each Risk assessment what constitutes reasonable assurance, the business unit, together with a strategic plan The Group’s risk management and control Board of Directors and the Executive Mana­ for the Group for the following two years. framework is designed to support the idengement considers the materiality of finan­Transcom has an established governtification, assessment, monitoring, mancial and non-financial risks and the relationance framework, the key features of which agement and control of risks that are sig­ ship between the costs of, and benefit from, include: nificant to the achievement of the Group’s internal control systems. •R  ules of procedures for the Board of business objectives and to provide reliable Directors and instruction for each of its financial information. ­Transcom’s risk The principal features of the Group’s syscommittees; ­management is based on the following tems of internal control are designed to: •A  clear organizational structure, with key principles: • Maintain proper accounting records; ­documented delegation of authority to a. Comprehensive scope: Risks are • Provide reliable financial information; CEO from the Board. assessed for a number of defined catego• Identify and manage business risks; •B  oard-approved key policies including ries. The Executive Committee is respon• Maintain compliance with appropriate Financial and Treasury Management sible for reviewing and monitoring the legislation and regulation; ­policy, Instruction for financial reporting, financial, strategic, human resources, • Identify and adopt best practice; and Insider Trading policy and Communicaoperational, commercial, technological, • Safeguard assets. tions policy. compliance and other applicable risks. It • Board-approved Whistleblower policy, monitors the completeness of the Group’s Each year the Audit Committee assesses Environmental policy, Code of Business risk profile on a regular basis through a the effectiveness of ­Transcom’s risk manConduct and Supplier Code of Business Group risk monitoring framework. This agement and internal controls system on Conduct to promote ethical, sustainable helps the Company to proactively identify the basis of: and transparent business practices within the most important risks. The risk assess• Established policies, including those the Group. ment process also entails identification of already described, which are in place to • A living internal governance manual, risk owners in the Company. manage perceived risks; which sets out clear guidance on key b. Regular reporting: Risks are evaluated in • The continuous enterprise-wide process ­decisions and risk governance across terms of their potential impact and likelifor identifying, evaluating and managing key processes; and hood. The results of the risk assessment the significant risks to the achievement • Accounting manual and reporting instrucalong with mitigation plans for key risks of the Group’s objectives; and tions to ensure the completeness and are presented to the Audit Committee on • Reports to the Audit Committee on the correctness of financial reporting and its a periodic basis for review. results of External auditor’s work and compliance with IFRS requirements. c. F  ollow-up: Risk mitigation plans are folInternal audit reviews, both including lowed up on a periodic basis and the staaction plans from the concerned Furthermore, a number of corporate functus of mitigation plans/activities are peri­Management. tions are responsible for promoting effecodically reported to the Audit Committee. tive internal controls in separately defined d. Risks and business planning: The busiInternal audit (referred to as Group Internal areas. Among these, the central finance ness plans are based on key market, cliControl in the Company) reviews the effecorganisation, including Group Financial ent, economic and financial assumptions. tiveness of riskand internal control sysControl and Group Business Control, as The business planning process also tems throughout the Group in accordance well as the Group Communications departincludes an assessment of the risk and with the approved internal audit plan. The ment play important roles in ensuring corsensitivities underlying the projections. principal features of the control framework rect and timely financial reporting. In addiand the methods by which the Board of tion, Group Internal Control, which is The Group Internal Control function is Directors satisfies itself that it is operating ­Transcom’s internal audit department, responsible for coordinating and monitoreffectively are detailed below. independently evaluates the operations of ing the risk management processes in the 34 Transcom Annual Report 2014 Corporate Governance Report Group and consolidating the periodic risk includes controls in the financial reporting Company’s day-to-day business activities. reporting for the Board of Directors and the processes as well as controls in other proAt ­Transcom, CSR means that we always Audit Committee. cesses which could be expected to impact do our utmost to do the right thing by our ­Transcom continuously works to financial reporting. clients, our people and our communities. improve the policies which govern the The Audit Committee reviews every This ambition is encapsulated in ­Transcom management and control of both financial interim and Annual Report prior to publication. Cares, the company’s CSR governance and non-financial risks. The adoption of framework, launched on a global level in these policies throughout the Group enaFollow-up 2013. ­Transcom’s Code of Business Conbles a broadly consistent approach to the Monthly performance and financial reports duct, available in 17 languages, covers the management of risk at business unit level. are produced for each business unit, with four areas of The UN Global Compact, For a summary of key risks ­Transcom comparisons to budget. Reports are conenvironmental care, human rights, labour faces while operating in a highly fragsolidated for overall review by the corporate rights and anticorruption practices, all of mented and competitive global industry, team (CEO, CFO, CIO and Head of Operawhich ­Transcom respects and supports refer to pages 36–37. tions & HR) together with forecasts for the fully. The principles are an integral part of income statement and cash flow. Addition­Transcom’s corporate strategy. Information and Communication ally, the Company has taken some initial Policies and guidelines of significance to steps to integrate risk related discussions Whistle-blower process financial reporting are regularly updated and actions in the management review. The Board of Directors has established a and continuously communicated to the The Board of Directors also regularly whistle blowing process which enables peremployees concerned. Detailed reporting reviews the actual performance of the busisonnel to report violations in accounting, instructions are provided to Group companess compared with budgets and forecasts, reporting, internal controls, non-complinies periodically. as well as other key performance indicaance with Code of Business Conduct, In 2014, ­Transcom strengthened infortors. The Board of Directors reviews the Group policies, applicable laws, etc. Permation and communication related to polieffectiveness of established internal consonnel are requested to report the matters cies and governance principles by publishtrols through the Audit Committee, as to local Human Resources manager or to ing an internal governance manual, which described above. ­Transcom’s internal whistle blower function among other things incorporates a list of ­Transcom’s Group Internal Control at whistleblower.reporting@transcom.com. key policies and procedures. Key managefunction is responsible for following up on The whistleblower reporting mechanism ment personnel (everyone who reports into critical risks and action plans and reporting also facilitates anonymous reporting. All Executive Committee members) have the status of action plans to the Audit allegations are taken seriously and an signed the internal governance manual. ­Committee on a periodic basis. Further enquiry is conducted to not only investigate Further, all employees are required to ­Transcom’s annual audit plan, that is, the the alleged violations, but also to identify sign the Code of Business Conduct when scope and the areas of operations to be root causes to facilitate further strengthenstarting their employment with ­Transcom reviewed during audits, is reviewed and ing of internal controls. and are given suitable training on the key approved each year by the Audit Commitvalues. Also, ­Transcom has implemented tee. Risk-based internal audits are carried a Supplier Code of Business Conduct to out independently to evaluate if the key promote ethical business practices in our risks are managed appropriately. supply chain (read more in the Corporate Responsibility section). CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Control against corruption Control activities T ­ ranscom is a signatory of the UN Global The RGMs, with support from their respecCompact. In order to be successful and tive management teams, are responsible ­create value, ­Transcom needs to meet the for the implementation of control activities expectations of all its key stakeholders: in compliance with ­Transcom’s policies and ­clients, employees and investors, as well governance documents (including the as the communities that the Company is a Accounting policy) as well as for managing part of. This is the basis for ­Transcom’s CSR any further risks that they may identify. This work, which forms an integral part of the Transcom Annual Report 2014 35 Corporate Governance Report Risk How it may impact T ­ ranscom ­Transcom’s management of risks Business risks Macro-economic risks Deterioration and/or sustained volatility in ecoWe continuously observe the economic developnomic conditions in the markets in which ­Transcom ment and evolution of our clients’ business trends operates may adversely affect its clients’ busito align our strategy and goals in view of the nesses and the level of demand for ­Transcom’s ever-evolving economic condition. services which could have a material adverse effect on our revenue, profitability & strategy. Client & industry concentration A significant portion of the Company’s revenues is We systematically monitor this risk with multiple generated from a limited number of key clients in variables at site level. Our strategy aims to increasfew industry sectors. Any significant loss of work ingly diversify the risks by operating in different from one or more of these clients, or a prolonged geographies, clients and industry verticals. downturn in one or more of these industry verticals, We have a rigorous governance process for could adversely affect our business. oversight and management of commercial risks. Capacity utilization & productivity/efficiency risks Our financial results depend on our capacity utilizaWe have established a governance structure for tion and our ability to manage our workforce effireview of investments in capacity. ciently in view of client demands. Any sustained Our core processes are designed to optimize failure in ensuring optimal capacity utilization and/ these critical KPIs. or optimal efficiency may have a material adverse We systematically and continuously monitor effect on the Company’s overall profitability. capacity utilization and efficiency for each client, site, and program and continuously identify remediation plans and focus areas for improvement. People related risks If ­Transcom is unable to attract and retain skilled T ­ ranscom has deployed robust talent management staff, this may adversely impact the Company’s and career development programs which help us in business. The customer care outsourcing industry talent retention (more details on pages 23–24 and is prone to high staff attrition. 46–47). Furthermore, the Company carries out periodic employee satisfaction surveys and other benchmarking exercises to identify improvement areas and further strengthen our position as an employer of choice in our industry. Disasters, disruption & hazard risks Continuity of our operations may be affected by We carry out detailed business impact analysis and natural events, wars, terrorist attacks, other civil have developed business continuity plans, which disturbances, epidemics, technical failures etc. Any are periodically evaluated and updated. sustained disruption of our services may lead to For technological risks, we have developed back significant deterioration in our profitability from the up & disaster recovery plans and strategies. affected site/country/region. We have secured insurance against business interruptions. Exchange rate fluctuation risks We are exposed to exchange rate fluctuations: ­ ranscom continuously monitors foreign exchange T Transaction exposure: In some contracts (mostly fluctuations. As a principle, we aim to avoid foreign offshore delivery) we have costs and revenues in exchange fluctuation risks by trying to negotiate different currencies. contracts with costs and revenues in the same Translation exposure: A movement in the value of ­currency. Furthermore, the Audit Committee has a currency relative to the Euro (which is ­Transcom’s established a formal hedging policy which governs reporting currency) could impact the results. the terms, conditions and procedure for any hedging transaction executed by the Company. Impairment risk A substantial part of our assets consists of goodwill We annually evaluate the Goodwill on our balance and any significant impairment would affect our sheet to identify any necessary impairment results and shareholders’ equity. requirements, in view of the best available information; 36 Transcom Annual Report 2014 Corporate Governance Report Risk How it may impact T ­ ranscom ­Transcom’s management of risks Significant increase in input costs If we are unable to pass on any significant increase T ­ ranscom strives to apply bespoke pricing and/or in our key input costs – Human resources, technolcommercial models with clients, where possible. ogy, telecommunication, etc. to clients, our operatWe continuously evaluate new locations for our ing results could be adversely affected. delivery centers in countries with stable and comHistorically, there have been shifts in the relative petitive wages and other input costs. geographic concentration of contact centers, following the trend in production costs. Employee misconducts Our employees owing to the inherent nature of the We collaborate with our clients continuously to industry and service offerings may be able to peridentify and address fraud risks in a structured petrate frauds or other misconducts which may not manner. only affect ­Transcom, but also its clients. Most of We have secured insurance against such the client contracts hold ­Transcom liable for dam­misconducts. ages and/or liabilities arising due to fraud. Tax audits & litigation risks The Group is subject to tax audits in the normal We observe all applicable laws, rules, regulations course of business. A negative outcome in respect and disclosure requirements. of such audits or litigation may have a materially We seek to plan and manage our tax affairs effiadverse effect on the Group’s business, financial ciently in all the jurisdictions in which we operate condition and results of operations, beyond what and to ensure that decisions taken are supported has already been provided for. with documentation that supports the facts, conRefer to note 23 for details. clusions and risks involved. We engage external tax experts for advice in complex matters to ensure that our interpretation and application of tax laws of the concerned jurisdiction is consistent and prudent. We follow tax ­litigations closely and create provisions in relation to tax risks for which management believes it is probable. All transactions we engage in must have business purpose or commercial rationale. Corporate Social Responsibility-related risks Corruption and other unethical practices We have operations in countries which have been We have zero tolerance towards any corrupt and assessed as more risky for corrupt practices. Any unethical practices. Our Code of Business Conduct corrupt practices engaged in by our employee(s) is available in 17 languages. All our employees sign may affect our goal to be a responsible corporate this document when they start their employment. citizen. They are given suitable training on the key values of the Code. All managers receive training on this topic every year. Supply chain malpractices Any violations of ethical business practices by our We have a formal Supplier Code of Business vendor(s) may affect our goal to be a responsible ­Conduct (SCBC) based on the 10 principles of the corporate citizen. UN Global compact. SCBC covers ethical business practices, respect for human and labor rights, and environmental care. All suppliers, including their employees, agents and subcontractors are expec­ted to adhere to SCBC and make a commitment by signing. We have established a process of supplier self-assessment to control adherence to the requirements in our SCBC, starting with the largest suppliers. Transcom Annual Report 2014 37 Corporate Governance Report Board of Directors Name (born) Henning Boysen (1946) Stefan Charette (1972) John C. Freker Jr. (1958) Function Chairman of the Board since 2014 Elected to the Board in 2014 Elected to the Board in 2014 (Chairman of ­Transcom World(­member of the Board of ­Transcom Wide S.A.’s Board, 2012–2014) WorldWide S.A., 2011–2014) Member of the Audit Committee Member of the Audit Committee and the Remuneration Committee. and the Remuneration Committee. Education Masters in Economics from Aarhus MSc in Mathematical Finance from Bachelor’s Degree from Princeton University, Denmark. Cass Business School and a BSc University and a graduate of The in Electrical Engineering from the Executive Management Program Royal Institute of Technology. at the Tuck School of Business at Dartmouth College. Nationality/Elected Danish/2009 Swedish/2011 American/2014 Other assignments Chairman of Apodan Nordic AS, Chairman of the Board of the N.A. Chairman of Nupo AS. Athanase Industrial Partner Group companies, Concentric AB and board member of the public companies ­Haldex, Lindab and Creades. Share ownership, including related natural and legal persons 32,000 320,994 0 Principal work experience Chairman of Kuoni, one of Europe’s Chairman and CEO of the Athanase President of YP Print Media Solutions, leading leisure travel companies, a Industrial Partner companies, and a Cerberus Capital portfolio composition he has held since 2006, has experience from 9 public boards pany, since 2014. President and CEO board member since 2003. Chairand 6 nomination committees. Previof First Advantage – 2011 to 2013, man of Global Blue SA, 2008–2012. ously CEO of the public companies President and COO of Zenta – 2006 Mr ­Boysen was formerly President Creades AB, Investment AB Öresund, to 2011, and President and CEO of and CEO of Gate Gourmet from AB Custos and private company Oblicore – 2005 to 2006., President 1996 to 2004. Between 1988 and Brokk AB. of the Convergys Corporation’s Cus1992 he was COO and Deputy tomer Management Group – 2002 ­President of Saudia Catering in to 2005. Saudi Arabia. On Board of Nuance Communications – 2000 to 2007. Total fees 2014 (EUR) 105,000 53,000 43,000 Board meeting Attendance 11 out of 11 (Chair) 11 out of 11 9 out of 9 Remuneration Committee ­Attendance 5 out of 5 3 out of 3 N.A. Audit Committee Attendance 7 out of 7 7 out of 7 N.A. Independence to ­Transcom Independent Independent Not Independent and its Management Independence to major shareholders Independent Not Independent Independent 38 Transcom Annual Report 2014 Corporate Governance Report Alexander Izosimov (1964) Mikael Larsson (1968) Mia Brunell Livfors (1965) Roel Louwhoff (1965) Elected to the Board in 2014 Elected to the Board in 2014 Elected to the Board in 2014 Elected to the Board in 2014 (­member of the Board of ­Transcom ­(member of the Board of ­Transcom ­(member of the Board of ­Transcom WorldWide S.A., 2012–2014) WorldWide S.A., 2012–2014) WorldWide S.A., 2007–2014) Member of the Audit Chairman of the Audit Chairman of the Remuneration Member of the Remuneration Committee. Committee. ­Committee. ­Committee. Master’s degree in Science from MosGraduate in Business Administration Studies in economics and business MBA from Rijksuniversiteit, cow Aviation Institute and an MBA from Uppsala University. administration, Stockholm University. ­Groningen in the Netherlands. from INSEAD. Russian/2012 Swedish/2012 Swedish/2014 Dutch/2007 Director of LM Ericsson AB, Modern Until March 2015 member of the Member of the Board of Millicom N.A. Times Group (MTG), EVRAZ Plc, boards of a number of subsidiaries International Cellular S.A., Tele2 AB, EVRAZ SA, and Dynasty Foundation. within the Investment AB Kinnevik Efva Attling Stockholm AB, Modern Group. Times Group MTG AB, Qliro Group AB, Stena AB, Axel Johnson AB, and Reach for Change. 140,000 12,540 5,976 351 Chief Executive Officer of VimpelCom Appointed Chief Financial Officer of President and CEO of Investment AB Currently COO at ING. Previously Group and, latterly, the enlarged Com Hem (will join Com Hem on Kinnevik between August 2006 and CEO of BT Operate, part of British VimpelCom Ltd, – 2003 to 2011. May 1, 2015). Chief Financial Officer April 2014. She held several manaTelecom plc. Before that, COO for the Several senior management positions of Investment AB Kinnevik 2001– gerial positions within Modern Times international business process outat Mars, Inc. over a period of seven February 2015. Prior to joining Group MTG AB from 1992 to 2001, sourcer ClientLogic Corporation and years, including as a member of the ­Kinnevik, Mr. Larsson worked six and served as the company’s Chief COO at SNT Group, a European call Global Executive Management Board years with audit and transaction Financial Officer between 2001 and center provider. His early career was and as Regional President for Russia, ­advisory services at Arthur Andersen 2006. as a management consultant with the CIS, Eastern Europe and the Norin Stockholm and held a position as Andersen Consulting where he dics. Consultant for McKinsey & Co in Group Controller at Thomas Cook worked in the CRM practice in Europe Stockholm and London for five years. Northern Europe. and North America. He is on the Executive Board of international Chamber of Commerce, member of the Board of the GSMA (the governing body for the global mobile telecommunications industry), as well a member of the Russian Prime Minister’s Council for Competitiveness and Entrepreneurship. 50,000 59,000 48,000 46,000 8 out of 11 11 out of 11 9 out of 9 7 out of 11 1 out of 2 2 out of 2 3 out of 3 2 out of 3 3 out of 4 7 out of 7 N.A. N.A. Independent Independent Independent Independent Independent Independent* Independent* Independent * Status was dependent until Investment AB Kinnevik divested 24.5 % of ­Transcom’s ordinary shares, in March 2015, to funds advised by Altor Fund Manager AB. Transcom Annual Report 2014 39 Corporate Governance Report Executive management Name Johan Eriksson (born 1965) Roberto Boggio Pär Christiansen Christian Hultén Function President & CEO (and Acting General Manager, Chief Financial Officer (CFO)* General Manager, General Manager, North Central & South Europe North Europe Region America & Asia Pacific region) Region Work experience/education Johan was appointed PresiRoberto joined ­Transcom’s Pär Christiansen joined Christian joined ­Transcom in dent and Chief Executive Group Executive team in July ­Transcom in 2013 as Chief 2012 as General Manager of Officer of ­Transcom in 2011. 2011, and is responsible for Financial Officer (CFO). the North Europe Region, with He joined ­Transcom in our operations in Italy, Croatia, responsibility for ­Transcom’s ­October 2010 to head up Germany, Hungary and Before joining ­Transcom, operations in Sweden, our operations in the Nordics Poland, as well as the offshore Pär served as CFO of MTR ­Norway, Denmark, the as General Manager of the operations in North Africa Stockholm, the MTR comNether­lands, and the Baltic North Europe Region. that serve the French and pany that operates the countries. ­Italian markets. ­Stockholm underground Immediately before joining ­system. Prior to this role, Prior to joining ­Transcom, ­Transcom Johan spent three Prior to his current role, Mr Christiansen held a numChristian was CEO of years as President & CEO of ­Roberto served as ­Transcom’s ber of senior management ZeroLime, a software cominternational staffing and Italy Country Manager for positions at SAS Group, the pany developing and deployrecruitment company, Poolia seven years. Scandinavian airline carrier, ing video-based recruitment AB (publ). He joined Poolia most recently as Vice Presisolutions. Christian also spent from Loomis, one of the Before joining ­Transcom, dent Group Business & Finanseveral years in senior manworld’s leading players in Roberto’s career in the outcial Control at SAS Operaagement roles at Sykes. He Cash Handling services, sourcing industry includes tions. He also has was also part of the managewhere he held the post of ten years of general managemanagement consulting ment team that established Chief Operating Officer, ment experience, and an experience from Establish Inc. the Excellent Group in the responsible for operations in additional ten years at Nordics. 14 countries. Between 1992 ­Hewlett Packard (HP). Pär Christiansen holds a and 2007 he worked for the ­Roberto is a member of ­Master of Science Degree Christian holds a Masters global outsourced security the Board of the Italian Call in Mechanical Engineering Degree in Political Science, business, Securitas, latterly Center Association since from the Lund Institute of International Relations from as Regional President for the the late 1990s. Technology, as well as a the University of Uppsala. Nordic Region. During his Bachelor’s Degree in time with the company he Roberto holds a degree in ­Economics and Business also held posts in the UK, Business Administration from Administration from the Germany, Austria and Bocconi University in Milan. ­University of Lund. ­Sweden. Johan holds a Bachelor of Science (BSc) in Business Administration and Economics from the University of Karlstad. Other assignments: Chairman of the Board and Board member in a number of companies in the ­Transcom Group. Share ownership including related natural and legal persons 52,520 17,585 34,303 7,129 * As previously announced, Pär Christiansen has been appointed as ­Transcom’s Chief Operating Officer (COO). He will remain in his current position as CFO until Ulrik Englund begins his position as ­Transcom’s new CFO on June 15, 2015. 40 Transcom Annual Report 2014 Corporate Governance Report Sytze Koopmans Neil Rae Isabel Sánchez-­Lozano Jörgen Skoog Siva Subramaniam Chief Information Officer General Manager General Manager, Iberia & Global Operations General Manager (CIO) (North America) Latin America and HR Director (Asia Pacific) Sytze Koopmans joined In 2014, Neil Rae was given Isabel joined ­Transcom in Jörgen was appointed to In 2014, Siva Subramaniam ­Transcom as CIO in 2013, responsibility for ­Transcom’s 2011 as General Manager ­Transcom’s Group Executive was given the responsibility and is responsible for operations in North America, of Iberia and Latin America. team in 2011. He joined for ­Transcom’s activities in ­Transcom’s ICT infrastrucreporting to the General ManShe is responsible for our ­Transcom in 2002 as HR Asia Pacific, reporting to the ture, ICT infrastructure ager for the North America & operations and business manager for the North Region General Manager for the ­operations, client ICT offering Asia Pacific region. Neil joined activities in Spain, Portugal and has also served as Head North America & Asia Pacific support and maintaining ­Transcom in 2004 as a Key and Latin America. of Operations for North region. and implementing the ICT Account Manager and has Europe, Acting General strategic roadmap. also served in the roles of Before joining ­Transcom, ­Manager for the North Europe Prior to this role, Siva served Director of Client Services, ­Isabel spent more than 20 Region, and Acting General as ­Transcom’s Country ManPrior to joining ­Transcom, Director for Sales and years in the contact center Manager for the former ager for The Philippines and Sytze held a number of CIO Account Management, industry, holding senior roles ­Central Europe Region. Head of Sales for the Asia and CTO positions in the tele­Country Manager in North at several key customer care Pacific region since 2009. communication, engineering, America, and as General outsourcing players, including Jörgen’s experience prior to fulfillment and contact center Manager for the North Tele­performance Spain, joining ­Transcom includes Siva has more than 26 years industries, including with ­America & Asia Pacific region where she served as CEO 13 years with the Ericsson of contact center manage­ClientLogic International between January 2012 and and ­President for more than Group, where he held posiment experience. Prior to Operations (now: Sitel). December 2013. 11 years. Isabel is also the tions in global management joining ­Transcom, Siva was president of the Spanish of Human Resources as well the Vice President for CusSytze holds Master degrees Before joining ­Transcom, Neil ­Contact Centre Association. as in Administration. tomer Experience at AIG in Electrical Engineering and spent two years at the helm Consumer Finance Group in Computer Science from the of a training and development Isabel holds a Degree in Jörgen holds a degree in Asia. He also held senior roles Twente University in the consulting firm in Toronto, Law from the Universidad Human Resource Managewith Aspect Software as the Netherlands. Canada. Neil has also held Autónoma de Madrid and ment and Enterprise OrganiVice President for Business a leadership position at a a Masters in Marketing, zation from University of Development & Marketing business services company ­Communication and ­Publicity, Karlstad. (Asia Pacific & Middle-East), specializing in working with which she completed at the TeleTech International, Avaya commercial properties. Instituto de Directivos de Global Services Asia Pacific Empresa. and Deloitte Consulting Neil holds a BA from the ­(Customer Relationship ­University of Guelph. ­Management Practice). 7,001 9,889 4,891 3,373 0 Transcom Annual Report 2014 41 Corporate Governance Report and Auditor’s report Stockholm, April 20, 2015 The Board of Directors in ­Transcom WorldWide AB (publ) Henning Boysen Chairman of the Board Stefan Charette John C. Freker Jr. Alexander Izosimov Member of the Board Member of the Board Member of the Board Mikael Larsson Mia Brunell Livfors Roel Louwhoff Member of the Board Member of the Board Member of the Board Johan Eriksson President & CEO Translation from the Swedish original. Auditor’s report on the Corporate Governance Statement To the annual meeting of the shareholders of T ­ ranscom WorldWide AB (publ), corporate identity number 556880-1277. It is the Board of Directors who is responsible for the Corporate This means that our statutory examination of the Corporate GovGovernance Statement for the year 2014 on pages 28–42 and that ernance Statement is different and substantially less in scope than it has been prepared in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act. an audit conducted in accordance with International Standards on We have read the Corporate Governance Statement and based Auditing and generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden. on that reading and our knowledge of the company and the Group The Corporate Governance Statement has been prepared and we believe that we have a sufficient basis for our opinions. in our opinion its statutory content is consistent with the annual accounts and the consolidated accounts. Stockholm, April 20, 2015 Ernst & Young AB Erik Åström Authorized Public Accountant 42 Transcom Annual Report 2014 ­Transcom share The ­Transcom share and shareholders ­ ranscom’s ordinary shares are listed on Nasdaq Stockholm under T All class C shares are held as treasury shares by ­Transcom. the ticker symbol TWW. The ISIN code is SE0006168316. Each The total number of treasury shares held by ­Transcom amounts share entitles the holder to one vote at general meetings of shareto 677,043. holders and each holder may vote for the entire number of shares In November 2014, ­Transcom executed a re-domiciliation of owned or represented by him without any limitation of the voting the Parent Company of the Group from Luxembourg to Sweden. rights. The total number of shares and votes in ­Transcom amounts Prior to the change of legal domicile, ­Transcom WorldWide S.A.’s to 26,706,584. (previous Parent Company of the ­Transcom Group) class A and B ­Transcom has an issued capital of EUR 56,083,826.40 divided Share SDRs were listed on Nasdaq Stockholm under the symbols into a total of 26,057,212 ordinary shares with one voting right “TWW SDB A” and “TWW SDB B”. each and 649,372 class C shares, also with one voting right each. The T ­ ranscom share ­Transcom top 10 shareholders as at 30 December 2014 140 Mid Cap index Number of Share of capital Shareholder shares and votes1 120 INVESTMENT Transcom AB KINNEVIK2 8,306,523 31.9 % 100 CREADES AB 2,672,196 10.3 % 80 FIDELITY FUNDS 1,630,003 6.3 % 60 AVANZA PENSION 1,191,725 4.6 % 40 FJÄRDE AP-FONDEN 1,118,613 4.3 % NORDNET PENSIONS20 FÖRSÄKRING 1,080,857 4.2 % 0 Jan 2, 2014 Dec 30, 2014 UNIONEN 976,098 3.7 % NORDEA FONDER 968,603 3.7 % ­ ranscom WorldWide (indexed market cap development) T OMX Nordic Mid Cap PICTET 668,766 2.6 % FÖRSÄKRINGSBOLAGET PRI 298,917 1.1 % 1) Excluding treasury shares 2) I n March 2015, funds advised by Altor Fund Manager AB acquired 6.4 million shares in ­Transcom, ­corresponding to 24.5 percent of the ordinary shares, from Investment AB Kinnevik. Following this transaction, Investment AB Kinnevik had 1.9 million shares in ­Transcom, corresponding to 7.4 percent of the ordinary shares. Transcom Annual Report 2014 43 Administration report Administration report The Board of Directors and the CEO of ­Transcom WorldWide AB (publ), corporate ­registration number 556880-1277, hereby submit the Annual Report and Consoli­­dated Financial Statements for the 2014 financial year. ­ ranscom (the “Company”) is a global customer experience speT Operating result cialist, providing customer care, sales, technical support and colTranscoms EBIT in 2014 was EUR 21.3 million compared to EUR lections services through an extensive network of contact centers –5.4 million in 2013. EBIT in 2013 includes a EUR –21.1 million and work-at-home agents. intangible asset impairment. The improved performance was ­Transcom’s operations add value to clients’ businesses by supmainly driven by considerable performance improvements in porting the creation of outstanding customer experiences, while the North America & Asia Pacific region. Profitability in the North reducing cost and helping to drive growth. ­Transcom does this Europe and Central & South Europe regions also developed directly, by delivering multi-channel customer service and support strongly in 2014. Depreciation amounted to EUR 6.2 million in in a cost-effective way. But ­Transcom’s goal is also that the Com2014 (EUR 6.3 million) and amortization EUR 2.2 million (EUR pany’s activities benefit other parts of clients’ businesses. For 2.8 million). SG&A expenses amounted to EUR 101.9 million (EUR example, ­Transcom’s analytics capabilities can generate insights 113.2 million) and include one-off costs in Q2 2014 amounting to that ultimately contribute to the creation of a differentiated cusEUR 1.1 million due to the re-domiciliation from Luxembourg to tomer experience, setting ­Transcom’s clients apart in an increasSweden. The EUR 11.3 million cost decrease in 2014 is a result ingly competitive marketplace. of ­Transcom’s focus on margin improvements and reduction of At the end of 2014, ­Transcom employed approximately 30,000 the complexity of the organization. customer experience specialists at 54 contact centers across 23 coun­tries, delivering services in 33 languages to over 400 internaTaxes tional brands in various industry verticals. Whether onshore, offDuring 2014, tax expenses amounted to EUR 11.9 million (EUR 6.3 shore or near shore, ­Transcom’s agents are focused on delivering million). Reported tax consists of three main components: current outstanding customer experiences, driving satisfaction, brand loytax, deferred tax and adjustment of tax audit provisions. The alty and additional sales while also adding insights and value to cliGroup’s reported tax referring to current tax was EUR 8.6 million ents’ business operations. in 2014 (EUR 9.3 million). The effective tax rate differs from the The ­Transcom Group consisted of the following business segstatutory rate mainly due to losses for which no deferred tax assets ments (regions) at the end of 2014: North Europe, Central & South can be recognized, but also due to prior year tax expenses resulting Europe, Iberia & Latam, and North America & Asia Pacific. During from tax audits and a change of deferred tax assets as a result of Q3 2014, the strategic review of ­Transcom’s former Credit Manthe disposal of Credit Management units. The effective tax rate agement Services (CMS) business unit was finalized. A number of is currently high, and it is expected that continued performance CMS country units were divested during the year, while parts of the improvements will lower the tax rate to the level of the average CMS business have been integrated with the Company’s core cusstatutory tax rates in the countries where the Group operates. tomer care operations. Cash flow FINANCIAL OVERVIEW 2014 2013 EUR million Jan–Dec Jan–Dec Revenue development Cash flow from operating Revenue in 2014 amounted to EUR 616.8 million (EUR 653.2 milactivities before changes lion). Like-for-like revenue, adjusted for exchange rate impact and in working capital 17.7 13.9 divested and closed operations, increased slightly in 2014, by 0.5 Change in working capital –6.2 –4.0 percent (EUR 3.2 million). EUR 31.7 million of the EUR 36.4 million Cash flow from operating activities 11.5 9.9 in reported revenue decrease is attributable to site closures and the Cash flow for the year –22.0 16.6 divestment of a number of Credit Management Services (CMS) units during the year. Currency effects had a EUR 7.9 million negaCash flow was positively affected by improved operating result, tive effect on revenue. strong collections and disposal of businesses. Repayment of loans amounted to EUR 39.1 million in 2014. 44 Transcom Annual Report 2014 Administration report participation at general meetings. Furthermore, ­Transcom is no Debt & Financing longer bound by dual legal systems – Swedish and Luxemburgish. 2014 2013 This will lower costs and simplify the execution of corporate actions. EUR million Dec. 31 Dec. 31 The change of domicile also simplifies ­Transcom’s listing set-up, Gross debt 62.8 94.4 abandoning the SDR system and establishing one class of shares, Net debt 24.6 36.2 listed on Nasdaq Stockholm. Net debt/EBITDA 0.9 1.5 A 1:50 reverse split of the ordinary shares of ­Transcom WorldEquity 120.0 111.3 Wide AB (publ) was executed shortly after the implementation of Cash and cash equivalents 38.2 58.4 the re-domiciliation, whereby 50 ordinary shares became one (1) new share of the same class. December 11, 2014 was the first day ­ ranscom reduced gross debt from EUR 94.4 million at the end T of trading after the reverse share split. of 2013 to EUR 62.8 million at the end of 2014. Net debt as at December 31, 2014 was EUR 24.6 million compared to EUR 36.2 Events after the reporting period million at the end of 2013. Net Debt/EBITDA was 0.9, compared to March 20, 2015 ­Transcom announced that funds advised by Altor 1.5 at the end of 2013. ­Transcom is well within its financial coveFund Manager AB have acquired 6.4 million shares in ­Transcom, nant thresholds. corresponding to 24.5 percent of the ordinary shares, from Investment AB Kinnevik. Following this transaction, Investment AB Divestitures ­Kinnevik will retain 1.9 million shares in ­Transcom, corresponding A strategic review of ­Transcom’s former Credit Management Serto 7.4 percent of the ordinary shares. vices (CMS) operations was completed during 2014. A number of CMS country units were divested during the year: CMS Czech, Outlook CMS Poland, and CMS Austria. CMS Germany was divested in T ­ ranscom has a solid foundation from which to take the next steps 2013. Other units have been restructured in order to be integrated in its development. The company’s objective is to increase revenue with ­Transcom’s customer care operations: CMS UK, CMS Sweden, organically, while continuing to improve operational efficiency in and CMS Norway. The parts that have been incorporated with our order to strengthen margins. As disclosed on February 5, 2015, core operations are characterized by services that can be efficiently ­Transcom has adopted a set of mid-term financial targets: like-fordelivered within the context of our CRM business model. CMS like revenue growth of at least 5 percent per year, an EBIT margin Denmark will continue to be managed and further developed of at least 5 percent, and a net debt/EBITDA ratio of maximum 1.0. within ­Transcom. Provided that the net debt/EBITDA target is met, ­Transcom would In July 31, 2014, ­Transcom closed the divestment of its Austrian be in a financial position to start paying a dividend in 2016, i.e. for Credit Management Services operations (CMS Austria) to the prithe 2015 financial year. vate equity investor HANNOVER Finanz Group, for EUR 15.0 million on a cash and debt free basis. In Q2 2014, when the agreeChange in Group Executive management ment was signed, ­Transcom recorded an adjustment to fair value As disclosed on February 5, 2015, ­Transcom is strengthening its less costs to sell of EUR 1.9 million classified as Gain/loss on disGroup executive management team in order to increase focus and posal of operating unit. Total assets disposed included goodwill of accountability in areas of vital importance to the company’s continEUR 14.1 million. Net cash flow from disposal of CMS Austria ued success. The following changes will be implemented: amounted to EUR 12,108 thousand. • ­Transcom’s executive management team will now include In May, 2014 ­Transcom divested its Polish and Czech CMS busia Chief Operating Officer (COO), a Chief Commercial Officer ness to Credit Express Group for EUR 2.0 million on a cash and debt (CCO) and an HR Director. free basis (including an escrow balance of EUR 0.6 million that was • Pär Christiansen, ­Transcom’s current CFO, has been appointed released six months after the closing upon fulfillment of contractual new COO with overall responsibility for ­Transcom’s Group-wide conditions). Net capital gain of EUR 0.6 million was recorded in Q2 operational processes. As part of his new role, Pär will also 2014. A post-settlement adjustment of the 2013 divestment of assume overall responsibility for global IT operations. ­Transcom CMS Germany was recorded in Q4 2014 of EUR –215 thousand. has appointed Ulrik Englund as its new CFO. He will take up his position on June 15, 2015. Until then, Pär Christiansen will remain Re-domiciliation to Sweden from Luxembourg in his current position as ­Transcom’s CFO. In November 2014, ­Transcom executed a re-domiciliation of the Par• A Chief Commercial Officer (CCO) will be added to the executive ent Company of the ­Transcom Group from Luxembourg to Sweden. team. The CCO will be responsible for further strengthening The change of domicile to Sweden aligns ­Transcom’s legal ­Transcom’s position as a strategic partner for our clients. The domicile with the domicile of its owners, as the majority of search for ­Transcom’s new CCO is underway. In the interim, ­Transcom’s shareholders are Swedish. Following the re-domicilia­Roberto Boggio is assuming the CCO role, in addition to his role tion to Sweden, general meetings of the shareholders will be held in as General Manager for the Central & South Europe region. Sweden rather than in Luxembourg, thus facilitating shareholder Transcom Annual Report 2014 45 Administration report • The new Group HR Director will be responsible for implementing • Tax risks such as risks with different tax systems where Group ­Transcom’s human resources strategy across its global organizacompanies may be subject to certain taxes to which local compation. The search for a new HR Director has started. nies are not subject. Further tax risks include that ­Transcom may be subject to tax claims, due to e.g. tax audits, and that deferred Risks and uncertainties tax assets may need to be written off. There are a number of risk factors that may affect ­Transcom’s operations which, to varying degrees, have an impact on Personnel and sustainability ­Transcom’s revenue, operations, profitability and financial position. At the end of 2014, ­Transcom had 30,207 employees in 23 counThese risks are monitored and to the extent possible, managed by tries. Every year, ­Transcom hires thousands of new people on ­Transcom. ­Transcom’s approach to enterprise risk management, whom its business results depend. An engaged, skilled and motias well as a more comprehensive depiction of risk factors, is vated workforce is key to meeting the Company’s ambitious goals. described in the Corporate Governance report on pages 34–37. In a people-intensive business like ­Transcom’s, where long-term success largely depends on the ability to attract and develop the Key risks specific to ­Transcom’s operations are: right people, it makes sense to focus corporate social responsibility • The risk of overcapacity situations in the case of volume reduc(CSR) efforts on people as well. This is reflected in “­Transcom tions or termination of client contracts. Cares”, the Company’s overarching CSR governance program, • The risk of significant volume reduction in relation to key clients, which is focused on people development, equality & diversity, and since a significant portion of ­Transcom’s revenue is generated community engagement. from a limited number of clients. Furthermore, since ­Transcom is In order to ensure that ­Transcom is successful in finding the highly dependent on the Communications and Financial services right people, the Company has a clear goal of becoming an industries, any future prolonged downturn in these industry vertiemployer of choice in its industry. Besides offering a stimulating cals may lead to volume reductions. working experience, competitive compensation and robust train• The risk of failure to achieve the desired flexibility in staffing in ing, the opportunity for career development is one of the key faceach local market. ­Transcom is also exposed to the risk of tors that attracts new talents to the company. adverse movements in labor costs, legislation or other conditions There is a multitude of opportunities for employees to develop related to staffing. and grow at ­Transcom, which is reflected in the Company’s clearly • The risks of ­Transcom’s clients terminating contracts before their defined career progression, either as a line manager or specialist. scheduled expiration dates, or reduce business volumes, since Over 85 percent of managers are internally recruited, translating some of these contracts do not require any termination fees or into a skilled workforce with a high degree of specialist knowledge. the possibility by ­Transcom to invoice any costs to recover client-­ A redesigned Talent Management Program was implemented in specific investments. In addition, many client contracts have per2014, putting the necessary tools in place to manage the process formance-related bonus and/or penalty provisions which are on a global level, ensuring greater transparency and efficiency. driven by ­Transcom’s performance vis-à-vis agreed-upon per­ formance metrics. In the event that ­Transcom is unable to deliver Environment on the agreed-upon performance metrics, the Group could face ­ ranscom strives to reduce the environmental impact of its operaT penalties. tions, with a particular focus on limiting business travel and • The risk of high staff attrition in some of ­Transcom’s markets or decreasing energy consumption in its facilities. the inability to attract and retain personnel, since ­Transcom’s There are training programs in place in the area, and the Group long-term success largely depends on the ability to attract and supports local initiatives with employees in order to encourage develop the right people. greater environmental responsibility in its workplaces. Our em­­ • The risk that future impairment tests in respect of decreases in ployees are committed to minimizing the impact and to working the value of goodwill should lead to impairment, since a substantogether to contribute to a better environment. Our environmental tial part of ­Transcom’s intangible fixed assets consists of goodwill. policy, which includes respect for the precautionary principle, • The risk of disruption in technological infrastructure due to host of guides us in lowering emissions from air travel, supports us in reasons including natural disaster, lapses from vendors, operating selecting goods and services produced with respect for the nature malfunction, lapses in change management procedures, cyber and is a tool to push our environmental demands throughout our attacks, sabotage, etc. Furthermore, continuity in ­Transcom’s supply chain. operations may be affected by natural events, wars, terrorist In 2014, ­Transcom’s energy costs decreased by EUR 1.4 million. attacks, other civil disturbances, epidemics, technical failures, etc. CO2 emissions from business travel decreased by 14 percent, and • The risk of adverse foreign exchange movements, involving CO2 emissions per employee were also lower compared to 2013 transaction exposure where ­Transcom invoices clients in one (from 0.065 ton per employee to 0.055 ton). ­currency and incurs costs in another currency. ­Transcom is also exposed to translation exposure due to conversion of assets, ­liabilities, revenues and costs denominated in non-reporting ­currencies, into ­Transcom’s reporting currency, which is the Euro. 46 Transcom Annual Report 2014 Administration report Guidelines on remuneration for senior executives Research & Development Upon recommendation of the remuneration committee, the board ­ ranscom, being a service company, does not carry out any R&D T of directors proposes that the annual general meeting resolves to activities as defined in IAS 38 Intangible assets. The Company’s adopt the guidelines for remuneration to senior executives in service offering and solutions are continuously developed and accordance with the following: refined in order to ensure that ­Transcom has the right capabilities These guidelines apply to remuneration for senior executives to keep up with the rapid pace of change in its industry, bringing within the group which currently include nine members of the new and innovative service solutions to market quickly. executive management of Transcom (“Senior Executives”), as well as members of the board of directors to the extent they are remuParent Company nerated outside their directorship. T ­ ranscom Group’s Parent Company, ­Transcom WorldWide AB, The total amount of remuneration granted directly or indirectly does not perform CRM services, but is responsible for corporate by Transcom to the Senior Executives is fully described in Note 4. management and administrative services to other Group compaThe remuneration to the Senior Executives shall consist of fixed nies as well as holding company functions. The Parent Company is salary, variable salary as well as the possibility to participate in also the counterparty to a limited number of client contracts. The­­ long-term incentive programs. These components shall create a Company is listed on the Nasdaq Stockholm exchange under the well-balanced remuneration which reflects individual performance ticker symbol TWW. ­Transcom WorldWide AB (publ) is a registered and which offers a competitive remuneration package adjusted to company domiciled in Stockholm, Sweden. The address of the conditions on the market. Company’s headquarter is Rålambsvägen 17, SE-112 59 S ­ tockholm. The fixed salary and the bonus percentage may vary amongst On November 26, 2014, ­Transcom’s re-domiciliation to Sweden Senior Executives according to their level of responsibility or seniority. and merger between ­Transcom WorldWide S.A. and ­Transcom The level of variable salary shall be in accordance with market WorldWide AB (publ) was registered by the Swedish Companies practice and shall depend on the level of responsibility and seniorRegistration Office. ­Transcom WorldWide S.A. (previous Parent ity and shall be calculated according to a combination of results Company of the Group) was per that date dissolved and all of its achieved and individual performances. The maximum bonus entiassets and liabilities were transferred to its subsidiary, ­Transcom tlement is capped at 80 % of the fixed annual salary. There is curWorldWide AB (publ), the new Parent Company of the Group. The rently one exception to this provision. consolidation scope and the Group’s activities remain unchanged. Other benefits shall only constitute of a limited amount in relaAs a result of the merger, the Income statement includes the fortion to the total remuneration and shall correspond to local practice. mer Parent Company for the period January 1 to November 26, In the event of notice of termination of employment being 2014. Assets and liabilities in the former Parent Company were served by Transcom, there is entitlement to salary during such transferred to the new Parent Company per November 26, 2014. notice period according to law governing the respective employFor the year 2013 the Income statement and the Balance sheet are ment relationship. excluding the former Parent Company. The Senior Executives shall be entitled to pension commitIn 2014, ­Transcom WorldWide AB received EUR 13,060 ments based on those that are customary in the country in which ­thousand in dividends from Group companies, and EUR 4,883 they are employed. The maximum pension commitment shall not thousand in Group contribution. exceed 30 % of the fixed annual salary. Pension commitments will ­Transcom has one foreign branch, in Switzerland. The Swiss be secured through premiums paid to insurance companies. branch carried out no operations during the year, and will be Members of the board of directors, elected at shareholders’ ­discontinued. meetings, may in certain cases receive a fee for services performed within their respective areas of expertise and outside of The T ­ ranscom share their duties on the board of directors. Compensation for these ser­ ranscom’s ordinary shares are listed on Nasdaq Stockholm under T vices shall be paid on market terms and be approved by the board the ticker symbol TWW. The ISIN code is SE0006168316. Each of directors. share entitles the holder to one vote at general meetings of shareIn special circumstances, the board of directors may deviate holders and each holder may vote for the entire number of shares from the above guidelines. In such case, the board of directors is owned or represented by him or her without any limitation of the obligated to give account for the reason for the deviation on the folvoting rights. lowing annual general meeting of shareholders. The total number of shares and votes in ­Transcom amounts The board of directors’ view is that the remuneration to the CEO to 26,706,584. ­Transcom has an issued capital of EUR and the other members in the executive management strikes an 56,083,826.40 divided into a total of 26,057,212 ordinary shares appropriate balance between motivating the members of the execwith one voting right each and 649,372 class C shares, also with utive management and achieving a well-balanced competitive one voting right each. The nominal value per share is EUR 2.10. All compensation that aligns the members’ incentives with the interclass C shares are held as treasury shares by ­Transcom. The total ests of Transcom and the shareholders. number of treasury shares held by ­Transcom amounts to 677,043. Current remuneration guidelines are described in note 4. Transcom Annual Report 2014 47 Administration report In November 2014, ­Transcom executed a re-domiciliation of the Proposed allocation of earnings Parent Company of the Group from Luxembourg to Sweden. Prior The statements of income and the balance sheets of the Parent to the change of legal domicile, ­Transcom WorldWide S.A.’s (previCompany and the Group are subject to adoption by the Annual ous Parent Company of the ­Transcom Group) class A and B Share General Meeting on May 12, 2015. SDRs were listed on Nasdaq Stockholm under the symbols “TWW SDB A” and “TWW SDB B”. The following amounts in EUR are at the disposal of the Parent Company’s Annual General Meeting: In connection with the re-domiciliation to Sweden in November 2014, 1,301,581,530 new ordinary shares were issued by the ComRetained earnings -6,718,057 pany in accordance with the merger plan. Thereafter, the Company Profit/loss for the year 9,409,388 had 1,302,860,600 outstanding ordinary shares in total, of which Total 2,691,331 1,383,551 were treasury shares held by the Company itself. During The Board and the CEO propose that the unappropriated earnings at the December 2014, the number of shares and votes in the Company ­disposal of the Annual General Meeting be disposed of as follows: was first reduced from 1,302,860,600 to 26,057,212 through a Carried forward: reverse split and then increased to 26,706,584 shares and votes Retained earnings 2,691,331 due to a new issue of class C shares related to the re-domiciliation Total 2,691,331 to Sweden. As previously disclosed, ­Transcom WorldWide AB (publ) has assumed obligations to participants under long-term incentive plan (LTIP) agreements for 2012, 2013 and 2014, entered Corporate governance into by ­Transcom WorldWide S.A., the Group’s former Parent ­ ranscom’s Corporate Governance report is published on T Company, and has therefore issued and repurchased 649,372 www.transcom.com, and is also included in this Annual Report, class C shares for potential delivery to LTIP participants. on pages 26–39. As per December 31, 2014, there were two shareholders whose holdings exceeded 10 percent of the voting capital: Investment AB Kinnevik (31.9 percent) and Creades AB (10.3 percent). Further information on the ­Transcom share can be found in note 16 for the Group and note A18 for the Parent Company. 48 Transcom Annual Report 2014 Administration report Financial overview 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 Revenue (EUR million) 616.8 653.2 605.6 554.1 589.1 Profit/loss before tax (EUR million) 18.8 -12.2 -23.6 -32.0 -5.6 Profit/loss for the year (EUR million) 6.9 -18.6 -30.6 -50.4 -8.0 Net cash flow from operating activities ­(EUR ­million) 11.5 9.9 -12.4 27.5 29.1 Net cash flow from operating activities per share (Euro cents) 44 38 -48 106 112 Earnings per share (Euro cents) 26.4 -71.3 -117.4 -193.5 -31.0 Return on Equity 6.0 % -15.2 % -23.0 % -29.5 % -4.6 % Operating margin 3.5 % -0.8 % -2.9 % -5.1 % -1.1 % Equity ratio 39.5 % 32.2 % 37.1 % 43.0 % 45.8 % Net debt/EBITDA 0.9 1.5 2.0 0.8 2.5 Transcom Annual Report 2014 49 Consolidated financial statements Consolidated income statement for the year ended December 31, 2014 EUR thousand Note 2014 2013 Revenue 3, 26 616,840 653,184 Cost of sales 4, 5, 7, 26 -489,257 -522,086 Gross profit 3 127,583 131,098 Marketing expenses 4, 5 -4,451 -5,963 Administrative expenses 4, 5, 6 -97,468 -107,255 Restructuring expenses 25 -515 -7,082 Impairment of intangible assets 7 – -21,125 Net gain/loss on disposal of business 25 -1,498 5,128 Other operating income/expenses 7 -2,325 -246 Operating profit/loss 3 21,326 -5,445 Financial income 8 2,334 123 Financial expenses 8 -4,858 -6,913 Profit/loss before tax 18,802 -12,235 Income tax expense 9 -11,934 -6,328 Profit/loss for the year 6,868 -18,563 Attributable to: – equity holders of the parent 6,868 -18,563 – non-controlling interests – – Earnings per share attributable to equity holders of the parent 10 Earnings before and after dilution per Ordinary share, Euro cent per common share 26.4 – Earnings before and after dilution per A class share, Euro cent per common share – -71.3 Earnings before and after dilution per B class share, Euro cent per common share – -71.3 50 Transcom Annual Report 2014 Consolidated financial statements Consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year ended December 31, 2014 EUR thousand Note 2014 2013 Profit/loss for the year 6,868 -18,563 Other comprehensive income Other comprehensive income to be reclassified to profit or loss i­n subsequent periods: Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations 1,700 -3,198 Exchange differences recycled to profit and loss 115 – 1,815 -3,198 Other comprehensive income not to be reclassified to profit or loss in subsequent periods: Actuarial profit/loss on post employment benefit o­ bligations 19 -311 -138 Income tax effect 58 75 -253 -63 Other comprehensive income for the year, net of tax 1,562 -3,261 Total comprehensive income for the year, net of tax 8,430 -21,824 Attributable to: – equity holders of the parent 8,430 -21,824 – non-controlling interests – – Transcom Annual Report 2014 51 Consolidated financial statements Consolidated statement of financial position for the year ended December 31, 2014 EUR thousand Note 2014 2013 ASSETS Non-current assets Goodwill 11 101,824 111,119 Other intangible assets 11 4,211 5,215 Tangible assets 12 16,152 15,609 Deferred tax assets 9 2,137 4,784 Other receivables 24 1,534 1,143 125,858 137,870 Current assets Trade receivables 13, 24, 26 91,935 98,557 Income tax receivables 2,483 4,823 Other receivables 14, 24 24,586 26,039 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 24 20,645 19,966 Cash and cash equivalents 15, 24 38,173 58,362 177,822 207,747 TOTAL ASSETS 303,680 345,617 52 Transcom Annual Report 2014 Consolidated financial statements Consolidated statement of financial position (continued) for the year ended December 31, 2014 EUR thousand Note 2014 2013 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Equity attributable to equity holders of the parent 16 Share capital 56,084 53,558 Other contributed capital 8,993 11,458 Reserves -12,844 17,583 Retained earnings including net profit/loss for the year 67,763 28,743 Total equity 119,996 111,342 Non-current liabilities Interest-bearing liabilities 18, 24 47,635 16 Employee benefit obligations 19 3,264 2,635 Provisions 20 135 2,225 Deferred tax liabilities 9 1,464 2,680 Income tax payables 2,093 4,417 Other liabilities – 73 54,591 12,046 Current liabilities Interest-bearing liabilities 18, 24 15,119 94,425 Provisions 20 1,501 2,576 Trade payables 24, 26 27,279 25,562 Income tax payables 8,304 9,809 Other liabilities 21, 24 27,017 37,931 Accrued expenses and prepaid income 22, 24 49,873 51,926 129,093 222,229 Total liabilities 183,684 234,275 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 303,680 345,617 Transcom Annual Report 2014 53 Consolidated financial statements Consolidated statement of changes in equity for the year ended December 31, 2014 Equity attributable to equity holders of the parent Other Reserves con­ ShareForeign Share tributed Legal based translation Other Retained EUR thousand Note capital capital ­reserve payments ­reserve ­reserves earnings Total As at January 1, 2014 53,558 11,458 4,213 182 -14,659 27,847 28,743 111,342 Profit/loss for the year – – – – – – 6,868 6,868 Other comprehensive income for the year, net of tax – – – – 1,815 – -253 1,562 Total comprehensive income for the year, net of tax – – – – 1,815 – 6,615 8,430 Merger 16 2,465 -2,465 -4,213 -182 – -27,847 32,242 0 Issue of C class shares 16 1,396 – – – – – – 1,396 Repurchase of C class shares 16 – – – – – – -1,396 -1,396 Impact of change of nominal value 16 -1,335 – – – – – 1,335 0 Share-based payments, ­expense 17 – – – – – – 224 224 As at December 31, 2014 56,084 8,993 0 0 -12,844 0 67,763 119,996 As at January 1, 2013 53,558 11,458 4,213 42 -11,461 27,910 47,306 133,026 Profit/loss for the year – – – – – – -18,563 -18,563 Other comprehensive income for the year, net of tax – – – – -3,198 -63 – -3,261 Total comprehensive income for the year, net of tax – – – – -3,198 -63 -18,563 -21,824 Share-based payments, ­expense 17 – – – 140 – – – 140 As at December 31, 2013 53,558 11,458 4,213 182 -14,659 27,847 28,743 111,342 54 Transcom Annual Report 2014 Consolidated financial statements Consolidated statement of cash flows for the year ended December 31, 2014 EUR thousand Note 2014 2013 Cash flows from operating activities Profit/loss before tax 18,802 -12,235 Adjustments to reconcile profit before tax to net cash: Depreciation and amortization 7 8,642 9,123 Impairment losses 7 – 21,125 Change in provisions including employee benefit obligations -687 1,678 Result from disposal of business 1,498 -5,128 Other non-cash adjustments -189 431 Net financial items 2,524 6,790 Income taxes paid -12,883 -7,885 Cash flows from operating activities before changes in working capital 17,707 13,899 Changes in working capital Change in operating receivables 5,896 -5,500 Change in operating liabilities -12,069 1,511 Changes in working capital -6,173 -3,989 Net cash flow from operating activities 11,534 9,910 Cash flows from investing activities Investments in tangible assets 12 -6,606 -8,467 Investments in intangible assets 11 -1,653 -631 Investments in business, net of cash – -80 Disposals of tangible assets 25 193 Disposal of business, net of cash 25 12,849 4,475 Changes in other non-current assets -162 -8 Net cash flow from investing activities 4,453 -4,518 Cash flows from financing activities Proceeds from borrowings 18 5,286 14,000 Repayment of borrowings -39,082 – Payment of finance lease liabilities -69 -147 Interest paid -4,152 -2,630 Net cash flow from financing activities -38,017 11,223 Net cash flow for the year -22,030 16,615 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of the year 58,362 42,600 Net cash flow for the year -22,030 16,615 Exchange rate differences in cash and cash equivalents 1,841 -853 Cash and cash equivalents at end of the year 15 38,173 58,362 Transcom Annual Report 2014 55 Notes and comments to the Consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2014 Note 1 Summary of significant entity under IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements and must be applied retrospectively, subject to certain transition relief. The accounting and valuation policies exception to consolidation requires investment entities to account for Group companies at fair value through profit or loss. These 1.1 General amendments have no impact on the Group, since none of the entiTranscom WorldWide AB (publ) (the “Company” or the “Parent Company”) ties in the Group qualifies to be an investment entity under IFRS 10. and its Group companies (together, “Transcom” or the “Group”) provide • Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities – Amendments multi­language customer relationship management products and services to IAS 32. These amendments clarify the meaning of ’currently has and collections services, including customer help lines and other telea legally enforceable right to set-off’. These amendments have no phone-based marketing and customer service programs (“teleservices”) impact on the Group, since none of the entities in the Group has any to clients in customer-intensive industries. offsetting arrangements. The Company is a registered company domiciled in Stockholm, • In the 2010–2012 Annual improvements cycle, the IASB issued sevSweden. The address of the Company’s headquarter is Rålambsvägen 17, en amendments to six standards, which included an amendment to SE-112 59 Stockholm. On November 26, 2014, Transcom’s executed a IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement. The amendment to IFRS 13 is ­re-domiciliation to Sweden from Luxembourg through a merger between effective immediately and, thus, for periods beginning at 1 January the former parent entity Transcom WorldWide S.A. and its subsidiary 2014, and it clarifies in the Basis for Conclusions that short-term Transcom WorldWide AB (publ). Transcom WorldWide AB (publ) is per receivables and payables with no stated interest rates can be meaNovember 26, 2014 the new Parent Company of Transcom. During sured at invoice amounts when the effect of discounting is immate10–12 December 2014, Transcom executed a 1:50 reverse split of the rial. This amendment to IFRS 13 has no impact on the Group. ordinary share of the Company following the re-domiciliation. Disclosures • In the 2011–2013 Annual improvements cycle, the IASB issued four of the merger and the reversed split is presented in notes A17 and A18. amendments to four standards, which included an amendment to The consolidated financial statements were authorized for issue by the IFRS 1 First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting StanBoard of Directors on April 20, 2015. These consolidated financial statedards. The amendment to IFRS 1 is effective immediately and, thus, ments will be submitted for approval at the Annual General Meeting on for periods beginning at 1 January 2014, and clarifies in the Basis for May 12, 2015. Conclusions that an entity may choose to apply either a current standard or a new standard that is not yet mandatory, but permits 1.2 Basis of preparation early application, provided either standard is applied consistently The consolidated financial statements of Transcom WorldWide AB throughout the periods presented in the entity’s first IFRS financial (publ) have been prepared in accordance with International Financial statements. This amendment to IFRS 1 has no impact on the Group, Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted by the European Union. The since the Group is an existing IFRS preparer. consolidated financial statements are presented in Euros which is the Group’s reporting currency, rounded in thousands of Euros. The finanStandards in issue but not yet effective, up to date of issuance of the cial statements pertain to January 1–December 31 for income stateGroup’s financial statements, are disclosed below. The Group intends ment items and December 31 for balance sheet items. to adopt these standards, if applicable, when they become effective. The preparation of ﬁnancial statements in conformity with IFRS • IFRS 9 Financial Instruments, as issued, reflects the first phase of requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates. It also requires the IASB’s work on the replacement of IAS 39 and applies to classimanagement to exercise its judgment in the process of applying the fication and measurement of financial assets and financial liabilities Group’s accounting policies. The areas involving a higher degree of as defined in IAS 39. The adoption of the first phase of IFRS 9 will judgment or complexity, or areas where assumptions and estimates have an effect on the classification and measurements of the are signiﬁcant to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements are disclosed Group’s financial liabilities. The Group will quantify the effect in conin note 2. junction with the other phases, when the final standard including all phases is issued. 1.2.1 Changes in accounting policies and disclosures • IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers – outlines the New and amended standards that are effective for the first time for the principles to measure and recognize revenue. The standard is effecfinancial year beginning January 1, 2014 adopted by the Group. tive from 2017 and the Group will quantify the effect for the Group’s • IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements replaces parts of IAS 27 financial statements. Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements which focuses on Other standards in issue but not yet effective are considered not matewhen and how a controlling entity must prepare consolidated finanrial for the Group. cial statements. IFRS 10 contains rules on when a company must be consolidated and the basis is controlling interest. The purpose of 1.3 Consolidation IFRS 10 is to ensure that there is only one basis for consolidation of The consolidated financial statements include the Group companies all entities regardless of the nature of the investment. That basis is of which the Group has control. The financial reports of the Group controlling interest. IFRS 10 has not had any impact on the Group’s companies are included from the acquisition date until control ceases. reporting. Control is achieved when the Group is exposed, or has rights, to vari• IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities will be applied when able returns from its involvment with the investee and has the ability disclosing interests in subsidiaries, joint arrangements, associated to affect those returns through its power over the investee. There is companies and structured non-consolidated companies. IFRS 12 a presumption that a majority of voting rights result in control. Group has increased the disclosure requirements. companies are fully consolidated from the date on which control is • Investment Entities (Amendments to IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 27). transferred to the Group. They are deconsolidated from the date that These amendments provide an exception to the consolidation control ceases. requirement for entities that meet the definition of an investment The consolidated accounts are prepared according to the acquisition 56 Transcom Annual Report 2014 Notes and comments to the Consolidated financial statements method, which entails acquisitions of subsidiaries being viewed as Depreciation on assets is calculated using the straight-line method transactions through which the Group indirectly acquires the subsidto allocate their cost less their residual values over their estimated iary’s assets and assumes its liabilities and contingent liabilities. The ­useful lives, as follows: Group’s equity therefore includes only the portion of the subsidiary’s • Telephone switch 5 years equity added since acquisition. The Group’s cost is determined through • Fixtures and fittings 3–5 years an acquisition analysis in connection with the acquisition. This analysis • Computer, hardware and software 3–5 years determines, in part, the cost of the holdings or operations and, in part, • Office improvements and others 3–5 years the fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed on the date of acquisition. The cost of the subsidiary’s shares The assets’ residual values and useful lives are reviewed, and adjusted or operations consists of the fair value of the compensation on the if appropriate, at the end of each reporting period. An asset’s carrying transfer date. The cost includes conditional purchase considerations amount is written down immediately to its recoverable amount if the recognized as liabilities at fair value per the acquisition date. asset’s carrying amount is greater than its estimated recoverable In acquisitions where there is a positive difference between the cost amount. of the acquisition and the net value of acquired assets and assumed liabilities and contingent liabilities, the difference is reported as goodwill. 1.6 Intangible assets When the difference is negative, it is recognized in the Income statement. (a) Goodwill Intra-Group receivables and liabilities, revenue and expenses, and Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over the unrealized gains and losses that arise from transactions between fair value of the Group’s share of the net identiﬁable assets of the Group companies are eliminated in the consolidated accounts. acquired subsidiary at the date of acquisition. Goodwill on acquisitions of Group companies is included in ‘intangible assets’. Goodwill is tested 1.4 Foreign currency translation annually for impairment, or if indications for possible need of impair(a) Functional and presentation currency ment, and carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses. ImpairItems included in the ﬁnancial statements of each of the Group’s entities ment losses on goodwill are not reversed. Gains and losses on the disare measured using the currency of the primary economic environment posals of an entity include the carrying amount of goodwill relating to in which the entity operates (‘the functional currency’). The consolidated the entity sold. ﬁnancial statements are presented in ‘Euro (EUR)’, which is the Group’s Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units for the purpose of presentation currency. impairment testing. The allocation is made to those cash-generating units or groups of cash-generating units that are expected to beneﬁt (b) Transactions and balances from the business combination in which the goodwill arose, identiﬁed Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional currenaccording to operating segment. cy using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the transactions or valuation where items are re-measured. Foreign exchange gains and (b) Customer relationships losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions and from the Contractual customer relationships acquired in a business combination translation at year-end exchange rates of monetary assets and liabiliare recognized at fair value at the acquisition date. The contractual custies denominated in foreign currencies are recognized in the income tomer relations have a ﬁnite useful life and are carried at cost less statement. accumulated amortization and are assessed for impairment whenever there is an indication that the asset is impaired. Amortization is calcu(c) Group companies lated using the straight-line method over the expected life of the cusThe results and ﬁnancial position of all the Group companies (none of tomer relationship which is between 7 to 15 years. which has the currency of a hyper-inﬂationary economy) that have a functional currency different from the Group’s presentation currency (c) Development costs are translated as follows: Costs associated with maintaining computer software programs are • assets and liabilities for each statement of financial position prerecognized as an expense as incurred. Development costs that are sented are translated at the closing rate at the date of that statement directly attributable to the design and testing of identiﬁable and unique of financial position; software products controlled by the Group are recognized as intangible • income and expenses for each income statement are translated at assets when the following criteria are met: average exchange rates; and • it is technically feasible to complete the software product so that it • all resulting exchange differences are recognized in other comprewill be available for use; hensive income. • management intends to complete the software product and use or sell it; On consolidation, exchange differences arising from the translation of • there is an ability to use or sell the software product; the net investment in foreign operations, and of borrowings and other • it can be demonstrated how the software product will generate currency instruments designated as hedges of such investments, are probable future economic beneﬁts; recognized directly in other comprehensive income. When a foreign • adequate technical, ﬁnancial and other resources to complete the operation is partially disposed of or sold, exchange differences that development and to use or sell the software product are available; were recorded in Other comprehensive income are recycled in Other and com­pre­hensive income and further recognized in the income state• the expenditure attributable to the software product during its ment as part of the gain or loss on sale. ­development can be reliably measured. Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity Directly attributable costs that are capitalized as part of the software and translated at the closing rate. Exchange differences arising are recproduct, include the software development employee costs and an ognized directly in other comprehensive income as the year’s change appropriate portion of relevant overheads. in the foreign translation reserve. Other development expenditures that do not meet these criteria are recognized as an expense as incurred. Development costs previously 1.5 Property, plant and equipment recognized as an expense are not recognized as an asset in a subseAll property, plant and equipment are stated at historical cost less quent period. depreciation. Historical cost includes expenditure that is directly attribComputer software development costs recognized as assets are utable to the acquisition of the items. amortized over their estimated useful lives, which is between 3 to 5 Subsequent costs are included in the asset’s carrying amount or years. recognized as a separate asset, as appropriate, only when it is probable that future economic beneﬁts associated with the item will ﬂow to the 1.7 Impairment of non-financial assets Group and the cost of the item can be measured reliably. The carrying Assets that have an indeﬁnite useful life – for example, goodwill or amount of the replaced part is derecognized. All other repairs and intangible assets not ready to use – are not subject to amortization maintenance are charged to the income statement during the ﬁnancial and are tested annually for impairment, or if events or circumstances period in which they are incurred. change which may Indicate that there may be need for impairment. Transcom Annual Report 2014 57 Notes and comments to the Consolidated financial statements Assets that are subject to amortization are reviewed for impairment less provision for impairment. The anticipated receivable is short, so whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrythey are carried at accrued cost without discounting. ing amount may not be recoverable. The recoverable amount is the Impairment are determined individually. Impairment needs are higher of an asset’s fair value less costs to sell and value in use. addressed when receivables have fallen overdue for payment by a cerFor the purposes of assessing impairment, assets are grouped at tain number of days, or if Transcom becomes aware that the counterthe lowest levels for which there are separately identiﬁable cash ﬂows party has become insolvent. Provisions for impaired receivables are (cash-generating units). Transcom’s operations in each segmental region recognized as administrative expenses in the Consolidated Income are considered the Group’s cash-generating units in this regard. NonStatement. ﬁnancial assets other than goodwill that suffered an impairment are reviewed for possible reversal of the impairment at each reporting date. 1.11 Cash and cash equivalents An impairment loss is recognized for the amount by which an asset’s or In the consolidated statement of cash ﬂows, cash and cash equivalents cash-generating unit’s carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount. includes cash in hand, deposits held at call with banks, other short-term Impairment losses are recognized in the income statement. Impairhighly liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less. ment losses attributable to a cash-generating unit are mainly allocated In the consolidated statement of financial position, bank overdrafts are to goodwill after which they are divided proportionately among other shown within interest-bearing liabilities in current liabilities. assets in the unit. The recoverable amount of cash-generating units is the higher of their fair value less costs to sell and value in use. Value in 1.12 Interest-bearing liabilities use is measured by discounting future cash flows using a discounting Interest-bearing liabilities are classified as financial liabilities at amorfactor that takes into account the risk-free rate of interest and the risk tized cost. Amortized cost is determined based on the effective interest associated with the specific asset. rate calculated when the liability was assumed. This means that surplus Impairment of goodwill is not reversed. Impairment of other assets and deficit values as well as direct costs in conjunction with assuming of is reversed if a change has been made in the assumptions that served loans are distributed over the term of the liability. Non-current interestas the basis for determining the recoverable amount. Impairment is bearing liabilities have an anticipated maturity of more than one year, reversed only to the extent the carrying value of the assets following while current interest-bearing liabilities have a maturity of less than one the reversal does not exceed the carrying value that the asset would year. The Group’s non-current interest-bearing liabilities generally have have had if the impairment had not been recognized. short or long fixed interest periods, which means that the nominal loan amount plus accrued interest is a good approximation of the interest1.8 Financial assets and liabilities bearing liabilities calculated according to the effective rate model. A financial instrument is defined as any form of agreement giving rise to a financial asset in a company and a financial liability or equity 1.13 Trade Payables instrument in a counterparty. Financial instruments recognized in the Trade payables are classified in the category financial liabilities at balance sheet include, on the asset side, cash and bank balances, amortized cost. accounts receivable and other equity instruments, loans receivable. Trade payables have short expected term and are valued at nominal Included among liabilities and equity are accounts payable, debt and value. equity instruments in issue and loan liabilities. Financial instruments are recognized at amortized cost including 1.14 Other payables, other liabilities, accrued expenses and transaction expenses. An exception is made for financial instruments prepaid income in the category financial assets or liabilities recognized at fair value Other payables, other liabilities, accrued expenses and prepaid income through profit and loss, that are recognized at fair value excluding are recognized at amortized cost. transaction costs. Measurement depends on how they are classified, as indicated below. 1.15 Leasing A financial asset or financial liability is recognized in the balance Leasing is classified in the consolidated accounts as either finance or sheet when the company becomes party to the instrument’s contractual operating leasing. terms. Receivables are recognized when the company has performed When the Group, as lessee, essentially enjoys the economic benefits and there is a contractual obligation on the counterparty to pay. Trade and bears the economic risks attributable to the leased asset, it is clasreceivable are recognized in the balance sheet when an invoice has sified as a finance lease. The leased asset is recognized in the balance been sent. Liabilities are recognized when the counterparty has persheet as a fixed asset, while the estimated present value of future lease formed and there is a contractual obligation to pay, even if an invoice payments is recognized as a liability. The portion of the lease fee that has not yet been received. Trade payables are recognized when an falls due for payment within one year is recognized as a current liability, invoice is received. while the remainder is recognized as a long-term liability. A financial asset is removed from the balance sheet when the rights Minimum lease fees for finance leases are divided between interest in the agreement are realized, expire or the company loses control over expense and amortization of the outstanding liability. Interest expense them. A financial liability is removed from the balance sheet when the is divided over the lease term so that each reporting period is charged obligation in the agreement has been discharged or otherwise extinwith an amount corresponding to a fixed interest rate for the liability guished. recognized in each period. Variable fees are expensed in the period in Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net amount reportwhich they arise. ed in the statement of financial position when there is a legally enforceLeases in which a signiﬁcant portion of the risks and rewards of able right to offset the recognized amounts and there is an intention to ownership are retained by the lessor are classiﬁed as operating leases. settle on a net basis. Payments made under operating leases (net of any incentives received from the lessor) are charged to the income statement on a straight-line 1.9 Non-current receivables and other receivables basis over the period of the lease. These receivables fall into the category Loans and receivables and are The Group leases certain property, plant and equipment. Leases of assessed at their discounted current value if their expected maturity property, plant and equipment where the Group has substantially all exceeds 12 months. If their maturities are shorter, they are assessed the risks and rewards of ownership are classiﬁed as ﬁnance leases. at accrued cost. Finance leases are capitalized at the lease’s commencement at the lower of the fair value of the leased property and the present value of 1.10 Trade receivables the minimum lease payments. Trade receivables are classified in the category loans and receivables. Each lease payment is allocated between the liability and ﬁnance Trade receivables are amounts due from customers for services percharges. The corresponding rental obligations, net of ﬁnance charges, formed in the ordinary course of business. If collection is expected in are included in other long-term payables. The interest element of the one year or less (or in the normal operating cycle of the business if ﬁnance cost is charged to the income statement over the lease period ­longer), they are classiﬁed as current assets. If not, they are presented so as to produce a constant periodic rate of interest on the remaining as non-current assets. balance of the liability for each period. The property, plant and equipTrade receivables are recognized initially at fair value and subsement acquired under ﬁnance leases is depreciated over the shorter of quently measured at amortized cost using the effective interest method, the useful life of the asset and the lease term. 58 Transcom Annual Report 2014 Notes and comments to the Consolidated financial statements 1.16 Current and deferred income tax 1.18 Share capital and treasury shares The tax expense for the period comprises current and deferred tax. Ordinary shares are classiﬁed as equity. Tax is recognized in the income statement, except to the extent that it Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new ordinary relates to items recognized in other comprehensive income or directly shares or options are shown in equity as a deduction, net of tax, from in equity. In this case, the tax is also recognized in other comprehensive the proceeds. income or directly in equity, respectively. Where any Group Company purchases the Company’s equity share The current income tax charge is calculated on the basis of the tax capital (treasury shares), the consideration paid, including any directly laws enacted or substantively enacted at the reporting date in the counattributable incremental costs (net of income taxes) is deducted from tries where the Company and its Group companies operate and generequity attributable to the Company’s equity holders until the shares are ate taxable income. Management periodically evaluates positions taken cancelled or reissued. Where such ordinary shares are subsequently in tax returns with respect to situations in which applicable tax regulareissued, any consideration received, net of any directly attributable tion is subject to interpretation. It establishes provisions where appropriincremental transaction costs and the related income tax effects, is ate on the basis of amounts expected to be paid to the tax authorities. included in equity attributable to the Company’s equity holders. Deferred income tax is recognized, using the liability method, on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and lia1.19 Share-based payments bilities and their carrying amounts in the consolidated ﬁnancial stateThe Group issues equity-settled share-based payments to certain emments. However, deferred tax liabilities are not recognized if they arise ployees and key management. Equity-settled share-based payments from the initial recognition of goodwill; deferred income tax is not are measured at fair value (excluding the effect of non market-based accounted for if it arises from initial recognition of an asset or liability vesting conditions) at the date of grant. The fair value determined at the in a transaction other than a business combination that at the time of grant date of the equity-settled share-based payments is recognized as the transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable proﬁt or loss. an expense on a graded vesting basis over the vesting period, based on Deferred tax assets and liabilities have been measured at the tax the Group’s estimate of the shares that will eventually vest and adjusted rate that are expected to apply during the period when the asset is for the effect of non market vesting conditions. Fair value is measured realized or the liability is settled, according to the tax rates and tax regusing the Black-Scholes pricing model or any relevant valuation model. ulations that have been resolved or enacted at the balance-sheet date. The expected life used in the model is adjusted at the end of each reDeferred income tax assets are recognized only to the extent that it porting period, based on management’s best estimate, for the effect of is probable that future taxable proﬁt will be available against which the non-transferability, exercise restrictions and behavioral considerations. temporary differences can be utilized. Deferred income tax is provided on temporary differences arising on 1.20 Dividend investments in Group companies and associates, except for deferred Dividend is recognized as a liability in the Group’s ﬁnancial statements income tax liability where the timing of the reversal of the temporary in the period in which the dividends are approved by the Annual General difference is controlled by the Group and it is probable that the tempoMeeting. rary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future. Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a 1.21 Provisions legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets against current tax Provisions for restructuring costs, legal claims and other obligations liabilities and when the deferred income taxes assets and liabilities are recognized when: the Group has a present legal or constructive relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority on either obligation as a result of past events; it is probable that an outﬂow of the same taxable entity or different taxable entities where there is an resources will be required to settle the obligation; and the amount has intention to settle the balances on a net basis. been reliably estimated. Restructuring provisions comprise lease termination penalties and employee termination payments. Provisions are 1.17 Employee benefits not recognized for future operating losses. Group companies operate various pension schemes. The schemes are Where there are a number of similar obligations, the likelihood that generally funded through payments to insurance companies or trusteean outﬂow will be required in settlement is determined by considering administered funds, determined by periodic actuarial calculations. The the class of obligations as a whole. A provision is recognized even if the Group has both deﬁned beneﬁt and deﬁned contribution plans. likelihood of an outﬂow with respect to any one item included in the A deﬁned contribution plan is a pension plan under which the Group same class of obligations may be small. pays ﬁxed contributions into a separate entity. The Group has no legal Provisions are measured at the present value of the expenditures or constructive obligations to pay further contributions if the fund does expected to be required to settle the obligation using a pre-tax rate that not hold sufficient assets to pay all employees the beneﬁts relating to reﬂects current market assessments of the time value of money and employee service in the current and prior periods. the risks speciﬁc to the obligation. A defined benefit plan is a pension plan that is not a defined contribution plan. Typically deﬁned beneﬁt plans deﬁne an amount of pen1.22 Contingent liabilities sion beneﬁt that an employee will receive on retirement, usually depenA contingent liability is recognized when there is a possible obligation dent on one or more factors such as age, years of service and that arises from past events whose existence will be confirmed only by compensation. The liability recognized in the statement of financial one or more uncertain future events or when there is an obligation that position in respect of deﬁned beneﬁt pension plans is the present value is not recognized as a liability or provision because it is not probable of the deﬁned beneﬁt obligation at the end of the reporting period less that an outflow of resources will be required. the fair value of plan assets, together with adjustments for unrecognized past-service costs. The deﬁned beneﬁt obligation is calculated 1.23 Revenue recognition annually by independent actuaries using the projected unit credit Revenue comprises the fair value of the consideration received or method. The present value of the deﬁned beneﬁt obligation is deterreceivable for the sale of services in the ordinary course of the Group’s mined by discounting the estimated future cash outﬂows using interest activities. Revenue is shown net of value-added tax, returns, rebates rates of high-quality corporate bonds that are denominated in the curand discounts and after eliminating sales within the Group. rency in which the beneﬁts will be paid, and that have terms to maturity In relation to its CRM business (Customer Relationship Management), approximating to the terms of the related pension obligation. revenue mainly arise from call services operations. The Group recognizActuarial gains and losses arising from experience adjustments and es revenue when the amount of revenue can be reliably measured, it is changes in actuarial assumptions are charged or credited to other probable that future economic beneﬁts will ﬂow to the Group and when comprehensive income in the period in which they arise. speciﬁc criteria have been met for each of the Group’s activities as Past-service costs are recognized immediately in income, unless the described below. The Group bases its estimates on historical results, changes to the pension plan are conditional on the employees remaintaking into consideration the type of customer, the type of transaction ing in service for a speciﬁed period of time (the vesting period). In this and the speciﬁcs of each arrangement. case, the past-service costs are amortized on a straight-line basis over • Revenues related to inbound teleservices are recognized at the time the vesting period. services are provided on a per-call basis. The Group’s main defined benefit plans are termination indemnity • Revenues on outbound teleservices and debt collection are recogplan in Italy and a pension plan in Philippines. nized at the time services are provided on either a per-call, per-sale Transcom Annual Report 2014 59 Notes and comments to the Consolidated financial statements or per-collection basis under a fully executed contractual agreement 1.3 Cash flow statement and record reductions to revenues for contractual penalties and The cash flow statement includes changes in the balance of liquid holdbacks for failure to meet specified minimum service levels and assets. The Group’s liquid assets consist of cash and bank balances other performance based contingencies. with original maturities of three months or less. Cash flow is presented • Revenues from other CRM services are recognized as services are according to the indirect method, and divided into cash flows from provided. Generally service revenues are billed in the month followoperating activities, investing activities and financing activities. ing provision of related services. Contracts to provide call center Cash flow from investing activities includes only actual disburseservices typically do not involve fees related to customer set-up, ments for investments during the year. ­initiation or activation. Foreign Group companies’ transactions are translated in the cash flow statement at the average exchange rate for the period. Acquired and CMS revenue mainly arise from fees and commissions generated from divested Group companies are recognized as cash flow from investing the collection of receivables on behalf of customers. activities, net, after deducting liquid assets in the acquired or divested Accrued income on CMS activities is recognized on incomplete company. activities where a fair assessment of the work achieved to date and the future cash inflows associated with it can be measured with reasonable 1.4 Segment reporting accuracy. The Company calculates accrued income based on the numOperating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the interber of collection cases expected to be solved (“success rates”) in the nal reporting provided to and is evaluated regularly by the chief operatfuture multiplied by the estimated cost incurred per case. ing decision maker, i.e. the Group’s Chief executive officer. Transcom’s operating segments are North Europe region (Sweden, Norway, the 1.24 Financial income and expenses Netherlands, Denmark, Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania), Central & South Financial income and expenses consist of interest income on bank balEurope region (Italy, Germany, Poland, Tunisia, Hungary, UK, Croatia ances and receivables and interest-bearing securities, bank fees, interand Serbia), Iberia & Latam region (Spain, Portugal, Colombia, Peru and est expenses on loans, dividend income, exchange rate differences, Chile), North America & Asia Pacific region (the Philippines, USA and realized and unrealized gains on financial investments, and derivatives Canada). used in financial operations. 1.25 Fair value measurement The Group measures financial instruments, such as, derivatives, and non-financial assets, at fair value at each balance sheet date. Also, fair values of financial instruments measured at amortized cost are disclosed in note 24. Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. The fair value measurement is based on the presumption that the transaction to sell the asset or transfer the liability takes place either: • In the principal market for the asset or liability, or • In the absence of a principal market, in the most advantageous market for the asset or liability The principal or the most advantageous market must be accessible to by the Group. The fair value of an asset or a liability is measured using the assumptions that market participants would use when pricing the asset or liability, assuming that market participants act in their economic best interest. A fair value measurement of a non-financial asset takes into account a market participant’s ability to generate economic benefits by using the asset in its highest and best use by selling it to another market participant that would use the asset in its highest and best use. The Group uses valuation techniques that are appropriate in the ­circumstances and for which sufficient data are available to measure fair value, maximising the use of relevant observable inputs and minimizing the use of unobservable inputs. All assets and liabilities for which fair value is measured or disclosed in the financial statements are categorised within the fair value hierarchy, described as follows, based on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement as a whole: • Level 1 – Quoted (unadjusted) market prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities • Level 2 – Valuation techniques for which the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement is directly or indirectly observable • Level 3 – Valuation techniques for which the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement is unobservable. For assets and liabilities that are recognized in the financial statements on a recurring basis, the Group determines whether transfers have occurred between Levels in the hierarchy by re-assessing categorization (based on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement as a whole) at the end of each reporting period. 60 Transcom Annual Report 2014 Notes and comments to the Consolidated financial statements Note 2 Critical accounting estimates (e) Pension assumptions The liabilities of the defined benefit pension schemes operated by the and judgements Group are determined using methods relying on actuarial assumptions and estimates. Details of the key assumptions are set out in note 19. Estimates and judgments are continually evaluated and are based on The Group takes advice from independent actuaries relating to the historical experience and other factors, including expectations of future appropriateness of the assumptions. Changes in the assumptions and events that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. estimates used may have a significant effect on the income statement, The Group makes estimates and assumptions concerning the future. statement of financial position and other comprehensive income. The resulting accounting estimates will, by deﬁnition, seldom equal the related actual results. The estimates and assumptions that have (f) Provisions a signiﬁcant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying The Group recognizes a provision where there is a present obligation amounts of assets and liabilities within the next ﬁnancial year are from a past event, a transfer of economic benefits is probable and the addressed below. amount of costs of the transfer can be estimated reliably. The Group reviews outstanding legal cases following developments in the legal (a) Deferred tax assets proceedings and at each reporting date, in order to assess the need for Deferred tax assets are recognized for all unused tax losses to the provisions and disclosures in its financial statements. Among the facextent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available against tors considered in making decisions on provisions are the nature of litiwhich the losses can be utilized. Significant management judgment gation, claim or assessment, the legal process and potential level of is required to determine the amount of deferred tax assets that can damages in the jurisdiction in which the litigation, claim or assessment be recognized, based upon the likely timing and level of future taxable has been brought, the progress of the case (including the progress profits. Recognized value for each balance sheet date for deferred tax after the date of the financial statements but before those statements assets, see note 9. are issued), the opinions or views of legal advisers, experience on similar cases and any decision of the Group’s management as to how it will (b) Provisions for bad and doubtful debts respond to the litigation, claim or assessment. The Group continually monitors provisions for bad and doubtful debts; however a significant level of judgment is required by Executive man(g) Share-based payments agement to determine appropriate amounts to be provided. Executive The Group measures the cost of equity-settled transactions with management reviews and ascertains each debt individually based employees by reference to the fair value of the equity instruments at upon knowledge of the client, knowledge of the sector and other ecothe date at which they are granted. Estimating fair value for sharenomic factors, and calculates an appropriate provision considering the based payment transactions requires determination of the most approtime that a debt has remained overdue. The provision for each balance priate valuation model, which is dependent on the terms and conditions sheet date for bad and doubtful debts, see note 13. of the grant. This estimate also requires determination of the most appropriate inputs to the valuation model including the expected life of (c) Useful lifetimes of intangible and tangible fixed assets the share option, volatility and dividend yield and making assumptions Executive management establishes assessed useful lifetimes and thus about them. The assumptions and models used for estimating fair consistent amortization and depreciation for the Group’s intangible and ­value for share-based payment transactions are disclosed in note 17. tangible fixed assets. These estimates are based on historical knowledge of equivalent assets’ useful lifetimes. Useful lifetimes and estimated residual values are tested on each balance sheet date and adjusted when necessary. Recognized values for each balance sheet date for intangible and tangible fixed assets see notes 11 and 12. (d) Impairment of goodwill and intangible assets The Group annually evaluates the carrying value of goodwill for potential impairment by comparing projected discounted cash flows (using a suitable discount rate) associated with such assets to the related carrying value. An impairment test is also carried out should events or circumstances change which may indicate that there may be need for impairment. An impairment loss would be recognized when the estimated future discounted cash flow generated by the asset is less than the carrying amount of the asset. An impairment loss would be measured as the amount by which the carrying value of the asset exceeds the recoverable amount. The Group performed its annual impairment test of goodwill as at December 31, 2014. Please refer to note 11 for further details. Changes in the assumptions and estimates used may have a significant effect on the income statement and statement of financial position. Please see note 11 for a sensitivity analysis of some of the assumptions made. Transcom Annual Report 2014 61 Notes and comments to the Consolidated financial statements Note 3 Segmental information 2014 CRM CMS North Central & Iberia & America Total EUR thousand North Europe South Europe Latam & AP Total CRM Total CMS Group Revenue Total segment revenue 215,689 171,951 125,526 139,442 652,608 12,676 665,284 Inter-segment revenue -8,001 -22,426 -1,443 -16,252 -48,122 -322 -48,444 Revenue from external customers 207,688 149,525 124,083 123,190 604,486 12,354 616,840 Gross profit 38,700 28,453 21,570 34,394 123,117 4,466 127,583 Profit/loss from segments 10,971 4,978 1,127 4,318 21,395 -69 21,326 Operating profit/loss 21,326 2013 CRM CMS North Central & Iberia & America Total EUR thousand North Europe South Europe Latam & AP Total CRM Total CMS Group Revenue Total segment revenue 224,997 171,884 131,805 167,775 696,461 33,541 730,002 Inter-segment revenue -8,254 -21,778 -938 -45,098 -76,068 -750 -76,818 Revenue from external customers 216,743 150,106 130,867 122,677 620,393 32,791 653,184 Gross profit 37,045 28,554 25,220 30,426 121,245 9,853 131,098 Profit/loss from segments 8,160 4,337 3,068 -1,408 14,157 1,523 15,680 Goodwill impairment* -21,125 Operating profit/loss -5,445 * Goodwill impairment 2013 related to the CMS segment (not restated according to change of the Group segments in 2014), see note 11. The Group reportable segments are composed as follows: with the CRM operations in the North Europe region, CMS business in • North Europe region: Sweden, Norway, the Netherlands, Denmark, UK was integrated in the Central & South Europe region. Consequently, Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania the corresponding items of segment information for the year ended 31 • Central and South Europe region: Italy, Germany, Poland, Tunisia, December 2013 have been restated. Hungary, UK, Croatia and Serbia (France deconsolidated per March 1, Inter-segment transfer prices between operating segments are on 2013) an arm’s length basis in a manner similar to transactions with third par• Iberia & Latam region: Spain, Portugal, Colombia, Peru and Chile ties. A mark-up is being applied according to Transcom’s Transfer Pric• North America & Asia Pacific region: the Philippines, USA and ing Policy, in order to encourage use of Group resources. Canada Revenues from the two largest single customers and arising from • CMS region: Credit Management Services in Austria (deconsolidated sales by both the CRM and CMS segments amounted to EUR 108,306 per July 31, 2014), Czech Republic and Poland (deconsolidated per thousand December 31, 2014 (December 31, 2013: EUR 111,794 thouMay 28, 2014) and Germany (deconsolidated per December 30, sand) and EUR 55,964 thousand December 31, 2014 (December 31, 2013). 2013: EUR 64,634 thousand) respectively. The revenues amounted to EUR 108,306 thousand comes from the segments CMS, Central & In 2014, the management changed the structure of the internal organiSouth Europe and North and the revenues amounted to EUR 55,964 zation of the Group in a manner that has caused the composition of the thousand comes from the segment Iberia & Latam. Group reportable segments to change, compared to the prior financial Goodwill per segment is reflected in note 11. year. CMS business in Sweden, Norway and Denmark were integrated 62 Transcom Annual Report 2014 Notes and comments to the Consolidated financial statements Note 4 Employees Salaries, other remuneration and social security charges EUR thousand 2014 2013 Salaries and other remunerations 373,569 425,918 Social security charges 65,872 66,095 Pension expenses 10,099 8,949 Personnel expenses are recognized in the following line items in the income statement: EUR thousand 2014 2013 Cost of sales 414,009 457,701 Marketing expenses 2,720 3,563 Administrative expenses 32,811 39,698 Total 449,540 500,962 Average number of employees 2014 2013 Women Men Total Women Men Total Austria 20 14 34 49 33 82 Belgium – – – 28 18 46 Canada 417 355 772 476 439 915 Chile 265 146 411 726 400 1,126 Colombia 226 172 398 125 96 221 Croatia 280 177 457 230 143 373 Czech Republic 30 20 50 73 49 122 Denmark 62 31 93 79 38 117 Estonia 183 27 210 235 33 268 France – – – 52 35 87 Germany 427 253 680 436 205 641 Hungary 355 224 579 311 175 486 Italy 659 440 1,099 1,345 431 1,776 Latvia 272 147 419 292 158 450 Lithuania 403 190 593 395 171 566 Luxembourg 3 5 8 17 11 28 The Netherlands 137 164 301 122 133 255 Norway 145 174 319 174 188 362 Peru 171 148 319 85 74 159 Philippines 4,794 4,365 9,159 4,304 3,972 8,276 Poland 232 152 384 268 179 447 Portugal 83 34 117 85 35 120 Serbia 24 19 43 – – – Spain 3,459 1,168 4,627 3,414 1,153 4,567 Sweden 783 897 1,680 711 796 1,507 Tunisia 453 400 853 443 392 835 United Kingdom 48 59 107 57 64 121 United States 441 238 679 518 331 849 Total* 14,372 10,019 24,391 15,050 9,752 24,802 * Total average number of employees excludes agency staff. Transcom Annual Report 2014 63 Notes and comments to the Consolidated financial statements Note 4 Employees (cont.) Women in Board and Executive management, % 2014 2013 Board of Directors 14 % 14 % Executive ­management 11 % 14 % Remuneration to the Board EUR thousand 2014 2013 Chairman of the Board: Henning Boysen 105.0 94.5 Other members of the Board: Mikael Larsson 59.0 57.5 Stefan Charette 53.0 46.0 Alexander Izosimov 50.0 42.5 Roel Louwhoff 46.0 40.0 Mia Brunell Livfors 48.0 – John C Freker Jr 43.0 – Laurie Bowen – 46.0 Dermot Jenkinson – 42.5 Total 404.0 369.0 Remuneration and other benefits to Executive management 2014 Variable Other EUR Base salary ­compensation ­benefits* Pension fees Total President and CEO: Johan Eriksson 540,603 379,653 14,177 158,738 1,093,171 Other members of Group: Management (8 positions) 1,798,885 522,074 82,017 336,562 2,739,538 Total 2,339,487 901,727 96,194 495,300 3,832,709 Executive management consists on the following persons; Pär Christiansen, Jörgen Skoog, Sytze Koopmans, Christian Hulten, Roberto Boggio, ­Isabel Sanchez-Lozano, Neil Rae, Siva Subramaniam. 2013 Variable Other EUR Base salary ­compensation ­benefits* Pension fees Total President and CEO: Johan Eriksson 473,725 444,360 9,504 95,749 1,023,338 Other members of Group: Management (7 positions) 1,629,121 157,330 38,515 205,247 2,030,213 Total 2,102,846 601,690 48,019 300,996 3,053,551 Executive management consists on the following persons; Pär Christiansen, Jörgen Skoog, Sytze Koopmans, Christian Hulten, Roberto Boggio, Isabel Sanchez-Lozano, Neil Rae. * Refers to vacation pay, company car, medical insurance etc. No benefits for share-based payments have been received. The following guidelines were approved by the AGM of Transcom The fixed salary and the bonus percentage may vary amongst ExecWorldWide S.A. on May 28, 2014 and by the EGM of Transcom utive Managers according to their level of responsibility or seniority. WorldWide AB on July 16, 2014 and applied on remuneration for The level of variable salary is in accordance with market practice and senior executives within the Group which currently include nine depend on the level of responsibility and seniority and calculated accord­members of the Executive management of Transcom (“Executive ing to a combination of results achieved and individual performances. ­Managers”), as well as members of the Board of Directors to the Other benefits constitutes of a limited amount in relation to the total extent they are remunerated outside their directorship. remuneration and corresponds to the local practice. The remuneration to the Executive Managers consists of fixed salary, In the event of notice of termination of employment being served variable salary as well as the possibility to participate in long-term by Transcom, there is entitlement to salary during such notice period incentive programs. according to law governing the respective employment relationship. 64 Transcom Annual Report 2014 Notes and comments to the Consolidated financial statements In the event of notice of termination of employment being served by Finance leases as a lessee the Company, the CEO is entitled to salary during a period of a maximum of 18 months and the other Executive Managers are entitled to Assets utilized under finance leases salary during a period in a range of maximum 12 months. EUR thousand 2014 2013 The Executive Managers is entitled to pension commitments based on those that are customary in the country in which they are employed. Cost 327 293 The Executive Managers are offered defined contribution pension Accumulated depreciation -98 -158 plans, with premiums amounting in a range to a maximum of 30 percent of the fixed salary that are paid to insurance companies. Carrying value 228 135 Members of the Board of Directors, elected at shareholders’ meetings, may in certain cases receive a fee for services performed within their respective areas of expertise, outside of their duties on the Board Lease liabilities are effectively secured as the rights to the leased of Directors. Compensation for these services shall be paid at market assets revert to the lessor in the event of default. terms and be approved by the Board of Directors. Gross finance lease liabilities – minimum lease payments: In special circumstances, the Board of Directors may deviate from the above guidelines. In such case, the Board of Directors is obligated EUR thousand 2014 2013 to give account for the reason for the deviation on the following annual Less than one year 125 53 general meeting of shareholders. The Board of Directors’ view is that the remuneration to the CEO Between one and five years 132 16 and the other members in the Executive management strikes an 257 69 appropriate balance between motivating the members of the Executive management and achieving a well-balanced competitive compensaFuture finance charges on finance leases -14 -9 tion that aligns the members’ incentives with the interests of Transcom Present value of finance lease liabilities 243 60 and the shareholders. For information of Transcom’s long-term incentive plans, see note 17. The present value of finance lease liabilities is as follows: EUR thousand 2014 2013 Note 5 Leases Less than one year 116 44 Between one and five years 127 16 Operating leases as a lessee Present value of finance lease liabilities 243 60 Operating leasing costs EUR thousand 2014 2013 Premises 22,823 24,525 Note 6 Remuneration to auditors IT Equipment 5,382 6,661 Office equipment 338 292 For the financial year ended December 31, 2014 and December 31, 2013 the approved statutory auditor, and as the case may be affiliated Cars 1,078 833 companies of the auditor, billed fees to the Group in relation with the Others 2,161 2,183 following services: Total 31,782 34,494 Remuneration to auditors EUR thousand 2014 2013 Future payments for non cancellable leases as at December 31, 2014 Ernst & Young Between Less than one and Audit fees according to audit assignment 628 748 EUR thousand one year five years Total Other audit related fees 80 58 Premises 21,044 34,279 55,323 Non audit 9 – IT Equipment 3,555 2,032 5,587 Office equipment 385 294 679 Other audit firms Cars 801 1,043 1,844 Audit fees according to audit assignment 36 17 Others 1,261 21 1,282 Tax – 10 Total 27,046 37,669 64,715 Total 753 833 Future payments for non cancellable leases as at December 31, 2013 Between Less than one and EUR thousand one year five years Total Premises 20,222 30,251 50,473 IT Equipment 4,882 3,493 8,375 Office equipment 463 774 1,237 Cars 757 747 1,504 Others 1,312 124 1,436 Total 27,636 35,389 63,025 Generally, the Group’s lease contracts require deposits and certain ­provisions for inflation-indexed rental increases. Transcom Annual Report 2014 65 Notes and comments to the Consolidated financial statements Note 7 Amortization, depreciation Note 9 Taxes and impairment Income tax expense Amortization and depreciation EUR thousand 2014 2013 EUR thousand 2014 2013 Current income tax on profit/loss for the year -9,623 -9,987 Customer relationships -1,065 -1,941 Adjustments in respect of prior years -527 2,285 Development costs -967 -894 Current taxes -10,150 -7,702 Other intangibles -186 -179 Current year origination and reversal of Telephone switch -474 -626 temporary differences -1,398 930 Fixture and fittings -1,627 -1,575 Adjustments in respect of prior years -386 444 Computer hardware and software -3,243 -2,847 Deferred taxes -1,784 1,374 Office improvements -876 -1,061 Income tax expense -11,934 -6,328 -8,438 -9,123 Impairment Current income tax on profit/loss for the year consists of current income tax EUR 8,647 thousand (EUR 9,290 thousand) and witholding Goodwill – -21,125 taxes EUR 976 thousand (EUR 697 thousand). – -21,125 Adjustments in respect of prior years mainly represents provisions, or reversal thereof, with respect to legal claims brought against the Total -8,438 -30,248 Group by tax authorities in various jurisdictions. Amortization, depreciation and impairment are recognized in the Effective tax rate ­following line items in the income statement: A reconciliation of the statutory tax rate to the Company’s effective tax rate applicable to income from continuous operations was: EUR thousand 2014 2013 EUR thousand 2014 % 2013 % Cost of sales -6,556 -6,305 Profit/loss before tax 18,802 -12,235 Impairment of intangible assets – -21,125 Calculated tax based on tax Other operating expenses -1,882 -2,818 rate in Sweden 22.00 % Total -8,438 -30,248 (Luxembourg 29.97 %) -4,136 -22.0 3,667 -30.0 Foreign tax rate differential 8,604 45.8 3,378 -27.6 Tax exempt income 1 0.0 3,134 -25.6 Note 8 Financial income and expenses Non-deductible expenses -5,558 -29.5 -5,837 47.7 Adjustments in respect of Financial income ­prior years -913 -4.9 2,729 -22.3 EUR thousand 2014 2013 Losses for which no tax Interest income on bank deposits 61 123 ­benefit is recognized -6,875 -36.6 -13,800 112.8 Foreign exchange gain, net 2,273 – Losses previously recognized impaired current year -1,345 -7.2 – – Total 2,334 123 Losses utilized for which no deferred tax assets were Financial expenses ­previously recognized 563 3.0 448 -3.7 EUR thousand 2014 2013 Change in tax rates 37 0.2 – – Interest expense on bank borrowings -2,863 -3,275 Withholding tax -976 -5.2 – – Other financing costs -1,239 -1,265 Other tax not at standard rate* -1,336 -7.1 – – Bank fees -756 -1,068 Other – – -47 0.4 Foreign exchange loss, net – -1,305 Income tax expense -11,934 -63.5 -6,328 51.6 Total -4,858 -6,913 * Other tax not at standard rate mainly relates to regional business tax. 66 Transcom Annual Report 2014 Notes and comments to the Consolidated financial statements Note 9 Taxes (cont.) Deferred tax assets EUR thousand Tangible assets Tax losses Others Netting Total As at J­ anuary 1, 2014 880 2,737 1,167 – 4,784 Income statement movement 32 -1,336 -434 – -1,738 Tax relating to components of other comprehensive income – – 58 – 58 Disposal of business – – -95 – -95 Translation differences -7 -85 -1 – -93 Netting of assets/liabilities – – – -779 -779 As at December 31, 2014 905 1,316 695 -779 2,137 As at J­ anuary 1, 2013 98 2,912 530 – 3,540 Income statement movement 782 -15 641 – 1,408 Translation differences – -160 -4 – -164 As at December 31, 2013 880 2,737 1,167 – 4,784 Deferred tax liabilities EUR thousand Tangible assets Intangible ­assets Others Netting Total As at J­ anuary 1, 2014 44 1,503 1,133 – 2,680 Income statement movement 38 -274 284 – 48 Disposal of business – -143 -373 – -516 Translation differences – 57 -26 – 31 Netting of assets/liabilities – – – -779 -779 As at December 31, 2014 82 1,143 1,018 -779 1,464 As at J­ anuary 1, 2013 447 1,156 1,047 – 2,650 Income statement movement -403 347 91 – 35 Translation differences – – -5 – -5 As at December 31, 2013 44 1,503 1,133 – 2,680 Deferred tax assets are recognized for tax losses carried forward to the The main reason the amount of losses for which no deferred tax assets extent that the realization of the related tax benefit through future taxhave been recognized has been decreased, is due to the Merger, where able profit is probable. The Group did not recognize deferred tax assets as a result Transcom S.A. ceased to exist and forfeited all of its tax of EUR 19,743 thousand (2013: EUR 80,072 thousand) in respect of losses. Losses that do not expire amounted to EUR 23,736 thousand losses amounting to EUR 72,041 thousand (2013: 274,405 thousand). per 2014. Transcom Annual Report 2014 67 Notes and comments to the Consolidated financial statements Note 10 Earnings per share Basic earnings per share 2014 2013 Profit/loss for the year attributable to equity holders of the parent (EUR thousand) 6,868 -18,563 Weighted average number of shares in issue during the year (thousand) 26,030 26,030 Basic earnings per share (EUR cent) 26.4 -71.3 Diluted earnings per share 2014 2013 Profit/loss for the year attributable to equity holders of the parent (EUR thousand) 6,868 -18,563 Weighted average number of shares in issue during the year adjusted for outstanding stock options (thousand) 26,061 26,061 Diluted earnings per share (EUR cent) 26.4 -71.3 Per December 31, 2014 oustanding Ordinary shares are 26,057,212 and C-class shares 649,372 (2013: 622,768 thousand Class A Shares and 622,764 thousand Class B shares). During December, 2014 Transcom WorldWide AB (publ) executed a 1:50 reverse split of the ordinary share of the Company following the re-domiciliation. During December 2014 the Company issued and repurchased C-class shares for future distribution for long-term incentive plans (note 17). Earnings per share for 2013 has been adjusted to reflect the reverse split as if it had occurred 2013. Basic earnings per share amounts were calculated by dividing profit/ loss for the year attributable to equity holders of the parent by weighted average number of shares in issue during the year. Diluted earnings per share amounts were calculated by dividing profit/loss for the year attributable to equity holders of the parent by the weighted average number of shares in issue during the year adjusted for outstanding share options of 31 thousand (2013: nil). Note 11 Goodwill and other intangible assets Cost Customer Development EUR thousand Goodwill ­relationships cost Others Total As at January 1, 2014 143,912 25,625 10,606 2,663 182,806 Investments – 3 704 946 1,653 Disposal of business* -29,780 -14,599 – -263 -44,642 Translation differences 4,608 1,488 – 12 6,108 As at December 31, 2014 118,740 12,517 11,310 3,358 145,925 Accumulated amortization and impairment As at January 1, 2014 -32,793 -22,491 -8,862 -2,326 -66,472 Amortization for the year – -1,065 -967 -186 -2,218 Disposal of business* 15,396 14,029 – 176 29,601 Translation differences 481 -1,277 – -4 -801 As at December 31, 2014 -16,917 -10,804 -9,829 -2,340 -39,890 Carrying value as at December 31, 2014 101,824 1,713 1,481 1,018 106,035 * For further information, see note 25. 68 Transcom Annual Report 2014 Notes and comments to the Consolidated financial statements Note 11 Goodwill and other intangible assets (cont.) Cost Customer Development EUR thousand Goodwill ­relationships cost Others Total As at January 1, 2013 154,962 26,126 10,137 2,533 193,758 Investments – 2 469 160 631 Acquisition of business 310 – – – 310 Disposals – – – -4 -4 Disposal of business* -8,577 – – -28 -8,605 Translation differences -2,783 -503 – 2 -3,284 As at December 31, 2013 143,912 25,625 10,606 2,663 182,806 * For further information, see note 25. Accumulated amortization and impairment As at January 1, 2013 -14,729 -21,016 -7,968 -2,124 -45,837 Amortization for the year – -1,941 -894 -179 -3,014 Impairment charge for the year -21,125 – – – -21,125 Disposals – – – 4 4 Disposal of business* 2,688 – – 19 2,707 Translation differences 373 466 – -46 793 As at December 31, 2013 -32,793 -22,491 -8,862 -2,326 -66,472 Carrying value as at December 31, 2013 111,119 3,134 1,744 337 116,334 * For further information, see note 25. Goodwill growth included in the cash-flow projections has been based on historImpairment testing for cash generating units containing goodwill ical experience and expectations of future changes in the market conThe impairment test gave no indication of need of goodwill impairditions. Market conditions take into account the nature of risk within ment (2013: EUR 21,125 thousand). geographical markets and management’s estimations of change within The Group treats the geographical regions stated below as cashthese markets. These rates do not exceed the average long-term generating units in the sense referred to in IAS 36 Impairment of growth rates for the relevant markets. assets. The carrying amounts of goodwill allocated to each region are: Post-tax discount rates ranging from 8.0 percent to 11.5 percent (2013: 9.3 percent to 14.0 percent) were applied in determining the EUR thousand 2014 2013 recoverable amounts of the units. The discount rates were estimated North Europe 42,751 36,096 based on past experience, industry average weighted cost of capital and Group’s industry related beta adjusted to reflect management’s Central & South Europe 1,675 1,395 assessment of specific risks related to the unit. While post-tax discount Iberia & Latam 10,121 10,121 rates to post-tax cash flows was applied, it was concluded that the result were not materially different from applying pre-tax discount rates North America & Asia Pacific 47,277 41,621 to pre-tax cash flows. For North Europe, Central & South Europe, Iberia & Latam and CMS – 21,886 North America & Asia Pacific units, reasonably possible changes in key Total* 101,824 111,119 assumptions (such as discount rates, Revenue/Operating margin and terminal growth rate) would not trigger any impairment loss to be rec* As explained in note 3, in 2014, the management changed the structure ognized. of the internal organization of the Group in a manner that has caused the composition of the Group reportable segments to change, compared to the prior financial year. Consequently, the carrying value of the goodwill Customer relationships and development costs ­allocated to each operating division for year 2014 has been modified comCustomer relationships mainly consist of intangible assets that were pared to the prior financial year in order to reflect the new Group structure. identified during the past acquisitions based on the discounted cash flows expected to be derived from the use and eventual sale of the Value in use was determined by discounting the future cash flows genasset, determined at the date of acquisition. As at December 31, 2014 erated from the continuing use of the units and it was concluded that these assets were tested for impairment. The impairment test gave no the fair value less cost to sell did not exceed the value in use. indication of need of impairment (2013: nil). The calculation of the value in use was based on the following key Development costs consist of amounts identified by management assumptions: where it is considered that technological and economical feasibility Cash flows were projected based on past experience, actual operatexists, usually determined by reference to the achievement of defined ing results and the 3-year financial plans approved by the Board of milestones according to an established project management model. Directors. Beyond the specifically forecasted period of three years, the These costs relate to development of assets for the use in the Group. Company extrapolates cash flows based on estimated constant growth As at December 31, 2014 these assets were tested for impairment. rates ranging from 2.0 percent to 2.1 percent (2013: 2.0 percent to 2.1 The impairment test gave no indication of need of impairment in 2014 percent) depending on management’s understanding of the market in (2013: nil). the region in which the unit is based. The anticipated annual revenue Transcom Annual Report 2014 69 Notes and comments to the Consolidated financial statements Note 12 Tangible assets Cost Telephone Fixtures Computer hardOffice EUR thousand switch and fittings ware and software ­improvements Total As at January 1, 2014 30,890 26,694 51,462 18,111 127,157 Investments 1,196 958 3,036 1,664 6,854 Disposals -1,060 -326 -1,289 -2,429 -5,104 Disposal of business* -298 -136 -789 -965 -2,188 Translation differences 557 425 1,168 1,010 3,160 As at December 31, 2014 31,285 27,615 53,588 17,391 129,879 * For further information, see note 25. Accumulated amortization and impairment As at January 1, 2014 -30,017 -21,829 -44,844 -14,858 -111,548 Depreciation for the year -474 -1,627 -3,243 -876 -6,220 Disposals 1,060 326 1,272 2,308 4,966 Disposal of business* 296 123 716 857 1,992 Translation differences -592 -436 -1,089 -800 -2,917 As at December 31, 2014 -29,727 -23,443 -47,188 -13,369 -113,727 Carrying value as at December 31, 2014 1,558 4,172 6,400 4,022 16,152 * For further information, see note 25. Cost As at January 1, 2013 36,132 27,058 54,644 22,332 140,166 Investments 97 3,195 3,966 1,209 8,467 Disposals -1,364 -1,992 -1,832 -1,994 -7,182 Disposal of business* -3,144 -1,372 -4,348 -3,049 -11,913 Reclassifications -6 184 -179 1 0 Translation differences -825 -379 -789 -388 -2,381 As at December 31, 2013 30,890 26,694 51,462 18,111 127,157 * For further information, see note 25. Accumulated amortization and impairment As at January 1, 2013 -34,611 -23,801 -48,655 -18,581 -125,648 Depreciation for the year -626 -1,575 -2,847 -1,061 -6,109 Disposals 1,295 1,895 1,661 1,975 6,826 Disposal of business* 3,111 1,363 4,246 2,477 11,197 Reclassifications 3 -50 45 2 0 Translation differences 811 339 706 330 2,186 As at December 31, 2013 -30,017 -21,829 -44,844 -14,858 -111,548 Carrying value as at December 31, 2013 873 4,865 6,618 3,253 15,609 * For further information, see note 25. 70 Transcom Annual Report 2014 Notes and comments to the Consolidated financial statements Note 13 Trade receivables Note 15 Cash and cash equivalents EUR thousand 2014 2013 EUR thousand 2014 2013 Trade receivables gross 92,492 99,692 Cash 38,173 55,925 Provision for impairment of trade Restricted cash maturities ­receivables -557 -1,135 less than 3 months – 2,437 Trade receivables net 91,935 98,557 Total 38,173 58,362 The carrying value less impairment of trade receivables is assumed to approximate the fair value. Note 16 Equity Provision for impairment of trade receivables On November 26, 2014, Transcom executed a re-domiciliation to Sweden from Luxembourg through a merger between the Parent Company EUR thousand 2014 2013 Transcom WorldWide S.A. (RCS B59528) and its subsidiary Transcom As at January 1 -1,135 -1,785 WorldWide AB (publ) (org.no 556880-1277). Transcom WorldWide AB (publ) is per November 26, 2014 the new Parent Company of TransMovements during the year com Group. –provisions made -279 -77 The merger has not had any impact on the assets or liabilities of the Group, and consequently not on the total equity, over and above from –provisions used 857 63 the merger costs (amounting to EUR 1.1 million and reported in 2014 in –provisions reversed – 45 the caption Administrative expenses). Due to the change in share capital and of Parent Company, the composition within equity has changed. –disposal of business* – 616 For information of the change of equity composition due to the merger, Translation differences – 3 see the report Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity. As at 31 December -557 -1,135 Share capital * For further information, see note 25. As of December 31, 2014 the share capital amounted to EUR 56,084 thousand. Number of Ordinary shares is 26,057,212 and C class shares 649,372. For information of change in Share capital and shares, Overview of the ageing of trade r­ eceivables see note A18. EUR thousand 2014 2013 As of December 31, 2013 the share capital amounted to EUR 53,558 thousand. The share capital was divided into 622,768 thou< 30 days 88,987 91,669 sand Class A voting shares with a quota value of EUR 0.043 each, 30–60 days 1,018 4,185 and 622,764 thousand Class B non voting shares with a quota value of EUR 0.043 each; All shares were fully paid. Each Class A share had 60–90 days 253 655 one vote attached and the right to receive dividends as shown below. 90–120 days 283 108 Each Class B share had no voting rights attached and the right to receive dividends to the greater of (i) a cumulative preferred dividend >120 days 1,394 1,940 corresponding to 5 percent of the nominal value of the Class B non Total 91,935 98,557 voting shares in the Company; and (ii) 2 percent of the overall dividend distributions made in a given year. Any balance of dividends must be paid equally on each Transcom WorldWide Class A and Transcom The Group operates in several jurisdictions and payment terms vary WorldWide Class B Share. upon this, as well as on a client by client basis. Therefore, based upon the maximum payment terms, trade receivables of EUR 2,948 thouMovement during the year in other reserves sand are past due more than 30 days but not provided for (2013: EUR 6,888 thousand). These relates to a number of independent customers Other for whom there is no recent history of default. Details of credit risk are Treasury non disActuarial shares tributable included in note 24. EUR thousand reserve reserve reserve Total As at J­ anuary 1, 2014 -412 -134 28,393 27,847 Note 14 Other receivables Merger 412 134 -28,393 -27,847 EUR thousand 2014 2013 As at December 31, 2014 – – – – VAT recoverable 2,546 2,160 Amount due from public authorities 5,380 3,028 As at J­ anuary 1, 2013 -349 -134 28,393 27,910 Client deposit related assets 9,932 15,152 Other comprehensive income for the year, net of tax -63 – – -63 Other receivables* 6,728 5,699 Total comprehensive income Total 24,586 26,039 for the year, net of tax -63 – – -63 * Other receivables mainly relates to deposits and advanced payments. As at December 31, 2013 -412 -134 28,393 27,847 Transcom Annual Report 2014 71 Notes and comments to the Consolidated financial statements Note 16 Equity (cont.) The value of the plan is apportioned equally over the total period of the plan and charged through the income statement. The expense recognized in the consolidated income statement 2014 with respect to Nature and purpose of reserves LTIP 2013 amounted to EUR 81 thousand (2013: EUR 23 thousand). Share-based payment reserve Share-based payment reserve is used to record the value of equity-­ Long-term incentive plan 2012 (“LTIP 2012”) settled payments provided to certain employees, including key manIn May 2012, at the Annual General Meeting, the 2012–2015 LTIP was agement personnel. In connection with the merger the reserve has approved. This plan consists of two elements, a performance share been reclassified to be included in Retained earnings. plan (“performance element”) and a matching share award plan (“loyalty element”). This LTIP was granted to Transcom’s executives and the Foreign Currency Translation reserve grant date was determined to be May 30, 2012. The foreign currency translation reserve is used to record exchange The shares awarded under the performance element vest over a ­differences arising from the translation of the financial statements of three year period, subject to market conditions based on the “total Group companies which have a non Euro functional currency. shareholder return”, the average normalized EBIT and average normalized seat utilization ratio. The achievement of a certain level of each Actuarial reserve condition, measured at each vesting date, yields a specific percentage The pension reserve is used to record actuarial losses and gains on of shares awarded to each employee at the grant date. The loyalty elepost employment benefit obligation plans (note 19). ment requires eligible employees to invest a certain percentage of their In connection with the merger the actuarial reserve has been reclassalary in shares of the Company on the market in order to receive sified to be included in Retained earnings. potential matching shares. The shares awarded under this plan vest at the end of a three year period. Treasury shares reserve The value of the plan is apportioned equally over the total period The treasury shares reserve is used to record purchases of the Compaof the plan and charged through the income statement. The expense ny’s own shares from the market. recognized in the consolidated income statement 2014 with respect to In connection with the merger the treasury shares reserve has been LTIP 2012 amounted to EUR 103 thousand (2013: EUR 83 thousand). reclassified to be included in Retained earnings. Movement in number of outstanding share awards Note 17 Share-based payments LTIP 2014 LTIP 2013 LTIP 2012 As at January 1, 2014 – 638,509 1,503,339 Long-term incentive plan 2014 (“LTIP 2014”) Granted during the year 1,045,992 830,271 – At the Annual General Meeting held in May 2014, the LTIP 2014 was approved. The plan consists of two elements, a matching share award As at December 31, 2014 1,045,992 1,468,780 1,503,339 plan (“loyalty element”) and a performance share plan (“performance Maximum number of element”). The LTIP was granted to Transcom’s Senior Executives and ­performance shares 6,362,711 9,785,704 8,716,695 the grant date was determined to be 28th May, 2014. The shares awarded are subject to market conditions based on the LTIP 2013 LTIP 2012 “total shareholder return”, the accumulated normalized EBIT, the average normalized EBIT and Transcom average TSR vs a peer Group’s As at January 1, 2013 – 1,803,612 average TSR during the performance period. The performance eleGranted during the year 638,509 – ment vest over a three year period, however that entitlement to shares based on fulfilment of the EBIT related conditions may also accrue on Cancelled during the year – -300,273 a year-for-year basis. As at December 31, 2013 638,509 1,503,339 The achievement of a certain level of each condition, measured at each vesting date, yields a specific percentage of shares awarded to each employee at the grant date. The loyalty element requires eligible employees to invest a certain Note 18 Interest-bearing liabilities percentage of their salary in shares of the Company on the market in order to receive potential matching shares. In addition the participants need to be employed by Transcom at the time of the vesting date. The EUR thousand 2014 2013 shares awarded under this plan vest at the end of a three year period. EUR revolving credit facility 41,800 79,000 The value of the plan is apportioned equally over the total period of the plan and charged through the income statement. The expense recUSD revolving credit facility 18,121 15,952 ognized in the consolidated income statement 2014 with respect to Other loans 3,402 – LTIP 2014 amounted to EUR 40 thousand. Unamortized transaction costs -812 -571 Long-term incentive plan 2013 (“LTIP 2013”) 62,511 94,381 The 2013–2016 LTIP was approved at the Annual General Meeting, held on 29 May 2013. This plan consists of two elements, a perforFinance leases 243 60 mance share plan (“performance element”) and a matching share Total* 62,754 94,441 award plan (“loyalty element”). This LTIP was granted to Transcom’s executives and the grant date was determined to be May 29, 2013. * 2013 Annual Report page 63 describing the loan facility in 2013. The shares awarded are subject to market conditions based on the “total shareholder return”, the accumulated normalized EBIT, the averOn January 22, 2014 a new credit facility was signed. It is a 3-year synage normalized EBIT and average normalized seat utilization ratio dicated credit facility of EUR 103.8 million composed of three tranches; under the performance element vest over a three year period, however the first being a EUR 40 million term loan expiring on January 21, 2017; that entitlement to shares based on fulfilment of the EBIT related conthe second being a EUR 55 million revolving credit facility expiring also ditions may also accrue on a year-for-year basis. on January 21, 2017; whilst the third was a term loan expiring on OctoThe achievement of a certain level of each condition, measured at ber 21, 2014. Interest rates are based on IBOR and EURIBOR for Euro each vesting date, yields a specific percentage of shares awarded to each drawings plus margins which may vary albeit based on the Transcom’s employee at the grant date. The loyalty element requires eligible employConsolidated Gross Debt to Consolidated EBITDA ratio. The Company ees to invest a certain percentage of their salary in shares of the Compais also committed under this agreement to maintain certain financial ny on the market in order to receive potential matching shares. The ratios within agreed limits. The loan is unsecured. There was no breach shares awarded under this plan vest at the end of a three year period. of covenants in 2014. 72 Transcom Annual Report 2014 Notes and comments to the Consolidated financial statements Note 18 Interest-bearing liabilities (cont.) As of December 31, 2014, an amount of EUR 41.8 million and USD 22 million was drawn (December 31, 2013: EUR 79 million and USD 22 million). The third tranche has, as per agreement, been paid back in October 2014. In addition, an equivalent of EUR 2.5 million of the facility is utilized to cover the issuance of bank guarantees. An unused amount of EUR 9.8 million on the revolving borrowing facility exists on December 31, 2014 (December 31, 2013: EUR 7.5 million). In addition to the credit facility, a local short-term loan amounted to EUR 3.4 million as of December 31, 2014. The table below shows the maturity profile of the Groups’s interestbearing liabilites including interests. 2014 2013 Carrying Carrying EUR thousand amount amount Less than six months 10,109 7,641 Between six and twelve months 5,164 91,672 Between one and two years 10,244 16 Between two and five years 40,220 – Total 65,737 99,329 Note 19 Employee benefit obligations The Group has employee benefit schemes in Italy and Phillippines in relation to termination indemnity and defined benefit pensions. A full actuarial valuation was carried out to December 31, 2014 by a qualified, independent actuary. There are no plan assets in connection with the pension plans in Italy and Philippines. Reconciliation to the statement of financial position EUR thousand Value at 2014 Value at 2013 Italy 2,372 2,147 Philippines 892 488 Present value of scheme liabilities 3,264 2,635 Analysis of the amount charged to operating profit 2014 2013 EUR thousand Italy Philippines Total Italy Philippines Total Current service cost – 182 182 – 102 102 Total operating charge – 182 182 – 102 102 Analysis of the amount credited to other finance costs 2014 2013 EUR thousand Italy Philippines Total Italy Philippines Total Interest on pension scheme ­liabilities 35 27 62 59 16 75 Total finance cost 35 27 62 59 16 75 Transcom Annual Report 2014 73 Notes and comments to the Consolidated financial statements Note 19 Employee benefit obligations (cont.) Major assumptions used by the actuary for the calculation of the defined benefit pension scheme 2014 2013 % Italy Philippines Italy Philippines Rate of increase in salaries 2.0 3.0 2.0 3.0 Discount rate 2.5 4.8 3.8 6.0 Assumptions regarding future mortality experience are set in accordance with published statistics and experience in each territory. Amount recognized in the statement of financial position – movement in deficit during the year 2014 2013 EUR thousand Italy Philippines Total Italy Norway Philippines Total As at January 1 2,147 487 2,635 2,069 765 – 2,834 Movement in the year Current service cost and settlements – 182 182 – – 102 102 Interest cost 35 27 62 59 – 16 75 Contributions 135 – 135 – – 277 277 Actuarial gains/losses from changes in ­demographic ­assumptions 211 44 254 132 – 144 276 Actuarial gains/losses from changes in financial assumptions – 57 57 – – – – Benefits paid -156 – -156 -113 – – -113 Cancellation – – – – -765 – -765 Translation difference – 94 94 – – -52 -52 As at December 31 2,372 892 3,264 2,147 0 487 2,634 The Italian liability should increase with EUR 25 thousand if the disThe liability in the Philippines should increase with EUR 145 thousand count rate should be lowered by 5 percent. An increase with the same if the discount rate should be lowered by 1 percent. An increase with percentage should lower the liability with EUR 24 thousand. If the inflathe same percentage should lower the liability with EUR 119 thousand. tion rate assumption in Italy should increase with 0.5 percent the liabiliIf the inflation rate assumption in the Philippines should increase with ty should be EUR 69 thousand higher, the correspondant decrease 1 percent the liability should be EUR 141 thousand higher, the correshould lower the liability with EUR 65 thousand. spondant decrease should lower the liability with EUR 117 thousand. 74 Transcom Annual Report 2014 Notes and comments to the Consolidated financial statements Note 20 Provisions Note 21 Other liabilities ReEUR thousand 2014 2013 Onerous Legal strucEUR thousand contracts claims turing Others Total VAT payable 6,472 7,942 As at January 1, 2014 268 2,480 1,729 324 4,801 Liabilities to public authorities 10,256 10,288 Movement during Client deposit related liabilities 2,823 8,493 the year Advances received from customers 1,794 1,319 –provisions made – 36 515 38 589 Other current liabilities 5,672 9,889 –provisions used -321 -1,584 -1,985 -39 -3,929 Total 27,017 37,931 –provisions reversed – -86 -90 -102 -278 –disposal of ­business* – -9 – -24 -33 Note 22 Accrued expenses Translation differences 96 145 246 -1 486 and prepaid income As at December 31, 2014 43 982 415 196 1,636 EUR thousand 2014 2013 Accrued staff related expenses 28,348 30,328 Non-current provisions – 110 – 25 135 Other accrued expenses* 20,134 21,183 Current provisions 43 872 415 171 1,501 Deferred income 1,391 415 Total 43 982 415 196 1,636 *For further information, see note 25. Total 49,873 51,926 * Other accrued expenses are mainly related to temporary agents, subconRetractors and rents. Onerous Legal strucEUR thousand contracts claims turing Others Total As at January 1, 2013 3,161 16,246 4,901 2,769 27,077 Movement during Note 23 Commitments and contingencies the year The Group has contingent liabilities related to litigations and legal –provisions made 51 2,661 7,082 84 9,878 claims arising in the ordinary course of business. –provisions used -2,187 -301 -7,756 -345 -10,589 The integrated worldwide nature of Transcom’s operations involves a significant level of intra-group transactions which can give rise to –provisions reversed – -5,133 – -4 -5,137 complexity and delays in agreeing the Group’s tax position with the –reclassification -1 -8,363 4 -829 -9,189 various tax authorities in the jurisdictions in which the Group operates. The Group occasionally faces tax audits which, in some cases, result in –disposal of disputes with tax authorities. During these tax audits, local tax authori­business* -730 -2,552 -2,458 -1,340 -7,080 ties may question or challenge the Group’s tax positions. Disputes with tax authorities can lead to litigations in front of several courts resulting Translation differences -26 -78 -44 -11 -159 in lengthy legal proceedings. As at December 31, As at December 31, 2014, there are six ongoing tax audits. Some of 2013 268 2,480 1,729 324 4,801 these tax enquiries have resulted in re-assessments, while others are still at an early stage and no re-assessment has yet been raised. Non-current provisions – 2,210 3 13 2,226 As at December 31, 2014 the Group has provided EUR 936 thousand (December 31, 2013: EUR 2,375 thousand) in relation to tax risks Current provisions 268 270 1,726 311 2,575 for which management believes it is probable that there will be cash Total 268 2,480 1,729 324 4,801 outflows. Furthermore, based on its analysis, its risk assessment as well as on-going tax audits in certain jurisdictions referred to above, *For further information, see note 25. management has estimated possible tax exposures of approximately EUR 1,860 thousand (December 31, 2013: nil) which have not been Provision which are not expected to be paid within the next 12 months provided for. have been classified as non-current liabilities. In addition to the above tax risks, the Group may be subject to other tax claims going forward for which the risk of future economic outflows Restructuring and others is currently evaluated to be remote. Please see note 25 for further details. Guarantees At December 31, 2014 the Group had outstanding bank guarantees for an amount of EUR 4.3 million (2013: EUR 3.6 million) with respect to performance and warranty guarantees mainly for the provision of services/rental agreements. The Company is also supporting its Group companies through guarantees issued in the normal course of business. Transcom Annual Report 2014 75 Notes and comments to the Consolidated financial statements Note 24 Financial instrument risk manageTranslation risk, results from the conversion of assets, liabilities, revenues and costs denominated in non-Euro reporting currencies, into the ment objectives and policies Group reporting currency, which is the Euro. In 2014, 51.7 percent (2013: 54 percent) of the Group’s sales were denominated in currenThe main risks arising from the Group’s financial instruments are cies other than the reporting currency of the Group. The Board has liquidity risk, credit/counterparty risk, foreign currency risk, and interest decided not to hedge these exposures as they do not constitute a direct rate risk. The Board of Directors reviews and agrees policies for mancash flow exposure. aging each of these risks which are summarized below. In terms of shareholders’ equity in the Group, a 10 percent change per December 31, 2014 of the exchange rate for the USD vs EUR would Management controls and procedures have affected shareholders’ equity in the Group with EUR -7.0 million, The Board has overall responsibility for the determination of the EUR -3.9 million against SEK and EUR -0.4 million against NOK. ExpoGroup’s risk management objectives and policies with the objective to sures in other currencies would have had an immaterial impact for the set policies that seek to reduce risk as far as possible, without unduly Group. affecting the Group’s competitiveness and flexibility. It has delegated the authority for designing and operating the associated processes to Credit / Counterparty risk the Group’s treasury department. With respect to credit risk arising from the financial assets of the Risk exposures are monitored and reported to management on a Group, which comprise balances from credit sales and cash and cash quarterly basis, together with required actions when tolerance limits equivalents, the Group’s exposure to credit risk arises from default of are exceeded. the counterparty, with a maximum exposure equal to the carrying value For the presentation of market risks, IFRS 13 requires sensitivity of these instruments. analysis that shows the effects of hypothetical changes of relevant risk Prior to accepting new accounts and wherever practicable, credit variables on the income statement and shareholders’ equity. checks are performed using a reputable external source. Credit risk is reviewed monthly by Executive management, and corrective action is Interest rate risk taken if pre-agreed limits are exceeded. Bank counterparty risk is mitiThe Group’s exposure to the risk of changes in market interest rates gated by concentrating the Group’s cash management activity with a relates primarily to the Group’s revolving credit facility. The interest on limited number of top tier banks in each of the Group’s regions. each loan under the facility agreement for each term is calculated as Further analysis on gross trade debtors, provisions and ageing of the aggregate of the Interbank offered rate (IBOR) plus a margin based net trade debtors are provided in note 13. The maximum exposure to on the basis of the consolidated total net debt to consolidated EBITDA. credit risk is represented by the carrying amount of each financial asset Interest rate risk is not hedged today, neither through derivative on the statement of financial position. financial instruments or otherwise. If the EUR interest rates increase by 10 percent it will have an effect Liquidity risk on the profit by EUR 218 thousand and if the USD interest rates Liquidity risk arises from the Group’s management of its working capiincrease by 10 percent it have an effect on the profit by EUR 49 thoutal as well as the finance charges and principal repayments on its debt sand. This with all other variables held constant of the Group’s profit instruments. before tax (through the impact on floating rate borrowings). There is no The Group monitors this risk using a consolidated cash flow model material impact on the Group’s equity. in order to identify peaks and needs in liquidity and identify benefits which can be attained by controlled placement and utilization of availForeign exchange risk able funds. The following exchange rates have been used to translate the transacA significant mitigating factor of the Group’s liquidity risk is the tions in foreign currency to Euro in the financial statements. unused proportion of the Revolving Credit facility agreement as disclosed in note 18, as well as other financing sources which may be implemented from time to time by the Group. The unused proportion Foreign exchange rates of the Credit Facility at December 31, 2014 was EUR 9,8 million 2014 2013 (December 31, 2013: EUR 7,5 million). Average Closing Average Closing Currency rate rate rate rate US Dollar, USD 1.33 1.21 1.33 1.38 Swedish Krona, SEK 9.10 9.39 8.66 8.86 Norwegian Krona, NOK 8.39 9.04 7.82 8.36 As an international company, the Group is subject to foreign exchange risks of two different types: Transactional risk, which may occur when the Group invoices clients in one currency and must pay its costs in another currency. The Group seeks to minimise these movements by matching the currency of revenue with the currency of costs, by negotiating pricing adjustments and/ or indexation of contracts to foreign exchange rates, and by implementing hedging instruments on a case-by-case basis, under close supervision of the Board and Audit Committee. Main exposure for the Group is in the Philippines with exposures in PHP vs USD as well as PHP vs GBP. At closing of the 2014 accounts, no hedging instruments are in place. 76 Transcom Annual Report 2014 Notes and comments to the Consolidated financial statements Note 24 Financial instrument risk management objectives and policies (cont.) Classification of the Group’s financial assets and liabilities 2014 2013 Financial Financial liabilities Total liabilities Total Loans and at amor­carrying Loans and at amor­carrying EUR thousand receivables tized cost amount Fair value receivables tized cost amount Fair value Financial assets Other receivables 1,534 – 1,534 1,534 1,143 – 1,143 1,143 Total non-current financial assets 1,534 – 1,534 1,534 1,143 – 1,143 1,143 Trade receivables 91,935 – 91,935 91,935 98,557 – 98,557 98,557 Other receivables incl. accrued income 37,568 – 37,568 37,568 38,659 – 38,659 38,659 Cash and cash e­ quivalents 38,173 – 38,173 38,173 58,362 – 58,362 58,362 Total current ­financial assets 167,676 – 167,676 167,676 195,578 – 195,578 195,578 Total financial assets 169,210 – 169,210 169,210 196,721 – 196,721 196,721 Financial liabilities Interest-bearing ­liabilities – 48,041 48,041 48,853 – 16 16 16 Total non-current financial liabilities – 48,041 48,041 48,853 – 16 16 16 Interest-bearing ­liabilities – 14,713 14,713 14,713 – 94,425 94,425 95,005 Trade payables – 27,279 27,279 27,279 – 25,562 25,562 25,562 Other liabilities incl. accrued expenses – 57,005 57,005 57,005 – 69,893 69,893 69,893 Total current fi­ nancial liabilities – 98,997 98,997 98,997 – 189,880 189,880 190,460 Total financial ­liabilities – 147,038 147,038 147,850 – 189,896 189,896 190,476 Maturity profile of the Group’s financial assets and liabilities based on contractual undiscounted payments 2014 2013 Carrying Carrying EUR thousand <1 year 1–5 years >5 years amount <1 year 1–5 years >5 years amount Financial assets Other receivables – 1,534 – 1,534 – 1,143 – 1,143 Total non-current financial assets – 1,534 – 1,534 – 1,143 – 1,143 Trade receivables 91,935 – – 91,935 98,557 – – 98,557 Other receivables incl. accrued income 37,568 – – 37,568 38,659 – – 38,659 Cash and cash e­ quivalents 38,173 – – 38,173 58,362 – – 58,362 Total current ­financial assets 167,676 – – 167,676 195,578 – – 195,578 Total financial assets 167,676 1,534 – 169,210 195,578 1,143 – 196,721 Financial liabilities Interest-bearing ­liabilities – 50,464 – 50,464 – 16 – 16 Total non-current financial liabilities – 50,464 – 50,464 – 16 – 16 Interest-bearing ­liabilities 15,273 – – 15,273 99,313 – – 99,313 Trade payables 27,279 – – 27,279 25,562 – – 25,562 Other liabilities incl. accrued expenses 57,005 – – 57,005 69,893 – – 69,893 Total current fi­ nancial liabilities 99,557 – – 99,557 194,768 – – 194,768 Total financial ­liabilities 99,557 50,464 – 150,021 194,768 16 – 194,784 Transcom Annual Report 2014 77 Notes and comments to the Consolidated financial statements Note 25 Significant disposals and In July 31, 2014, Transcom closed the divestment of its Austrian Credit Management Services operations (CMS Austria) to the private equity ­restructuring investor HANNOVER Finanz Group, for EUR 15.0 million on a cash and debt free basis. In Q2 2014, when the agreement was signed, Transcom recorded an adjustment to fair value less costs to sell of 2014 EUR 1.9 million classified as Gain/loss on disposals of operating unit. EUR thousand Poland Austria Germany Total Total assets disposed included goodwill of EUR 14.1 million. Net cash Consideration received 2,000 15,000 – 17,000 flow from disposals of CMS Austria amounted to EUR 12,108 thousand. In May, 2014 Transcom divested its Polish and Czech CMS business Goodwill -230 -14,154 – -14,384 to Credit Express Group for EUR 2.0 million on a cash and debt free Intangible assets – -657 – -657 basis (including an escrow balance of EUR 0.6 million that will be released 6 months after the closing upon fulfillment of contractual conTangible assets -51 -145 – -196 ditions). Net capital gain of EUR 0.6 million was recorded in Q2 2014. Deferred tax assets -5 -90 – -95 A post-settlement adjustment of the 2013 divestment of CMS Germany was recorded in Q4 2014 of EUR -215 thousand. The adjustment Receivables -469 -2,670 – -3,139 had no cash effect in 2014. Transcom CMS Forderungsmanagement Cash and cash equivalents -1,097 -2,390 – -3,487 GmbH was divested in December 2013 and the company had a turnover of EUR 9.0 million in 2012. The disposals resulted in a loss Provisions 33 – – 33 amounting to EUR 1.1 million in 2013. Deferred tax liabilities – 516 – 516 In the third quarter 2013, Transcom divested its operations in Belgium. The contribution of Transcom’s former Belgian entity to Group Other liabilities 725 3,180 – 3,905 results is not material. In the fiscal year 2012, this entity reported reveNet carrying value of assets nues amounting to EUR 4.2 million. and liabilities disposed -1,094 -16,410 – -17,504 In 2010, Transcom’s Board of Directors approved the disposals of two French sites located in Roanne and Tulle. In April and June 2011, Currency effects -144 29 – -115 Transcom entered into a definitive agreement to divest these sites and transfered ownership of the site and its business. In August 2013, Transaction costs -162 -502 – -664 Transcom signed a EUR 5.3 million settlement agreement, releasing Post-settlement adjustment – – -215 -215 the company from any further liabilities with respect to the liquidation of its former loss-making French subsidiary. Net capital gain/loss 600 -1,883 -215 -1,498 Restructuring costs Consideration received 2,000 15,000 – 17,000 During the first quarter of 2014, the Group recorded EUR 0.5 million in Cash and cash equivalents restructuring costs. These costs are related to the reorganization of the ­disposed -1,097 -2,390 – -3,487 CMS units in Sweden and Denmark. During the first quarter of 2013, the Group recorded EUR 6.0 million Transaction costs -162 -502 – -664 in restructuring costs. These costs are mainly related to the settlement Net cash flow from disposals agreement connected with the closure of Transcom’s former subsidiary of subsidiary 741 12,108 – 12,849 in France, Transcom WorldWide (France) S.A.S. as well as the movement of Transcoms Head office from Luxembourg to Sweden. During the fourth quarter of 2013, restructuring costs amounting to 2013 EUR 1.0 million was recorded for the closure of the Norrköping site in EUR thousand Germany France Belgium Total Sweden and the Valdivia site in Chile. Consideration received 9,000 – 650 9,650 Goodwill -5,889 – – -5,889 Intangible assets – -9 – -9 Tangible assets -485 -163 -68 -716 Investments -212 – – -212 Receivables -3,360 -2,011 -28 -5,399 Cash and cash equivalents -1,405 -1,483 – -2,888 Provisions 379 6,701 – 7,080 Other liabilities 2,874 6,191 – 9,065 Net carrying value of assets and liabilities disposed -8,098 9,226 -96 1,032 Write-off of intercompany ­balances – -3,267 – -3,267 Transaction costs -1,981 – -306 -2,287 Net capital gain/loss -1,079 5,959 248 5,128 Consideration received 9,000 – 650 9,650 Cash and cash equivalents ­disposed -1,405 -1,483 – -2,888 Transaction costs -1,981 – -306 -2,287 Net cash flow from disposals of subsidiary 5,614 -1,483 344 4,475 78 Transcom Annual Report 2014 Notes and comments to the Consolidated financial statements Note 26 Related party transactions Note 27 Events after the reporting period Investment AB Kinnevik and subsidiaries are significant shareholders February 5, 2015 Transcom announced that it is strengthening its of the Group as well as Tele2 Group and MTG Group. Accordingly, Executive management team in order to increase focus and accountthese companies have been regarded as related parties to the Group. ability in areas of vital importance to the company’s continued success. Business relations between Transcom WorldWide and all closely relatTranscom’s Executive management team will now include a Chief ed parties are subject to commercial terms and conditions. Operating Officer (COO), a Chief Commercial Officer (CCO) and an HR Director. EUR thousand 2014 2013 Pär Christiansen has been appointed new COO, with overall responsibility for Transcom’s Group-wide operational processes. As part of his Revenues new role, Pär will also assume overall responsibility for global IT operaTele2 companies 108,306 104,917 tions. A Chief Commercial Officer (CCO) will be added to the executive MTG Group companies 5,275 15,721 team. The CCO will be responsible for further strengthening TransOthers 312 209 com’s position as a strategic partner for our clients. The search for Transcom’s new CCO is underway. In the interim, Roberto Boggio is assuming the CCO role, in addition to his role as General Manager for Operating expenses the Central & South Europe region. Tele2 companies -415 -1,566 The new Group HR Director will be responsible for implementing Transcom’s human resources strategy across its global organization. MTG Group companies – – The search for a new HR Director has started. Others – -303 Transcom also announced that the company has adopted a set of mid-term financial targets. Transcom’s mid-term targets are: Trade receivables • Like-for-like revenue growth of at least 5 percent per year • EBIT margin of at least 5 percent Tele2 companies 16,421 17,959 • Net debt/EBITDA ratio of maximum 1.0. Provided that the net debt/EBITDA target is met, Transcom would MTG Group companies 723 865 be in a financial position to start paying a dividend in 2016, i.e. for the Others 173 223 2015 financial year. February 27, 2015 it was announced that Ulrik Englund has been Trade payables appointed as Chief Financial Officer (CFO). Ulrik Englund will take up his position as CFO at Transcom on June 15, 2015. Pär Christiansen, Tele2 companies -87 -123 the Company’s current CFO will remain as CFO until Mr Englund MTG Group companies – – begins his position as Transcom’s new CFO. Mr Christiansen will then take up his position as COO. Others -1 -241 March 20, 2015 Transcom announced that funds advised by Altor Fund Manager AB have acquired 6.4 million shares in Transcom, corresponding to 24.5 percent of the ordinary shares, from Investment AB On March 20, 2015 Investment AB Kinnevik divested 6.4 million Kinnevik. Following this transaction, Investment AB Kinnevik will retain shares in Transcom, to Altor Fund Manager AB. Per this date, Invest1.9 million shares in Transcom, corresponding to 7.4 percent of the ment AB Kinnevik and subsidiaries ceased to be defined as related ordinary shares. ­party. Transcom Annual Report 2014 79 Parent Company financial statements Parent Company Income statement for the year ended December 31, 2014 EUR thousand Note 2014 2013 Revenue A2, A3, A17 22,096 17,920 Cost of sales A3, A4 -22,010 -17,766 Gross profit 86 154 Administrative expenses A4, A5, A6, A11, A17 -9,592 – Other operating income 9 219 Other operating expenses -150 – Operating profit/loss A17 -9,647 373 Result from participations in Group companies A7 13,134 – Interest income and similar items A8 6,052 – Interest expenses and similar items A8 -3,824 -1 Profit/loss before appropriations 5,715 372 Appropriations A9 4,883 – Profit/loss before tax 10,598 372 Income tax expense A10 -1,188 -73 Profit/loss for the year* 9,410 299 *Net profit corresponds with total comprehensive income 80 Transcom Annual Report 2014 Parent Company financial statements Parent Company Balance sheet for the year ended December 31, 2014 EUR thousand Note 2014 2013 ASSETS Non-current assets Intangible assets A12 3,495 – Tangible assets A13 167 13 Financial assets Investments in Group companies A14 92,779 – Receivables from Group companies 29,588 – Other receivables 243 – Total financial assets 122,610 – Total non-current assets 126,272 13 Current assets Receivables Trade receivables A15, A20 1,480 777 Receivables from Group companies 206,534 20,041 Other receivables A20 1,040 – Prepaid expenses and accrued income A16, A20 717 13 Total receivables 209,771 20,831 Cash and cash equivalents A20 7,206 – Total current assets 216,977 20,831 TOTAL ASSETS A17 343,249 20,844 Transcom Annual Report 2014 81 Parent Company financial statements Parent Company Balance sheet (continued) for the year ended December 31, 2014 EUR thousand Note 2014 2013 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Equity Restricted equity Share capital (26,706,584 shares, quota value EUR 2.10 per share) 56,084 55 Total restricted equity 56,084 55 Unrestricted equity Retained earnings -6,719 – Net result 9,410 299 Total unrestricted equity 2,691 299 Total equity A17, A18 58,775 354 Non-current liabilities Interest-bearing liabilities A19, A20 47,509 – Liabilities to Group companies 43,731 – Total non-current liabilities 91,240 – Current liabilities Interest-bearing liabilities A19, A20 11,600 – Trade payables 2,189 208 Liabilities to Group companies 176,496 19,369 Income tax payables 615 26 Other liabilities A20 474 609 Accrued expenses and prepaid income A21 1,860 278 Total current liabilities 193,234 20,490 Total liabilities 284,474 20,490 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES A17 343,249 20,844 Pledged assets None None Contingent liabilities for Group companies 23 19,128 None 82 Transcom Annual Report 2014 Parent Company financial statements Parent Company Statement of changes in equity for the year ended December 31, 2014 Number of Retained Number of shares held by ­earnings incl. shares the Parent Share Profit/loss EUR thousand Note ­(thousand) ­(thousand) capital for the year Total equity As at January 1, 2014 1,279 – 55 299 354 Profit/loss for the year – – – 9,410 9,410 Shareholder contribution – – – 1,300 1,300 Merger A17, A18 1,301,582 1,384 55,968 -8,663 47,305 Reverse split A18 -1,276,803 -1,356 – – – Issue of C class shares A18 649 – 1,396 – 1,396 Repurchase of C class shares A18 – 649 – -1,396 -1,396 Impact of change of nominal value A18 – – -1,335 1,335 0 Share-based payments 17 – – – 406 406 As at December 31, 2014 26,707 677 56,084 2,691 58,775 As at January 1, 2013 1,279 – 55 – 55 Profit/loss for the year – – – 299 299 As at December 31, 2013 1,279 – 55 299 354 Transcom Annual Report 2014 83 Parent Company financial statements Parent Company Statement of cash flows for the year ended December 31, 2014 EUR thousand Note 2014 2013 Cash flows from operating activities Profit/loss before tax 5,715 373 Adjustments to reconcile profit before tax to net cash: Depreciation and amortization A11 1,576 2 Result from disposals of Group companies A7 -74 – Other non-cash adjustments – -230 Share-based payments, expense 406 – Interest income/expenses and similar items -2,220 -1 Income taxes paid -1,403 -47 Cash flows from operating activities before changes in working capital 4,000 97 Changes in working capital Change in operating receivables 140,246 -20,601 Change in operating liabilities -106,623 20,463 Changes in working capital 33,623 -138 Net cash flow from operating activities 37,623 -41 Cash flows from investing activities Investment in Group companies -50 – Sale of Group companies 2,838 – Investments in tangible assets A13 -6 -15 Investments in intangible assets A12 -1,565 – Investment in financial assets -243 – Net cash flow from investing activities 974 -15 Cash flows from financing activities Repayment of borrowings -37,200 – Interest paid -4,107 – Net cash flow from financing activities -41,307 – Net cash flow for the year -2,710 -56 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of the year – 56 Cash and cash equivalents from Merger 9,916 – Net cash flow for the year -2,710 -56 Cash and cash equivalents at end of the year* 7,206 0 * Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year corresponds in total of cash. 84 Transcom Annual Report 2014 Notes and comments to the Parent Company financial statements Parent Company Notes to the financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2014 Note A1 Parent Company’s accounting Note A2 Revenues per market and valuation policies Revenue Transcom WorldWide AB (publ) (“Parent Company”) corporate id number 556880-1277 is a registered company domiciled in Stockholm, EUR thousand 2014 2013 Sweden. The address of the Company’s headquarter is Rålambsvägen Europe 17,346 13,753 17, SE-112 59 Stockholm. On November 26, 2014, Transcom’s executed a re-domiciliation to Sweden from Luxembourg through a merger Asia 3,029 2,510 between the former parent entity Transcom WorldWide S.A. and its Africa 376 581 subsidiary Transcom WorldWide AB (publ). During 10-12 December 2014, Transcom executed a 1:50 reverse split of the ordinary share of North America 710 639 the Company following the re-domiciliation. Disclosures of the merger South America 635 437 and the reversed split are presented in notes A17 and A18. The Parent Company has prepared and presented the annual report Total 22,096 17,920 according to the Annual Accounts Act (1995:1554) and recommendation RFR 2 Accounting for legal entities from the Swedish Financial Reporting Board. RFR 2 means that the Parent Company, in the annual report for the legal entity, must apply all EU-approved IFRS and stateNote A3 Intra-group revenues and ments as far as possible within the framework of the Annual Accounts Act and taking into account the connection between reporting and taxcost of sales ation. The recommendation specifies exemptions and additions relative to IFRS. % 2014 2013 The financial statements pertain January 1–December 31 for income statement items and December 31 for balance sheet items. Intra-group revenues out of total 56 68 The financial statements are presented in Euros wich is the Com­ Intra-group cost of sales out of total 79 73 pany’s presentation currency, rounded in thousands of Euro. Due to the merger, the Income statement includes the former parent entity for the period January 1 to November 26, 2014. Assets and liaIntra-group prices are on an arm’s length basis in a manner similar to bilities in the former parent entity were transferred to the new parent transactions with third parties. An appropriate mark-up is being applied entity per November 26, 2014. Year 2013 the Income statement and according to Transcom’s Transfer Pricing Policy, in order to encourage the Balance sheet are excluding the former parent entity. For further use of Group resources. information of the effect of the merger, please see note A17. In 2014 Cost of Sales includes costs related to inter-company sales. The comparative figures have been changed accordingly, no impact on Operating profit/loss. The Parent Company applies the same accounting principles as the Group except in the cases stated below. (a) Group companies Shares in Group companies are recognized by the Parent Company at cost, including transaction costs less any impairment. Dividend received from Group companies is recognized as income. (b) Dividend from Group companies and Group ­contributions Dividend received from Group companies is recognized as financial income. Group contributions received and paid are recognized as appropriations. Transcom Annual Report 2014 85 Notes and comments to the Parent Company financial statements Note A4 Employees Salaries, other remuneration and social security charges 2014 2013 Board of D ­ irectors Board of D ­ irectors and Executive Other and Executive Other EUR thousand ­management employees Total ­management employees Total Salaries 1,414 1,599 3,013 33 358 391 Other remunerations 770 729 1,499 – – – Pension expenses 294 313 607 – 39 39 Social security charges* 1,501 121 Total 2,478 2,641 6,620 33 398 552 * Social charges is only reported for the total amount of the remunerations. Salaries and other remuneration to the Board, CEO and other Executive Managers, see note 4 for the Group. Personnel expenses are recognized in the following line items in the income statement: EUR thousand 2014 2013 Cost of sales 1,232 552 Administrative expenses 5,388 – Total 6,620 552 Average number of employees 2014 2013 Women Men Total Women Men Total Sweden 13 5 18 9 5 14 Total 13 5 18 9 5 14 Note A5 Leases Operating leases as a lessee EUR thousand 2014 2013 Operating leasing costs Premises 27 Cars Total 27 Generally, the Parent Company’s lease contracts require deposits and certain provisions for inflation-indexed rental increases. Future payments for rent on non-cancellable leases for premises at December 31, are as follows: EUR thousand 2014 2013 Between Between Less than one and Less than one and Future leasing costs one year five years Total one year five years Total Premises 27 6 33 Cars 40 45 85 Total 67 51 118 86 Transcom Annual Report 2014 Notes and comments to the Parent Company financial statements Note A6 Remuneration to auditors Note A10 Taxes In 2014 Transcom WorldWide AB (publ) is the new Parent Company of Income tax expense the Transcom Group and remuneration to auditors 2014 includes audit of consolidated accounts. EUR thousand 2014 2013 Current income tax on profit/loss for the year -1,198 -73 EUR thousand 2014 Adjustments in respect of prior years 10 – Ernst & Young Current taxes -1,188 -73 Audit fees according to audit assignment 186 Other audit related fees 70 Effective tax rate A reconciliation of the statutory tax rate to the Company’s effective tax Non audit 9 rate applicable to income from continuous operations was: Total 265 EUR thousand 2014 % 2013 % Profit/Loss before tax 10,598 – 371 – Weighted tax rate for Sweden, Note A7 Result from participations in Luxembourg and Switzerland Group companies 28.1 % (22.0 % Sweden) -2,973 -28.1 -81 -21.8 Internal dividend not taxable 3,914 36.9 Financial income Non-deductible expenses -307 -2.9 -1 -0.3 EUR thousand 2014 2013 Adjustments in respect of Dividend from Group companies 13,060 – ­prior years 10 0.1 – – Net gain from disposals of Tax losses current year Group companies 74 – (not recognized in BS) -1,613 -15.2 – – Total 13,134 – Losses utilized for which no deferred tax assets were ­previously recognized 427 4.0 9 2.4 Witholding tax -593 -5.6 – – Note A8 Interest income/expense and ­similar items Other tax not at standard rate -29 -0.3 – – Other -24 -0.2 – – Interest income and similar items Income tax expense -1,188 -11.2 -73 -19.7 EUR thousand 2014 2013 Interest income on bank deposits 8 – Interest income Group companies 4,539 – Note A11 Amortization, depreciation and Foreign exchange gain, net 1,505 – ­impairment Total 6,052 – Amortization and depreciation Interest expense and similar items EUR thousand 2014 2013 Interest expense on bank borrowings -2,759 – Development costs 597 – Interest expense Group companies -310 – Other intangibles 828 – Other interest expense -81 – Fixture and fittings 2 – Other financing costs -674 -1 Computer hardware and software 123 – Total -3,824 -1 Office improvements 27 2 Total 1,576 2 Note A9 Appropriations Amortization and depreciation are recognized in the following line items in the income statement: EUR thousand 2014 2013 Appropriations EUR thousand 2014 2013 Administrative expenses 1,576 2 Group contribution 4,883 – Total 1,576 2 Total 4,883 – Transcom Annual Report 2014 87 Notes and comments to the Parent Company financial statements Note A12 Intangible assets Development costs Costs associated with maintaining computer software programs are recognized as an expense as incurred. Development costs that are directly attributable to the design and testing of identiﬁable and unique Cost software products controlled by the Group are recognized as intangible Developassets when the following criteria are met: EUR thousand ment cost Others Total • it is technically feasible to complete the software product so that As at January 1, 2014 – – – it will be available for use; • management intends to complete the software product and use Merge 13,205 9 13,214 or sell it; Investments 706 859 1,565 • there is an ability to use or sell the software product; • it can be demonstrated how the software product will generate As at December 31, 2014 13,911 868 14,780 probable future economic beneﬁts; • adequate technical, ﬁnancial and other resources to complete the development and to use or sell the software product are available; Accumulated amortization and impairment and As at January 1, 2014 – – – • the expenditure attributable to the software product during its ­development can be reliably measured. Merge -9,855 -6 -9,861 Amortization for the year -597 -828 -1,424 Directly attributable costs that are capitalized as part of the software product, include the software development employee costs and an As at December 31, 2014 -10,452 -834 -11,285 appropriate portion of relevant overheads. Carrying value as at December 31, 2014 3,460 35 3,495 Other development expenditures that do not meet these criteria are recognized as an expense as incurred. Development costs previously recognized as an expense are not recognized as an asset in a subsequent period. Computer software development costs recognized as assets are amortized over their estimated useful lives, which is between 3 to 5 years. Note A13 Tangible assets Cost Telephone Fixtures Computer hardOffice EUR thousand switch and fittings ware and software ­improvements Total As at January 1, 2014 0 6 3 6 15 Merge 257 427 1,793 492 2,969 Investments – 6 – – 6 As at December 31, 2014 257 439 1,796 498 2,990 Accumulated amortization and impairment As at January 1, 2014 – – – -2 -2 Merge -257 -427 -1,525 -460 -2,669 Depreciation for the year – -2 -123 -27 -152 As at December 31, 2014 -257 -429 -1,648 -489 -2,823 Carrying value as at December 31, 2014 0 10 148 9 167 Cost As at January 1, 2013 – – – – – Investments – 6 3 6 15 As at December 31, 2013 – 6 3 6 15 Accumulated amortization and impairment As at January 1, 2013 – – – – – Depreciation for the year – – – -2 -2 As at December 31, 2013 – – – -2 -2 Carrying value as at December 31, 2013 – 6 3 4 13 88 Transcom Annual Report 2014 Notes and comments to the Parent Company financial statements Note A14 Investments in Group companies 2014 Booked Capital/ value voting Country of Corporate EUR interest Group Company incorporation Domicile ­identity ­number thousand (%) Transcom WorldWide GmbH Austria Vienna 37 100 Transcom WorldWide Belgium S.A. Belgium Milmort 100 100 Transcom WorldWide (North America) Inc. Canada St.Catharine’s 22,907 100 Transcom Insurance Agency Inc. Canada St.Catharine’s NuComm International Philippines Inc. Philippines Pasig City Transcom WorldWide Chile Limitada Chile Santiago de Chile 19 100 TWW Colombia SAS Colombia Cali 6 100 Transcom WorldWide d.o.o. Croatia Osijek 3 100 IK Transcom Europe GmbH Germany Düsseldorf 26 100 Transcom WorldWide GmbH Germany Rostock 13,422 100 Transcom Halle GmbH Germany Halle Transcom Rostock GmbH Germany Rostock Transcom Services GmbH Germany Rostock CEE Holding Kft. Hungary Budapest 100 Transcom Hungary Kft. Hungary Budapest 2,000 100 Transcom WorldWide SpA Italy Milan 4,103 100 SIA Transcom WorldWide Latvia Latvia Riga 4 100 Transcom WorldWide Vilnius UAB Lithuania Vilnius 3 100 Transcom WorldWide Luxembourg S.a.r.l. Luxembourg Howald 13 100 Transcom Europe Holding B.V. The Netherlands Amsterdam 28,874 100 Transcom AB Sweden Karlskoga 556201-3234 Transcom Denmark A/S Denmark Vordingborg Transcom Eesti OÜ Estonia Tallinn Transcom Finland OY Finland Helsinki Transcom Norge AS Norway Rolvsoy Transcom Collection AS Norway Oslo Transcom AS Norway Rolvsoy Transcom WorldWide B.V. The Netherlands Groningen 18 100 Transcom WorldWide (Australia) Pty Ltd Australia Sydney Transcom WorldWide (Philippines) Holding, Inc. Philippines Pasig City Transcom WorldWide (Philippines), Inc. Philippines Pasig City Transcom WorldWide Peru S.A.C. Peru Lima 0 100 Transcom WorldWide Poland Sp. z o.o. Poland Olsztyn 11 100 TWW Serviços de Helpline e de Atendimento Telefónico Lda Portugal Vila Nova de Famalicão 5 100 Transcom WorldWide D.O.O. Beograd Serbia Beograd 50 100 Transcom WorldWide Spain S.L.U. Spain Madrid 12,849 100 Transcom WorldWide Global S.L. Spain Madrid 3 100 Transcom Credit Management Services AB Sweden Karlskoga 556045-6666 7,407 100 Transcom CMS A/S Denmark Albertslund CIS International GmbH Germany Tönisvorst Transcom Financial Services AS Norway Oslo CIS Concept AS Norway Oslo Transvoice Sweden AB Sweden Karlskoga 556653-6370 178 100 Stockholms Tolkförmedling AB Sweden Stockholm 556482-8654 Tolkoch språktjänst i Östergötland AB Sweden Norrköping 556658-1368 Transcom Annual Report 2014 89 Notes and comments to the Parent Company financial statements Note A14 Investments in Group companies (cont.) 2014 Booked Capital/ value voting Country of Corporate­ EUR interest Group Company incorporation Domicile identity ­number thousand (%) Transcom WorldWide AG Switzerland Zurich 100 Transcom WorldWideTunisie Sarl Tunisia Tunis 1 100 Transcom WorldWide (UK) Limited* United Kingdom St Albans, Herts 567 100 Top Up Mortgages Limited United Kingdom St Albans, Herts Newman & Company Limited United Kingdom Leeds 174 100 Cloud 10 Corp United States Denver 100 Transcom WorldWide (US) Inc. United States Delaware 100 Total 92,779 * The Group companies in United Kingdom are exempt from the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 relating to the audits of its respectively ­individual accounts. Cost EUR thousand 2014 2013 As at January 1 – – Merger 156,891 – Investments 50 – As at December 31 156,941 – Accumulated impairment As at January 1 – – Merger -64,162 – As at December 31 -64,162 – Carrying value as at December 31 92,779 – Note A15 Trade receivables The carrying value less impairment of trade receivables is assumed to approximate the fair value. Per December 31, 2014 no trade receivables was overdue and no provision for impairment has been recorded (2013: nil) Note A16 Prepaid expenses and accrued income EUR thousand 2014 2013 Prepaid staff related expenses 235 – Prepaid insurance 8 – Prepaid IT-related expenses 467 13 Other prepaid expenses 7 – Total 717 13 90 Transcom Annual Report 2014 Notes and comments to the Parent Company financial statements Note A17 Merger Merger, reverse split and C class shares As merger consideration, Transcom WorldWide AB (publ) issued 1 new Ordinary share for each Class A Ordinary share issued by Transcom On November 26, 2014, Transcom’s executed a re-domiciliation to WorldWide S.A and 1.09 new Ordinary share for each Class B PreferSweden from Luxembourg through a merger between the former ence share issued by Transcom WorldWide S.A. Transcom WorldWide ­parent entity Transcom WorldWide S.A. (RCS B59528) and its subsidAB (publ), had before the merger 1,279,070 Ordinary shares (quota iary Transcom WorldWide AB (publ) (org.no 556880-1277). Transcom value 0.043EUR) which maintained as treasury shares by the Company WorldWide AB (publ) is per November 26, 2014 the new Parent Comafter the merger. pany of Transcom Group. Revenue and operating result of the former ­parent entity included Class A Ordinary shares, in the new Parent Company’s income statement for the year up until Transcom WorldWide S.A, before merger 622,767,823 merger date amounted to EUR 133 thousand EUR -5,396 thousand respectively. Merger costs amounting to EUR 1.1 million was reported Class B Preference shares, in the new Parent Company in the caption Administrative expenses. Transcom WorldWide S.A, before merger 622,764,910 Assets and liabilities in the former ­parent entity before the merger Ordinary shares, are stated in the table below. Transcom WorldWide AB (publ), before merger 1,279,070 Ordinary shares, November 26, 2014 Transcom WorldWide S.A. Transcom WorldWide AB (publ), after merger 1,302,860,600 Investments in Group companies 94,127 Share capital, Transcom WorldWide AB (publ), Receivables from Group companies 31,311 before merger (EUR thousand) 55 Other non-current assets 3,630 Share capital, Transcom WorldWide S.A, Receivables from Group companies 199,698 before merger (EUR thousand) 53,558 Cash and cash equivalents 11,175 Share capital after merger (EUR thousand) 56,023 Share capital, adjustment (EUR thousand) 2,410 Other current assets 933 Liabilities to Group companies -47,303 During 10–12 December, 2014 Transcom WorldWide AB (publ) Interest-bearing liabilities -53,578 executed a 1:50 reverse split of the ordinary share of the Company following the re-domiciliation. Other non-current liabilities -3,310 Liabilities to Group companies -165,720 Number of shares after reverse split 1:50 26,057,212 Other current liabilities -13,380 Share capital (EUR thousand) 56,023 Net assets 57,583 Quota value (EUR) 2.15 Loss for the period -8,746 At December 15, 2014 the Company issued and repurchased C class Elimination shares in shares for future distribution for long-term incentive plans. In addition, Transcom WorldWide AB (publ) -1,532 a change of nominal value to EUR 2.10 was made. 47,305 Issue of C class shares 649,372 Share capital (EUR thousand) 56,084 Note A18 Equity Quota value (EUR) 2.10 Transcom’s share capital as of 31 December 2014 was distributed among 26,706,584 shares with a nominal value of EUR 2.10 per share. Distribution by class of shares was as follows Number of Number of Nominal value shares votes (thousand) Outstanding Ordinary shares 26,029,541 26,029,541 54,662 Ordinary shares in own custody 27,671 – 58 Class C shares in own custody 649,372 – 1,364 Registered number of shares 26,706,584 26,029,541 56,084 All shares entitle to one vote each (regardless of class). The Company holds 27,671 ordinary shares and 649,372 shares of class C of its own shares. The Company cannot exercise the voting rights connected to the shares held in its own custody. Shares of class C do not entitle to dividend. In case the Company is dissolved, shares of class C entitle to an equal right with ordinary shares to the Company’s assets. Such right is, however, limited to a maximum amount corresponding to the share’s nominal value enumerated on the day of distribution with an interest factor. Transcom Annual Report 2014 91 Notes and comments to the Parent Company financial statements Note A19 Interest-bearing liabilities Note A20 Financial instrument risk ­management objectives EUR thousand 2014 2013 and policies EUR revolving credit facility 41,800 – Financial risks are mainly market risks (incl. currency risk and interest USD revolving credit facility 18,121 – rate risk), credit risk and liquidity risk. The risk management policy, adopted by the Board of Directors, aims to minimize the adverse Unamortized transaction costs -812 – impact on financial results and positions. Total 59,109 – Currency risk Sales occur mainly in the accounting currency EUR while the purchases On Janaury 22, 2014 a new credit facility was signed. It is a 3-year synmainly are in SEK and EUR. dicated credit facility of EUR 103.8 million composed of three tranches; At the end of the year, the company was exposed to exchange-rate the first being a EUR 40 million term loan expiring on January 21, 2017; risk pertaining primarily to receivables and liabilities to Group compathe second being a EUR 55 million revolving credit facility expiring also nies. Should exchange rates for all currencies be 5 percent higher/lower, on January 21, 2017; whilst the third was a term loan expiring on Octothe impact on earnings would be -/+ EUR 578 thousand based on expober 21, 2014. Interest rates are based on IBOR and EURIBOR for Euro sure on the ­balance-sheet date. drawings plus margins which may vary albeit based on the Transcom’s Consolidated Gross Debt to Consolidated EBITDA ratio. The Company Interest rate risk is also committed under this agreement to maintain certain financial Interest rate risk pertains to changes to the market rate of interest ratios within agreed limits. The loan is unsecured. impact the company’s net interest. The company has mainly financial As of December 31, 2014, an amount of EUR 41.8 million and USD liabilities that are interest-bearing and very little interest-bearing 22 million was drawn. The third tranche has, as per agreement, been assets. Calculated on the financial interest-bearing liabilities at Decempaid back in October 2014. In addition, an equivalent of EUR 2.5 million ber 31, 2014, a 10 percent change in the market interest rate would of the facility is utilized to cover the issuance of bank guarantees. An impact the companies earnings by EUR 267.6 thousand. unused amount of EUR 9.8 million on the revolving borrowing facility exists on December 31, 2014. Credit risk For further information, see note 18. The company strives for the best possible credit rating for the company’s counterparties. The vast proportion of financial receivables were against The table below shows the maturity profile of the company’s interestGroup companies. bearing liabilites. Including interests. Liquidity risk 2014 2013 Liquidity risk entails the risk that there is insufficient cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities or agreed credit opportunities Carrying Carrying EUR thousand amount amount to close the market positions. The liquidity risk is deemed stable and the Board of Directors believes that the capital required to meet the Less than six months 6,648 – company’s commitments will be available during the 2015 fiscal year. Between six and twelve months 5,106 – Between one and two years 10,144 – Between two and five years 40,193 – More than five years – – Total 62,091 – 92 Transcom Annual Report 2014 Notes and comments to the Parent Company financial statements Note A20 Financial instrument risk management objectives and policies (cont.) Maturity profile of the financial assets and liabilities based on c­ ontractual undiscounted payments 2014 2013 EUR thousand <1 year 1–5 years Carrying amount <1 year 1–5 years Carrying amount Financial assets Receivables from Group companies – 31,594 31,594 – – – Other receivables – 243 243 – – – Total non-current financial assets – 31,837 31,837 – – – Trade receivables 1,480 – 1,480 777 – 777 Receivables from Group companies 206,534 – 206,534 20,041 – 20,041 Other receivables incl. accrued income 1,040 – 1,040 – – – Cash and cash equivalents 7,206 – 7,206 – – – Total current ­financial assets 216,260 – 216,260 20,818 – 20,818 Total financial assets 216,260 31,837 248,097 20,818 – 20,818 Financial liabilities Interest-bearing ­liabilities – 50,337 50,337 – – – Liabilities to Group companies – 44,234 44,234 – – – Total non-current financial liabilities – 94,571 94,571 – – – Interest-bearing ­liabilities 11,754 – 11,754 – – – Trade payables 2,189 – 2,189 208 – 208 Liabilities to Group companies 176,496 – 176,496 19,369 – 19,369 Other liabilities incl. accrued expenses 2,073 – 2,073 – – – Total current fi­ nancial l­ iabilities 192,512 – 192,512 19,577 – 19,577 Total financial ­liabilities 192,512 94,571 287,083 19,577 – 19,577 Transcom Annual Report 2014 93 Consolidated financial statements Note A20 Financial instrument risk management objectives and policies (cont.) Classification of the financial assets and liabilities 2014 2013 Financial Financial ­liabilities at Total ­liabilities at Total Loans and amortized ­carrying Loans and amortized ­carrying EUR thousand receivables cost amount Fair value receivables cost amount Fair value Financial assets Receivables from Group companies 29,588 – 29,588 29,588 – – – – Other receivables 243 – 243 243 – – – – Total non-current financial assets 29,831 – 29,831 29,831 – – – – Trade receivables 1,480 – 1,480 1,480 777 – 777 777 Receivables from Group companies 206,534 – 206,534 206,534 20,041 – 20,041 20,041 Other receivables incl. accrued income 1,040 – 1,040 1,040 – – – – Cash and cash e­ quivalents 7,206 – 7,206 7,206 – – – – Total current financial assets 216,260 – 216,260 216,260 20,818 – 20,818 20,818 Total financial assets 246,091 – 246,091 246,091 20,818 – 20,818 20,818 Financial liabilities Interest-bearing ­liabilities – 47,509 47,509 48,321 – – – – Liabilities to Group companies – 43,731 43,731 43,731 – – – – Total non-current fi ­ nancial liabilities – 91,240 91,240 92,052 – – – – Interest-bearing liabilities – 11,600 11,600 11,600 – – – – Trade payables – 2,189 2,189 2,189 – 208 208 208 Liabilities to Group companies – 176,496 176,496 176,496 – 19,369 19,369 19,369 Other liabilities incl. accrued expenses – 2,073 2,073 2,073 – – – – Total current financial liabilities – 192,358 192,358 192,358 – 19,577 19,577 19,577 Total financial ­liabilities – 283,598 283,598 284,410 – 19,577 19,577 19,577 Note A21 Accrued expenses and Note A22 Related party transactions prepaid income Investment AB Kinnevik and Group companies are significant EUR thousand 2014 2013 shareholders of the Group as well as Tele2 Group, MTG Group, accordingly, these companies have been regarded as related parties to Accrued staff related expenses 1,591 255 the Group. Business relations between Transcom WorldWide and all Accrued subcontractors 168 23 closely related parties are subject to commercial terms and conditions. The company acquires phone services from Tele2. Below is Accrued audit fee 97 – liabilities and costs for the period presented. Accrued interest 4 – EUR thousand 2014 2013 Total 1,860 278 Operating expenses Tele2 Group companies -65 -5 Trade payables Tele2 Group companies -9 -9 On March 20, 2015 Investment AB Kinnevik divested 6.4 million shares in Transcom, to Altor Fund Manager AB. Per this date, Investment AB Kinnevik and subsidiaries ceased to be defined as related ­party. 94 Transcom Annual Report 2014 Signatures of the Board of Directors The undersigned certify that the consolidated accounts and the annual and results of the Group and the Parent Company, and that the Adminreport have been prepared in accordance with International Financial istration Report gives a fair review of the development of the operaReporting Standards (“IFRS”), as adopted for use in the European tions, financial positions and results of the Group and the Parent ComUnion, for the Group and the Annual Accounts Act and RFR2 for the pany and describes substantial risks and uncertainties that the Group Parent Company, and generally accepted accounting principles companies face. respectively, and give a true and fair view of the financial positions Stockholm, April 20, 2015 Henning Boysen Chairman of the Board Stefan Charette John C. Freker Jr. Alexander Izosimov Member of the Board Member of the Board Member of the Board Mikael Larsson Mia Brunell Livfors Roel Louwhoff Member of the Board Member of the Board Member of the Board Johan Eriksson President & CEO Our audit report has been submitted on April 20, 2015 Ernst & Young AB Erik Åström Authorized Public Accountant Transcom Annual Report 2014 95 Auditor’s report Translation from the Swedish original Auditor’s report To the annual meeting of the shareholders of Transcom WorldWide AB (publ), corporate identity number 556880-1277 Report on the annual accounts and consolidated accounts The consolidated accounts have been prepared in accordance with the We have audited the annual accounts and consolidated accounts Annual Accounts Act and present fairly, in all material respects, the of Transcom WorldWide AB (publ) for the year 2014. The annual statement of financial position of the Group as of 31 December 2014 accounts and consolidated accounts of the company are included and its financial performance and cash flows for the year then ended in on pages 44–95. accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards, as adopted by the EU, and the Annual Accounts Act. The statutory administraResponsibilities of the Board of Directors and the Managing Director tion report is consistent with the other parts of the annual accounts and for the annual accounts and consolidated accounts consolidated accounts. The Board of Directors and the Managing Director are responsible We therefore recommend that the annual meeting of shareholders for the preparation and fair presentation of these annual accounts in adopt the income statement and balance sheet for the Parent Compaaccordance with the Annual Accounts Act and of the consolidated ny and the income statement and the statement of financial position accounts in accordance with International Financial Reporting Stanof the Group. dards, as adopted by the EU, and the Annual Accounts Act, and for such internal control as the Board of Directors and the Managing Report on other legal and regulatory requirements Director determine is necessary to enable the preparation of annual In addition to our audit of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts and consolidated accounts that are free from material accounts, we have also audited the proposed appropriations of the ­misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. company’s profit or loss and the administration of the Board of Directors and the Managing Director of Transcom WorldWide AB (publ) for Auditor’s responsibility the year 2014. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these annual accounts and consolidated accounts based on our audit. We conducted our audit Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and the Managing Director in accordance with International Standards on Auditing and generally The Board of Directors is responsible for the proposal for appropriaaccepted auditing standards in Sweden. Those standards require that tions of the company’s profit or loss, and the Board of Directors and we comply with ethical requirements and plan and perform the audit to the Managing Director are responsible for administration under the obtain reasonable assurance about whether the annual accounts and Companies Act. consolidated accounts are free from material misstatement. An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence Auditor’s responsibility about the amounts and disclosures in the annual accounts and consoliOur responsibility is to express an opinion with reasonable assurance dated accounts. The procedures selected depend on the auditor’s on the proposed appropriations of the company’s profit or loss and judgement, including the assessment of the risks of material misstateon the administration based on our audit. We conducted the audit in ment of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts, whether due accordance with generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden. to fraud or error. In making those risk assessments, the auditor considAs a basis for our opinion on the Board of Directors’ proposed ers internal control relevant to the company’s preparation and fair preappropriations of the company’s profit or loss, we examined whether sentation of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts in order to the proposal is in accordance with the Companies Act. design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but As a basis for our opinion concerning discharge from liability, in not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of addition to our audit of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts, the company’s internal control. An audit also includes evaluating the we examined significant decisions, actions taken and circumstances of appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness the company in order to determine whether any member of the Board of accounting estimates made by the Board of Directors and the Manof Directors or the Managing Director is liable to the company. We also aging Director, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the examined whether any member of the Board of Directors or the Manannual accounts and consolidated accounts. aging Director has, in any other way, acted in contravention of the ComWe believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and panies Act, the Annual Accounts Act or the Articles of Association. appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinions. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinions. Opinions In our opinion, the annual accounts have been prepared in accordance Opinions with the Annual Accounts Act and present fairly, in all material respects, We recommend to the annual meeting of shareholders that the profit be the statement of financial position of the Parent Company as of appropriated in accordance with the proposal in the statutory adminis31 December 2014 and of its financial performance and its cash flows tration report and that the members of the Board of Directors and the for the year then ended in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act. Managing Director be discharged from liability for the financial year. Stockholm, April 20, 2015 Ernst & Young AB Erik Åström Authorized Public Accountant 96 Transcom Annual Report 2014 Financial calendar Financial calendar April 21, 2015 First quarter earnings announcement May 12, 2015 Annual General Meeting of shareholders in Transcom WorldWide AB (publ) The 2015 Annual General Meeting will take place at 14:00 CET on May 12, 2015 at Gjörwellsgatan 30, Stockholm. July 16, 2015 Second quarter earnings announcement October 21, 2015 Third quarter earnings announcement February 2016 Fourth quarter earnings announcement Contact Corporate and registered office Transcom WorldWide AB (publ) Rålambsvägen 17 SE-112 59 Stockholm Sweden Company registration number: 556880-1277 www.transcom.com Investor relations Rålambsvägen 17 11th Floor SE-112 59 Stockholm Sweden Tel: +46 8 120 800 88 E-mail: ir@transcom.com Transcom Annual Report 2014 97 Print: Bording AB, Sweden, 2015. Photo: Front cover Corbis/Mike Theiss. Pages 2 (top), 3, 38–41 Mats Lundqvist. Page 25 Frost & Sullivan. Pages 2, 7, 9, 11, 12 Shutterstock. Transcom WorldWide AB (publ) Rålambsvägen 17 SE-112 59 Stockholm Sweden Company registration number: 556880-1277 www.transcom.com
