Annual Report 2014 -2015 Aitken Spence PLC is one of Sri Lanka’s oldest and most successful diversified conglomerates with a history going back for over 150 years. Today we have expanded our reach and influence to become a model of corporate excellence, combining the strength of our heritage with our solid commitment to organic expansion, to deliver our promise of increasing returns each year. There are many reasons for the myriad accomplishments we record here today, yet chief among them is our unrivalled passion for innovation; the ground-breaking ideas and pioneering enterprises that add such distinctive value to the diverse industry sectors we now operate in. In this integrated annual report, we analyse in detail all that we have achieved in the year under review as we navigate the fast changing business environment we operate in today; the strategies and philosophies we rely on to keep your company strong, relevant and progressive. We are strengthened by our proven ability to chart a steady course through stormy waters and the years that we have spent confidently piloting your company through the challenges we have encountered on the way to becoming the icon of stability and resilience we are today. Annual Report 2014 2015 1 Contents An Introduction to the Contents of this Report 4 Group Overview 12 Chairman’s Statement 15 Managing Director’s 12 15 22 Chairman’s Statement Managing Director’s Review Management Discussion and Analysis 142 Financial Statements Review 22 118 142 We are pleased to present to our stakeholders the integrated annual report for the year ended 31st March 2015. Management Discussion Governance Financial Statements The report covers the integrated economic, social and environmental & Analysis Reports performance of the companies in which Aitken Spence PLC., has significant operational and management control, including activities in Asia, Africa and the South Pacific. The report provides information on our Group level operations and financial performance of subsidiaries and equity accounted investees. The names and details of the companies are set out on pages 236 to 242. We have continued to report our performance “In Accordance” – Core with the Global Reporting Initiative’s G4 Reporting Framework for disclosure on sustainability performance which was launched in May 2013. We also follow the guidelines of the International Integrated Reporting Council’s <IR> framework. With the guidelines from these two reporting standards, the reporting practices across the Group were improved to capture more comprehensive performance disclosures across Aitken Spence PLC. Group Overview Group Performance 58 Supplementary Information Sector Reviews Selection of sustainability priorities and the assessment of materiality are detailed on pages 22 to 33. Report Navigation Aid Group Highlights 4 UN Global Compact 220 Tourism Sector 64 This study is still, mostly an internally conducted scientific study, guided by the historical data of the Aitken Spence at a Glance 8 GRI Index 224 Maritime & Logistics Sector 80 organization, feedback from specific key stakeholders that the organization has engaged with through the Further reading within this Strategic Investments Sector 90 years, feedback from the Group’s sustainability team members and guidance from senior management. report. Executive Reviews Services Sector 106 Investor Information 231 The material aspects thus reviewed by the Company will be verified with the assistance of an independent Chairman’s Statement 12 Group Companies and Directorate 236 organisation through an ongoing stakeholder engagement study. The methods used to analyse the data, assumptions made and exclusions are explained in detail in the Group Performance Review. Managing Director’s Review 15 Governance Reports Glossary of Terms 244 Web link provides Notice of Meeting 246 We have provided material disclosures on governance, ethics, strategies, risk and opportunities in relation reference Corporate Governance Report 118 Management Discussion & Analysis Form of Proxy 247 to our financial, economic, ethical, social and environmental performance and the future outlook, at both Nomination Committee Report 131 Shareholder Feedback Form 249 the Group and operating segment level. It is our hope that the annual integrated report will set the basis About Aitken Spence and Audit Committee Report 132 Performance data IBC Corporate Information for meaningful engagement with our stakeholders in the year ahead. WEP relevant to the Women’s Our Operating Environment 22 Remuneration Committee Report 134 Empowerment Principles Engagement with our stakeholders 26 Statement of Directors’ The financial statements are prepared in accordance with the Sri Lanka Accounting Standards Our Strategy 30 Responsibilities 135 (SLFRSs and LKASs) in alignment with the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), the Our People 34 Annual Report of Directors 136 Companies Act No.07 of 2007, the Listing Rules of the Colombo Stock Exchange as well as the Code of Performance data Best Practice on Corporate Governance Principles 2013 and other related guidance. UNGC relevant to the UNGC Risk Management 39 Communication on Progress Board of Directors 44 Financial Statements A limitation in this report is that the sustainability performance is monitored for our operations only in Group Management Committee 48 Sri Lanka and the Maldives. Also, where sustainability systems are still in the implementation process, Independent Auditors’ Report 142 Senior Management Teams 53 comprehensive data is not yet available. Our reporting process is driven and supervised entirely by the Financial Statements 143 internal expertise of the Group and our short to medium term goal is to make the disclosures inclusive of Ten Year Summary 217 all operational activities, material and relevant to the impacts and risks within our systems and is focused Consolidated Financial on educating the stakeholders about the operations of Aitken Spence. A comprehensive shareholder www.aitkenspence.com Statements in USD 218 feedback form is available at the end of the report so that the disclosures in future reports can be improved to suit the reader’s needs better. Further our social media could also be used to get in touch with us for feedback and comments. 2 Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2014 2015 3 Group Highlights IN BUSINESS Business Geographies SINCE 1868 Ranked among the ten best corporate citizens of Sri Lanka for the 9th consecutive year, and Platinum rated for corporate accountability. Sri Lanka** Maldives* India* Location: Sri Lanka is an island nation state in the Location: A series of 1,190 coral islands grouped Location: Located in the south of the 7000+ 35.3 Indian Ocean. It is located 880 kilometres north of into 26 atolls located in the Indian Ocean. Asian continent, bordering the Arabian the equator, off the southern tip of India. Population: 345,023 Sea and the Bay of Bengal. Revenue Population: 20.7 million for the year ended 31st March GDP Growth: 3.7% Population: 1.25 billion GDP Growth: 7.4% Currency: Maldivan Rufiyaa (MVR) GDP Growth: 6.9% Rs.Mn Currency: Sri Lankan Rupee (LKR) USD Rate: 15.19*** Currency: Indian Rupee (INR) 35,823 35,059 35,319 USD Rate: 133.32** USD Rate: 62.51*** Total Employees Total Revenue (Rs. Bn) 40.4 Market Capitalisation (Rs.Bn) 65.4 Total Assets (Rs.Bn) 2013 2014 2015 Bangladesh* Oman* Mozambique* Fiji* Today, operations of Aitken Spence Total Assets Location: Situated in southern Asia, Location: The Sultanate of Oman Location: In southeast Africa, Location: Melanesian island group are categorised under four sectors, as at 31st March on the delta of the 2 largest rivers. It borders with India, Burma in the borders the Arabian Sea, the Gulf of Oman, and the Persian Gulf and shares Mozambique borders the Mozambique Channel and the Indian Ocean. To the located in the South Pacific at 175 degrees east longitude and 18 degrees namely, Tourism, Maritime & Rs.Mn southeast, and with the Bay of Bengal borders with Yemen, the United Arab north of Mozambique lies Tanzania, south latitude. 65,433 in the south. Emirates, and Saudi Arabia. to the northwest Malawi and Zambia, Population: 881,065 61,064 Logistics, Services and Strategic 55,889 Population: 156.6 million GDP Growth: 6.0% Population: 3.6 million GDP Growth: 5.1% to the west Zimbabwe, and to the southwest South Africa and Swaziland. GDP Growth: 3.5% Investments.The Company's Currency: Fijian Dollar (FJD) Population: 25.8 million Currency: Bangladeshi Taka (BDT) Currency: Omani Riyal (OMR) USD Rate: 2.06*** GDP Growth: 7.4% operations have a global reach USD Rate: 77.80 USD Rate: 0.38 *** *** Currency: Mozambican New Metical (MZN) USD Rate: 36.35*** spanning South Asia, the Middle East, Africa and the South Pacific. 2013 2014 2015 * Data as at 2013 (Source: World Bank) ** Data as at 2014 (Source: Central Bank Report -2014) *** Conversion rate to USD as at 31st March 2015 4 Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2014 2015 5 60.7% of total employees are below 35 years Rs. 140 Mn Total funds channelled for community development 32% of employees Gold Award are Females HRM 2014 So ci al 150,000+ hours of training of employees 2014/2015 2013/2014 Change % Rs. Mn Rs.Mn Results for the year Group revenue with equity-accounted investees 39,824 39,487 0.9 Group revenue 35,319 35,059 0.7 10.6% 8.82 86.26 Profit from operations 5,657 5,504 2.8 Profit before tax 5,710 5,445 4.9 Performance Profit attributable to equity holders of the Company 3,579 3,672 (2.5) Financial Return on equity Earnings Per Share (Rs.) Net assets per share (Rs.) As at 31st March Highlights Total assets Total liabilities 65,433 23,154 61,064 22,138 7.2 4.6 2014-2015 6.6% 4.9 35.0 Current ratio (times) 2.05 1.85 10.8 Debt to equity (times) 0.22 0.19 15.8 Return on equity (%) 10.6 12.2 (13.1) Growth in profit after tax Profit for the Shareholders’ funds year (Rs.Bn) (Rs.Bn.) Per Share (Rs.) Earnings per share 8.82 9.04 (2.5) Dividends per share 2.00 2.00 Net asset value per share as at 31st March 86.26 79.46 8.6 Market price per share as at 31st March 99.50 97.90 1.6 11.40% Increase in renewable energy me nt production from 2013-2014 ron vi En 2,096 tonnes of paper recycled or sold for reuse / recycling Rs. 115 Mn Investment on environmental sustainability 44% 8,822 tonnes CO2 61,675 (GJ) 16,700 (GJ) of the total water withdrawn is treated and of GHG emissions reduced of energy produced from of energy saved reuse or recycled for safe discharge and/or offset renewable sources in 2014-2015 in 2014 – 2015 Aitken Spence at a Glance Tourism Maritime & Strategic Services Logistics Investments • Hotels • Maritime Services • Printing & Packaging • Inward Money Transfer • Inbound & Outbound Travels • Integrated Logistics • Garment Manufacture • Elevator Agency • Airline GSA • Freight Forwarding & Courier • Power Generation • Insurance • Plantations • Property Management • Holding Company • Technology 22 100,000 + 300,000+ 17,000+ 6,240 31 First Company 139 Years Hotels Inbound Tourists Supply Chain Students Total Hectares Production to install the fastest high speed Number of years representing Owned & Managed Handled by Destination Warehouse Annual Student Intake in Cultivation Sites elevator in the tallest building Lloyds of London Management capacity (Sq Ft) (CINEC) in Sri Lanka 2,178 2,873 400+ 1,571 15 2,378 2,700+ 309 Rooms People Supply Chain People Best practice People MMBL Locations People Owned & Managed Total Vehicle Fleet accreditations Rs. 16.8 Bn Total Revenue Rs. 33.7 Bn Total Assets Rs. 7.5 Bn Total Revenue Rs. 7.9 Bn Total Assets Rs. 15.1 Bn Total Revenue Rs. 20.3 Bn Total Assets Rs. 1.1 Bn Total Revenue Rs. 2.9 Bn Total Assets 8 Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2014 2015 9 EXECUTIVE REVIEWS > Chairman’s Statement Economic Focus report also expects this trend to I commend the exceptional performances of be partially set off by consumption growth, thanks segments such as printing and packaging, to increased public sector wages and higher port management, garments and destination disposable income. management which grew by 62.2%, 59.4%, 5.4% and 7.5% respectively. The Power generation segment also recorded a better performance A Challenging Business compared to the previous year due to the sale of Environment two idling power plants which resulted in a lower costs for the segment. The performance of these We welcome the good governance measures segments pushed overall growth after tax to Rs. that are being proposed and implemented at 4.9 billion a growth of 6.6 % over the previous present. We hope the general elections due in the year. second half of 2015 will lead to further political stability, thereby creating a conducive business The tourism sector profits after tax declined by environment. We look forward to a consistent 1.2%, mainly due to the decline in profits from policy framework, which gives the private sector hotels in Sri Lanka and overseas whilst the the freedom to operate and the guidance to plan destination management segment performed ahead. It is important that a healthy business exceptionally well. We operate a well diversified environment is promoted through a low tax product mix in Sri Lanka and in the Maldives regime targeting a broader base and through a catering to a wide range of clientele. The policy of minimizing concessions. We welcome segment’s fortunes are closely connected to the statements made by the new government that the global political and economic climate and the corporate sector will be given its due place in the external environment we faced this year is the economy and hope that they will permit the reflected in our bottom line. We are optimistic corporates to participate in vital infrastructure that our marketing strategies would enable us development. The corporate sector must be given to attract higher occupancies in our owned and every support to play a meaningful role in the managed resorts in the coming year. resurgence of this country. We have adopted a long term strategy for hotel Businesses need a level playing field to create operations in India by moving to an owner optimal value by maximizing their potential. operator model, from the previous management Greater transparency and accountability in an contract model by acquiring a 143 room Hotel environment free of unsolicited bidding, are property in Chennai which would be operated We welcome the statements made by the new government that critical factors in ensuring such an equitable environment. Liberalisation is important during a under the brand “Turyaa”. The hotel which is now complete would commence operations as soon as the corporate sector will be given its due place in the economy period of development but being an economy just five years out of a debilitating war, we must take the required regulatory licenses are obtained. and hope that they will permit the corporates to participate in vital precautions to ensure that Sri Lanka’s interests are preserved until our economy matures. In The Maritime and Logistics sector experienced weaker performances from the freight forwarding infrastructure development. The corporate sector must be given every this respect, I wish to suggest revisiting the and the logistics segments; our overseas Strategic Development Projects Act to align it investments in the Maritime and Logistics sector support to play a meaningful role in the resurgence of this country. closer to government policy and to ensure greater performed well and we are pleased with the path transparency, while the Board of Investment of diversification within the sector. From the new I have the pleasure of presenting to you the Annual Report and the financial statements of emerging markets slowed down. Overall, global growth is projected by the IMF to reach 3.5% billion in 2013, with GDP per capita at USD 3,625. Inflation remained at the low single digit levels, should be empowered further so it may play a meaningful role as a partner in development. financial year, we have restructured the Maritime and Logistics sector in order to capitalize on market changes and future trends. The new Rs. 3.6 Bn Aitken Spence PLC for the year ended 31st March in 2015 and 3.8% in 2016. South Asia has been with falling commodity prices leading to annual structure enables greater synergies among Profit Attributable to 2015, which convey the story of your Company’s earmarked by the World Bank to lead global average headline and core inflation of 3.3% and Performance divisions and will make Aitken Spence a one stop Equity Shareholders resilience and entrepreneurship amid pervasive growth, with regional growth expected to reach 3.5% in 2014, compared to 6.9% and 4.4% the shop for integrated logistics solutions. Your Company posted a revenue of Rs. 35.3 billion challenges. 7% by 2015 and 7.6% by 2017 as more productive previous year. and a consolidated profit before tax of Rs. 5.7 In the Strategic investments sector, the printing capital is brought on stream. billion, which is an year on year growth of 4.9%. Rs. 2.00 The World Bank estimates GDP growth of Sri and garments segments have sustained their The Sri Lankan economy grew by 7.4% in 2014, Lanka to decline to 6.5% in 2015 due to the The net profit attributable to the Shareholders Economic environment was Rs. 3.6 billion. The earnings per share stood strong performances while the results of the up from 7.2% in 2013 but slightly lower than the slowdown in construction activity with the new plantations segment speak volumes about your The Global economy recorded a modest 3.3% at Rs. 8.82. growth in 2014, as some advanced economies projected 7.8%. The country’s GDP amounted to USD 74.9 billion in 2014, compared to USD 67.2 government reassessing the investment-led growth model. The World Bank’s South Asia Company’s foresight to embrace change and diversify to remain competitive. Dividend per share turned around while the pace of growth in 12 Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2014 2015 13 Chairman’s Statement Managing Director’s Review The success of our Group is the strong foundation we lay looking at long term sustainable growth over the immediate short term. It is with that in mind that each year we diversify our products and services into new market segments knowing that the returns would be generated in the years to come. The power purchase agreement of Ace Power The performance of the Aitken Spence share is where changing business environments were Embilipitiya concluded in April 2015 and we are disappointing with the share price closing at Rs. likely to influence our long term prospects. We optimistic of a mutually beneficial extension of 99.50 as at year end. This price does not reflect have imbued this culture of innovation across this agreement. We successfully concluded the the true value of your investment. We are hopeful Aitken Spence today by instilling strong business sale of our thermal plant in Matara after the that an era of economic and political stability intelligence and research and development skills expiration of the power purchase agreement. As would buoy the share price of your Company within, and by encouraging every employee to a group, we will continue to seek opportunities towards actual value. think creatively and to embrace change fearlessly. in renewable energy, especially mini hydropower and wind power, and in addition continue to seek We are aware that as our valued shareholders, opportunities overseas. you have a keen interest in the governance and Appreciations risk management structures in place within I wish to place on record my appreciation of my It was a very disappointing year for the Services our Group. We consider it vital to have in place fellow Board members for their expertise and sector with many of it segments, other than an appropriate system of governance and risk perspectives, which have helped set the direction insurance, elevators and property, recording management to safeguard the investments of our of the Group. We have been fortunate to have dismal performances. The information technology stakeholders. Our Corporate governance structure the support of a strong network of business segment accounted for a significant share of is in compliance with “The Code of Best Practice partners including principals and agents. Their the losses in this sector and we have already on Corporate Governance” issued jointly by the trust in us has helped us forge mutually beneficial addressed the poor performance by restructuring Securities and Exchange Commission of Sri Lanka partnerships and resulted in competitive the company, which should lead to a better and the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri advantages. performance the next financial year. Lanka. On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank the Group Management Committee and the The strength of Aitken Spence lies in its diversification; Shareholder Returns and Outlook Governance Our history of over 150 years has earned us a Sector Management Teams for skillfully steering the Group to consistently high standards of over the years, our entrepreneurial and pioneering The success of our Group is the strong foundation reputation as a solid enterprise that offers best in class expertise together with a commitment performance, both financially and otherwise. We also recognize the contributions made by each spirit has enabled us to explore new ground and we lay looking at long term sustainable growth over the immediate short term. It is with that in to good governance, compliance and sustainable and every member of the Aitken Spence team, establish our presence in vital sectors of the economy, business. We have forged a multitude of mutually and wish them continued success. mind that each year we diversify our products and services into new market segments knowing beneficial partnerships with some of the largest both in Sri Lanka and overseas. businesses in the world and we will leverage on My sincere gratitude goes to our shareholders for that the returns would be generated in the years the length and success of these collaborations to their confidence in the Board and their conviction to come. approach new principals. in the Company’s future. In 2014/15, Aitken Spence once again proved many businesses we operate in. In our journey, we overseas. This diversification held the Group Although this year has been a difficult year in that we can steer our Company successfully to have listened to our stakeholders, understanding in good stead in 2014/15, to grow amidst terms of performance, it must be noted that Innovation will be the catalyst that drives achieve our objectives, in spite of the challenges what drives them and devising responses that challenging global economic conditions and while riding the wave of external challenges, businesses ahead in the next decade. Innovation presented by the macroeconomic environment. manage the overall impacts we have on them. intense competition. The Group successfully we have turned inwards to strengthen ourselves encompasses multiple factors from introducing Our history of over 150 years has seen us achieved a revenue of Rs. 35.3 billion and a profit to reap the opportunities of the future. We are new products and services to better ways of strategically navigating our way, forging ahead before taxation of Rs. 5.7 billion. Profit after tax thus optimistic about the future growth of the delivering business solutions and adopting better with courage and fortitude to become the strong, Performance for the year of the Group was Rs. 4.9 billion, a Company, and in keeping with our policy of business models that suit changing market D.H.S. Jayawardena sustainable business we are today. Through The strength of Aitken Spence lies in its gain of 6.6%. providing attractive returns to shareholders even conditions. As a Group, we have a proud history Chairman good times and bad, we have innovated and diversification; over the years, our entrepreneurial of innovation which has driven us to leadership transformed to push ourselves harder and further. The Group recorded a net profit attributable to during difficult times, the Board recommends a and pioneering spirit has enabled us to explore positions, and we have demonstrated strong equity holders of Rs. 3.6 billion, paving the way final dividend of Rs. 2.00 per share. 25th May 2015 new ground and establish our presence in vital business sense to transform or exit businesses This year too, I am satisfied with how we have for an earnings per share of Rs. 8.82. This was sectors of the economy, both in Sri Lanka and performed as a team to create value across the a comparative decline of 2.5%, even though the 14 Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2014 2015 15 Managing Director’s Review The destination management segment enjoyed We boosted the integrated logistics segment The proximity and vast potential of India led us to a positive year and we are very encouraged by the commitment shown by our partner TUI to by developing its infrastructure to enable future growth. The renovation work restricted business restructure our long term vision for the Indian market, to a Sri Lanka. In addition to the RIU Hotel, TUI has as usual and this is reflected in the segment’s plans in place to build more hotels with their performance. model of owning and operating our own properties under the direct involvement while bringing in regular charters to the country. Our business model in the We have now restructured the sector in order brand “Turyaa”. The first such property, a 143 roomed hotel destination management segment has enabled us to create a seamless supply chain solution that encompasses all services in the value chain from in Chennai was acquired in June 2014. to constantly innovate and offer creative solutions that differentiate our product and enable us to shipper to the recipient. The new structure will maintain market leadership. allow for greater synergies within the segments and will come on board in 2015/16. The main profit after tax grew over the previous year, due 2.2% mainly due to the decline in profits from the as we add Heritance Negombo to our portfolio It must also be mentioned that our proactive change is the amalgamation of the freight to a 43.7% increase in the profit attributable to Sri Lankan hotels and the Maldives sector. The and also expand capacity at The Sands, Kalutara approach to embracing the digital space via a divisions within the maritime segment with the non controlling interests. The share price of your decline in profits was seen at all our resorts on by 91 rooms. Construction of the RIU Hotel in booking engine has started paying dividends; we freight forwarding segment which should lead to company was Rs. 99.50 at the end of the financial the Southern coastal belt due to stiff competition Ahungalla is well on target and we are excited by would continue to fine tune our digital offering in streamlined operations and better management year, having reached a high of Rs. 120.50 during posed by the informal sector in the region. the possibilities offered by our partnership with order to capture this growing market. of cost. the year. The price earnings ratio of your company RIU Hotels, Spain which is owned by TUI Group The Maldivian hotel segment recorded a decline Our airline General Sales Agency (GSA) The merger of our principal Hapag-Lloyd with stood at 11.3 times at the end of the financial AG. in profits before tax of 2.0%, the contributing partnership with Singapore Airlines has been a CompañíaSud Americana de Vapores (CSAV) to year, indicating high potential for growth in share factors being lower occupancy due to the Russian We are encouraged by the performance of the challenging one this year, but we have retained become the world’s fourth largest ocean carrier price when supported by fundamentally strong and Ukraine crisis and the ocean villas at Adaaran resorts in Oman, where our strong portfolio our market share despite heavy competition. We will open new markets for us especially in South economic and political conditions. Select Huduranfushi being out of operation during has enabled us to consolidate our position. We are hopeful that Singapore Airlines would add America. We are closely watching developments This year was no exception in providing healthy the first half of the year after being destroyed in currently manage six resorts in Oman, covering more flights to Sri Lanka in order to offer more that may impact us in the proposed global merger returns to shareholders. The Group provided a a fire the previous year. Further an increase in the all the key tourist locations of the sultanate. options to our passengers. In March 2015, the between TNT and FedEx. return on equity of 10.6% for the financial year lease rent paid in respect of one of the resorts, as Located in the volatile Middle East, Oman benefits Group also successfully obtained the passenger Revenue GSA for Turkish Airlines. for the year ended 31st March with net assets per share of Rs. 86.26 as at year per the initial contact, impacted the profitability of from its political stability and the government’s Strategic Investments Sector end. This was a 8.6% increase in net assets per the segment. commitment to investing in the industry, including The Strategic Investments sector ended the year Rs.Mn share over the previous year. A final dividend of expanding its airport and facilities. Maritime & Logistics Sector Aitken Spence remains bullish about the on a positive note, recording a 207% increase in 35,823 35,059 35,319 Rs. 2.00 per share is proposed by the Board of The Maritime and Logistics sector had an year of profit before tax despite a 6.3% dip in revenue. Directors of your Company, thus maintaining the tourism potential in the Maldives and with a The proximity and vast potential of India led us mixed performances, with its overseas operations This was mainly due to the disposal of the two dividend payment per share. view to expand our operations in this segment, to restructure our long term vision for the Indian performing above expectations to enable a 4.4% non operational power plants at Matara and we acquired two more island resorts. We will market, to a model of owning and operating our increase in revenue and a 4.3% increase in profit Horana which led to an end of the maintenance Aitken Spence remains true to its commitment of commence construction of the two new resort own properties under the brand “Turyaa”. The first before tax. Our port management operations costs incurred on these plants. positive wealth creation for all its stakeholders properties on these two islands, A’arah in Ra such property, a 143 roomed hotel in Chennai was overseas have proven to be an exceptional while maintaining its excellent track record Atoll and Raafushi in Noonu Atoll over the next acquired in June 2014. The property will focus The power purchase agreement contracted by operational success with many efficiency of being an ethical and socially responsible two years. The Maldivian government has been and cater mainly to business travellers into the IT Ace Power Embilipitiya (Private) Ltd, with the improvements achieved during the year. The corporate citizen. We are confident that our consistent in its vision to promote its tourism hub and local traffic from India. The hotel is now Ceylon Electricity Board for a period of ten years freight forwarding segment experienced tough 2013 2014 2015 strategic direction will lead Aitken Spence to industry; in fact, it must be admired for the ready for launch, subject to regulatory approvals concluded in the first week of April 2015. The market challenges as higher volumes could not greater heights in the years to come regardless foresight it had to strategically develop the and licenses. company is at present in discussions with the be converted to higher revenue given the eroding of the ever increasing competition and rapidly Chinese market at a time when Europe was Ceylon Electricity Board on a possible extension The importance of India and China as source margins of the industry. The segment was also changing socio-economic landscape. A detailed heading for a downturn. The government has to the power purchase agreement for its 100MW markets has grown in significance given the adversely impacted by the European Union ban on discussion of the performance of the four recently also been considering the extension plant in Embilipitiya, which contributes towards Rs. 5,657 Mn downturn and devaluation experienced by the Sri Lankan fish exports. key sectors of the Group is presented in the of the current 50 year leases to 99 year leases; system stability in the South. If we are not Management Discussion and Analysis of this we welcome the move and look forward to its European markets. The national carrier now flies The CINEC Maritime Campus performed below successful in reaching mutually agreeable terms report, which would provide greater insight to the implementation. to a number of destinations in both Indian and expectations due to the rescheduling of some for an extension, the Group will be taking steps to operational highlights of the year. China, offering a good launch pad for the local courses. However, towards the end of the dispose of the plant during the coming year. Operating Profit Of the Sri Lankan hotels, Heritance Kandalama tourism industry. and Heritance Tea Factory were the top financial year the campus had a high volume of enrolments and is expected to perform well in the We remain bullish about renewable energy and for the Year performers while Heritance Ahungalla It is imperative that the tourism industry is Sector Performance supported at policy level, given its importance next financial year. wind power in particular. In the future we hope experienced the competitive pressure along the that granting of licenses for renewable projects Tourism Sector south-west coast. Heritance Ayurveda Maha within the economy as a key revenue generator A milestone for the sector was the opportunity would be carried out in a transparent and efficient During the year under review the sector had a revenue growth of 5.8% over the previous year Gedara was impacted by the downturn of its key market in Europe, which witnessed a depreciation of the Euro making travel more expensive. The and creator of jobs. The post-war infrastructure boom was critical in the development of the industry and it is hoped that the momentum will to handle the import and re-export of all cargo related to the visit to Sri Lanka by His Holiness manner. The Group’s plantation interests returned a Rs. 65.4 Bn although the sector profit before tax declined by coming year will be an exciting one for the sector, continue. Pope Francis in January 2015. good performance during the year, driven by the Total Assets 16 Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2014 2015 17 Managing Director’s Review of life means not just changing the way we do Aitken Spence was among the first businesses to The possibilities offered by technology today are endless – from business but also changing the way we interact with our stakeholders. We have been proactive sign up to the United Nations Global Compact in Sri Lanka. We remain committed to champion its robotics and nanotechnology to 3D printing and smart spaces, in identifying the ways in which we may enhance principles within our businesses and the wider our business by embracing technology and even private sector, by giving leadership to the Global the digital age is truly upon us. Embracing the new digital way our communication with stakeholders has begun Compact Network Sri Lanka. Aitken Spence PLC., moving to digital platforms, including social was also amongst the first in the world to become of life means not just changing the way we do business but also media. signatories to the Women’s Empowerment changing the way we interact with our stakeholders. Internally, the Aitken Spence Group is embracing Principles and we remain committed to internalize these principles within our operations sustainably. technology to bring in greater efficiencies, with the IT improvements focused this year on Sustainable thinking has now become a part of diversification undertaken in the recent past, and be its record of on-time, reject free delivery and agency segment, which represents OTIS in security, the roll out of Active Directory which our DNA and I am happy to note that today, all our by our efforts to increase labour efficiency. The order fulfillment; this, together with its quality Sri Lanka. During the year, we were awarded is in progress, and a log management system to business decisions are considered not just in the markets for Ceylon tea were almost uniformly assurance and compliance, has made Aitken contracts for several prestigious projects that facilitate migration to Cloud computing in the near light of their financial rewards but also in terms under pressure –the Middle East due to political Spence garments a preferred supplier for some of will change the skyline of Sri Lanka in the coming future. of their long term impact on our stakeholders. instability, Russia and Ukraine due to the Crimean the world’s best known clothing brands. years. Creating positive value wherever possible and An IT CRM system was set up during the year managing negative value creation to minimize crisis and Europe, due to a dwindling economy. ‘Heritage Grove’ was launched during the last with a help desk to scientifically monitor and our impacts will remain a strategic priority, as Rubber continued to lag with no recovery in Services Sector financial year as a high end retirement community. analyse customer issues, in a bid to improve the IT we work towards a holistic mindset that unifies sight. We are buoyed by the prospects for palm The Services sector has seen mixed fortunes and However, having gained market feedback, we service delivery within the Group. The IT systems our performance goals with our social and oil which performed well. Also performing well as always, our diversification has enabled the have strategically changed the concept and of Aitken Spence achieved ISO 27001 systems environmental responsibilities. were our commercial forestry venture, hydro Group to balance weaker performances in some positioning of the project to a country club, certification during the year. power generation and our joint venture to export companies with strong growth in others. Overall, thereby expanding the target market. The project tea to China. The year ahead will see further The Shared Services Centre which manages diversification of the segment into eco tourism the sector revenue was up 15.7% due mainly to is now being marketed among high net worth centralized processing and analytics for sectors Appreciations a strong performance from the elevator agency individuals who wish to make Sri Lanka their and agriculture as a means of addressing food within the Aitken Spence Group, ventured into The Chairman and Board of Directors have been segment, while sector profit before tax recorded a second home. security. Thailand this year to offer outsourced finance and a source of enormous strength to me and my 38.3% decline. accounting services for clients in Thailand. Similar management team as we navigate the Company The printing segment once again performed well, Our technology business is growing satisfactorily The money remittance business MMBL, the agent work is already being undertaken for clients in through the many challenges to seize the right and continues on its strong trajectory of growth. and has successfully completed several for Western Union, retained its market leadership Australia, where a promotional campaign was opportunities. I thank them for their vision and It is with much pride that we operate the first installations of Enterprise Content Management in the cash to cash remittance segment and launched to expand our business. professional advice, so generously imparted. My LEED (Gold) certified and carbon neutral printing and Enterprise Resource Management systems. invested in ‘Send’ country initiatives on several colleagues on the Board of Management and complex in South Asia, which has helped our We are positive about the future of this business important corridors to generate new business. It As a Group, we are committed to improving Sector Management Teams have supported me green products to secure wide acceptance among and have built a strong resource base with the is encouraging that the white collar segment of productivity and efficiency, and to managing throughout the year, by leading their people with high end international brands. During the year, we capacity to support out future plans. the Sri Lankan expatriate community which can costs in a prudent manner. We have persistently great fortitude to reach beyond the goals we have Profit before Taxation invested in enhanced manufacturing capabilities evaluated how we may leverage on the synergies set for ourselves. I thank them sincerely. I would for the year ended 31st March command higher salaries, keeps steadily growing. Recognising the exciting possibilities that and processes in order to deliver cutting edge among our various business units and how best also like to thank our shareholders, customers The remittance industry is very competitive and nanotechnology offers to businesses, we invested Rs.Mn products to our clientele. In addition to its illegal channels remain a threat; the company during the year in Ecocorp Asia (Private) Ltd., we may exploit the scale and footprint of our and business partners for their continued trust in 5,710 traditionally strong packaging base, the company 5,445 however will counteract these by forging ahead which markets a nanotechnology based coating businesses. This year too, many such initiatives Aitken Spence. 5,069 has been exploring high-yield niche markets for – big and small were implemented at various on its own path through user-friendly convenient solution manufactured under license in Germany. publications. locations. And finally, I take this opportunity to recognize service, new products including on mobile and The coating made of nanoparticles protects the yeoman contribution made by every member I am delighted by the results posted by the web channels, a focus on compliance and an multiple surfaces, from moulds and machines in of our team; with their commitment and support, Garments segment, which has recorded an island wide presence. industrial settings to walls, floors, furniture and HR and Sustainability I am optimistic that the year ahead will be one excellent year. We expanded our production fabric in hospitals, hotels and even homes. The The insurance segment had a steady inflow of of accomplishment and triumph for Aitken Spence. capacity by up to 40% by commissioning a coating leads to lower maintenance costs, shorter Aitken Spence has built a reputation as a good opportunities in Sri Lanka and the Maldives and down times and maintenance hours and longer employer and we were humbled to be recognized new environment-friendly production facility in continued its partnership with the World Food life-spans. with the Gold Award at the HRM Awards held 2013 2014 2015 Koggala; the plant was built in four months and Programme to supervise aid and assistance to the in March 2015. Our commitment to good HR will create 750 jobs once in full operation. The North. The segment is focusing on establishing management practices stems from our conviction increased capacity would allow us to penetrate the recoveries business in Sri Lanka, utilising our Embracing Technology that our employees are the driving force of our high-end markets for improved yields. We are expertise to spearhead this much needed aspect business. Being a service-based organization, also hopeful that improved relations with the The possibilities offered by technology today are Rs. 8.82 of the insurance industry. J.M.S. Brito West would help restore the GSP+ preferential endless – from robotics and nanotechnology to it is primarily the professionalism, loyalty and Managing and Finance Director tariffs on exports to the European Union. The 3D printing and smart spaces, the digital age is attitude of our team that make up the spirit of the The infrastructure developments taking place in competitive strength of the segment continues to Company. Sri Lanka offer great prospects to our elevator truly upon us. Embracing the new digital way 25th May 2015 Earnings Per Share 18 Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2014 2015 19 MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS > Management Discussion & Analysis About Aitken Spence and Our Operating Environment Core strengths Our Vision: Strengths Advantage Our Approach To achieve excellence in all our activities, establish high growth businesses in Sri Lanka and across new frontiers, Wealth of • Management expertise • Strong domain knowledge • Contemporary talent management and human and become a globally competitive market leader in the experience and professional • Proven experience in building businesses resource management strategies, succession planning to train and mentor next line of leadership. • Reputed for intellectual capital. region. management Our Brand Values: Financial • Stable financial structure • Ability to attract and retain strategic • Focused strategic decision making in choosing stability • Governance and risk partnerships, capacity to expedite new areas of investment, diversified portfolio of Reliable Genuine management investments/ventures, greater access to businesses, tactical decision making in business funds and more advantageous negotiation entry and exit strategies, management of Group Honest Inspiring Confidence • Property and physical infrastructure powers with financial institutions, greater wide cash flows. efficiency in day-to-day operations. Warm • Stability and consistency • Strong focus on internal controls, well • Regular training and awareness sessions to employees at all levels. established policies and procedures with in • Regular interactions with the members of the Board house internal auditor and risk management Audit Committee and external auditors to discuss unit. key concerns or early warning signs. With a history spanning 150 years, Aitken as well as being the general sales agents for Our Operating Environment: Spence PLC is a leading player in Hotels, Travels, Sri Lankan Airlines in the Maldives. • Resolute culture of doing business ethically • Evaluating opportunities to utilise existing land and The Aitken Spence Brand is built on the core at all times and inculcating strong corporate Maritime Services, Logistic Solutions and property base for further expansion; strong ethic Aitken Spence is Sri Lanka’s largest provider of essence of RELIABILITY. In striving towards values at all levels. on maintaining high standards of infrastructure Power Generation in Sri Lanka. The diversified logistics solutions,with an unrivalled gamut of achieving excellence in all our activities; • A strong base of land and infrastructure with sound construction processes utilising conglomerate has significant interests in services that include maritime services, cargo, establishing high growth businesses in Sri Lanka in sought-after locations; iconic physical best available inputs and environmental friendly Plantations,KPO/BPO Services, Insurance, IT, express, container-related services, warehousing, and across new frontiers; aiming towards infrastructure considered benchmarks in designs. Printing and Garments. Listed in the Colombo supply chain management and specialised becoming a globally competitive market leader respective industries. • A positive but conservative philosophy towards Stock Exchange since 1983, Aitken Spence has transport. Strengthening its maritime portfolio, in the region; we aspire to be an organisation • A good investment for shareholders; stable growth and expansion to ensure long-term operations in seven countries spanning South the Company ventured into a partnership with the that is reliable, transparent, friendly, genuine partner for stakeholders and a just and performance and sustainability; agile decision Asia, the Middle East, Southern Africa and the Fiji Ports Corporation to oversee the management and inspiring confidence while going the extra meaningful contributor towards the economy. making. South Pacific. The Company believes in leading and operations of Suva and Lautoka ports, the mile and a half to deliver value and provide an Corporate • Reputation • Has earned the respect and trust of existing • Strong focus on governance and sustainable strategic growth businesses and possesses a largest in Fiji; marking the firstever public-private exceptional service. reputation • Brand and potential stakeholders as a responsible development; commitment to long-standing global credible record of working with global leaders corporate citizen. partners. across diverse sectors. partnership by a Sri Lankan company overseas. In doing so, we hope to maintain our core • Strong corporate brand with high equity • Brand and perception managed through positive Aitken Spence is Sri Lanka’s leading print and strengths; allows for easy recognition and recall; and consistent brand communication; brand The Company acts as agents for Lloyd’s of London packaging service provider for over five decades. strategy of umbrella branding results in wide awareness education for employees. in Sri Lanka since 1876 and represents Singapore Its modern facility outside Colombo is the region’s • Wealth of experience and acceptance and synergy. Airlines, TNT and OTIS for several decades. It is also a principal agent in Sri Lanka for Western only LEED Gold certified and carbon neutral professional management Diverse • Diversity of industries and • Presence in many key industry sectors • Regular strategic evaluation of micro and printing plant. business business sectors insulates overall Group performance against macroeconomic fundamentals with a view Union Money Transfer. • Financial stability portfolio • Geographical and regional potential risks and negative impacts that to invest and/or divest to maintain optimum Aitken Spence continues to lead in breaking new diversity may occur in a particular business sector. portfolio. The Aitken Spence chain of hotels spans 22 hotels and resorts in four countries. It is the ground by introducing the country’s first Luxury • Corporate reputation • The geographic distribution of operations • Seeking expansion in overseas markets utilising allows the Group to spread its risk among largest resort chain in Sri Lanka and the largest Living Community -Heritage Grove, aimed at • Diverse business portfolio several regions, leaving it better prepared management capabilities, investment capacity international resort operator in the Maldives. Its attracting expatriates to the country for their and acumen. range of award-winning hotels and management retirement. • Best talent in service to offset a potential downturn in one region with the performance from another. expertise has set industry benchmarks for service The Company is amongst the first signatories to Best talent in • Job satisfaction and security • An empowered, motivated workforce, driven • Proactive engagement with employees to quality, culinary standards and sustainable the United Nations’ Global Compact in Sri Lanka service of employees towards performance and aware of the address mutual concerns; extensive training for tourism. wider goals of the organization. and plays a leading role in its local network. personal and skills development; responding to Partnered with the world’s largest name in Aitken Spence has been repeatedly recognised the changing nature of the workforce; promotion travels TUI for over three decades our travel by the country’s leading business chamber as one of work life balance; regular benchmarking of arm represents over 200 leading tour operators of the best corporate citizens in Sri Lanka for the remuneration and benefits with those offered by worldwide. Aitken Spence acts as the general past nine years, and was adjudged as the winner the market. sales agent for Turkish Airlines in Sri Lanka, in 2012. 22 Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2014 2015 23 Management Discussion & Analysis Global Trends, Opportunities, Challenges and the Impact on Our Business • Emerging global niche markets and new customer • Developing products to address global trends and Impacts on environment, ecosystem services and • Environmental Management Systems and network of segments provide opportunities to attract new demands. biodiversity from human activities and depletion of nontrained and certified internal EMS auditors. investors, international fund managers and new growth • Efficiency and productivity enhancement and renewable natural resources. • Pollution control across the Group. opportunities. management of ports. • Green Philosophy implemented across the hotel • Macroeconomic growth, rapidly advancing middle-class • Exploring business ventures beyond existing operations in Sri Lanka and the Maldives. and emerging unique business opportunities in the Asian geographical presence. • Energy management systems across the hotel chain; and African continents make way for new business • Increasing commitments in overseas operations by ISO 50001 certified energy management system at ventures. investing in hotel properties. Heritance hotels. • Obtaining and retaining LEED certified architecture. • Evolution of technology and business connectivity create • Integrating digital concepts and technology to business boundless opportunities for products and services that strategies. Retention and attraction of talent in view of the demand • Sustainable talent management schemes. cater to evolving customer needs. • Diversity in operations and the product/ service offering. from competing business and generational expectations. • Succession planning. • Implementation of a sustainability performance • Encouraging worklife balance for employees. Addressing the challenges management software solutions to streamline disclosure • Employee competency development. of performance information. • Proactive employee relations. • Hospitality sector investing in new technology as an interface to connect with consumers. Challenges Data Security in an environment where sophisticated • Ongoing monitoring and risk management of the IT Addressing the opportunities • As organisations increase efforts to enhance cost • Investing in a KPO operation to cater to the global malware have been developed for spying and business systems. efficiency within the operations, focus is shifting market demands. disruption. • Information Security certification. towards outsourcing business operations. Competition from new entrants in traditional businesses • Quality assurance of products and services. Opportunity • Focus on climate change has opened doors to many • Leadership in eco-friendly products and services. opportunities for new products and services that offering cheaper but inferior products and services. • Total solution product offering through diversification. • Positioning in the country as a responsible corporate contribute positively towards mitigation on adverse citizen. fallouts from climate change and ensuring a sustainable Increasing energy cost resulting from the rising global • Energy management activities across the Group. • Ecosystem conservation efforts. future. demand and the depletion of fossil reserves. • Creating awareness on the importance of energy • Renewable energy projects of the Group companies. • Provision of eco-friendly and socially responsible conservation amongst all stakeholders. products and services create opportunity to increase • Carbon neutral printing facility. • Investments in renewable energy. brand equity. • Carbon neutral destination management operations and owned fleet of vehicles. Fluctuating weather patterns due to climate change • Forestry management. • Investment in innovative agricultural projects. resulting in unpredictable and extreme weather patterns • Renewable energy investment. affecting diverse communities throughout the world. • Infrastructure developments in the country is enabling a • Partnering with new hotel operators and brands. • Monitoring and control of emissions. growth in the opportunities for businesses. • Energy and environmental management systems. • There is an increased demand for business intelligence • Development of internal educational capabilities and • Innovative management techniques at the estates. education as evolving business opportunities require a engagement with external academic institutions and more skilled workforce. industry associations. Regulatory barriers and adverse macroeconomic trends • Diversification in geographical markets. locally and globally • Diversification of products. • Global businesses exploring the potential of disruptive • Venturing into nanotechnology based application and technologies and generating patents and licenses which products aiming towards futuristic growth. developing countries are capitalizing on. • Consumers relating to brands more strongly for their • Exploring medical tourism and differentiating each values, positioning and differentiated services. property to offer a unique experience. • Increasing interest to benefit from operational synergies • Logistics sector is in transition towards integrating their in integrated businesses. diverse Strategic Business Units (SBUs). • Global and national interest towards initiatives for food • Exploring opportunities in the agricultural sector. security. 24 Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2014 2015 25 Management Discussion & Analysis Management Discussion & Analysis Engagement with Our Stakeholders Results of Stakeholder Engagement Practices At present our stakeholder engagement process is Key Stakeholder Categories: The detailed ‘Shareholder Feedback Form’ was added to the 2013/14 Annual Report with the aim internally driven. During 2014/15, the Company has • Employees of providing a channel for shareholders to provide feedback. The feedback form included specific engaged with STING Consultants and their team of • Investors, Shareholders as well as open ended questions to encourage researchers to conduct an independent stakeholder shareholders to give their comments on the • Banks and Financial Institutions organisation’s communication with them including engagement study. the usefulness of the information added in the • Customers Annual Report. Many shareholders reverted with constructive feedback using this feedback form. all Sustainability Team members and maintain an • Industry Partners & Associations The feedback form can be found on pages 249 to open channel of communication. Feedback given 250 in this report. • Suppliers/ Service Providers & Community within these forums are taken into account when Group level action is planned and carried out. ‘Peer Education Forums’ were organised and • Environment/ Environmental Interest Groups first launched in October 2013 as a means to The Group’s community outreach initiative, bring together individuals across Aitken Spence • Government and Regulatory Bodies companies handling similar responsibilities with Empowering Sri Lanka First, engages with children, their parents as well as teachers from the objective of improving interaction between our communities in Ahungalla, Dambulla and participants. We expect this initiative would lead Mawaramandiya once a week through the English Organisations working towards sustainability Stakeholders outside or external to • business priorities and to learning opportunities and better awareness of language lessons and computer lessons. The must engage with their stakeholders in a healthy, • striking the triple bottom line balance their roles from shared expertise and experience and mutually beneficial manner which foster the organisation: teachers were given 60 hours of teacher training of team members across the Group. Separate for the second year of the programme with lasting relationships. We value the multiple (stakeholders indirectly related to the operations); Some of the key sustainability issues and forums were organised for the Group’s network British Council educators and this training is an relationships built by Aitken Spence across • Customers, principles and agents concerns addressed through stakeholder of Environmental Management Representatives additional occasion to engage with them to get industries and developed over time, and believe • Banks and financial institutions engagement include return on investment, profit (EMRs), Occupational Health and Safety (OHS) their feedback. that regular engagement with these stakeholders and growth for investors, business partners Representatives, the Group’s network of support • Suppliers/ Service providers is critical to maintain these bonds. and shareholders; career progression, benefits, givers on human rights at the workplace (support At present our stakeholder engagement process • Industrial, Trade and Professional remuneration, working facilities and personal givers network). During the last financial year, the is internally driven. During 2014/15, the Company The diversity of the Group’s operations in both Associations development for employees, product and service support givers network were brought together has engaged with STING Consultants and their scale and nature means that each industry quality, cost, reliability for customers; economic, for their first Peer Forum to discuss grievance team of researchers to conduct an independent segment has its own unique set of stakeholders, social and environmental impact including local handling and their role in the process. The concerns, impacts, risks, opportunities and Stakeholder in the broader scope stakeholder engagement study. In this process, purchasing and employment for communities. Sustainability Team of Aitken Spence (main senior team members from all sectors and benefits. Therefore a ‘one size-fits-all’ solution is of operations: sustainability representatives of the SBUs) were segments were involved in 22 hours of workshops neither suitable nor sustainable for the Group. As • Government and regulatory bodies The Group conducts scientific study and maintains also brought together for a separate Peer Forum and discussions to reassess the key stakeholder such what we practice is both unique and diverse. regular contact with significant stakeholder and the Team had their first forum at the Aitken • Social & environmental interest groups groups for each sector and the results can be seen groups that are directly related. These include Spence green printing facility at Mawaramandiya • Community in the respective Sector Reviews. The research shareholders, partners, employees, interest in March 2015. While being an opportunity for the team will carry out the study in 2015 and a full Our key stakeholders can be groups, and associations such as the Global team members to network and learn, it is also an report will be published in the 2015/16 Annual The stakeholder engagement process is explained Compact Network links and communities that are clustered into the following broad in more detail in the pages 28 to 29. opportunity for the organisation to engage with Report once the study is complete. directly related to us. We constantly assess our categories: businesses and their stakeholders and monitor the Stakeholders within the organisation current business and operational environments (stakeholders directly related to our operations); Channels of Engagement: with a view to identifying the potential • Employees The Group uses many channels of engagement, opportunities and challenges for the Company www.aitkenspence.com/sustainability/ • Investors which facilitate continuous feedback to both the and in order to evaluate the Group’s competitive Company and its stakeholders. The feedback thus strengths and advantages. This process allows the • Shareholders received is analysed based on: Group to proactively address each opportunity and • Partners • the relevance and priority of each challenge in order to improve our readiness and stakeholder, mitigate our risks, thereby achieving our ultimate goals of building a sustainable business. • severity of any significant impacts, 26 Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2014 2015 27 Management Discussion & Analysis The strong interactions we have built with our stakeholders have provided us the impetus of creating Internal Stakeholders External Stakeholders Stakeholders in the broader a sustainable growth over the years. The diversity of scope of operations Partners | Employees | Investors | Shareholders Regulators | Banks | Financial Institutions | Customers | Government | Social & the Group’s operations makes it necessary that we Suppliers | Service Providers | Environmental Interest Groups build relationships with all the stakeholders in each Industrial, Trade and Professional | Community Associations and every industry segment as our businesses are reliant on the strength of these relationships. Our key stakeholders Our Stakeholder Engagement Process Investors & Shareholders Industry Partnerships Suppliers / Government & Environment / Environmental Employees Banks and Financial and Associations Customers Services Providers Community Regulatory Authorities Interest Groups Institutions • Employee satisfaction • Annual General Meeting and • Direct contact • Customer satisfaction • Direct dialogue • Direct communication • Dialogue with policymakers, • Dialogue with policymakers, surveys other meetings surveys regulatory authorities and regulatory authorities and • Participation in forums and • Participation in seminars on • Local purchasing • Internal newsletters and • Financial reporting training programmes • Buyer inspections/ audits quality and efficiency engagements experts experts Channels of Engagement intranet • Reports and meetings • Direct communication • Website and social media • Communication via sub • Direct contact • Supplier appraisals • Dialogues with community • Performance reviews agents or representatives groups • Participation in industry / • Compliance reviews • Media • Customer service and • Open door policy • Site visits and service level support points-of-contact • Media and annual reports national level events • Investor discussions • Media • Grievance handling agreements • Compliance reviews procedures • Meetings and lobby groups • Media • Small group meetings with the Managing Director • Group and SBU level events • Staff conventions • Occupational health and • Return on investment/ ROE • Adherence to international • Quality and reliability of • Ethical conduct and • Development of • Compliance • Climate change mitigation Key areas of interest for safety benchmarks products and services production infrastructure • Ethical conduct • Generation of employment • Management of • Remuneration and benefits • Prevention of corruption • Ethical production • Profitability • Employment generation environmental impacts • Environmental and social • Foreign income generation • Career progression governance • Assurance of products / • Assurance for service and extending opportunities • Value for given price • Payment of taxes / fees / • Waste management services requirements, concerns, for local entrepreneurs/ • Skills development • Resilient balance sheet • Data security and privacy of students levies due to government / • Compliance with • Progress on agreed activities solutions information disclosed to the regulatory bodies environmental standards, stakeholders and the organisation • Human Rights at the • Sustainable profitability • Environmental conservation workplace  / procedures organisation • Professionalism and on time laws and regulations of the • Corporate communication • Prevention of corruption • Capitalising on new business service • Building sustainable social country • Work life balance • Innovation of products and opportunities by catering to • Efficiency and effectiveness relationships services to meet new trends the needs of the clientele in markets and customer of operations • Safety, health and welfare needs • Competitive advantage 28 Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2014 2015 29 Our Strategy Aitken Spence PLC., a premier diversified for the four core sectors. Hence to ensure the thereby deliver progressively superior returns our customers to obtain a total logistic blue chip conglomerate listed on the Colombo Stock Exchange, has continuously augmented agility of each sector the business models are tailor made and synergistic businesses are to stakeholders. In the medium to long term we would seek opportunities for diversification and solution from a single point of contact. Our strategy of diversification is focused on both its business successes over its rich history amalgamated to form an operational whole. This expansion into new and already existing business 6. Our Maritime education institute “CINEC” which expanded its operations to manage organic and inorganic initiatives geared towards of over 150 years. Its foresight in proactively year in our report we took the opportunity to segments through organic and inorganic growth. understanding ever changing market dynamics include the business models of each of the sectors Partnering global leaders in businesses and the Maritime Academy of the Fiji National creating value to our stakeholders. In achieving and customer preferences has led and continue to which are presented along with management brands is a strategy adopted by the Group for this University and the Maritime Training Centre lead the Group in pioneering ventures both locally discussions. purpose. In line with our strategy during the year of Seychelles had a successful year of this we place emphasis in building collaborations operations. and in hitherto untapped overseas segments in its pursuit of achieving sustainable value creation The Group’s vital strength to success remains the group ventured into the following areas, with world renowned partners and brands. its experienced, committed and motivated 1. The Group acquired a partially completed 7. With the intention of diversifying its product for all stakeholders. This entrepreneurial spirit employees. Their years of experience in the areas 143 roomed hotel property in Chennai for offering our printing segment invested in combined with the passion for excellence and the we operate and the commitment to continuous a consideration of USD 25 million. The acquiring technology necessary for digital drive to continuously innovate the product offering in this area and we give below the sustainability recognise opportunities and new aspects in their learning and development has led to where hotel, a five star property under our brand “ printing while setting up a marketing office and the business processes have enabled the strategy of the Group. operations. Simultaneously, Group companies are we are today. The ever evolving world of today Turyaa” is now completed and is ready to be at Aitken Spence Tower II at Vauxhall Group to be a market leader and a most sought encouraged to champion an area in sustainability has brought to the forefront the requirement to launched, subject to regulatory approvals Street. The sustainability strategy of Aitken Spence after business partner in core areas in which it that will enable the most sustainable value operates. continuously pioneer and innovate new business and licenses. was developed to guide Strategic Business Units creation for that specific SBU and their key 8. Expanding our portfolio of airline segments and new opportunities to facilitate (SBUs) on the sustainability commitments of the stakeholders. This is the second platform of the 2. The Group signed up a new head lease representation, Aitken Spence was The Group’s success story is based on a strategy sustainable business growth and development. Group and to incorporate strategic focus to the Aitken Spence sustainability strategy which we agreement for another island in the appointed as the Passenger General Sales of diversification. The pillars of our diversification With the above in mind we encourage research existing sustainability efforts of the SBUs where refer to as ‘Strategic Differentiation of the Maldives adjacent to our already existing Agent for Turkish Airlines. strategy are the four core sectors in which the and development to ensure continuous innovation necessary and to guide them on future action. SBUs’. All SBUs have identified areas that add resort in Meedhupparu and the Group is As much as the Group requires business strategy value to their operations and are taking action presently finalizing on the architectural Implementation of the integrated sustainability for further growth, a sustainability strategy is also to create differentiation in their efforts. Group drawings. Construction of the resort is policy is the foundation of the strategy. It is Aitken Spence remains wholly committed to deliver expected to commence during the next a vital element to meet the requirement of our meant to assist SBUs to identify any gaps in differentiation is the next platform in the strategy stakeholders. The Group has evolved very rapidly where a common sustainability programme is profitable and sustainable growth and a return to all financial year. With the target of further achieving sustainability as expected, and also to launched to create sustainable value where all expanding our presences in the Maldives its stakeholders through, the Group acquired another island for future companies within the Group can come under one umbrella to support a cause that is of development subsequent to the financial Holdi ng C national importance. ‘Empowering Sri Lanka • Positive economic value creation through year end. Plant atio omp any First’ was developed after much discussion with n s geographical business and product diversification 3. Aitken Spence Hotel Holdings PLC., acquired gra ted Logis tics Garme nt M anu fac education experts and stakeholders to provide English language and computer skills education a stake with management in Amethyst e Courier Printin ture Int ng & g&P ardi • creation of employment and retention of excellent w ack for children within our communities. This is Resort in Pasikudah, with which it marks the r a t Fo rvices Power gin g igh e Se Gen era a platform in the strategy which is meant to entrance to the eastern coast of Sri Lanka. Fre ritim tion employees. M a ritim e& Logis tics Strategi c Inv estm create differentiation for Aitken Spence, as one (Pas Ma en logy Company and provide opportunities for SBUs and 4. Recognising the potential of the rapidly Inbound hno ts sen • Contribution to society through strategic corporate growing and developing global market & Ou tbou ger) Prop erty Insu ranc e Tec employees to get involved in and support. Airline for nanotechnology based products and nagement Comm ency social responsibility initiatives. solutions, Aitken Spence invested as 50% GSA Hote nd Tra Tour ism up Ma itt Ser vice s Ele vato r Ag ial Services anc ls ve Gro ee Fin • Sustaining the business environment in which the joint venture partner in Ecocorp Asia (Pvt) Ltd., which is a provider of nanotechnology l Board of Group operates. based surface protection solutions under Directors an exclusive distribution agreement with Nanopool GmbH of Germany. This tion Informa y Grou g Servic p nanotechnology based surface protector has Technolo es Group operates namely; Tourism, Maritime and to maintain our pioneering nature We depict a wide spectrum of applications and can be Sh Logistics, Strategic Investments, and Services. our operational interaction within the core ate are Fin used in manufacturing industries, hotels, por d S anc Cor nce erv ial Over the years we have expanded our operations sectors of Aitken Spence along with the strategic hospitals and residences. Fin a ice s and built core competencies in those key direction that is provided by the Board of Directors ial p tar ou Gr bility sectors while expanding our horizons beyond in page 31. cre ina Internal Au 5. With the intention of providing Se s sta ines Su di Risk Manag t & geographical borders. The Group’s operations are comprehensive solutions to our valuable Bus pment The short term strategy of the Group entails Lega Human elo Dev ement spread across the globe, from Asia to Africa, and Maritime and Logistic segment customers, l from the Middle East to the South Pacific. consolidating its position in core areas, we have restructured the business Resources improving efficiency of operations, and enhancing operations in the Maritime and Freight The inherent diversity of the Group makes it effectiveness of internal processes in order Centre Functions segments of the sector. This would enable impractical to have a common business model to move ahead vis-à-vis competition and 30 Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2014 2015 31 Our Strategy The Integrated Sustainability As such the policy was further expanded into an L. Development of local communities implementation framework so that the aspirations Policy M. Support for local economic development All aspects considered as relevant to of the Company do not remain as mere words on Development of a formal ‘Sustainability Strategy’ N. Occupational health and safety the nature & scale of our operations a document. The implementation framework is for the Group commenced in 2007 with the made up of action points for each policy clause. a. Hazard spotting and mitigation identification of gaps in the operations of b. Emergency evacuation Aitken Spence in a sustainability context. The “The Implementation Framework” as shown in O. Human resource concerns compilation of a comprehensive set of areas that the following diagrams, is segregated into tier could affect the long term viability, profitability levels and stages of relevance to the SBUs. For P. Human rights at the workplace Tier III & IV Exemplary Action Points and integrity of Aitken Spence was the start of all action points, the following aspects were Q. Reporting on sustainability performance Does the aspect pose a significant or the Aitken Spence Integrated Sustainability Policy. considered for grouping into tiers. considerable economic, environmental R. Annual Performance Review and Planning: Use and/or social impact to the Company? Aspects that are ‘filtered out’ at this point have low risk of of the Social and Environmental Governance causing adverse impacts. Action points listed as The areas identified included; • Environmental/ Social impact of the aspect ‘Exemplary’ are optional to be implemented according to checklist in the annual sustainability Yes No the nature of the operation and are meant to showcase A. Compliance • Frequency of occurrence performance reviews and planning differentiation for the SBU’s sustainability efforts. Not applicable to all SBUs, these action points are meant to B. Internalisation of UNGC principles • Legal requirements/ Requirements of add value to the organisation and can be adopted by the C. Ethical Conduct voluntary endorsements such as the UN SBU subject to relevance to the operation and Global Compact Benchmarking sustainability Is there high or reasonably high commitments of the organisation. D. Environmental Conservation performance management and frequency of occurrence of the aspect/ E.g.: Supplier Assessment (for human rights, societal and E. Stakeholder Inclusiveness • Requirements of management systems for operational activity of the aspect? labour practices related impacts) | Product & Service key areas of focus (ex: environment, quality, reporting Labeling | Public Policy F. Supply Chain Management health & safety) We adopt the sustainability reporting framework Yes No G. Strategic Focus of Sustainability of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) which has H. Sustainable Processes • Concerns highlighted by investors, had significant influence on how we capture and Tier II shareholders or regulators monitor sustainability performance data. Expected Action Points J. Innovation K. Quality Management With this report, we report “In Accordance – Have these aspects or economic/ Aspects that are ‘filtered out’ at this point have a higher social/ environmental concerns been potential to cause impact, however, have not been flagged L. Community Development Current priorities in the Core” with the GRI G4 Reporting Framework. highlighted by investors, shareholders by key stakeholders. Action points listed as ‘Expected’ are M. Support for Local Economic Development implementation framework To shortlist the GRI aspects material to Aitken or regulators? recommended according to the nature and scale of the Spence, we used a similar approach to the operation. A step above primary (Essential) requirements N. Occupational Health & Safety We have prioritised the action points to be for sustainability, these action points spell out best integrated policy framework and applied the Yes No O. Human Resources spearheaded at Group level. Out of all clauses practice expectations of an operation. following ‘filters’ to the list of aspects. (focus areas) in the integrated sustainability E.g.: Procurement Practices | Supplier Assessment (for P. Human Rights policy, the current priorities for implementation environmental impacts) | Security Practices • Environmental/ social impact of the aspect Q. Reporting are action on; Does the aspect contain legal requirements/ R. Information Security • Frequency of occurrence requirements of management system standards A. Compliance or voluntary endorsements for the organisation? S. Communication Tier I – Medium Priority B. Awareness and internalisation of local and • Legal requirements/ requirements of Essential Action Points T. Annual Performance Review and Planning management system standards Yes No global voluntary commitments such as the United Nations Global Compact, Women’s Aspects filtered down to this level are considered These areas were listed into an Integrated • Concerns highlighted by investors, ‘Essential’ for the organisation and the implementation of Empowerment Principles and Carbon respective action points are mandatory for all operations Sustainability Policy as ‘policy clauses’ reflected shareholders or regulators Disclosure Project in order to ensure that basic systems or procedures are in in the policy which is available in English, D. Environment: Aspects are thus shortlisted and prioritised into place to maintain the long term profitability, viability and Sinhala and Tamil in the Group’s website www. integrity of the Company. These actions are meant to aitkenspence.com/sustainability. a. Energy management tier levels as illustrated in the figure on page 33. strengthen the sustainability foundation of any Company. In this process, the GRI aspects were shortlisted b. Waste management (emissions, E.g.: Economic Performance | Energy | Employment | OHS | The integrated sustainability policy aims to by relevance to the organisation and further Compliance | Customer Health & Safety | Emissions, effluents and solid waste) benchmark the expected behaviour of the Group ‘filtered’ through engagement with the SBUs. Effluents and waste | Training & Education and to provide guidance to identify areas where c. Water the operations could be improved. Many SBUs d. Biodiversity Tier I – High Priority had already demonstrated leadership in specific E. Stakeholder engagement: independent Essential Action Points sustainability areas, and the integrated policy stakeholder engagement study is meant to ensure all SBUs achieve specified F. Supply chain management Selection of Material Aspects and Action Points of the Implementation Framework standards in sustainability performance. G. Strategic focus on sustainability 32 Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2014 2015 33 Our People Human Resources are at the core of Aitken 22% from Executives and 8% from Managers. Spence – the Company derives the highest value Human Resources are at the core of Aitken Spence. The The programmes were also diverse in their from the collective skills and expertise of our targeted training areas, with 11% focusing on team and consequently, we strive to create value Company derives the highest value from the collective individual skills, 17% on managerial skills, 17% for our people through HR excellence, which promotes professional and personal growth. skills and expertise of our team. organizational skills and 55% on technical skills, and were conducted in English, Sinhala or Tamil During the year, we have embedded enhanced wherever relevant. value to employees with a plethora of new As at 31st March 2015, the employee strength by two well experienced professionals. In an resources as well as improvements on existing of Aitken Spence was 7131, consisting of 4861 effort to increase their theoretical knowledge, The “Battle of the Diamonds”, an outbound channels of employee development. males and 2270 females. We have transparently the participants were offered company sponsored training programme provided a unique learning maintained equal standards for all employees, MBA level certificate programmes conducted by experience for participants. The programme was Our key focus in 2014/15 was improving and void of any discrimination. A good example eCornell, the online learning subsidiary of the Ivy conducted over a weekend at the Thalgaswela promoting employee development as well as of our commitment to transparency is our League university, Cornell University. Estate in February 2015, and involved over 30 introducing new ways in which to motivate and performance appraisal system, which ensures that participants whose teamwork and team building engage our employees in the hopes of further remuneration and promotions are based solely on skills were put to the test through various tasks enhancing our best practices in HR. that required cohesive teamwork. The tasks performance. Talent Attraction were designed to evaluate and develop the Aitken Spence’ efforts at maintaining these Attracting the right talent hinges on a strong participants’ ability to work within a team based Grievance handling is another integral aspect of practices in HR were recognized at the 2014 HRM sourcing effort and in a bid to tap into those on predetermined criteria. HR at Aitken Spence, and we practice an “openAwards held in March 2015. The HRM awards entering the job market, the Group participated door” policy where employees are encouraged are widely considered the pre-eminent awards in several job fairs with the aim of expanding the The Management Training Programme (MTP) to voice their opinions and concerns, while that recognize organizations with outstanding HR pool of talent available to us. was conducted for the benefit of employees maintaining utmost confidentiality which has practices, in compliance with globally accepted always been a priority. working in Sri Lanka as well as the Maldives, standards. The awards are adjudicated by A project was initiated this year where Trainee with six such programmes held during the year. SHRM, the largest HR body in the world. Aitken Executives were recruited and offered entry level The programme is designed to develop skills Spence PLC was awarded the prestigious Gold opportunities at different subsidiaries within the pertaining to leadership, decision making, attitude Continuing the Leadership Pipeline Group, in a bid to strengthen the talent pool from Award and Heritance Kandalama won a Silver building, team building, networking, and overall Award and a category award for best practices The Management Development Centre, which the entry level of the executive cadre. The viability management skills. in ‘Talent Supply’ which further endorses the was established in the previous year to nurture of this project and our reputation as an employer current recruitment strategy of the company. future leaders within the organization, entered its of choice were proven by the impressive number In addition, the Corporate HR division, with Aitken Spence was also honoured to be the only second phase during the year. The 24 employees of applications received. the support of internal and external trainers, organization that won 3 awards at this year’s in the programme, ranging from the Middle conducted many in-house training programmes to Management to the General Manager level were The applicants faced a rigorous selection process fulfill development needs of employees. Being a awards ceremony. given guidance on identified development needs, that included an aptitude test, assessment centre, corporate sponsor of prestigious entities such as through one to one coaching sessions conducted interviews as well as a presentation where each Chartered Institute of Management Accountants candidate was tested on core competencies, (CIMA), the Institute of Chartered Accountants of including communication skills. In addition to identifying capabilities, the selection process was also a means to identify the specific areas in which improvements were needed. Employee Gender Analysis Categorywise Employment Functional Analysis of Employees as at 31st March 2015 as at 31st March 2015 as at 31st March 2015 The Groups’ sourcing efforts have evolved 1% 1% 7% to embrace social media as a key channel of 1% 32% 28% 4% communication to reach mass audiences. This 5% year, we increased the promotion of vacancies 4% on various social media sites and were rewarded 6% with a higher response rate, cementing the use of social media in our sourcing needs. 68% 15% 57% 71% Talent Development Male Executive 704 training programmes were conducted for over HR Customer Service Female Clerical Finance 12,000 participants in 2014/15, a 20% increase Related/ PR Minor IT Engineering/Maintenance year on year. These programmes were conducted Administration Operations for employees across categories with 70% of Sales & Marketing Other the participation being from Non-Executives, 34 Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2014 2015 35 Our People Sri Lanka, and the Sri Lanka Institute of Directors new initiatives and other pertinent matters are Groups’ events and achievements. The popular Aitken Spence has been organizing an annual has given us the opportunity to conduct numerous shared in an open forum. Sinhala online newsletter “Athwela” also details blood donation campaign for over a decade. The training programmes. These partnerships enable company events as well as highlight employee campaign has always been a massive success Aitken Spence to reach a larger audience and Each convention is conducted in a varied form accomplishments both within and outside the with impressive numbers in attendance to donate provide high quality developmental services at a where a theme is decided in the context of Group. blood. This year’s campaign under the theme higher frequency. current internal and external business trends. The “Save a Life. Give Blood.” was held in March conventions conducted thus far have featured 2015 with the assistance of the National Blood The training expertise within the Group guest lectures by distinguished professionals, Benefits & Facilities Transfusion Service. Our efforts at promoting the enabled us to continue to extend our services panel discussions and presentations by top event led to a large turnout that included donors The demographics of our cadre are constantly and consultancy to third parties; the Group’s management on different topics. Knowledge from external organisations as well. changing and accordingly, we consider it outsourcing arm steered several training sharing by senior staff experienced in overseas important to regularly review the benefits and programmes for companies in Sri Lanka and training and international forums, launching of facilities that we offer employees. overseas, including a series of productivity new Group-wide initiatives such as the Aitken Staff Welfare improvement programmes. The company’s Spence School of Management and debates This year, the Group introduced a new facility Work life balance is not just a buzzword at Aitken Corporate HR team conducted a soft skills training where divergent opinions on sensitive matters enabling employees to have flexibility with their Spence; HR personnel and the Group Sports Club for a group of foreign corporate professionals are discussed openly by the employees in the leave utilization. Under the facility, employees are take an active role in driving many initiatives that in March 2015, an endorsement of the high presence of business leaders are measures that given the option of carrying forward their annual promote work life balance. standards we offer. we believe will promote a culture driven upon leave entitlements to the following calendar year. creativity and inventiveness. We take care to design each training programme In a business environment where the only constant is Structural adjustments were also made to the In this regards, the monthly ‘Chillax Evening’ sessions have been a great success; they allow to address specific needs of employees and the An important segment of the event is the question industries/companies they represent. These change, it is critical to instill attitudes that embrace and answer session where the future leaders of existing incentive scheme to accommodate one employees from all subsidiaries to network with that is better suited to a conglomerate. The other members of the Group in an atmosphere of training requirements are identified by each change towards the greater good. Aitken Spence believes the organization are given an opportunity to ask new scheme takes consideration of a number of camaraderie and relaxation. subsidiary and by the employees themselves. This questions about the operations and strategies of allows for a high degree of customization and that the most effective way of driving change is developing the Group. This also serves as an opportunity for factors which were analysed based on the highly diversified nature of the subsidiaries; it enables Considering the composition of our workforce targeted training, resulting in a more effective learning outcome which impacts both professional its people, the employees to put forward their suggestions to the top management. The event is attended by us to recognize the individual, subsidiary and – with 61% of employees below 35 and 39% Group efforts from a more holistic perspective. above 35, it is critical that we cater to multiple and personal development. approximately 120 senior employees from across The development of this new scheme was and diverse needs. Our capacity to be sensitive on customer satisfaction levels of Aitken Spence The participants were evaluated via a series the Group and thus provides a great opportunity undertaken by an external consultancy agency and to employees’ needs has resulted in 34% of our Maritime and Ace International Express (AIX), of audits conducted by Corporate HR with the for peers to socialize with each other and expand the improved incentive scheme was brought into employees staying with the Company for over 6 Process Improvements while another two surveys were conducted for assistance of an expert auditor. A combined total their professional network. operation in mid-2014. years. The fundamental automated system at Aitken AIX focusing on the customer service standards, of 58 awards and certificates were awarded to the measured through a mystery caller/shopper Another forum which has been promoting The Sports Club has been instrumental in Spence is the EHRM system, introduced in 2007 winning subsidiaries at an awards ceremony held process. The surveys helped gauge areas of awareness and communication about the garnering the enthusiasm of employees to create a more effective and efficient method of in February 2015. Aitken Spence Garments walked subsidiaries of the Group among all employees Special Programmes processing employee information, while enabling strength and improvement. away with 08 awards, the most by any subsidiary for numerous events promoting work-life are the internal publications of Aitken Spence. As a group, we firmly believe that it is important a move towards a paper-free environment. Having this year. They emerged winners of the ‘Best 6S – balance, including the Chillax Evening, Spence The Ace Magazine for example offers internal to strike a balance by encouraging employees to a system which allows for a greater level of Mixed Sector’, ‘Excellence in HR – Mixed Sector’, Talent Show, Different Strokes Children’s Art and external stakeholders a glimpse into the give back to the community. transparency in the HR processes was considered Productivity Improvements ‘Most Creative Practice’ and the Group winners of Competition (for employees’ children), Christmas an additional benefit. Driving higher levels of productivity is important the ‘6S and HR Excellence’ award. to enable the Group to maintain its competitive Employee Age Analysis Age Analysis of Employee Turnover Employee Length of Service With the EHRM system being in effect, the edge; we continuously monitor and improve as at 31st March 2015 for the year ended 31st March 2015 as at 31st March 2015 subsequent step was to improve the current productivity related factors according to globally Improving Communication system to incorporate more facilities for 5% 3% 3% 3% 1% 0% accepted standards of practice. The size and geographic spread of our 5% employees. Thus, the company has decided 8% 25% 43% 5% operations necessitates effective and efficient 16% to upgrade the current system to include new The annual ‘6S and HR Excellence Awards,’ an communication; people must be able to share modules and additional features – including inter-company competition has been a staple 12% their ideas and views with each other, and we 20% access through mobile devices. in the Group’s event calendar since 2002. This must ensure that the right messages always reach year, we unveiled a 7th ‘S’ into the already our team, wherever they may. We addressed the expanded 6S factors – ‘Shape’. This addition, communication factor through many initiatives. 17% 66% Service Improvements 12% which focuses on creativity, was introduced as a 38% As a service-based company, continuous method to encourage employees to find new and The staff convention is a much awaited tri–annual 18% improvement in service standards is a priority for creative ways to implement standards within the event in the Aitken Spence calendar where the 25 years and below 41 45 years 25 years and below 36 50 years Below 5 years 21-25 years the Group. Focusing on this aspect, Corporate HR workplace. senior management of the organization meets 26 30 years 46 50 years 26 35 years Above 50 years 6-10 years 26-30 years was invited by subsidiaries to conduct 06 surveys with the business leaders of the Group. This 31 35 years 51 55 years 11-15 years Over 30 years The competition saw the participation of 51 convention is the pre-eminent forum where Aitken 36 40 years 56 years & above 16-20 years in 2014/15. Four of these surveys were conducted subsidiaries, inclusive of all Maldivian resorts. Spence’s future direction, business performance, 36 Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2014 2015 37 Our People Risk Management “Evaluation Speech Competition.” The club secured the ‘President’s Distinguished Club’ status, highest status awarded for a club “By practicing effective risk management, we strive by Toastmasters International, for the third to create a disciplined environment to facilitate consecutive year. successful decision making in the business” In a business environment where the only constant is change, it is critical to instill attitudes that embrace change towards the greater good. Active risk management has always been a Furthermore risk management entwines itself Aitken Spence believes that the most effective continuous journey for Aitken Spence, where with corporate governance, sustainability , way of driving change is developing its people, we strive to develop the process furthermore internal audit and corporate social responsibility the core of its organization. The Group practices in response to the changes in the business and and ensures the effective identification and best in class HR strategies that are clearly aligned operating environments. At Aitken Spence “risk is management of key potential risks. However, the to the Group’s long term goals, and are designed everyone’s business”, where we have embedded Group tries to differentiate itself by attempting to create optimal value. Our capacity to remain risk management in to the routine business to create a suitable balance between the competitive hinges entirely on our employees operations, such that it is effective at all levels. organisational entrepreneurial attitude and level becoming committed partners in our vision for the of risk associated with the business opportunities, future. Aitken Spence recognizes risk management as keeping pace with its’ reputation of having an a key priority and ensures that it remains a key innovative and exciting corporate culture. component of its’ corporate strategy framework. Party, Sport-O-Rama, Beach Party, Spence A Special Internship Programme for employees’ New Employees Recruited Group’s Risk Management Process Badminton Tournament and the consistently children and siblings continued for a second for the year ended 31st March 2015 popular Bowling Tournament which saw nearly 50 year, under which we offer internships to youth teams from various subsidiaries participating this whom have completed their Advanced Level year. New additions to the Aitken Spence sports examinations. The interns spent 3 months in Enterprise Risk Management at Aitken Spence calendar were the Beach Volleyball Tournament various subsidiaries, gaining valuable corporate  and the Spence Table Tennis Tournament. While experience. enhancing employee satisfaction, the events also help us to identify those with special talents. The Toastmasters Club has played an influential BAU Process role in the enhancement of communication and In the past, we introduced Yoga as an attempt to leadership skills of employees. As in previous  promote health and wellness among employees. years, club members have gone onto represent SBU Risk Risk Capture Management In January 2015, bi-weekly Zumba sessions the area at divisional level competitions Quarterly Audit Committee Review %XECUTIVESÏ Ï-ALE Stakeholder and Committee Risk Mitigation and Monitoring were introduced and have seen enthusiastic throughout the year and were able to win a Risk Analysis and Evaluation %XECUTIVESÏ Ï&EMALE participation. number of competitions such as the “Impromptu Industry Dynamics Speech Competition” and were runners up in Risk Identification We also offer employees two holiday bungalows the “International Speech Competition” and in Meddecombra for the executive cadre and the recently refurbished Nuwara Eliya bungalow for Macro-economics and Board of the Managerial staff. Types of Training Conducted Employees Trained Categorywise External Environment Directors for the year ended 31st March 2015 for the year ended 31st March 2015 Aitken Spence partnered with Falck Sri Lanka: 8% 11% Emergency Medical Services offering employees the benefit of acquiring their services in case of 55% Corporate, Business and emergency. Under the partnership, Aitken Spence 22% Operational Strategy Risk 17% Functional employees are eligible for their services during Review and Quantification Review the time they remain on Aitken Spence premises. We extended our training to immediate families Audit and Compliance 70% Reviews of employees, through a knowledge enhancement 17% programme aimed at the siblings and children of our employees. Most of the participants Individual Organisational Non Executive were school children who found the programme Managerial Technical Executive invaluable for their educational endeavours. Managerial 38 Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2014 2015 39 Risk Management The Group has embedded a risk management Group Management Board, whom in turn would Strategic risk division Trend process which would assess, identify, analyse, recommend such to the main board (which The strategic risk division (SRD) of the Group Risk and description Key mitigation Assessment 12/13 13/14 14/15 prioritize, evaluate and manage the risks being consists of the audit committee as well) who provides the technical guidance on effective faced by the business in the most efficient and would validate and govern the process thereby risk management, where it would continuously effective manner. discharging the responsibilities endowed to them 1 Competitive environment Competitor activity and performance is monitored routinely at a financial as well as provide support, assistance and guidance to the by the shareholders. trends strategic level to ensure the Group’s competitiveness is sustained at all levels. The risk management process of the Group in fact sectors and individual SBUs to facilitate relevant, accurate and timely administering of risks. The risk of adverse ignites itself from the individual SBUs. We have Group internal audit and the strategic risk division The Group refrains it self from extremely aggressive or controversial investments commercial impact on the empowered each SBU to appoint their own risk will continuously identify and monitor potential irrespective of its sole monetary benefit and focuses more on financially and socially Furthermore the SRD conducts ongoing Group can be significant management committee, consisting of responsible risks whilst conducting internal audits and sustainable business ventures with acceptable shareholder returns. HIGH environment scanning and routinely updates the as a result of the highly senior managers and executives who continuously reviews across the Group. SBUs on potential threats and opportunities in the competitive environment in scan their internal and external environments for The Group continuously looks at diversifying its investment portfolio and adding value market, executes strategic and operational risk which the Group operates. potential risks. to its existing ones by methods such as investing in R&D, process improvements and analysis and engages continuously on elevating Managing risk the quality of the Groups’ risk management obtaining ISO certifications. This helps the Group to obtain efficiencies and economies of The risk management committees of SBUs would scale which enable it to stay abreast of its competition. Globally renowned risk management strategies practices to become on par with world class report to the sector risk management committees are being adopted by the Group, which cover corporates. 2 Developments in the The Group’s strategic risk division (SRD) is engaged in continuous environment scanning consisting of top management members of that regulatory and legislative transfer of risk, acceptance of risk ,minimization and is geared to accurately forecast any potential threat / opportunity and will actively sector, who would analyse, evaluate, prioritize environment of risk and mitigation of risk via a comprehensive A few of the key risks, their potential impact and facilitate the management to steer towards the best direction. and monitor key risks and their mitigation plans risk evaluation process. In addition to this, opportunities faced by the Group can be specified Fuelled with the post war era pertaining to individual SBUs or the sectors In addition to the individual SBU risk management committees conducting routine comprehensive business continuity plans (BCPs) as below. growth, Sri Lanka has been as a whole. The sector risk management assessment of risks in their course of business , the SRD also will independently carry out and disaster response plans (DRPs) are being fast evolving in its’ regulatory committees will develop risk response plans structured risk reviews of all the SBUs in the Group in view of minimizing the susceptibility drawn to ensure minimum business disruption, in and legislative environment for each of their sectors and will present to the for potential disruptions and to ensure minimum turnaround time in case of radical the event of unforeseen circumstances. to keep pace with the world HIGH economy. However, the developments in this arena pace of change has been Also, the division maintains active relationships with key stakeholder groups to keep fast accelerating towards Group’s Enterprise Risk Heat Map the latter part of the year, abreast of the latest developments among the civil circles, and will undertake swift actions to protect the interests of the Group within the least possible lead time. creating more uncertainties and emphasizing the need for rapid acclimatization. ② 3 Managing human capital Group HR perceives risk, predominantly on the facets of strategy, process compliance, HIGH The Group recognizes investment and organizational change and adopts dynamic strategies to manage this risk the competitive labour effectively. The following activities are undertaken in this regard. ④ ③ Risk Description environment and difficulty • Process to attract and retain high ① 1. Competitive environment trends Corporate HR has gone in to great lengths by even adopting social media in an ⑦ calibre employees as well as MEDIUM 2. Managing human capital IMPACT ⑤ aggressive manner in communicating and attracting the talent pools of the “new” 3. Developments in the regulatory key employees in leadership generation. The Group’s visibility as an attractive “Employer Brand” has gone from ⑥ & legislative environment positions. strength to strength via numerous accreditations at the HR awards 2012 and corporate 4. Eco-environment and citizen awards 2014. As a result of the Group’s sustainability risk reputation in the market, 5. Financial risk With regard to the talent management and development fronts, Group HR with the LOW potential employers 6. Risk of default support of the SBUs conduct a training and development needs analysis for each and competitors tend to HIGH 7. System failure, data security employee linked to their comprehensive performance appraisals, supported by an continuously tap our talent and cyber attack annual training calendar which are tailor made to the demand as well as HR’s own pool, challenging our retention LOW MEDIUM HIGH frequent assessment of the program’s quality, applicability and timeliness. This ensures and development strategies. PROBABILITY the talent of the Group stays up to date as well as making them equipped with the latest technical capabilities to support their routine work. • Investment Group HR extensively works with CINEC, local universities and professional bodies such as CIMA, ICASL etc. and building partnerships for talent attraction and providing members of these bodies, with suitable training opportunities. Also, the Group ensures superior recognition and due appreciation for extraordinary achievements and significant contributions to important events by our employees. 40 Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2014 2015 41 Risk Management Trend Trend Risk and description Key mitigation Assessment Risk and description Key mitigation Assessment 12/13 13/14 14/15 12/13 13/14 14/15 • Organizational Change • Whilst being one of the major players in the packaging sector Aitken Spence Printing In terms of managing the organizational change ,we ensure the building of succession is well ahead of the competition on the environment and sustainability front. The MED plans and strong leadership pipelines to facilitate effective succession planning at all company’s recent certification in integrated management systems (IMS) include levels. In order to promote good governance even senior levels of management, are prestigious achievements such as ISO 9001,14001 and 18001. subject to evaluations on an annual basis. Also the Group will ensure measures are on 5 Financial Risk The Group treasury plays a vital role in managing multiple facets of financial Risks being multiple work facets. Being a billion rupee company faced by the Group whilst functioning in the ever dynamic financial markets. operating in multiple countries In enforcing the truest sense of lifetime employment, Elpitiya plantations has However, the extensive expertise within the group, has facilitated the achievement of exposes the organisation to successfully concluded a project, which is the first of its’ nature in Sri Lanka, where positive results in the minimization of financial risk . many financial risks. the company now maintains a home for the elders dedicated to the retired estate employees who face extreme living hardships. This further strengthens the Group’s • The Group was able to successfully ascribe for significant USD funding from foreign spirit of virtually taking care of the employees from “womb” to “tomb”. banks , enabling the Group to have access to mega scale expansion opportunities HIGH locally and overseas tagged with highly favourable costs of debt servicing, in turn • Strategy generating more returns on equity On the facet of strategy, the Group has undertaken many initiatives such as salary benchmarking, long service recognition etc. to communicate to employees of their value • Latest available forex hedging techniques are adopted by the Group to mitigate possible MED losses due to the volatility of the currency markets and the Group treasury conducts to the organisation. continuous around the clock scanning of the financial markets to protect the Group • Compliance interests from negative market behaviour. Compliance becomes an integral element to the Group, especially ensuring that the • To counter liquidity risks, which may impact on the Group, proactive measures have organizational practices conform strictly and precisely to the compliance requirements already being undertaken by Group treasury , where prenegotiated standby facilities laid out by the relevant regulatory bodies. In recognition of this, the EFC in conjunction exceeding the Rs. 4 billion mark has been established with leading banks in Sri Lanka. with the ILO has recognized the Group by awarding the prestigious “Compliance (+)“ employer brand status. • The Group’s excess liquidity is always re-invested in short term government securities 4 Eco-environment and The Group being a primary player in the hospitality and leisure sector, the conservation and is actively managed by the Group treasury to maximize the returns on the sustainability of the ecosphere and sustainability have become key principles for the operation. Rather investment at the lowest possible risk exposure. The Group’s strong presence than conducting mere lip service to the term, from the top team member to the grounds6 Risk of counterparty Each company rigorously involve themselves in managing their receivables at an optimum in the hospitality, leisure, man truly embrace the concept and voluntarily indulge in activities which truly support default level, where the total receivable figure of the Group is closely monitored. transport and production sustenance. Being a highly diversified Also, sectors exposes it to a conglomerate, it is intrinsic • Group internal audit ensures a rigorous review of the receivables management during wide variety of risks in the • Energy conservation, adoption of eco friendly alternate energy sources and minimizing LOW that the Group faces elevated routine operational audits and reviews. ecological environment. emissions have been rigorous Group initiatives especially in the hotel sector. The Group levels of default risks from its takes pride itself in winning the title of the “Most energy efficient hotel chain” for many • Group legal undertakes swift and continuous actions to recover overdue debts, thus counterparties, predominantly consecutive years. maintaining the bad debt ratio at highly satisfactory levels. the clients. • The Heritance Kandalama, is today studied by many, as an ideal example of a 7 System failure, data The Aitken Spence Group IT was awarded with the ISO 27001:2005 standard on commercial establishment’s sustainably seamless integration to the ecosphere and security and cyberattack Information security management systems (ISMS) and a dedicated Group IT security and prides itself as the world’s first LEEDS certified hotel. Also, Heritance Ahungalla was MED Risk of data security or system systems audit division operates ensuring the respective system defences are up to date the world’s first ISO 50001 certified hotel. Our latest addition to the family, Heritance failure incident which could and with the least of vulnerabilities. Negombo is already compliant to the requirements of the LEEDS gold category. be driven via a cyberattack, virus, data loss or technology In case of disaster recovery, comprehensive disaster recovery plans and routine testing • The usage of bio gas, solar diesel hybrids, and the acquisition of the latest energy failure. are being conducted to identify vulnerabilities in this area, facilitate rapid rectification and LOW efficient equipment have been keeping the Group and the hotel sector as forerunners ensure minimum business disruptions. and an industry benchmark on the conservation of the environment whilst conducting successful business. The Group’s controls to counter cyber threats and attacks are being tested and aligned with industry best practices. Our plantation sector (Elpitiya Plantations) also has been recognized by many international environment organisations where all the estates have received the Forest Stewardship On-going security improvements will continue to be made to the cloud services and mobile Council (FSC) certificate, and the Rainforest Alliance has certified all the upcountry devices being used in the Group. estates, and we are engaged in the process for obtaining the certification for all our low country plantations in 2015. 42 Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2014 2015 43 Board of Directors Mr. D.H.S. Jayawardena Mr. J.M.S. Brito Dr. R.M. Fernando Mr. C.H. Gomez Mr. N.J. de Silva Deva Aditya Appointed in April 2000 Appointed in April 2000 Appointed in April 2005 Appointed in May 2002 Appointed in September 2006 Dr. P. Dissanayake Ms. D.S.T. Jayawardena Mr. G.C. Wickremasinghe Mr. V. M. Fernando Mr. R.N. Asirwatham Appointed in September 2009 Appointed in December 2013 Appointed in April 1972 Appointed in May 2008 Appointed in September 2009 Today we have expanded our reach and influence to become a model of corporate excellence, combining the strength of our heritage with our solid commitment to organic expansion, to deliver our promise of increasing returns each year. 44 Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2014 2015 45 Board of Directors Mr. D.H.S. Jayawardena The Employers’ Federation of Ceylon and a former Dr. Dissanayake who has served on the UN/ (Pvt) Ltd., Amethyst Leisure Ltd., and Paradise Mr. N.J. de Silva Deva Aditya (Pvt) Ltd. He is also a Director of Ceylon Guardian Director of Sri Lanka Insurance Corporation. UNCTAD Panel as an expert on Ports and Shipping Resort Passikuda (Pvt) Ltd. Investment Trust PLC, Ceylon Investment PLC, and Mr. Harry Jayawardena is one of Sri Lanka’s Mr. Niranjan Deva Aditya, who was appointed to is a Past Chairman of the Institute of Chartered a Trustee of Joseph Frazer Memorial Hospital. most successful businessmen and heads many Mr. Brito was appointed to the Board of Aitken She was the youngest intern to work under US the Board of Aitken Spence PLC., in September Shipbrokers, Past Chairman of the Chartered successful enterprises in very diverse fields of Spence PLC., in April 2000. Senator Hilary Rodham Clinton and the Former US 2006, is an aeronautical engineer, scientist and Institute of Logistics and Transport (Sri Lanka activity. He is the Founder Director and current President Bill Clinton in 2003. She is a member of economist, is a Conservative Member of the Chairman/Managing Director of the Stassen branch) and a Past Chairman of the Central European Parliament elected from the SE England. Mr. R.N. Asirwatham Advisory Council of Sri Lanka Transport Board. He EY Next Generation Club. Group of Companies – a diversified group in He is the Vice President of the Development Mr. Rajan Asirwatham was the Senior Partner Dr. R.M. Fernando is the Chairman of Ceylon Chamber of Commerce and Country Head of KPMG from 2001 to 2008. export and import trade, and the Chairman of Ms. Jayawardena leads a team of young Committee; ECR Co-ordinator and Conservative Dr. Rohan Fernando, who heads Plantations and Steering Committee on Ports, Shipping, Aviation Further, he was the Chairman of the Steering Lanka Milk Foods (CWE) PLC. He is also the professionals that is endeavouring to develop a Spokesman for Overseas’ Development and Business Development at Aitken Spence PLC., and Logistics, Jt. Managing Director of CINEC Committee for the Sustainable Tourism Project Chairman of the Distilleries Company of Sri Lanka strategic development plan for future growth of Co-operation. He was the Co Leader of the holds a PhD and a MBA from the University of Maritime Campus and Director of Fiji Ports funded by the World Bank for the Ministry PLC., Browns Beach Hotels PLC., Balangoda Aitken Spence PLC. Parliamentary Delegation to the UN World Colombo and is also a Chartered Marketer and a Terminal Ltd. of Tourism and was also a member of the Plantations PLC., and Madulsima Plantations Summit and General Assembly 2006, Chairman PLC. In addition to being the Chairman of Lanka Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Marketing, Working Group A of Development Committee Presidential Commission on Taxation, appointed (CIM UK). Dr. Dissanayake a University of Oxford (UK) Bell Ltd., Melstacorp Limited, Milford Exports Mr. G.C. Wickremasinghe overseeing Asia, Central Asia and Far East; Co by His Excellency the President of Sri Lanka. Business Alumni is a Fellow of Harvard Business (Ceylon) (Pvt) Ltd., Ambewela Livestock Company School USA (EEP) on “Global Economy” and a Co-ordinator Assembly of 79 Parliaments of the He has extensive experience in the plantation Mr. G.C. Wickremasinghe started his career in Mr. Asirwatham, is a fellow member of the Ltd., Ambewela Products (Pvt) Ltd., Lanka Dairies Fellow of NORAD and JICA. EU-ACP 2004 and the President EU India Chamber industry both in the public and private sectors and 1954 on an Aitken Spence managed plantation. Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka. (Pvt) Ltd., Periceyl (Pvt) Ltd., Texpro Industries of Commerce from 2005. In 2012 he stood for and played a key role in the plantation privatisation He has therefore had an unbroken association He is also a member of the Ceylon Chamber of Ltd., Ceylon Garden Coir (Pvt) Ltd., he is also He is also a Board Director of Urban Development came runner up, beating the Liberal candidate programme. of over 60 years with the Company. After over Commerce Advisory Council and a member of the the Chairman / Managing Director / Director of Authority and the Hon. Consul General for the into 3rd place to be the President (Speaker) to the a decade as a professional planter he moved to council of the University of Colombo. several other successful and reputable companies. He also leads the CSR and Sustainability Republic of Fiji Islands in Sri Lanka. European Parliament. He was the first Asian to the Company’s head office in 1965 to take over He is a former Director of Hatton National Bank initiatives of the Group. He was awarded the be elected as a Conservative Member of British the Estate Agency Department. In the early 70’s, He also serves on the Boards of Vallibel One PLC., the largest listed bank in Sri Lanka. Mr. Brand Leadership Award at the Asia Brand Parliament, first Asian MP to serve in the British he also took charge of the Insurance division, Limited, Ceylon Tea Services PLC., Royal Ceramics Jayawardena was the former Chairman of Ceylon Congress 2008, held in Mumbai in September Ms. D.S.T. Jayawardena including the Lloyd’s Agency and the Singapore Government as PPS in the Scottish Office and PLC., Dial Tex Industries (Pvt) Limited, Renuka Petroleum Corporation and Sri Lankan Airlines. 2008. first Asian born MP to be elected to the European Ms. Stasshani Jayawardena is overall responsible Airlines Agency. When the Insurance industry was Hotels (Pvt) Limited, CIC Holdings PLC., Rajawella Parliament. He was nominated as a candidate Mr. Jayawardena is presently the Honorary Consul for the leisure sector of the Group that includes liberalized in the late 80’s, he played an active Holdings (Pvt) Limited, Mercantile Merchant Bank, He is the Chairman of United Nations Global to succeed Kofi Annan as Secretary General for Denmark and on 9th February 2010, was hotels, incoming destination management and role in the formation of Union Assurance Ltd., and Yaal Hotels (Pvt) Limited, Dankotuwa Porcelain Compact Network, Ceylon and the former to the UN in 2006. He is a Hon. Ambassador knighted by Her Majesty the Queen of Denmark overseas travel. served a stint as its Chairman. PLC., Ceylon Agro Industries Ltd., Colombo City President of the Chartered Institute of Marketing without portfolio for Sri Lanka; the first Asian with the prestigious honour of “Knight Cross of Holdings PLC., Peninsular Properties (Pvt) Ltd., and Sri Lanka Region. Ms. Jayawardena is a graduate of St. James’ & Mr. Wickremasinghe was appointed to the Board to be appointed as Her Majesty’s Deputy Lord Dannebrog”. Fentons Limited. Lucie Clayton College and Keele University in the of Aitken Spence PLC., in April 1972 and was Lieutenant for Greater London, representing The He was recently appointed as a Member of the Queen on official occasions since 1985; awarded He has also been awarded in November 2005, the United Kingdom. Chairman from 1996 to 1997. He has therefore Mr. Asirwatham was appointed to the Board of Advisory Board of the Faculty of Business of the honour “ViswaKirthi Sri Lanka Abhimani“ by title, “Deshamanya” in recognition of his services been a Director of the Company continuously Aitken Spence PLC., in September 2009. Sri Lanka Institute of Information Technology She joined Aitken Spence PLC in January 2010, the Buddhist Clergy for his Services to Sri Lanka to the Motherland. for a period of 43 years. He has a wide and (SLIIT). gaining experience in several of its key strategic and given the Knighthood with Merit of the varied experience in many business sectors. Mr. Mr. Jayawardena was appointed to the Board of business units and across the parent group Wickremasinghe has the distinction of being Sacred Constantinian Military Order of St. George He was appointed to the Board of Aitken Spence Aitken Spence PLC., on 1st April 2000 and has companies. She was appointed to the Board of responsible for the concept and construction of for his global work on poverty eradication. He is a PLC in April 2005 been Chairman of the Company since 25th April Aitken Spence PLC in December 2013 and to the the Group’s unique theme hotel The Heritance Fellow of the Royal Society for Arts, Manufacture 2003. Board of Aitken Spence Hotel Holdings PLC in Tea Factory. and Commerce (Est: 1765). July 2014. Dr. P. Dissanayake Dr. Parakrama Dissanayake, is Chairman/CEO Ms. Jayawardena is a member of the Young Mr. V.M. Fernando Mr. J.M.S. Brito Leaders Steering Committee and the Banking, Mr. C.H. Gomez of Aitken Spence Maritime and Logistics and Mr. Rajan Brito has a LLB (University of London) Mr. Charles Gomez is a former Investment Mr. Manilal Fernando who is an Attorney-atDirector Aitken Spence PLC. He was appointed Finance & Capital Markets Steering Committee and MBA (London City Business School) degrees Banker with over 30 years of experience in the Law started his practice in his home town in to the Board of Aitken Spence PLC., in September of the Ceylon Chamber of Commerce. She is and is a Fellow of both Institutes of Chartered finance industry. He has worked for several major Kalutara in 1972 and was the Secretary of the 2009. the Chairperson of Splendor Media, a leading Accountants of Sri Lanka and England and Wales. financial institutions, and brings to the Company Bar Association, Kalutara for many years. He was advertising and communication company. Together with this multi-disciplined knowledge, Dr. Dissanayake who commenced his career at the a wealth of experience in regard to international appointed to the Board of Aitken Spence PLC., in he also brings with him a wealth of 35 years of national carrier Ceylon Shipping Corporation is a She is also a Director at Stassen Exports (Pvt) financial markets. Mr. Gomez is a partner of a May, 2008. international experience working with a number former Chairman/CEO of Sri Lanka Ports Authority Ltd., Milford Exports (Ceylon) (Pvt) Ltd., Stassen financial services company based in Gibraltar He is the Chairman of Stallion Holdings (Pvt) Ltd., of international organizations. Presently Mr. Brito and also a former Chairman of state owned Jaya Natural Foods (Pvt) Ltd., Ceylon Garden Coir (Pvt) and serves on Boards of foreign investment Dynamic AV Technologies (Pvt) Ltd., Hyundai is the Managing & Finance Director of Aitken Container Terminals Ltd., and Sri Lanka Port Ltd., Milford Developers (Pvt) Ltd., Stassen Foods companies. Mr. Gomez was appointed to the Lankan Limited and Shipping and Cargo Logistics Spence PLC. He is a former Chairman of DFCC Management Consultancy Services Ltd. (Pvt) Ltd., C D B Exports (Pvt) Ltd., Ecocorp Asia Board of Aitken Spence PLC., in May 2002. Bank, DFCC Vardhana Bank, Sri Lankan Airlines, 46 Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2014 2015 47 Group Management Committee Mr. J.M.S. Brito Dr. R.M. Fernando Dr. P. Dissanayake Mr. V.M. Gunatilleka Mr. P. Karunathilake Ms. D.S.T. Jayawardena Mr. R.E.V. Casie Chetty Mr. K.R.T. Peiris Mr. L. Wickremarachchi Mr. J.S.A. Fernando Ms. N. Sivapragasam Mr. S.M. Hapugoda Ms. N.W. de A. Guneratne Mr. S.K.R.B. Jayaweera Mr. R. G. Salgado Mr. C.M.S. Jayawickrama Mr. R.G. Pandithakorralage Mr. D.S. Mendis Mr. N.A.N. Jayasundera Mr. N.P. Wakwella We take pride in our unrivalled passion for innovation; the groundbreaking ideas and pioneering enterprises that add such distinctive value to the diverse industry sectors we now operate.​ 48 Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2014 2015 49 Group Management Committee Mr. J.M.S. Brito the Sri Lanka Freight Forwarders Association Consultant. He is a professional hotelier counting the Ex Vice President, Resort Hotels of the Tourist 11 years from 1994 to 2005, the last five of which and in the year 1988 as Production Manager. In for 3 years and now helps them on an advisory many years of managerial experience at senior Hotels Association of Sri Lanka (THASL). was as a Subsidiary Director. During this period he 1993 he left the company, but continued to serve See Board of Directors profile. capacity. He is also a Director of SLFFA Cargo level within several hotel companies and is an also served two years in the Executive Committee the industry in a Senior Managerial capacity for a Services Ltd. He is a Member of the Chartered Honorary Member (Past President) of the Tourist of the Sri Lanka Freight Forwarders Association period of 17 years. During this time he proceeded Dr. R.M. Fernando Institute of Logistics & Transport – International Hotels’ Association of Sri Lanka and a Member Mr. R.G. Pandithakorralage and a Director of SLFFA Cargo Services Ltd. He to the Netherlands where he underwent advanced and is also affiliated with most of the industry of the Tourism Cluster of the National Council for Mr. Rohan Pandithakorralage is the Director/Chief currently serves as a Director on the Board of The training in Printing Technology & Didactics at the See Board of Directors profile. bodies. Economic Development (NCED). He is a Fellow American Chamber of Commerce in Sri Lanka. He Netherlands INGRIN Institute. Human Resources Officer of Aitken Spence Group of the Chartered Institute of Management, UK. Ltd. At present he is a member of National Labour also has international experience working in the He is a graduate of the Sri Lanka Institute of retail industry in USA. Thereafter he migrated to the USA, and on his Advisory Council (NLAC), the Board of Directors Dr. P. Dissanayake Ms. N. Sivapragasam Tourism & Hotel Management (SLITHM) and is of CSR Lanka (Guarantee) Ltd and a member of return in 2010, rejoined the Company as the See Board of Directors profile. a fellow and founder President of the Ceylon Managing Director of Aitken Spence Printing Ms. Nilanthi Sivapragasam who is the Chief the Council of the Employers Federation of Ceylon Hotel School Graduates Association. He holds a Mr. V.M. Gunatilleka (Pvt) Ltd. In September 2012, he was promoted Financial Officer of the Group is also a Director of (EFC), Member of the subcommittee on Training diploma in hospitality, restaurant and institutional as a Director of the Aitken Spence Group. He is several subsidiaries and joint venture companies Professional Development & Capacity Building at Mr. Vipula Gunatilleka currently serves as the a Director of the INGRIN Institute of Printing & Ms. D.S.T. Jayawardena in the Group. administration from the Rayerson Institute of Sri Lanka Administrative Service (SLAS) reforms. Group Chief Corporate Officer/Director of Aitken Technology, Toronto, Canada. Graphics Sri Lanka, and serves the Institute as See Board of Directors profile. Spence Group Ltd. He is a fellow member of CIMA She is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered He is a Business Graduate of Victoria University a Lecturer as well. He is also a Lecturer of the UK, ICA Sri Lanka, CPA Australia and holds a Accountants of Sri Lanka and a Fellow of the of Australia with an executive training at NUS Sri Lanka Institute of Printing. MBA from the University of Colombo. He is also a Mr. R.E.V. Casie Chetty Chartered Institute of Management Accountants Ms. N.W. de A. Guneratne Business School in Singapore and has received GE Trained Six Sigma. He is currently serving the Export Development of UK. Ms. Nimmi De A. Guneratne who is the Chief extensive management training at Nippon Mr. Ranjan Casie Chetty is the Company Secretary Board in the capacity of an Adviser for the Printing Legal Officer of the Group is also the Managing Keidanren International Cooperation Center (NICC) He started his accounting career at KPMG in of Aitken Spence PLC., and a Director of Aitken She is currently a Board Member of the Sri Lanka and Packaging Industry in Sri Lanka, and is also Director of Aitken Spence Insurance (Pvt) Ltd and in Japan. Sri Lanka and counts over 20 years of senior Spence Group Ltd., Aitken Spence Hotel Holdings Accounting & Auditing Standards Monitoring an Adviser on the Wages Board for the Printing Aitken Spence Insurance Brokers (Pvt) Ltd. She is leadership experience with some of the leading PLC., and various other companies in the Aitken Board and is a Council Member of the Sri Lanka He is a past President of the International Trade. also the General Manager of the Lloyd’s Agency conglomerates and multinational corporations in Spence Group. He is a Fellow of the Institute of Institute of Directors. She is also the CoPublic Management Association for Human Sri Lanka, Singapore and Australia. in Colombo and the Maldives. She is a Fellow Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka, a Fellow Chairperson of the Taxation Steering Committee Resources (IPMA-HR) Sri Lanka Chapter and of the Chartered Insurance Institute of UK, and Mr. L. Wickremarachchi of the Chartered Institute of Management and a member of the Accounting Standards & Executive Committee Member of the IPMA-HR Prior to joining Aitken Spence, he worked as a Chartered Insurance Practitioner and holds a Accountants of UK and a Fellow of the Certified Regulatory Reporting Steering Committee of the Asia Network. He is a Founder/Fellow member the Group CFO of Dialog Axiata PLC. He was a Mr. Leel Wickremarachchi is the Deputy Bachelor’s Degree in Law and is also an AttorneyManagement Accountants of Sri Lanka. He is Ceylon Chamber of Commerce. and a past President of the Association of Human key member of the senior management team Chairman/Managing Director of all power at-Law. She is a visiting Lecturer and Examiner in also a Member of the Chartered Management Resource Professionals in Sri Lanka (HRP).He was responsible for re-structuring the Dialog Group sector subsidiaries of Aitken Spence PLC Ms. Sivapragasam is the Chairperson of the Insurance Law at the Sri Lanka Law College, and Institute of UK and has been awarded the Joint a member of The Board of Governors of National and implementing many key strategic initiatives and Director of Aitken Spence Group Ltd. Mr. Financial Reporting Faculty and serves as a is also a Lecturer and Examiner of the Sri Lanka Diploma in Management Accounting Services. Institute of Labour Studies (NILS). to turnaround the Dialog Group. He was also the Wickremarachchi has held senior positions both committee member of the Taxation Faculty and Insurance Institute. She is a Past President of the He has over 40 years post qualifying experience. CFO/Acting CEO of Sri Lankan Airlines and played in the public and the private sector organizations. the Financial Reporting Standards Implementation Sri Lanka Insurance Institute. He was a visiting lecturer at the University of During this period he has held very senior and a pivotal role during the management transition Immediately before joining Aitken Spence PLC., responsible positions in many reputable private & Interpretation Committee of the Institute Colombo and University of Ruhuna. He won of the National Carrier from Emirates to the Mr. Wickremarachchi worked as a Consultant She currently serves on a subcommittee that sector organisations. He continues to be actively of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka, and the Prestigious HR Leadership award at the Government of Sri Lanka in 2008. in Liberia under a USAID funded project in the has been appointed by the Ministry of Justice in involved in committees of Professional Institutes previously served on the Statutory Accounting Asia Pacific Congress (APHRM) 2007/08. He renewable energy sector for two years from 2011 connection with the setting up of an International and Chambers of Commerce. He served as a Standards Committee and the Statutory Auditing was recognized under the global HR excellence He has been a board member of CIMA Sri Lanka to 2012. Arbitration Centre in Sri Lanka Member of the Advisory Commission constituted Standards Committee. category, for the contribution made to HR for the from 2010 and held the positions of Vice Chairman under the Companies Act No. 17 of 1982. He She is also a Director of the CINEC Maritime economic development of the country. in 2013, Deputy Chairman in 2014, and currently He was Director General of the Public Enterprises was a former Chairman of the Sri Lanka Apparel She was also on the Board of Governance of The serves as the Chairman of CIMA Sri Lanka. He Reform Commission (PERC) from 2004 to 2006. Campus. Exporters Association. Chartered Institute of Management Accountants – is a Council Member of SLASSCOM & a Board During his tenure at PERC he managed to resolve Sri Lanka Division during the years 2010 to 2012. Mr. D.S. Mendis Member of Sri Lanka Auditing and Accounting various post privatization disputes of privatized Mr. C.M.S. Jayawickrama Mr. Dinesh Mendis heads the Financial Standards Monitoring Board (SLAASMB). State Owned Enterprises (SOEs) and restructured She is presently on the Board of Women Mr. K.R.T. Peiris and Media Collective, a non-governmental Mr. Susith Jayawickrama a fellow member of the Solutions segment. He is also involved in new a defunct SOE for recommencement of operation business initiatives of the Group and Aitken as a Public Private Partnership entity. He also Mr. Rohantha Peiris heads Freight Forwarding, organization. Chartered Institute of Management Accountants Express and Airline Divisions and he brings into UK, is the Managing Director of Aitken Spence Spence Technologies. He holds a Bachelor of Mr. P. Karunathilake did a consultancy assignment for the Asian She completed her Articles at Ernst & Young Science Degree (Magna Cum Laude) in Business Mr. Prasanna Karunathilake joined the Printing Development Bank for evaluating the feasibility the industry a depth of knowledge and valuable Hotel Managements (Pvt) Ltd., the company Colombo and has nearly 30 years of post Administration specialising in Marketing and Department of Aitken Spence & Co. Ltd., as a of establishing a Public Private Infrastructure expertise. He is responsible for operations in managing all the Group Hotels in Sri Lanka and qualifying experience in the industry. Economics from Slippery Rock University of Trainee Production Executive in 1980. Whilst at Financing Facility for the Government of Pakistan. Bangladesh, Pakistan and Maldives. He was also overseas. He serves on the Boards of all the Pennsylvania, USA. During his final year he Aitken Spence he pursued his higher studies in He worked at USAID (Sri Lanka) as Senior a Director of American Chamber of Commerce for hotel companies in the Group. He has extensive was chosen as the Outstanding Student in both Printing, and obtained his Diploma in Printing Project Management Specialist (Finance and two consecutive years and presently represents experience at senior management positions in the Infrastructure). the Company at all American Chamber of Mr. S.M. Hapugoda Group’s hotel sector for more than two decades Marketing and Economics of the University. He Technology and Management at the prestigious Commerce activities and is also a Committee Mr. S. Malin Hapugoda was the Head of the and has considerable exposure in the tourism also obtained a Master’s Degree in Business Sri Lanka Institute of Printing, and is today a He possesses an MSc in Engineering and Member of the Singapore –Sri Lanka Business Hotel Sector of the Group till July 2014 and industry in Sri Lanka and overseas. He was also Administration from The University of Texas, USA. fellow of the Institute. On completion of his an MBA. He had attended many Executive Council. He held the position of Chairman of continues full time as the Director/Executive He worked in the Logistics sector of the Group for Diploma, he was promoted as Senior Executive Development Programs including the programs 50 Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2014 2015 51 Group Management Committee Tourism Sector Senior Management Team conducted by the JFK School of Government On his return to Sri Lanka in 1979 he joined Container Depot Association and was a member of Harvard University, USA and the National Walker Sons & Co. Ltd., as a trainee engineer. of its Executive Committee for eight years. He University of Singapore. He was trained in the mechanical workshops for also served in the advisory committee for the one year and thereafter he joined the Elevator Chittagong Terminal Planning during the period Department and served as the Maintenance 2008 – 2009. Mr. J.S.A. Fernando Engineer. In 1989 he moved to Aitken Spence & Company Ltd., along with the OTIS Agency and He returned to the island in April 2013, to join Mr. Jayantha Fernando started his career in was one of the key members of the management Aitken Spence as the Managing Director of its the apparel industry in 1977 and joined Aitken team of the company, who was instrumental in Integrated Logistics Segment. Spence Garments at its inception in 1978. He was appointed as a Director of Aitken Spence driving the Agency forward. Garments in 2009 and at present he functions as In April 1999 he was promoted as the General Director / Chief Executive Officer of this segment. Manager of Elevators (Pvt) Ltd., and in December During his tenure he was instrumental in 2003 he was appointed as a Director of the relocating the garment manufacturing facility from company. In July 2008 he was appointed as the Galle Fort to a more sophisticated plant at the Managing Director of Elevators (Pvt) Ltd., in which Koggala Free Trade Zone. capacity he serves up to date. Gihan Salgado also serves as a Director of Interlifts International Private Limited and at Mr. S.K.R.B. Jayaweera Aitken Spence Property Developments (Pvt) Ltd. Mr. Keethi Jayaweera joined Aset Airways Ltd, the General Sales Agency for Singapore Airlines in Colombo, in 1978 as a Junior Executive in the Mr. N.A.N. Jayasundera Ticket Office. He climbed the ranks within the Mr. Nalin Jayasundera is the Managing Director company with regular promotions and in 1994 of Aitken Spence Travels (ASTL) the leading was appointed as a Director. He was appointed as destination management company in Sri Lanka a Joint Managing Director of the company in April joint venture between TUI Group AG the world’s 2008 and as Managing Director on 1st February largest integrated tourism company and Aitken 2011. Spence PLC. He has served various industry related bodies He is the Hon. Secretary of the Sri Lanka i.e. as Treasurer of the Sri Lanka Association of Association of Inbound Tour Operators (SLAITO) Airline Representatives (SLAAR – an Association and was an Executive Committee Member of the of Airlines GSA’s) since June 2009, as a member PATA Sri Lanka Chapter. of SKAL International Colombo (an International Association of Travel and Tourism Professionals) Mr. Jayasundera counts 31 years of experience in and is currently the Immediate Past President of tourism and possesses a wide knowledge of the SKAL Colombo as well as an Auditor of the SKAL travel industry. He played an important role in the Asian Area, in the Committee of Management of development of the tourism sector by venturing the Travel Trade Sports Club in various capacities into many new markets. including a two-year term as President in 2004 and 2005. Mr. N.P. Wakwella Left to right (in alphabetical order) He is a Fellow of the Chartered Management Mr. Nilantha Wakwella who holds a Master’s Mr. D.J. de Crusz Institute of UK and was a member of the Degree in Business Administration from the Mr. S.N. de Silva Executive Committee of the Local Branch and held University of Chittagong accounts for over thirty Mr. C.C.S. Dissanayake the post of President from 2010 to 2012. years of experience in Integrated Logistics of Mr. S.T.B. Ellepola which 14 years was in Bangladesh. During his Mr. G.P.J. Goonewardene tenure in Sri Lanka he was responsible in the Mr. J.T.P. Gunawardena Mr. R.G. Salgado Mr. A.S. Hapugoda set up of four large internal terminal facilities in Mr. Gihan Salgado is a Mechanical Engineer Mr. M.H. Jayah Colombo. In Bangladesh, he was an instrumental with a B.Sc. (Hon) Degree, from the University of Mr. A.A.H. Mohamed Ali and driving force in the transformation and the Birmingham, United Kingdom. In 1999 he obtained Mr. T.D.U.D. Peiris development of its inland logistics industry. He a MBA Degree in Management from the Sri Mr. D.D. Perera was a founder member of the Bangladesh Inland Jayewardenepura University. Mr. K.A.A.C. Perera 52 Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2014 2015 53 Tourism Sector Maritime & Logistics Sector Senior Management Team Senior Management Team Left to right (in alphabetical order) Mr. P.L. Perera Left to right (in alphabetical order) Mr. R.S. Rajaratne Mr. A.M.M. Amir Mr. N. Ratwatte Mr. C.A.S. Anthony Mr. H.P.N. Rodrigo Ms. T.D.M.N. Anthony Mr. B.H.R. Sariffodeen Mr. J.E. Brohier Mr. D.L. Warawita Mr. I.S. Cuttilan Mr. J.C. Weerakone Mr. H. Dela Bandara Mr. M.P. Wijesekera Mr. A. Jayasekera 54 Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2014 2015 55 Strategic Investments Sector Services Sector Senior Management Team Senior Management Team Left to right (in alphabetical order) Mr. C.R.F. de Costa Mr. A.L.W. Goonewardena Ms. R.I.D. Katipearachchi Mr. R.T.B. Navaratne Left to right (in alphabetical order) Ms. R.D. Nicholas Mr. J.V.A. Corera Mr. V.S. Premawardhana Mr. T.D.S. Dasa Ms. W.A.D.L. Silva Mr. A.E.A. Perera Mr. K.A.K. Wanniarachchi Mr. A.N. Seneviratne 56 Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2014 2015 57 Group Performance Operating Environment Revenue the sector. The Maritime and Logistics sector they have been selectively made in to already for the year ended 31st March recorded an increase of 4.4% in revenue due to profitable or potentially high-growth sectors. Sri Lanka went through an unexpected major contributions from overseas operations despite political change during the year 2014/2015 The Group adopted SLFRS 10Consolidated Rs.Mn lower revenue from the freight forwarding and opening the doors of the legislature to a new 35,823 Financial statements and SLFRS 11Joint group of policy makers. The country’s economy 35,059 35,319 the logistics segments due to intense competition in the industry. The Strategic Investments sector Arrangements which were applicable for the remained stable despite uncertainty stemming year under review. Consequently the results of recorded a 6.3% decline in revenue primarily from a presidential election and subsequent Aitken Spence Travels and its subsidiaries were due to lower generation and the lower tariff regime change in the last quarter of the financial accounted as equity accounted investees and the applicable to the sole thermal power plant in the year. Real GDP growth marginally improved comparatives figures for the previous year were sector which was in its tenth year of operation. to 7.4% while the annual average inflation restated. Thereby the profits from operation in The decline in revenue was despite the significant came down to 3.3% by the end of the calendar the Tourism sector for the current and previous contributions from the garment manufacturing and year. Growth has been broad based with the years excludes the profits of the destination printing and packaging segments. The Services exception of the agriculture sector which was management segment. 2013 2014 2015 sector reported a growth of 15.7% in revenue affected by adverse weather for most part primarily supported by the enhanced performance of the period under review. Decline in global of the elevator agency segment which benefited Earnings For The Year commodity prices subsequent to the ending of from the infrastructure boom in the country, Taxation The Group recorded a consolidated profit of the Quantitative Easing program in the USA has marking the best ever month in the history of the registering a growth in sales and securing several The Group’s provision for taxation for the financial Rs. 4.9 billion after tax achieving an increase of been the main contributor to deceleration of local archipelago. major projects. year 2014/2015 was Rs. 826.3 million which was 6.6% over the previous year. The net profit margin consumer prices. Average per capita income grew to USD 3,625 from USD 3,280 a year ago The Group recorded many highlights in its 24MW thermal power plants in Matara and a decline of 4.5% from the previous year (2013/14 increased slightly to 13.8% from 13.1% in the last by a commendable 10.5%. Policy makers and overseas port management operations carried out Horana which accounted for high maintenance – Rs. 865.5 million). The income tax charge for the year. All sectors contributed to profit after tax with monitoring authorities envisage the real GDP by the Maritime and Logistics sector, recording EBIT & EBIT Margin year was Rs. 705.4 million which is a marginal the Tourism sector taking the biggest share with a for the year ended 31st March costs incurred in the previous year. The enhanced growth to be around 6.5% for 2015 with a broadly exceptional increases in ship crane productivity performances of the manufacturing companies increase over the previous financial year. The profit of Rs. 3.7 billion. The Maritime and Logistics stable outlook. and reductions in berthing delays. These in the sector also contributed positively to the dividend tax for the year under review was Rs. sector reported a profit of Rs. 613.9 million while 5,504 5,657 operational successes were acknowledged with 5,335 final results of the sector. The Services sector 83.7 million which is an increase of 30.6% over the Strategic Investments and Services sectors Sri Lanka has been named as one of “The Ten the shipping lines removing the port congestion showed a decline in its operating profit owing to the previous year due to the increase in dividends reported profits of Rs. 508.9 million and Rs. 82.5 Coolest Places to Visit in 2015” by the Forbes charge imposed in Fiji and the extension of the 14.9% 15.7% 16.0% the reduction in margins as a result of the intense declared and paid from Group companies which million respectively. Income Tax provision for the magazine. Earnings from Tourism recorded a management agreement of the Port of Nacala competition faced in some of the segments within were liable to a dividend tax of 10%. The deferred financial year was Rs. 826.3 million. healthy growth in 2014 with inflows recording in Mozambique. Several capacity expansion the sector and the promotional expenses incurred tax charge for the financial year was Rs. 38.8 USD 2.4 billion, the highest ever recorded by projects were implemented by the manufacturing million, a reduction of 61% over the previous Profit attributable to non-controlling interest by the new ventures. the country. The Group being one of the leaders companies in the Strategic Investments sector. year. The reduction in the deferred tax charge for for the financial year 2014/2015 increased by a in the tourism industry enjoyed a successful The printing and packaging segment installed new The Group’s other income stood at Rs. 507.6 the year was the effect of the reduction in the significant 43.7% over the previous financial year year in terms of growth and profitability. Tourist machinery in both pre and post press sections million, an increase of 8.7% over the previous provision of dividend tax on undistributed profits to reach Rs. 1.3 billion. In the previous financial arrivals to the country showed a YoY increase while the garments segment commissioned a 2013 2014 2015 on consolidated entities. The Group’s effective tax year losses reported by some of the companies year, which included the balance of the insurance EBIT (Rs.Mn) in the Strategic Investments sector having of 19.8% surpassing the 1.5 million mark. In this new manufacturing facility in the Koggala Export EBIT Margin (%) claim relating to the fire damaged ocean villas at rate for the financial year was 14.5% compared encouraging back-drop the construction of a 501 Processing Zone. In the Services sector, the Adaaran Select Hudhuranfushi. The comparative to 15.9% in the previous year mainly due to the significant non-controlling interests resulted in room five star resort at Ahungalla which is a elevator agency secured supply contracts with figure for the previous year was lower than the reduction in the deferred tax charge. the profit attributable to non-controlling interests joint venture with the RIU hotels group in Spain several high profile building projects thereby current year’s figure as the former included the commenced during the financial year and is slated enhancing the returns to the Group. EBIT, EBITDA and Operating Costs losses recognised in relation to the destroyed Equity Accounted Investee Profits to be completed by winter 2016. On completion Earnings before interest and tax (EBIT) of the ocean villas and the sale of a power plant. The Group increased its investments in equity the additional capacity will provide a further fillip Group grew by 2.8% and the operating profit The Group experienced a marginal increase in accounted investees by Rs. 1.0 billion with to the Tourism sector of the Group. Operating Results margin recorded a slight improvement from 15.7% the acquisition of a stake in Amethyst Leisure to 16.0% during the year. operating expenses which amounted to Rs. 29.8 During the financial year the Group acquired Group Revenue billion for the period. Depreciation, amortization Ltd, EcoCorp Asia (Pvt) Ltd and the additional its first ever hotel in India thus enhancing the The Tourism sector recorded a marginal decline and impairment expenses increased by 64.2% investment made in Ahungalla Resorts (Pvt) Ltd., Consolidated revenue of the Group stood at business model from managing third party of 1.4% in operating profits due to lacklustre primarily due to a Rs. 957.2 million provision the company constructing the 501 room resort in Rs. 35.3 billion for the period under review, properties to owning and managing properties in performance of the resorts in the southern coastal for impairment in respect of the thermal power partnership with RIU hotels of Spain. The total which is a marginal growth of 0.7% from the India. This property, a five star city hotel situated belt and additional lease rentals paid by one of plant at Embilipitiya. Cost of raw materials and amount invested in joint ventures and associates previous comparative period. Revenue of the in a bustling business suburb of Chennai, will the Maldivian resorts, as per the initial contract. consumables used decreased by 16.7%, driven (equity accounted investees) as at the end of the Tourism sector increased by 5.8% driven by commence operations in the near future. In The Maritime and Logistics sector recorded a mainly by the lower generation at the thermal financial year stood as at Rs. 5.4 billion. Profits the destination management and airline GSA Maldives, the industry has experienced revival growth of 9.7% in operating profits as a result power plant at Embilipitiya. from equity accounted investees declined by segments, whilst increased average room rates subsequent to the political turmoil in the early of better contribution from the sector’s overseas 23.0% with the main contributors to the decline in our flagship Heritance properties Heritance Tea part of the financial year. Arrival numbers have operations. The Strategic Investments sector being maritime education segment and some Factory and Heritance Kandalama and increased increased significantly with February 2015 showed an increase in operating profits primarily of the new investments yet to come on stream. all inclusive rates at the Adaaran properties due to the disposal of the two non-operational The Group’s new investments show promise as also contributed to the growth in revenue for 58 Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2014 2015 59 Group Performance being lower than for the current year. This Capital Expenditure Non-current interest bearing borrowings term borrowings have reduced significantly by Treasury Operations required for its investments in projects, both in Sri factor, coupled with increases in profits in the The Group invested a total of Rs. 7.0 billion in Noncurrent interest bearing borrowings of the 54.2% to close the year at Rs. 2.1 billion. Trade Lanka and overseas. financial year 2014/2015 for some companies non-current assets during the financial year. Group at the end of the financial year stood at and other receivables were at Rs. 7.8 billion Interest Rate and Cash Management with a relatively higher non-controlling interest The major component was in the Tourism sector Rs. 9.4 billion which was an increase of 29.0% showing a decline of 14.1 % while trade and The low interest rate regime continued with Foreign Exchange Management has resulted in the profits attributable to nontotaling up to Rs. 5.9 billion. during the year. This increase was mainly owing other payables stood at Rs. 7.1 billion recording the regulators deciding on an unchanged The local currency remained stable for two controlling interest increasing substantially. As to the expansion efforts of the Tourism sector. The a decline of 10.5% at the end of the period under accommodative monetary policy despite the quarters but began to depreciate by mid October a result the profit attributable to equity holders During the year the Group acquired a hotel Group’s acquisition of a hotel in South India, the consideration. risk of foreign funds moving out of emerging 2014, mainly as a result of several foreign declined marginally by 2.5% to Rs. 3.6 billion property in India while the construction of the expansion of the resort in Kalutara and acquisition markets in anticipation of an interest rate hike The Group’s current ratio improved to 2.05 times investors repatriating profits generated from the compared to the previous financial year. new five star hotel in Ahungalla commenced. In of a new island in Maldives was chiefly financed by the Federal Reserve. The decline in yields on from 1.85 times in the previous year. Along with government securities market. Foreign reserves addition an equity stake was acquired in a resort through debt funding. The Holding company also government securities was less dramatic than in this the Group’s quick asset ratio also improved depleted from USD 9 billion to USD 7 billion and property in Pasikudah signifying the Group’s increased its debt levels by further draw downs the previous year. However the yields declined from 1.72 times to 1.93 times reinforcing the the currency depreciated marginally against the Financial Position and Resources entry to the pristine east coast of Sri Lanka. The on its USD denominated funding line obtained by almost 100 basis points by the end of the USD during the period under consideration. The construction of a further 91 rooms at The Sands, Group’s ability to meet its short term obligations. from DEG (Germany) and these funds have been calendar year, and climbed marginally only to Rupee reached its peak of 130.13 on the 19th of Total Assets in Kalutara was almost completed during the year. start declining again. At the close of the financial earmarked for capacity expansion in the printing August 2014 and recorded the lowest on 20th Total assets of the Group at the end of the The garments segment expanded its capacity by and packaging segment. Finance Income and Finance Expenses year, the one year treasury bill rate stood at March 2015 at 133.10. Although a previously reporting period was Rs. 65.4 billion comprising establishing a new factory at the Koggala Export Finance expenses declined by 29.4% to Rs. 901.5 6.80% compared to 7.05% at the beginning of planned sovereign bond issue was postponed, of non-current assets of Rs. 39.7 billion and Processing Zone while the printing and packaging The Group saw a slight movement in debt to million while finance income also reduced by the year. The six-month and three-month treasury the Central Bank entered into a USD 1.5 billion current assets of Rs. 25.5 billion. Non-current segment enhanced capacities by installing new equity to 0.19 times from 0.22 times a year ago. 20.8% to Rs. 623.9 million. The net effect of these bill rates ended the year at 6.70% and 6.60% swap agreement with the Reserve Bank of assets increased by 11.3% primarily owing to the machinery in the pre and post press areas. The Group makes every effort to maintain a well changes was that the Group was able to reduce compared to 6.82% and 6.65% at the start of the India which supplemented the country’s foreign growth in property, plant and equipment which balanced relationship between debt and equity its net finance expenses by 43.2% to Rs. 277.7 year respectively. As a result of the downward reserves. Foreign remittances from migrant represented 72.2% of non-current assets. In terms in the capital structure with the objective of million. trend in the yields of government securities workers continued to grow and foreign portfolio of asset distribution over the sectors, the Tourism Financial Management, Cost of maximising shareholders’ return on equity without re-investments were made at lower interest rates investments into the Colombo Stock Exchange sector held 52.1 % of total assets amounting to Funding and Liquidity exposing the Group to the risk of an excessive The Government’s decision to maintain an than in the previous year. In this challenging remained positive and counteracted to minimize Rs. 33.7 billion and the Strategic Investments debt burden. The current level of debt to equity is accommodative monetary policy to achieve a environment the Group treasury adopted a the influence of reduced exports earnings. sector held 31.3% of total assets amounting to a comfortable level for the Group to service due higher level of credit growth helped the Group strategy of maintaining a designated trading Rs. 20.3 billion. The Maritime and Logistics and to adequate and sustainable cashflows. The debt to reduce its finance expenses as the borrowing portfolio in order to benefit from any arbitrage The Group treasury is also involved in managing Assets & Funding Services sectors held 12.2% and 4.5% of total as at 31st March to EBITDA cover was at a satisfactory 1.17 times rates declined. At the same time the lower opportunities in the market. The announcement the foreign exchange risk of the Group and assets amounting to Rs. 7.9 billion and Rs. 2.9 allowing sufficient financial flexibility to the Group interest rates on government securities and bank of the presidential election, however, resulted requirements of subsidiaries. The treasury Rs.Bn billion respectively. in managing its debt obligations and covenants. deposits lowered the Group’s investment income. in the government securities market becoming monitors global and local trends that may impact Reduced loan repayments which helped the buildvirtually inactive thereby reducing trading the market and assists Group companies to 12 14 up of cash reserves coupled with low interest opportunities. However, by actively monitoring the mitigate their exchange risks and maximize profits Total Assets & Asset Turonver 15 Net Working Capital & Current Ratio rates helped the Group to maintain total interest as at 31st March as at 31st March secondary market the Group treasury was able by providing timely advise and assistance in 41 47 53 cost at a lower level than in the previous financial to earn an appreciable amount of capital gains to negotiations. The Group remains a net earner of year. Consequently the interest cover of the Group supplement the interest income. foreign currency with inflows from the Tourism 22 25 26 13,050 increased to 30.47 times from 13.97 times in 65,433 11,574 sector, the Maritime and Logistics sector and the 0.67 61,064 The Group treasury continues to manage the 55,889 34 36 40 the previous year indicating its strong liquidity Garments segment recording substantial amounts. 2.05 position in meeting debt obligations to lenders. liquidity in order to create cash flow synergies The Group treasury engages in a minimum risk 0.60 0.56 2013 2014 2015 within the Group. The Group treasury monitors 6,581 1.85 strategy avoiding exotic options and strategies Fixed Assets cash flows of over 75 individual companies in Current Assets & Others available for foreign exchange hedging and Long Term Funding order to ensure that deficits and surpluses are Short Term Funding 1.43 Interest Expense & Interest Cover matched in an optimal manner and external for the year ended 31st March Shareholder's Funds borrowing is minimised. The Group treasury as at 31st March uses electronic banking platforms offered by 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 1,324 Rs.Mn international banks in this endeavour whilst Total Assets (Rs.Mn) Net Working Capital (Rs.Mn) 1,174 30.47 assisting the subsidiaries to obtain working 35,022 32,259 Asset Turnover (Times) Current Ratio (Times) Financial Leverage 28,053 capital and long term financing facilities and As at the end of the financial year, total equity and 806 facilitating any other banking transaction as liabilities of the Group was Rs. 65.4 billion. This needed. The asset turnover ratio of the Group was 0.56 comprised of equity of Rs. 42.3 billion, an increase Working Capital 13.97 for the period under consideration as opposed to of 8.6% over the previous reporting period, and Over 60% of the long term USD loan facility non-current liabilities of Rs. 10.7 billion and The working capital position of the Group obtained from DEG (Germany) has been drawn 0.60 in the previous financial year. The decline in 8.72 current liabilities of Rs. 12.4 billion. The financial improved to Rs. 13.1 billion from Rs. 11.6 billion down by the end of the financial year. The Group the asset turnover ratio can be attributed to the leverage was a very healthy 1.56 times thus a year ago while the Group’s cash and deposits 2013 2014 2015 continues to benefit from the relative low cost of expansion projects undertaken recently by the enabling the Group to raise further debt funding if in banks together with the investment in Interest Expense (Rs.Mn) funds by using this facility to source equity capital 2013 2014 2015 Group mainly in the tourism sector which are yet Interest Cover (Times) required to finance future projects. government securities increased by 5.2% up to to produce revenue streams. Rs. 13.8 billion from last year. Overdraft and short 60 Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2014 2015 61 Group Performance instead uses the Group’s internal cash flows to year. The total number of shares issued remained Dividend Per Share Financial Value Creation Of the total value generated, 36% (Rs. 5.2 billion) and Services Tax). The contribution to lenders of create a natural hedge wherever permissible. unchanged from the previous year at 405,996,045 for the year ended 31st March was distributed among the employees of the capital remained at 14% with Rs. 2.1 billion. The The Value added statement indicates the value resulting in the EPS decline being identical to the Group while the allocation of 6% (Rs. 812 million) Group increased its allocation into re-investments The Group treasury implemented the generated by the Group during a financial year decline in the profit attributable to equity holders. Rs. made for the dividends remained unchanged. The and future growth to 36% from last year’s 34%, 2.00 2.00 and how it is appropriated amongst the various dissemination of market news by means of a Group paid out 8% (Rs. 1.2 billion) of the value further strengthening its financial stability for weekly report to the entire Group. This report stakeholders. Value addition of the Group was Rs. Net Assets and Return on Equity addition to Government authorities in the form future strategic growth initiatives. 1.50 14.5 billion a growth of 9.7% over the previous is a comprehensive compilation of both local of taxes (Excluding Value added tax and Goods and international financial markets data and The equity attributable to the shareholders of the financial year. also shows the weekly movement of currencies parent company increased by 8.6% to Rs. 35.0 relevant to Group activities. In addition to this billion and net assets per share increased to Rs. report the Group treasury shares market data 86.26 compared to Rs.79.46 at the end of the last Distribution of Wealth Created 2014/2015 which includes market liquidity, interest rates, financial year. The Group’s return on equity was currency rates, SLIBOR, LIBOR and other indicators 10.6% compared to 12.2% the previous year. useful for the finance divisions of subsidiaries by 2013 2014 2015 circulating a market update on a daily basis. Total Value distributed by the Group Rs. 14,486 Mn Net Assets Per Share & The immediate future is expected to bring forth Price To Book Ratio To Governments as at 31st March Price to Earnings Ratio and Price to Book 8% a plethora of challenges to the foreign exchange Rs. 1,215 Mn markets. The uncertainty with regard to the timing Value To Employees of the Federal Reserve’s much anticipated interest 1.73 86.26 The price to earnings (PE) multiple increased 36% 79.46 Rs. 5,183 Mn rate revision announcement is one of the major to 11.29 times compared to 10.82 times in the factors influencing the daily fluctuations of the 69.10 previous year. The increase in the share price To Lenders of Capital 1.23 14% US Dollar. At the same time the revival of the 1.15 despite a slight drop in EPS has contributed to Rs. 2,111 Mn Euro zone is continuing to be hampered by the the increase in the PE multiple. Market PE ratio To Shareholders woes in Greece. Multiple interest rate cuts by was 18.3 times making the Group’s PE stand at a 6% Rs.812 Mn the global economic powerhouse China, and the discount of 38.3 %. Price to book value decreased continuing weakness in the Australian economy to 1.15 times as the share price increase was Retained for Reinvestments 36% has affected global currency markets. As a net 1.6% in comparison to an increase of 8.6% in the Rs. 5,165 Mn 2013 2014 2015 foreign exchange earner the Aitken Spence Group Net Assets Per Share (Rs.) net assets per share. continues to monitor these world economic events Price to Book Ratio (Times) and responds in a manner which would help it to Compliance with Sri Lanka progress further in achieving its objectives. Accounting Standards The financial statements have been prepared Statement of Value Added Market Price Per Share and Market in accordance with the Sri Lanka Accounting 2014/2015 2013/2014 EPS & Price Earnings Ratio Capitalisation as at 31st March Standards (SLFRSs/LKASs) effective from 1st Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Market price of the company’s share was Rs. January 2012. In the reporting period the Group 14.77 99.50 at the end of the financial year 2014/2015 adopted the new Sri Lanka Accounting Standards, Revenue 35,318,891 35,059,123 9.04 8.82 SLFRS 10 – Consolidated Financial Statements, indicating an increase of 1.6% compared to Purchase of goods and services (22,294,865) (23,548,197) previous period’s closing of Rs. 97.90. Total value SLFRS 11 – Joint Arrangements, SLFRS 12 – 8.10 11.29 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities and 13,024,026 11,510,926 of shares traded during the year amounted to Rs. 10.82 2.8 billion with the share price reaching a high SLFRS 13 – Fair Value Measurement; which are Other operating and interest income 1,131,429 1,254,334 of Rs. 120.50 and a lowest of Rs. 95.50. Market applicable for financial periods ending after 1st Share of profits of equity-accounted investees 330,887 429,461 capitalisaton also increased to Rs. 40.4 billion January 2014. Further, as a result of the adoption which was 1.4% of the total market capitalization of the amendments to SLAS 1Presentation of Total value added by the Group 14,486,342 13,194,721 of the Colombo Stock Exchange. Financial Statements the presentation of certain items in the statement of profit or loss and other 2013 2014 2015 Distributed as follows comprehensive income have been modified. EPS (Rs.) Dividends Price Earnings (Times) To governments (income tax and revenue tax) 8% 1,214,721 10% 1,347,201 The Board has recommended a first and final Comparative information for the previous financial dividend of Rs. 2.00 per share for the financial To employees (salaries and other costs) 36% 5,183,101 35% 4,633,215 year has been re-stated and represented in year 2014/2015 which is the same as the dividend accordance with the above changes. To lenders of capital ( interest on loan capital and minority interest) 14% 2,110,957 16% 2,081,857 declared in the previous financial year. The payout Shareholder Returns To shareholders (dividends) 6% 811,992 6% 811,992 portion in absolute terms will remain at Rs. 812.0 Earnings Per Share (EPS) million while the payout ratio will increase to Retained for reinvestments and future growth (depreciation & retained profits) 36% 5,165,571 33% 4,320,456 22.7% from 22.1% 100% 14,486,342 100% 13,194,721 EPS at the end of the period was Rs. 8.82, a decline of 2.5% in comparison to Rs. 9.04 of last 62 Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2014 2015 63 Tourism Sector • Hotels • Inbound & Outbound Travels Rs. 2.0 Bn • Airline GSA Total contribution to the Governments The array of tourism products we offer includes (by direct and indirect taxes) a portfolio of iconic resorts owned and managed by us and the provision of inbound and outbound 100% of total waste water travel solutions partnered by several airlines whose at the hotels is treated/reused General Sales Agencies are managed by us. 6,390 tonnes CO2e GHG emissions reduced and / or offset Rs. 33.7 Bn Total Assets Rs. 16.8 Bn Total Revenue 754 additional hotel rooms within the next two years 11,072GJ Reduction in energy consumption As a step towards widening our footprint in South 2,873 Asia we acquired a 143 room hotel property in People Chennai. The hotel would be the first hotel that would operate under the brand “Turyaa”. 64 Aitken Spence PLC Tourism Sector • Loyalty programs “Diamond Club” • Interactive websites 2014/2015 2013/2014 Change • C ontinuous ongoing relationships with the Rs. Mn Rs. Mn % • Providing accommodation tour operators. • Tour operators Revenue 16,844 15,928 5.8 • S ervice excellence which results in repeat • Food & beverage Profit from operations 3,975 4,030 (1.4) • Joint venture partners customers Profit before tax 4,230 4,327 (2.2) • Spa • Principal airlines • On brand service experience delivery As at 31st March • Excursions • Local community Total invested in PPE 16,464 12,642 30.2 • Diving and water sports experience • Hotel owners / Total Assets 33,709 26,748 26.0 partners • O rganising of customer specialised itineraries with all ancillary services • Tour operators Sector Overview Industry Overview • T our itineraries for international • MICE segment The Tourism sector represents the largest sector 1,138 million tourists travelled the world in 2014, sports events • Free independent of the Aitken Spence Group, which has been a 51 million more than in 2013 representing a 4.7% • Wellness holidays travellers local and key player in the country’s tourism industry for increase. 588 million of these travellers visited foreign over forty years. The array of tourism products Europe while 263 million tourists arrived in the • R egular holiday makers we offer includes a portfolio of iconic resorts Asia Pacific region, with strong performances from from overseas owned and managed by us and the provision of North-East Asia and South Asia both of which inbound and outbound travel solutions partnered grew by over 7%. The numbers contradict the • Ayurveda clients by several airlines whose General Sales Agencies many issues that posed a threat to world travel in • Destination weddings are managed by us. In addition to the resorts 2014, such as escalating tensions and terrorism in in Sri Lanka, Aitken Spence enjoys a growing several regions including Russia, the Middle East Key Customer footprint in the global tourism ecosystem, with and the African continent, the Ebola epidemic, • Unique experience Activities Relationship resorts in the Maldives, Oman and India. several high profile aviation disasters as well as economic uncertainties. • Budget value for money Key In Sri Lanka, the sector owns and operates four • P remium segment value Partners properties under its “Heritance” brand – the A handful of large emerging markets have for money Customer • Accommodation, acclaimed Heritance Kandalama, Heritance contributed towards tourism growth during the Business model Segments • Niche/wellness food & beverage cost Tea Factory, Heritance Ahungalla and wellness of resort Heritance Ayurveda Maha Gedara. Aitken segment • C ost of construction Significant highlights Tourism sector and maintenance of Spence also operates and manages four more • Iconic architecture properties in Kalutara, Bandarawela, Kandy and Hotels Destination Management Hotels Airline GSA • P remium all inclusive Value Cost Pasikudah. In the Maldives, Aitken Spence owns Propositions • Cost of transport • During the year Aitken • Acquisition of 143 room • Appointed as the Passenger offering Structure and operates five resorts under the brand name “Adaaran” while in Oman, it manages six, star Spence Travels handled hotel in Chennai, which is to General Sales Agent (GSA) • Selection of • Staff cost class properties in the preferred tourist locations 100,000+ inbound tourists, commence operations under for Turkish Airlines in destinations from • Cost of technology becoming the first the brand name “Turyaa” Sri Lanka Sri Lanka, Oman Revenue of the sultanate. destination management Key Streams • Finance cost • Acquisition of an new • Ace Aviation Services Maldives and India Aitken Spence Travels is the largest destination company to do so in Resources Channels • Operational and island in Maldives adjacent Maldives (Pvt) Ltd., management company in Sri Lanka, having Sri Lanka to Meedhupparu resort. agreement was renewed for marketing cost handled over 100,000 visitors to Sri Lanka in • Official travel agent for ICC Subsequent to the financial the second time as the GSA 2014/15. The sector is also the General Sales Cricket World Cup 2015 year end another island was for Sri Lankan Airlines in the Agent (GSA) for Singapore Airlines, a partnership • Winning the L’tur business acquired by the sector in the Maldives • B rand values – Aitken spanning over four decades, and is one of the Maldives. Spence / Heritance / • Web • Income from Hotel from Germany longest running partnerships within the airline’s Adaaran / Turyaa • T ravel fairs and rooms and functions • First destination • Acquisition of a strategic network. The segment had a very successful year, exhibitions • Income from tour management company to stake in Amethyst Resort• Strategically positioned with the Sri Lankan Airlines GSA operations in the packages develop B2B booking engine Pasikudah iconic properties • Tour operators Maldives performing exceptionally well. In March 2015, we were appointed the Passenger General in Sri Lanka • Completion of the • Exceptional service • Direct personalized • Commissions received Sales Agent for Turkish Airlines. Turkish Airlines • Appointed as the Agent for reconstruction of the relationship with marketing on Airline GSAs who have won the “Best Airline in Europe” award “Flight Center Business” fire damaged 20 Ocean suppliers • Promotional campaigns • Food and Beverage at the prestigious Skytrax Awards consecutively Australia Villas and an addition of • Expertise of staff • Spa income for the last four years, perfectly complements our 20 Garden Villas, which commenced operations in • Technology • Event Management partnership with Singapore Airlines who has a Five-Star Airline rating by Skytrax. September 2014 at Adaaran Select Hudhuranfushi. 66 Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2014 2015 67 Tourism Sector last few years; in 2014, growth from China slowed before tax of 4.7% and 11.6% respectively. Revenue Profit from Operations Total Assets down but it remained the single largest outbound for the year ended 31st March for the year ended 31st March as at 31st March Heritance Kandalama attracted a significant market with 109 million Chinese tourists traveling portion of the MICE market, which holds strong 33,709 overseas. Rs.Mn Rs.Mn Rs.Mn growth potential. The uniqueness of Heritance 16,844 Tea Factory continued to attract travellers, with A notable rebound in demand was witnessed 15,928 4,030 3,975 26,748 14,087 the property performing exceptionally well during across all traditional source markets in Europe 3,235 23,073 the year. and the US which augurs well for Sri Lanka as the European markets have been closely associated Our beach front property Heritance Ahungalla did with the country’s tourism industry. A trend to not perform as expected with a decline in revenue watch is the emerging importance of several of 6.0%. The resort was under pressure from the markets which are in close proximity to our own high room inventories and competition from the operations; Saudi Arabia, India, Philippines and low end and informal segments operating along Qatar all reported growth of over 30% in tourism 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 the coastal belt. expenditure in 2014. The Sands, our property in Kalutara had another Internationally, “Sun & Beach” holidays continue disappointing year with the resort not performing to be in demand, growing by 18%, while “Touring to its expectations or potential. The additional 91 The Sri Lankan tourism offering continues to Sector Financial Review Holidays” have grown by 32%, majority travellers expand, with 1,855 rooms added to the inventory rooms that are currently under construction would being Asians. The “City Trips” segment has During the year under review the sector had a enhance the resort’s capacity to 200-rooms. It is in 2014. The growing importance of Sri Lanka grown by 58% with the increase in low cost revenue growth of 5.8% over the previous year anticipated that the economies of scale generated as a destination is evident in the number of flights and budget accommodation across the although the sector profit before tax declined by through the addition of this new wing will turn international hotel chains and airlines expressing world according to World Travel Monitor. In the 2.2% mainly due to the declining in profits from around the performance of this property. The their interest in entering the market. business travel market, the MICE (meetings, the Sri Lankan and the Maldives hotels. The Sands offers a complete value for money package incentives, conferences and excursions) segment The tourism authorities are gearing for focused decline in profits was seen at all our resorts on for holidaymakers as an all-inclusive hotel, has overtaken the traditional business trip promotional campaigns to market the destination the Southern coastal belt due to stiff competition enabling visitors to enjoy every facility to the segment, which is on the decline due to new internationally, which has been a long felt need posed by the informal sector in the region. fullest, with no restraints. technologies that allow alternative methods of for the Sri Lankan tourism industry. It is more The Maldivian hotel segment recorded a decline Heritance Ayurveda Maha Gedera the 64 business interaction. The UNWTO World Tourism effective for the travel industry as a whole to in profits before tax of 2.0%. The Russian and roomed, ayurveda wellness resort, offering a Barometer forecasts international tourism to grow focus on a central destination marketing message Ukraine crisis, the ocean villas at Adaaran Select range of ayurveda experiences was affected by by 3% to 4% in 2015, with Asia and the Pacific than it is for individual companies to undertake Huduranfushi being out of operations during the economic downturn in Europe as the property expected to grow between 4% to 5%. expensive isolated marketing campaigns which the first half after being destroyed in a fire the is patronised mainly by European clientele. The would not succeed in gaining visibility among a The tourism surge continued in Sri Lanka in 2014, previous year and the change in the operating depreciation of the Euro against the US dollar global audience. with the market growing by 19.8% to a record lease terms of one of the resorts contributed had a further negative impact on the property’s 1.52 million arrivals who contributed towards The pervasive digitization of tourism bookings to this drop in performance. The water villas performance. However we strongly believe that tourism earnings of USD 2.4 billion against a contributed to 66% of all travel bookings destroyed at Huduranfushi were constructed the wellness proposition of the property will target of USD 1.8 billion. It is of concern however being made online in 2014; the World Travel during the year and reopened in September 2014. continue to offer immense potential, backed by We are optimistic of growth in the future years. Aitken Spence entered the Eastern coast beach Sri Lanka as a destination continues to be that these growth figures were not matched by Monitor reports that the global market share the already impressive market acceptance it has front market segment through the acquisition of impacted by the lack of destination marketing in the corresponding figures of the formal sector of travel agencies has stabilized at 24% of gained. The destination management services segment a strategic stake in Amethyst Resort, Pasikudah comparison with its regional competitors such as the expanding informal sector has begun to global bookings. Smart phone bookings have performed well with profit before tax growing by The 73 roomed hotel property Hilltop will undergo in October 2014. The Resort, managed by Aitken as Thailand, Malaysia and Vietnam. Major tour attract a larger share of the arrivals. also increased in key markets such as China, 7.5% over the previous year. the second stage of its phased refurbishment Spence, further enhances the Group’s offering in operators have channelled their European charters USA and Japan. Many of today’s travellers plan Of the source countries into Sri Lanka, a dramatic during the upcoming financial year in order to its round-trip options. away from Sri Lanka over the last few years. their trips based on information available on Airline GSA segment had an exceptional year of 136.1% increase was recorded from China, with maximize its potential as a value for money round It is important that we strategically target this social media channels including review portals performance with its profitability growing by over The 143-roomed Heritance property in Negombo 128,166 Chinese tourists visiting Sri Lanka in trip destination. segment through promotions and incentives. and travel blogs; hotels now target consumers 200% compared to the previous year. will be added to our portfolio during the coming 2014 compared with 54,288 in the previous year. directly through their websites while the web is Substantial progress has been made in the financial year; the property is already being India continued to be the biggest source market usually the first stop for budget travellers seeking Outlook construction of the RIU Hotel in Ahungalla; the marketed and has generated positive responses. for Sri Lanka, with 242,734 arrivals – a growth low cost accommodation. It is important that of 16.3% compared to last year. The high value Hotels 501 roomed resort is on target for completion Going forward, it is imperative that Aitken Spence Sri Lanka amongst other marketing strategies also Competition increased on the South Coast retains its position as the leading resort operator Western European market totaled over 400,000 by winter 2016. The project is a joint venture undertakes web-based marketing strategies to Sri Lanka and in Kandy, as several star class properties in Sri Lanka. As such, we consider it important to arrivals with traditionally strong markets such between Aitken Spence and RIU Hotels and stimulate interest. Our Flagship properties Heritance Kandalama were added to the market while several optimise the differentiated experiences offered as Germany recording an increase of 20.5% to Resorts of Spain, and upon completion will be and Heritance Tea Factory returned good existing properties are undergoing extensive within our portfolio. 102,977 arrivals and the United Kingdom growing managed by RIU as an all-inclusive hotel. performances, with a revenue growth of 3.8% refurbishments at present and will be back in by 4.9% to 144,168 arrivals. operation the next year. Our marketing investments will continue to target and 11.5% respectively and growth in profit the traditional Western European markets which 68 Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2014 2015 69 Tourism Sector The construction of a reef protection and removal Our focus would remain on consolidating feeder The market attracts intense interest from Asian Aitken Spence manages six properties spread of the sea wall at Meedhupparu was completed markets such as China, India and the Middle East travellers, especially those stopping over during over the key tourist cities of Muscat, Sur and during the year, resulting in reduced beach while also targeting potential regional markets their Hajj and Umrah pilgrimages. The Western Wahiba Sands. The strong portfolio has enabled erosion and thereby an expansion of the beach such as Korea, Taiwan, Singapore and Malaysia. European markets, including UK are the second us to offer round trip packages which gained area on the island. The improvements have led Our marketing would also target specialised largest source market for the destination. Air much popularity over the years. to increased levels of guest satisfaction with the segments through bundled offers that include traffic into Oman is expected to grow by 7.5% profit before tax increasing by 10.4% over the wellness options such as spa treatments and annually over the next three years while a new Outlook previous year. water-sports options for the adventure segment. airport is presently under construction to handle Tensions in the Middle East, including political increased passenger numbers. The government of During the latter part of the year, Aitken Spence unrest in neighbouring Yemen may impact India Oman is also considering an Open Skies policy to acquired a new island close to Meedhupparu Omani tourism in 2015. Hotel operators in Oman encourage air traffic. for the development of a new 162 room five star As a step towards widening our foot print in meanwhile are faced with the challenge of resort. The construction of the proposed new South Asia, and acknowledging that a pure resort would commence within the next financial hotel management business model may not year with the project expected to be completed be financially adequate in India, we acquired a 1972 The general sales agency of Singapore Airlines was obtained by the Group; which we have within two years. Subsequent to the financial 143 room hotel property in Chennai. The hotel continuously retained todate. year end the Group acquired another island in the is expected to commence operations under our Maldives which would be developed as a resort brand, “Turyaa” and is ready for launch subject to 1974 The first resort hotel, ‘Neptune Hotel’ was constructed in Beruwala designed by the in the future. regulatory approvals and licenses. renowned architect Geoffrey Bawa. Neptune is now re-branded as ‘Heritance Ayurveda generate year-round business, while strategically 18.3% were recorded from South East Asia and Maha Gedara’. In November 2014, the Government of Maldives With the acquisition of this property, the Group targeting emerging markets such as China and South Asia respectively, while America too surged 1977 The Group obtains IATA membership and enters into inbound and outbound travel, with this revised Tourism GST to 12% from 8%; the streamlined its presence in India by terminating India. We have also made intensive efforts to by 24.5%. Of concern was the lacklustre year on ‘Aitken Spence Travels Ltd’ was incorporated. increase poses a cost to our Maldivian resorts the management contracts. This was due mainly tap into specialised segments such as MICE and year growths recorded by North East Asia (China) as they would have to bear the incremental to a lack of enthusiasm from property owners to 1978 ‘Aitken Spence Travels’ enters into an agency agreement with TUI which is a one of the wellness in order to reap the full benefits of our and Western Europe, both very important feeder cost pertaining to tour operator business that reinvest, which is fundamental to maintain the world’s leading leisure travel companies. product offering. markets for the Maldives. had already been contracted when the increase quality of the properties. The Group also divested its 20% stake in Barefoot Island Resorts, the 20 1981 The first five star resort ‘Triton’ was constructed in Ahungalla designed by the renowned Growing the higher-yielding online bookings Adaaran resorts have traditionally enjoyed was imposed. We have paid close attention room property in Andaman Islands. architect Geoffrey Bawa. Triton Hotel is now branded as ‘Heritance Ahungalla’. segment is another imperative and increased high levels of patronage from the Russian and to currency forecasts and amended our pricing emphasis will be placed on maximizing revenue Ukrainian markets; as such, the Crimean crisis has strategies accordingly. 1992 Aitken Spence Hotels was listed in the Colombo Stock Exchange with an issued share generation through online channels. had a direct impact on the properties which have capital of Rs. 150 million. consequently experienced pressure on occupancy The falling fuel prices brought in savings in fuel Hotel Management It is important that we develop niche products expenses at all resorts compared to the previous 1993 The first Sri Lankan hospitality company to broaden its horizons and develop an overseas and profits. This has been exacerbated by the The Hotel Management segment of the Group is to reach untapped markets the proposed Clan year. Fuel prices are however expected to increase portfolio by entering into the Maldives tourism sector with the acquisition of Bathala Island depreciating Euro which has led to a dampening involved in the management of hotel operations in House within the Galle Fort thus remains an in the short to medium term and therefore, resort in Maldives. of enthusiasm in Western European markets, Sri Lanka, Maldives, Oman and India. At present important project in our pipeline. The approval traditionally a strong base for Adaaran resorts. prudent energy saving measures such as ‘energy the Group has 22 hotel management contracts 1994 Commenced commercial operations of ‘Heritance Kandalama’ one of the world’s defining process for the proposed property is a complex The Adaaran properties had a revenue growth of audits’ have been introduced at the resorts to of which 10 are not of our owned hotels; this is ecologically conscious hotels to become the first Asian hotel to receive the prestigious one, given its protected status as a heritage site. 3.3% with the net profit before tax declining by mitigate the potential risks. ample demonstration of the confidence shown by ‘Green Globe 21’ certification. 3.6%. The decline in profit before tax was mainly hotel owners in the competency and expertise of The revision of energy and fuel costs during A robust cost management mindset is in place 1996 ‘The Tea Factory’ the first theme hotel in Sri Lanka commences operations. due to an increase in the lease rent paid by one of our staff. The segment achieved an year on year the latter part of the year by the government of at the Maldivian resorts where regular training the resorts as per the initial contract. revenue growth of 6.2%. 2004 Aitken Spence Travels enters into a JV partnership with TUI of which the results are Sri Lanka, led to a comparative drop in energy programs are conducted to ensure that all exceptional. costs at the hotel properties and we are expectant In response to the Russian and Ukraine slowdown, employees are aware of best practices in cost of this benefit continuing to the next financial we shifted our focus to better performing markets management and energy efficiency. A culture of 2005 Launched ‘Adaaran Prestige Water Villa’ with twenty exclusive luxury water villas at year. However the proposed minimum increase innovation and team-work is fostered to ensure Managing of Oman Hotels Meedhupparu Island; Maldives. such as UK, Germany and emerging Asian markets to the wage structure, if implemented during the that new ideas are encouraged and implemented Oman has been growing in significance as a such as Korea, Singapore and Taiwan, which 2006 Entering the Indian hospitality industry by securing the management of five hotel properties coming year, would weigh considerably on our if viable. tourism hotspot in recent years, as the Sultanate enabled us to remain competitive in the last in India. bottom line. embraces tourism as a key path of diversification quarter. for its economy. Tourism revenues reached USD 2007 Obtains the management of four hotel properties in Oman, becoming Sri Lanka’s first Outlook The Ocean Villas at Hudhuranfushi, that were 2.9 billion (1.1 billion Oman Riyal) while 41,000 hospitality company to enter the Middle East. Maldives The destination has shown positive growth destroyed by a fire in 2013, were back in operation tourism related jobs were created in 2014. The The Maldivian tourism industry grew by 7.1% in signs during the first quarter of 2015 recording state has been actively promoting tourism and 2008 The Group opens ‘Adaaran Prestige Vadoo’ the fifth resort with fifty luxury villas in close in September 2014, resulting in the property 2014, despite the weakening of its key European encouraging increases in arrivals in February and a flurry of new hotels is expected to be opened proximity to the Male atoll. operating at full capacity for little over half of the source markets. The Central/Eastern Europe March 2015. The summer season however is during the next three years, adding to the room year. In addition Hudhuranfushi also added 20 2010 The Group is appointed as the general sales agents for Sri Lankan Airlines in Maldives. segment declined by 8.3%, on the back of a expected to be sluggish amid intense competition inventory in Oman. Garden Villas to its offering in September 2014. 22.2% drop in Ukrainian arrivals and a 13.3% drop among the resorts. 2013 The Group enters into a joint venture with RIU Hotels, Spain to build a 501 room five star in Russian arrivals. Strong growth of 37.3% and Luxury resort hotel in Ahungalla. 70 Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2014 2015 71 Tourism Sector passengers from those markets while expanding our market share. seeking to explore exotic tropical destinations to upmarket travellers seeking luxurious boutiqueAitken Spence Travels became the first destination During the year, we set up a Nature and style hideaways. These niche segments which offer greater margins will be an area of focus in management company to develop a B2B booking Adventure tourism unit headed by a conservation biologist to cater to increasing demand from future. We have also strategically begun focusing engine from Sri Lanka allowing tour operators access on short duration shore excursions that target the the specialised market segment. Similarly, we would evaluate the demands for such specialised unutilized time of cruise passengers while we will to instant availability checks and confirmations of work with direct cruise operators to grow arrivals. holidays and fine tune our offering accordingly. hotels, transfers and tour packages. In the medium term, our strategies are designed The devaluation of currencies of several key to compliment our tour operator base from markets the Euro, Australian Dollar, and Ruble was selected as the leading International Airline and processes while a conscious effort is being traditional European markets with steady volumes against the US Dollar impacted exchange gains by Maldives Association of Travel Agents & Tour made to save energy and reduce waste. of business from emerging markets. Growing during the latter part of 2014/15. Aitken Spence Operators (MATATO) at the Maldivian Travel our share of online business is also a priority, as During the year, the segment was also successful Travels encourages payments in US Dollars to awards. volume increases will allow us to negotiate better in being appointed the GSA for the passenger mitigate the potential currency losses arising deals and offer competitive pricing. The Singapore Airlines GSA, a partnership that operations of Turkish Airlines; operations under from billing in Euro. However, a strengthening is now into its fifth decade, enjoyed a positive this GSA began in March 2015. of the Sri Lankan Rupee will lead to the erosion The deregulation of the industry in Sri Lanka year in 2014/15 with the passenger segment of margins with the destination becoming too has resulted in many new companies launching performing well. The cargo segment however Outlook expensive for some travellers. DMC operations, naturally leading to frenzied The Group has 22 hotel management contracts of competition and margin pressure. The market was hindered by increased competition and a space crunch. The passenger segment benefited In the short to medium term we seek to improve which had about 200 operators in 2009 is our performance holistically by capitalizing on which 10 are not of our owned hotels; this is ample Outlook estimated to have grown to 600 since then, many from external realities as competing airlines faced periodic issues such as reduced flights, a travel generated through improved trade relations We are hopeful that a positive political climate demonstration of the confidence shown by hotel within Sri Lanka will help improve relations with of them are small informal operations involving minimal set up costs. Many of the informal DMCs suspension of operations and air disasters. between Sri Lanka and other countries. We also anticipate an increase in inbound tourism key markets, leading to a softening of travel owners in the competency and expertise of our staff. advisories and a greater focus by European operate off the grid and therefore avoid regulatory restrictions and payments which in turn allow Our main markets continued to perform well. resulting from increased promotions overseas to showcase Sri Lanka. operators towards Sri Lanka. We are also concentrating on North and South them to offer competitive pricing that the larger, Asia and the South West Pacific, areas which are attracting a wider clientele in spite of a ban on The online market showed double digit growth formal players find difficult to match. The industry We will look to further improve its corporate The Chinese and Indian markets have much traditionally Singapore Airline’s strengths. China live entertainment and the possible impact of a for Aitken Spence Travels during the year, while and the economy may therefore benefit in the long base whilst capitalizing on the close relationship potential as their growing middle class has the and Vietnam in particular shows immense growth proposal currently before parliament broaching we witnessed the B2C segment driven by internet term from greater consolidation. between China and Sri Lanka, which we hope will resources for destinations such as Sri Lanka potential and we have undertaken marketing the ban of alcohol in the Sultanate. booking engines penetrating into the traditional trigger a surge in travel between the two countries. which offer value for money. In fact, China has the communication campaigns to support this sector. DMC domain. The growth of the low margin We will also work closely with Aitken Spence potential to overtake India as the foremost feeder online segment has necessitated a paradigm shift Airline GSA Singapore Airlines has been keen to promote Travels to improve inbound tourism, which will market for Sri Lanka and we will continue to focus Destination Management Services in the way companies such as ours do business. on attracting Chinese group arrivals. We work The Airline GSA segment accomplished a inbound tourism to Sri Lanka as it sees the boost the Passenger Load Factor on our trunk route. In 2014/15, Aitken Spence Travels became During the year, Aitken Spence Travels became potential that the country has to offer. The airline closely with airlines operating between the two turnover growth of 26.8% and a record high Sri Lanka’s first destination management the first destination management company to has therefore undertaken the sponsoring of countries and will aggressively target new cities growth of over 200% in profit before tax with the company to surpass the 100,000 traveller develop a B2B booking engine from Sri Lanka, to generate greater passenger numbers. main contributor being the Maldives passenger media and travel agent familiarisation tours to Sustainability Review landmark, consolidating its position as the largest allowing tour operators access to instant Sri Lanka, working in partnership with Aitken The Tourism sector has been a pioneer of the operations where Aitken Spence holds the GSA destination management company (DMC) in the availability checks and confirmations of hotels, Ukraine has been a bulk purchaser of rooms Spence Travels. An awareness campaign was also sustainable tourism movement in the region, for Sri Lankan Airlines’ passenger and cargo country. Aitken Spence is also the highest travel transfers and tour packages. in Sri Lanka during the winter season and the launched at Singapore Airline’s World Marketing setting benchmarks for the industry and changing operations. industry contributor to the Tourism Development market must quickly look for alternatives to avoid Conference last year in a bid to encourage its the fabric of sustainability in Sri Lanka. The Aitken Spence was appointed the official travel Levy. The consistent growth we have achieved the profound implications of losing Ukrainian We renewed our GSA agreement with Sri Lankan stations, particularly in North Asia, to market sector has led by example within the Group agent for the 2015 ICC Cricket World Cup hosted stands testimony to our capacity to adjust to business. We are also closely following the Airlines for a further three years in December Sri Lanka. and cascaded their learnings to guide Group by Australia and New Zealand. Concentrated changing market conditions in order to fuel our political situation in the Maldives, as potential 2014. Sri Lankan Airlines operates 35 flights companies to become more sustainable. marketing and communication activities enabled Price competition is on the increase within the trajectory. issues in that market would impact on our ability to Male per week, and is the most frequent us to double our target for ticket sales while market, with competitor airlines pricing well A good example is the sector’s leadership on to sell packages that combine both destinations. carrier into the Maldives. During the year, our This year we enjoyed strong numbers from UK, establishing the company and its service quality in below their priceline potential. Singapore Airlines an essential action point in the integrated passenger, cargo and airport operations involved Germany, India, Russia and China while our focus the minds of travellers. The slowdown in Spain, Portugal, Italy and Greece however will continue to pursue a policy of sustainability policy that all Aitken Spence 137,000 passengers and 3.1 million kg of cargo. on new markets in the Middle East has led to continues to drag down European sentiment, Customer service enhancements during the year differentiating its product with service offerings companies follow internationally benchmarked Aitken Spence also successfully won two key considerable growth from that region as well. dampening appetite for long haul travel to included opening dedicated counters to serve Fly and value additions capitalizing on their strengths standards such as the ISO 14001: 2004 system tour operator businesses during the year Flight The destination management services segment destinations such as Sri Lanka with travellers Smiles customers and a 24-hour facility at the of safety, security and superior in-flight service. standard to establish and maintain Environmental Center, the largest operator in Australia and achieved a 6.8% growth in revenue during the opting instead for cheaper short haul destinations. Male airport to issue flight tickets to passengers Management Systems (EMS) to manage L’tur, Europe’s premier last minute tour operator. We have pursued prudent cost management year while the profit before tax grew by 7.5% as a arriving from the Atolls needing urgent travel environmental protection activities. The first EMS These partnerships will enable us to increase Sri Lanka’s offering caters to many niche practices and have reduced ancillary expenses result of its outstanding operational performance arrangements to Colombo and beyond. The Airline within the Group was established at Heritance during the year. segments – from the young and adventurous and increased the use of electronic documentation Kandalama, which was also the first hotel in 72 Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2014 2015 73 Tourism Sector the world and the first property outside USA to protect the origins of 11 natural streams which receive a LEED certification for its building design. Palk Strait provide irrigation to 34 dry zone reservoirs. In The Group has since established a printing facility Elephant Pass fact, paddy fields that had been abandoned for that is LEED certified and is constructing another Chundikkulam Bird Sanctuary almost 12 years are now being cultivated after Kilinochchi hotel property which will seek LEED certification. Indian Ocean the hotel improved and maintained irrigation Bay of Bengal in the area. It is an endorsement of the hotel’s Across the sector, companies regularly engage Legend design sensitivity that the animals that lived in with employees to create awareness of UNESCO World Heritage Sites the area before its construction still roam free. Kokilai Bird Sanctuary sustainability and educate them on commitments Madu Road Sanctuary Areas of high biodiversity value The impressive biodiversity indicators reported Gulf of Mannar Giants Tank Sanctuary enshrined in the environmental management Aitken Spence Operations from the hotel property are 128 species of native Cities systems. These programs are extended to Trincomalee Roads flora, 183 species of birds, 19 species of reptiles suppliers and community members wherever Novel Headworks Sanctuary and amphibians, 17 species of mammals and possible to extend the reach of our sustainability Wilpattu National Park Anuradhapura 64 species of butterflies and dragonflies. The message. Kalpitiya hotel supports the natural environment, ensuring Somawathi Chaithya Sanctuary that the least possible disturbance is caused and has four types of primates using the green Energy Minneriya Giritale Sanctuary Kandalama Sigiriya Polonnaruwa Pasikudah spaces of the hotel. Of these, two are endemic The Energy Management System (EMS) of the Dambulla Wasgamuwa National Park – the Macaque Monkey and Purple Faced Leaf Tourism Sector identifies direct and indirect Monkey, the other two being the Gray Langur and energy consumption as a significant aspect. The Tourism sector has been a pioneer of the Kurunegala Matale Maduru Oya National Park Slender Loris. The large open areas and the green cover over the building welcome even the most The Group’s hotels in Sri Lanka and Maldives all maintain EMSs and, with the exception of sustainable tourism movement in the region, setting Kundasale timid birds. Among those sighted at the hotel has been the very rare Ceylon Shama (long tail the benchmarks for the industry and changing the Negombo Katunayaka Kandy Amethyst Resort Pasikudah, Heritance Ayurveda Seeduwa Gal Oya National Park Jungle Robin). Sanctuaries and policies against Maha Gedara and Hotel HillTop, all owned the invasion/interference with natural habitats Sri Lankan properties are ISO 14001:2004 fabric of sustainability in Sri Lanka. Colombo Nuwara Eliya Hatton Hakgala Botanical Garden Lahugala Kitulana National Park have ensured the protection of biodiversity and certified. All hotels also maintain energy Ratmalana Horton Plains ecosystems. No alien fauna and flora has been Peak Wilderness Bandarawela management systems in line with ISO 50001:2011 Sanctuary introduced and there is zero negative impact on guidelines, with Heritance being the first hotel empty mileage on hotel pickups along the Biodiversity the Kandalama tank due to the operations of the Southern coastal belt and on airport transfers, Kalutara chain in Sri Lanka to obtain this certification. On Conservation of biodiversity is a significant Uda Walawe National Park Yala National Park hotel. with combined transfers offered wherever Beruwala a daily basis, effort is taken across the hotels to aspect (material aspect) for the sector. None of Sinharaja Forest Reserve possible. Aitken Spence Travels also continued Elpitiya increase energy efficiency through maximum use our operations are located in close proximity to Ahungalla Talgaswela Weerawila Bird Sanctuay The Eco Park at Heritance Kandalama became to operate hybrid vehicles while vehicles in of daylight, energy efficient equipment, operating national reserves or protected areas. The sector Bundala National Park a healing centre for injured animals when the the fleet are inspected twice a year to ensure Hambantota energy intensive equipment during off-peak hours takes necessary precautions to ensure that areas Galle Naturalists of the hotel started bringing animals good maintenance. The company extends its Matara and using timers to control lighting load and of high biodiversity value are protected and to the Eco Park to heal. The Naturalist, Mr. Sanath EMS awareness to its chauffeur guides as well, mini bars. Heritance Tea Factory and Heritance preserved. Leelarathna, was a farmer from the Kandalama to ensure shared commitment. The company Kandalama use biomass as an alternative to to join the hotel later would understand and maintains ISO 14001: 2004 certification and We take care to maintain the environment diesel to heat water. At Heritance Tea Factory, maintain its culture. the company’s Environmental Management surrounding our hotels, including beach cleaning 90% of hot water is generated through biomass Representative (EMR) oversees all activities of programmes with staff and community volunteers. Heritance Kandalama conserves 58 acres of forest while waste heat from the gasifier has been the EMS. At Heritance Tea Factory, vermin composting area, flora and fauna within the hotel premises captured to provide heating for public areas. and organic compost fertilizer are used in the and 198 acres of forest area rich in bio diversity One of the simplest processes introduced to the tea plantation and hotel gardens to increase soil outside the hotel. The hotel has invested over Rs. Group by Heritance Kandalama is the “Switch Water quality; furthermore, hotel staff manually weed 10 million to maintain the conservational forest in Off” policy, whereby any electrical equipment Consumption of water is another significant the garden instead of using toxic weedicides. The order to prevent deforestation, poaching and the is switched off when not in use. Corporate aspect in the EMS of the tourism sector, and Sands Kalutara takes effort to protect Pandana construction of unauthorised artificial structures. operations of Aitken Spence Aviation and Aitken across the sector, companies now use aerator plants, which is part of the ecosystem of the Heritance Kandalama is built in an ecosystem Spence Travels adopt the “Switch – Off” policy to taps to reduce the flow of water from the faucets. hotel. where wild life has roamed for centuries. eliminate energy wastage. At Aitken Spence Hotels, water efficiency is a Therefore, when the project team was planning priority and of the total water withdrawn for the Heritance Kandalama maintains relationships Heritance Kandalama, it was important to pay Aitken Spence Travels has enhanced its process hotel operations, 100% of the waste water is with over 30 schools within a 30km to 40km close attention to land use planning and studying efficiency to reduce energy consumption; reclaimed and treated for reuse in gardening. radius of the hotel and creates awareness all wild life trails, water trails and animal habitats combined transfers and route planning have All hotels have waste water treatment units and amongst their students on environmental to retain the fundamentals of the environment. helped save over 40,000 litres of fuel amounting conduct routine tests to ensure compliance. sustainability. The long term objective therein is to about Rs. 6.5 million. New vehicle parking to inculcate environmental conscientiousness in The hotel was built on a platform in order yards at Aluthgama and Seeduwa have reduced these students, so that any of them who wish to let the water trails run free. This helps to 74 Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2014 2015 75 Tourism Sector Aitken Spence Aviation monitors its paper community development efforts. A team from 2013/14 2014/15 consumption and electronic waste generation; Singapore International Airlines General Sales all paper waste is directed towards recycling Direct Energy Consumption 263,949 GJ 260,978 GJ Agent in Sri Lanka attended a lesson with the Legend and electronic waste is handled as per Company Diesel – 77.5 % Diesel – 78.2% students, enabling an opportunity for employee Bottom Reef policy and is either sold for reuse or handed over Petrol – 10.4% Petrol – 11.5% volunteerism. Reef System Inhabited Island to a certified vendor for recycling. Furnace oil – 3% Furnace oil – 3.2% Un-inhabited Island LPG – 4.7% LPG – 3.8% During recruitment, Group hotels give priority to Aitken Spence Operations Biomass/ fuel wood Biomass/ fuel wood local applicants with ‘local’ defined as the vicinity Cities Occupational Health & Safety – 4% – 3.4% within a 40km radius of each hotel. Accordingly, Indirect Energy Consumption 37,289 GJ 38,616 GJ at Heritance Ayurveda Maha Gedara, 50% of Madivaru Beyru North Kuda Thila (OHS) the Managers are from the local community. Male Gaavimas Faru Meeru Corner Amount of energy saved 11,379 GJ 11,072 GJ Bodu Hithi Thila Atoll As an ‘Essential Action Point’ of the Group’s At Heritance Tea Factory, 62% of the staff and integrated sustainability policy, all SBUs practice Total energy produced from nonrenewable sources 242,254 GJ 245,166 GJ Dhiffushi 45% of the Management are from within 20km ‘HIRAC’ (Hazard Identification Risk Assessment (GJ) Thulusdhoo Nerukonunu fasgandu Thulusdhoo Beyru Kan’du radius of the hotel. 20% of the Managers at The Huraagandu and Control) for occupational health and safety Total energy produced from renewable sources (GJ) 11,713 GJ 8,869 GJ Sands Kalutara are from the local community and Huraa Lhohifushi Beyru kan’du (OHS). All SBUs within the sector carry out HIRAC Total water withdrawal 850,969 m3 577,750 m3 45% of the procurement budget is spent on local Adaaran Select Hudhuranfushi Okobe Thila Hinmafushi inspections at least once a year and record the Water sources significantly affected by the None None suppliers. Heritance Hotels have a written policy Maagiri Reef Maagiri Reef findings and action taken. Training needs of withdrawal of water for local purchasing and accordingly, produce and Hulhumale the OHS representatives and committees are Total volume of water recycled and reused by the 271,075 m3 310,766 m3 other supplies available in the local community Vilingilli identified by the OHS teams and required training organisation are sourced from the local community. A Male and education is provided accordingly, especially Gross direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 23,400 tonnes CO2e 16,737 tonnes CO2e significant proportion of the procurement budget on fire safety, first-aid and personal hygiene. at the hotels is spent on local suppliers. Adaaran Prestige Vadoo Velassaru Corner, Beyru & Caves Vaadhoo Caves/Vadhoo Chanel Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 7,665 tonnes CO2 7,938 tonnes CO2 Embudhoo Canyon At Aitken Spence Hotels, OHS teams with Amount of GHG emissions reduced and/ or offset 2,858 tonnes CO2e 6,390 tonnes CO2e Heritance Ayurveda Maha Gedara also gives representation from different divisions Paper recycled or sold for recycling 12,099 kg 14,336 kg opportunities for craftsmen from the community to South implement effective OHS practices and continual Cardboard sold for recycling 29,517 kg 24,829 kg perform at the hotel premises. The arts and crafts improvement. Housekeeping staff at the hotels Male Gulhi Atoll Plastic sold for recycling and/ or disposed according 11,284 kg 13,826 kg centre of the hotel is dedicated for this task. A Maafushi Kaafu Atoll are provided with instructions on safe usage to requirements of the Environmental Protection 1,321 cans comfortable working area, meals and traveling Adaaran club Rannalhi of solvents and cleaning detergents; these are License (EPL) allowances are provided to these craftsmen while Guraidhoo printed on the packaging with Material Safety Polythene sold/ handed over for recycling and/ or they also obtain voluntary assistance from the 3,168 kg 4,955 kg Data Sheets (MSDS) in the storage rooms. disposed according to requirements of the EPL hotel staff to communicate with guests. While CFL bulbs handed over for recycling, kept in storage promoting local traditional arts and crafts to an The Group Sustainability Division carries out OHS 360 bulbs 1,345 bulbs to be recycled and/ or disposed according to international audience, the effort spurs local Peer Forums where OHS representatives share 773 kg requirements of the EPL economic development by providing livelihood community who joined the hotel as a stores clerk (byproduct) generated in the biomass gasifier of their experiences and learning with other OHS support to local community members who provide and realised that a desk job was not suitable for Heritance Tea Factory is used as organic fertilizer representatives handling similar responsibilities. Lead acid batteries handed over for recycling and/ or 30 units 572 units art and craft lessons and sell their creations to him. The Hotel appointed him as a Naturalist at the hotel. The hotel has also introduced disposed according to requirements of the EPL 706 kg 23 kg Heritance Ayurveda Maha Gedara carries out guests. The hotel undertakes this unique effort on and he has been with the hotel for almost two rainwater harvesting to reduce freshwater Alkaline batteries handed over for recycling, kept in 20 units 485 units 100% non-profit basis. decades. The Eco Park is now also a healing withdrawal for its operations. regular meetings with local drivers and tour storage to be recycled and/ or disposed according to 286 kg 360 kg centre for injured animals who are then released guides to encourage safe working practices to requirements of the EPL Community engagement activities allow the local back into the wild. The Eco Park also serves as The Sands Kalutara has ensured that exhaust ensure quality of service to guests. Tires reused and/ or sold for reuse 153 tyres 876 tyres community in the vicinity of hotels to voice their an education centre on the biodiversity of the chimneys extend over 60ft and the boiler/ concerns; many activities undertaken by hotels in 1,116 kg area and around 2.7 million visitors have joined generator units of the facility are soundproof. All 2014/15 were based on needs identified during educational tours since the inception of the hotel. hotels have water treatment units where 100% Community Development and Scrap metal sold for reuse 18,225 kg 15,207 kg these engagement activities. These included of the waste water is treated and the sludge Employee Volunteerism Glass handed over for recycling 25,416 kg 30,453 kg the donation of equipment and required items collected is treated and converted to fertilizer. for community groups and differently abled Each SBU has its own strategic initiatives for local Soiled cotton handed over for recycling to a Central 580 kg 620 kg Emissions, Effluents & Waste This is sold to villagers at cost. All hotels follow persons, educational scholarships, and assistance economic development and to enable employee Environmental Authority (CEA) approved vendor and/ the 7R principle to achieve “Zero Waste to extended for infrastructure development. The Management of emissions, effluents and solid volunteerism. or disposed according to requirements of the EPL landfill” status and hence every item of solid Sands provided beach operators with access waste is another significant aspect (material Food waste handed over for recycling and/ or to be 1,108,355 kg 2,118,127 kg waste is Reclaimed, segregated, Repaired if The Aitken Spence Aviation team engages in to freshwater. Heritance Kandalama has a aspect) for the sector. used as animal feed necessary and is either Reused, sold for Reuse community development activities with the dedicated officer for community engagement or Recycled through a certified vendor. All hotels E – waste sold for recycling and/ or disposed 2 units 269 units Environmental Protection Licenses specify the intent of giving back to the community they have activities who maintains contact with a network take effort to Reject non-biodegradable items according to requirements of the EPL 328 kg 25 kg waste management requirements for hotels and been working in for the past 42 years. The most of schools, government institutions and officials, all Group hotels have been in full compliance. where possible and consumption of plastic/ recent effort was the donation of an English Total investment on environmental protection Rs. 5.88 million Rs. 5.4 million religious institutions, village heads and other The hotels use only biodegradable solvents and polythene material is Reduced year on year by library to the Empowering Sri Lanka First centre community members. The hotel also oversees detergents in housekeeping activities. Waste maintaining a plastic/ polythene inventory for in Dambulla as part of the Group’s strategic the Empowering Sri Lanka First (ESLF) centre in each hotel. 76 Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2014 2015 77 Tourism Sector the hotels have accordingly strengthened many provided to staff members on multidisciplinary systems and operations. areas including management practices, customer Legend service, reservations, ticketing, marketing Vaadhoo Bottom Reef communications, time management and language Reef System Inhabited Island Human Rights at the Workplace skills spanning over 272 man hours. Aitken Rasgetheemu Un-inhabited Island As signatories of the UN Global Compact Spence Aviation believes that employee skills Sand Bank An’golhitheemu Aitken Spence Operations (UNGC), Aitken Spence Companies are obliged development can elevate the quality of employee Kandoogandu Halhudhuffaaru Cities to protect human rights at the workplace and engagement with key stakeholders, especially not be complicit in any violation of human rights. customers. As such, the Company’s policies, practices and Standard labelling instructions are followed by the procedures were assessed against the human hotels for consumable items to ensure best quality rights protection matrix of the UNGC and the in the services provided to the guests. Water, food Un’googaaru Business Leaders Initiative on Human Rights. A and waste water samples are regularly tested by network of support givers for human rights at accredited third party laboratories. Aitken Spence Dhuvaafaru the workplace was appointed across all SBUs Hotels maintain food safety management systems and during the year, a Peer Forum was launched Maakurathu in line with the ISO 22000/ HACCP system among the Human Rights Support Givers to standard: four (04) of the hotels in Sri Lanka and Rasmaadhoo enable increased awareness of human rights at Gemanaa four (04) resorts in the Maldives have certified (Whole Area) Innmaadhoo the workplace. The tourism sector nominated 7 their systems. Accordingly, routine system audits Bodufarufinolhu Muhlaafushi Vandhoo support givers to this network with representation (Whole Island) (Part) are conducted to ensure quality of service. At Neyo from diverse management levels and operational The Sands Kalutara, 85% of the products and (Whole Area) Maduvvari divisions. The support givers work with the human Adaaran Prestige Water In’guraidhoo services are assessed for improvements and Meedhoo Villas resource partners of the sector to ensure human 80% of the participants in customer satisfaction Fainu Kinolhas rights at the workplace are protected. Adaaran Select surveys returned positive comments. Heritance Meedhupparu Dheburidheytherey In addition, all Heritance Hotels received Tea Factory has also obtained the SLSI organic Vaadhu (Part) the Travelife Gold award for Hotels and certification for its tea the first hotel to do so. Maalhosmdulu Atoll Accommodations. Travelife is an international Aitken Spence Travels maintains Quality sustainability certification scheme which Management Systems (QMS) certified in line assesses the performance of an operation and/ with ISO 9001: 2008 system standard. As per the Dambulla which provides English language and Compliance or destination in managing social, environmental requirements of the QMS, customer satisfaction computer lessons to almost 60 students from low and economic impacts. To gain Travelife All SBUs within the sector maintain Legal surveys have been carried out where over 80% income families in the community. The centre also Gold certification, a hotel must meet 150+ Registers as part of their respective management of the participants have rated the services as provides English teachers from the community sustainability foci set by the scheme spanning systems and ensure that the operations comply excellent. with training by British Council educators; this across environmental issues, such as waste with relevant laws, regulations and standards year, each teacher received 120 hours of training. management, energy consumption, water and Marketing activities of the sector are carried out applicable to the industry. Heritance Ahungalla also manages an ESLF chemicals; positive action on social issues, according to the brand guidelines of the Group centre in Katuwila which also caters to almost 60 students in the community and with value added Aitken Spence Aviation follows industry standards for service delivery as well the policies and such as employee welfare, working with the local communities, child protection and human with the assistance of the Group’s Corporate Communications team. Customer privacy is For recruitment of hotel employees the Group gives for community teachers through training on new teaching techniques and English language skills. procedures of their principals, such as the rights. Hotels must display how they support local businesses and protect local traditions and maintained at all times and client information is priority to local applicants with ‘local’ defined as the Singapore International Airlines (SIA) Safety not shared without permission from the clients. ESLF is an effort that was initiated as part of the Group’s strategic sustainability efforts and has Policies and SIA Data Governance Privacy Policy. wildlife. The Gold award achieved by Heritance All staff at SIA’s General Sales Agency are vicinity within a 40km radius of each hotel. Hotels is a testament to the high level of required to follow a Customer Data Protection been implemented at exemplary lengths by the In addition to the laws, regulations and industry commitment Aitken Spence Hotel Managements Program with compulsory annual refreshers management team of the hotel to create long standards, Aitken Spence Travels complies with has towards sustainability. delivered on-line. The total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes None term value for the communities around the hotels. the requirements of TUI Group AG. concerning marketing communications Aitken Spence Travels opts for local suppliers at Aitken Spence hotel managements also Total number of substantiated complaints received concerning breaches of customer privacy None Product & Service Responsibility most destinations to source products and services comply with the requirements of the respective The total monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations None required for their operations. More than 75% of management systems implemented at the hotels. Towards uplifting product quality and reliability, concerning the provision and use of products and services the procurement budget of the company is spent Heritance Hotels recently obtained the Travelife each SBU adopts specific practices. on local suppliers of each destination. certification, which has elevated the compliance Aitken Spence Aviation focuses on developing standards of the hotels above the local laws and The sector’s total spending on community the skills of the staff members to deliver the regulations, and the administrative teams of development in 2014/15 was Rs. 6.2 million. best service to their customers. During the last financial year, training and education was 78 Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2014 2015 79 Maritime & Logistics Sector • Maritime Services • Integrated Logistics Rs. 338.6 Mn • Freight Forwarding & Courier Services Total contribution to the Governments (by direct and indirect taxes) The strategic foresight which led Aitken Spence to invest in the maritime and logistics industries nearly forty years ago remains a driving force even today. 57% The company has become a leader in the country’s Reduction in water consumption maritime and logistics sector while recording many firsts in its business initiatives both locally and in its overseas investments. Rs. 9.5 Mn Total investment on environmental sustainability Rs. 7.9 Bn Total Assets Rs. 7.5 Bn Total Revenue 70% Increase in ship crane productivity at Fiji ports 60% Reduction in berthing delays at Fiji ports It is a testament to the effectiveness of improvements we brought into port operations and 1,571 management in Fiji that the shipping lines removed People a port congestion charge previously slapped due to inefficiency and low levels of productivity. 80 Aitken Spence PLC Maritime & Logistics Sector 2014/2015 2013/2014 Change • Transportation Rs. Mn Rs. Mn % • Terminal and Depot operations Revenue 7,519 7,205 4.4 • Brand reliability • Freight station operations Profit from operations 706 644 9.7 • Providing customer specific total • Warehouse/storage operations Profit before tax 735 705 4.3 logistics solutions As at 31st March • Principals • Port management services • Continuous ongoing relationships Total invested in PPE 4,128 3,952 4.5 • Overseas agents • Contract and Regulatory logistics with customers Total Assets 7,868 7,803 0.8 • Service providers • Third party logistics • Carriers • Domestics and international courier The strategic foresight which led Aitken Spence 18.1 million Twenty-foot Equivalent Units (TEUs). • Component • Cargo GSA operations to invest in the maritime and logistics industries Global demand for container traffic however Manufacturers • Importers nearly forty years ago remains a driving force even lagged behind at 5.2% in 2014. Analysts expect • Project cargo solutions • Affiliated universities • Exporters today. During this period the company has become capacity to grow by 30% to 24 million TEUs by • Maritime education a leader in the country’s maritime and logistics 2019, while demand will be slower, resulting in linked with CINEC • Forwarders sector, providing seamless integrated solutions freight rates declining between 1.6% and 2.6% • Regulatory Authorities • Shipping Agency Services • Corporate clients from shipper to recipient while recording many per year, during the same period. This trend • Freight forwarding • Labour Unions • Financial Institutions firsts in its business initiatives both locally and is bound to place enormous pressure on the • Customs House agency in its overseas investments. The Maritime and profitability of shipping lines, leading to pressure • S hipping lines and Logistics sector of Aitken Spence consists of three on agents. However in Sri Lanka, export volume • Record management airlines primary clusters; namely, maritime, integrated TEUs grew by 5.3% while import volume TEUs • Knowledge seekers/ logistics and freight forwarding and courier. grew by 8.8% during the year. Students The maritime segment is engaged in shipping Alarming drops were recorded in freight rates agency services, port management and efficiency during 2014, with rates from Asia to Europe enhancement services and maritime education. declining by 20.7% and from Asia to the Key Customer The integrated logistics cluster specializes in Mediterranean by 14.5% lower by the end of the Activities Relationship inland container terminal services, container year. The trend has continued into 2015 with the repair, rigging and conversions, container freight corresponding rates declining by a further 12.4% Key stations, warehousing, third party logistics and 15.5% respectively by March 2015. Partners Customer management, mobile storage solutions, bulk Segments • Infrastructure cost Despite erratic industry conditions, better than • Service excellence Business model liquid transportation and all types of cargo from • Staff cost containerized to heavy and over dimensional. expected contributions from overseas operations • Value for money of The freight cluster offers air freight, sea freight, saw the sector sustaining its performance. The Maritime & Logistics sector • Freight expenses • Efficiency enhancement brokerage and supply chain solutions, operating consolidated revenue of the sector recorded a • Network expenses through a worldwide network of agents. The growth of 4.4% compared to the last financial • Value creation Value Cost cluster also operates a subsidiary engaged in year, whilst profit before tax recorded an increase Propositions Structure • Energy cost • Integrated/ ‘One Stop’ international express, domestic delivery and of 4.3%, led mainly by the improved performance solutions • Finance cost international mail solutions being the exclusive of the port management operations. associate in Sri Lanka for TNT Express. In cargo Revenue aviation the sector is the Cargo General Sales Key Streams Agent (GSA) for Qatar Airways in Sri Lanka, Significant highlights Resources Channels for Sri Lankan Airlines and Mihin Lanka in the • People Maldives and in Bangladesh for United Airlines, Maritime Services Freight Forwarding & Courier Integrated Logistics • Infrastructure Sri Lankan Airlines and Mihin Lanka through • Achievement of highest ever • Achievement of 25% market • Re-fleeting and associate companies. Following an internal export liftings. share on Maldives air freight Infrastructure • Fleet of vehicles restructuring, the sea freight logistics operations • Elimination of port exports through our cargo GSA development. • Financial strength • Direct sales • Agency fees offered under the maritime segment will be operations. congestion surcharge due to • Venturing into high value • Relationships • Overseas agents • Freight income merged with the freight cluster commencing the increased efficiency levels in • Proposed restructuring to bulk cargo transportation. • Promotions/ • Terminal service income next financial year, a move designed to ensure • Expertise Fiji ports. enhance synergies across • Focus on differentiation Advertisements greater synergies between business segments. • Management/Technical • Extension of port sector. based on flexibility and • Technology • Web service income 2014 was a year of excess supply due to a growth management service • Expansion into the Record technology. • Strategic location in ship board capacity. Global container capacity agreement in port of Nacala Management business. • Historical presence • Student fee income at the end of 2014 was up 6% year on year to (Mozambique). 82 Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2014 2015 83 Maritime & Logistics Sector Policy consistency is critical to the growth of Going forward, the Port of Colombo needs to Revenue Profit from Operations Total Assets the maritime and logistics sector; while the for the year ended 31st March for the year ended 31st March as at 31st March secure more transhipment volumes by promoting policy direction of the new government is itself as a transhipment hub in order to sustain still unclear, it is hoped that an investment7,803 7,868 growth in the medium to long term. This is Rs.Mn Rs.Mn Rs.Mn 7,519 friendly environment will ensue. A slowdown in 7,205 706 especially important given the change in stance infrastructure development projects is anticipated 6,290 644 6,241 of the Indian Government which is now keen to in the short term, which may impact the logistics 535 promote transhipment services at Indian Ports. industry which has been an active partner of the infrastructure boom during the post-war years. Overall, the segment seeks to expand its reach overseas whilst augmenting its operations in the Furthermore, in order to encourage a competitive countries that it already operates in, especially environment, it is imperative that the government in the field of port efficiency enhancement and allows market forces to determine pricing and management. commercial activities of shipping lines. It is also 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 important that any liberalization of the shipping agency and freight forwarding businesses Freight Forwarding & Courier takes place only after careful consideration and The freight forwarding industry has been extensive discussions with all stakeholders. at Suva and Lautoka. It is a testament to the rates due to surplus capacity; a trend of shipping experiencing a continuous moderate growth effectiveness of improvements we brought into lines going direct to customers, and customers during the last few years. However this trend The Sri Lanka Ports Authority and Customs port operations and management in Fiji that the demanding high service levels at low rates. Being implemented Electronic Data Interchange shipping lines removed a port congestion charge a CIF dominant service provider, it must be noted failed to stimulate performance of established players in the market due to intense price Expanding its operations overseas CINEC presently (EDI) facilities for reporting manifests as well as exports and transhipments. Shippers and previously levied due to inefficiency and low levels of productivity. Since the takeover of the that despite low freight rates from Sri Lanka we were well above the average performance of competition and shifting business dimensions, manages the Maritime Academy of the Fiji impacting both volumes and margins. The freight consignees however are yet to become compliant with the system. Legislation making it compulsory management of the two ports we have increased the ship crane productivity by 70%, reduced the the industry. The segment successfully handled project cargo for bridges, relating to infrastructure forwarding and courier segment witnessed an National University and the Maritime Training overall drop in revenue of 18.0% and the profit to report manifests through the EDI in addition to Customs Data has led to a duplication of work. equipment downtime by 60% and significantly development in the country. A milestone during before tax took a dip during the financial year, due Centre of Seychelles. reduced berthing delays resulting in faster ship the year was being responsible for the import to some products performing poorly. Technology became further embedded within turn around. and re-export of all cargo related to the visit of the industry, with shipping lines investing in His Holiness Pope Francis to Sri Lanka in January The air cargo market has been adversely impacted information technology for closer monitoring Our port management operations in Mozambique 2015. by the ban imposed by the European Union on and cost reduction. New technology also offers have also been a resounding success. As a result Sri Lankan fish exports, due to alleged violations us an opportunity to improve our services, by of the continued improvements we have brought Overall, the maritime segment continued to of international regulations on deep-sea fishing. introducing new tools such as tracking equipment in to the operations of the Port of Nacala, during record exceptional performance, with the profit Sri Lanka is the second largest exporter of fresh 1873 Commencement of Aitken Spence & Co. in Colombo as the largest shipping agency. and mobile devices to drive efficiency. the year, our agreement for the management of before tax growing by 27.7%. These results were and chilled swordfish and tuna to the EU; the loss the port was extended. achieved on top of over 50% growth achieved last of this business has led to intense competition, 1980 Diversified the operations into international freight forwarding in Sri Lanka. year which in perspective constituted a highly as operators scramble to fill excess capacity. The maritime segment is the single largest 1981 The Group was appointed as agents for TNT express, one of the world’s leading courier Maritime commendable performance for the financial year. Furthermore, a screening requirement for US companies. shareholder in the CINEC (Colombo International The ship agency segment serves as agents cargo transhipping via Doha has limited the Nautical and Engineering College) maritime 1985 Commenced container transportation services and a inland container terminal in for 3 of the world’s top 25 lines in addition to opportunities of targeting chilled fish exports to campus, a large private degree awarding Outlook Mattakkuliya. handling nearly 40% of cruise vessels calling the United States. institution with emphasis on maritime education. in Sri Lanka. The segment achieved its highest We anticipate the low margins in the maritime 1987/88 Established Ace Container Terminals (Pte) Ltd to handle the first free trade zone inland dry It is also the largest maritime academy in South The growth in freight operations in the Maldives ever export liftings during the year. With the industry to continue as addition of larger ships port in the country. Asia. The segment performed below expectations remained restrained due to stiff competition recommencement of car carriers calling at the to operational fleets brings in excess capacity during the year, with a decline in profitability faced by its key export, chilled and dried fish 2007 The first Sri Lankan Company to venture into ‘Port Efficiency Management’ outside Hambantota Port, we successfully persuaded our thereby pushing freight rates downwards. The mainly due to the rescheduling of some of the to Europe. The limitations in the commodities Sri Lanka. principals to use Hambantota as a transhipment reduced commission will only be offset through degree courses to the next financial year. Volumes market in Maldives restrict our revenue growth hub for vehicles, opening another key revenue demand driven volume gains. 2009 Acquires ‘Loglink (Pvt) Ltd’ a container freight station operation with specialized solutions remained high with an annual intake numbering and therefore, we are exploring the introduction stream. The segment’s operations were impacted for warehousing and garments on hangers. over 17,000 students. Expanding its operations The merger of our principal Hapag-Lloyd with of new services such as a hub operation to route by a drop in import volumes as well as increased overseas CINEC presently manages the Maritime CompañíaSud Americana de Vapores (CSAV) to cargo originating in China via the Maldives to competitor activity, including new alliances that 2011 The Group becomes the largest shareholder of CINEC which is the Sri Lanka’s largest Academy of the Fiji National University and the become the world’s fourth-largest ocean carrier feed the Sri Lankan Airlines network. have begun to call at the Port of Colombo. private sector maritime and higher education campus. Maritime Training Centre of Seychelles. will allow us to look at new markets, particularly Revenue from sea freight has been negatively 2012 The Group is appointed as the general sales agents (Cargo) for Qatar Airways. Fiji Ports Terminal Limited (FPTL) which is a public in South America. Other shipping lines too are The performance of the sea freight logistics impacted by the government’s decision to remove private partnership where Aitken Spence owns forming new alliances to consolidate resources, 2013 The Group acquires a majority stake in Fiji Ports Terminal Limited., through a Public Private business suffered during the year under review. the Terminal Handling Charge from January 2015. 51% of the company, manages the operations creating new competition within the market. Partnership to operate, manage, maintain and develop the two major ports of Suva and While volumes increased, the margins eroded due Margins on consolidated shipments remain low in the two international ports in Fiji situated Lautoka in Fiji. to a number of factors including the drop in freight 84 Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2014 2015 85 Maritime & Logistics Sector The demand for traditional import/export logistic During the year, yard development activities at the capacity building and concessions in regulations services is inextricably linked to the fortunes of depot resulted in space restrictions for container (free port benefits). The transhipment and MCC the manufacturing sector, which in turn requires storage and increased the turnaround time for (Multi-Country Consolidation) volumes are likely a stable policy environment to grow. A favourable vehicles. The development work also resulted to grow on the back of these developments, political climate should lead to increased trade in higher maintenance expenditure on fleet and offering operators such as the opportunity to with the US, Europe and India while we also equipment. Gearing ourselves for the future, we invest in the “Free ports” for “Entrepot” and anticipate increased trade between China and also invested in our fleet to increase capacity. “Bonded Warehousing and MCC” operations. Sri Lanka following the implementation of a Such large capital outlays would of course depend proposed free trade agreement. The container freight station (CFS) returned a on extensive financial feasibilities that consider steady performance in general consolidations. The guaranteed annual export revenue commitments. garments on hangers CFS facility also operated at Integrated Logistics limited capacity during the year due to structural The segment is also closely watching renovations and is due to be completed during developments such as the Sri Lanka Ports The growth pattern of the logistics industry is early part of the next financial year. Authority’s plans to set up a container freight no longer driven by the exports, and has become station outside the port as well as a proposal that more fragmented, unpredictable and volatile. A less than optimum business environment, envisages Sri Lankan ports offering shipping lines Infrastructure is becoming a major determinant disruptions to operations due to ongoing free storage facilities for empty containers. for growth. development work and stiff competition in the market had an adverse impact on the performance The integrated logistics segment focused on of the segment. The combined effect of these Sustainability Review The Qatar Airways cargo GSA increased capacity strengthening its offering through infrastructure development. While the development work factors resulted in a drop in revenue of 4.7% All SBUs in the sector have implemented which together with increased pressure on by upgrading its three narrow body flights to restricted operations to some extent, the margins, resulted in a further decline in the profit environmental management systems in line with upgraded infrastructure and machinery, once the ISO 14001 system guidelines to manage three wide body flights. commissioned, should propel the segment to new before tax. environmental aspects material to the sector. levels of performance. Despite the restrictions The segment ventured into the transportation of Aitken Spence Cargo has successfully re-certified however, the subsector successfully retained its high value bulk products such as LP Gas, to offset its EMS, which includes the corporate operations due to rate pressure from competition and higher The growing e-commerce market in Sri Lanka, In the Maldives, the airline segment has targeted leading position within an intensely competitive the price competition from smaller players in the and the activities of the warehouse within freight rates to North America. offers high potential in the B2C segment of the transhipments from the Far East to fill excess market, where smaller players capitalised on price market. High rainfall during the year resulted its boundary. The boundary of the EMS of the delivery market. Presently, we exclusively handle space, a strategy that has already enabled us to The local market for garments and apparel export sensitivity and several accounts changed hands in the reduction of thermal power generation, Maritime segment covers its corporate operations delivery services for two of the biggest online increase load factors from 25% to 45%. is undergoing a shift, with exporters opting for due to nominated business through local and impacting our fuel transportation business. while the EMS of the Logistics segment includes retailers in Sri Lanka, and will aggressively pursue the use of sea freight to manage costs. While international players. The segment was in prime operational sites in Mabole, Mattakkuliya, this segment which is set to boom over the next this provides us a new opportunity to increase our position also to respond to increased demand for We increased the capacity of our warehouse Welisara and Katunayake. The Logistics segment few years. Outlook end to end supply chain solutions as well as real during the year, while the investment in the new has revised its EMS during the financial year and sea freight volumes, margins will continue to be The merger of the freight forwarding segment time tracking and ERP backed solutions. Oracle Warehouse Management System (WMS) is awaiting certification. under pressure. At the same time, the introduction In Bangladesh, where we have been in operation with the maritime sea freight logistics operations helped to improve process efficiencies and of “All In” rates instead of surcharges may for the past 20 years, the growing presence of of the sector will enable us to bring in a greater With the envision of making Sri Lanka the customer confidence. encourage some exporters to shift to air freight multinational players has limited our opportunities focus on the market and better cost management region’s maritime and aviation transport hub, the Energy from sea freight. to secure new business. As a result we have techniques, while promoting total integrated Government embarked to triple Colombo port’s adopted a strategy of growing through nominated Energy consumption is a material aspect for the The express segment showed encouraging growth solutions that are customized to customer needs. capacity, which has already increased by over Outlook business. The unstable political environment in Maritime and Logistics sector. As part of their year-on-year, with volumes growing across its The merger is expected to open up a much larger half since the Colombo South Terminal opened Bangladesh is forcing buyers to move their orders The future of the segment lies in catering to EMSs, all SBUs maintain programmes to reduce service segments, except for the product “World base of clientele as well as partners, changing last July. Upgrading physical infrastructure and to other countries, which may impact our volumes the increasing demand for end to end supply air conditioning and raw power consumption Express Freight” which recorded a marginal the way we deliver our supply chain solutions. building capacity resulted in the port having an in the coming year. We are pursuing opportunities chain solutions that encompass multimodal in their corporate operations. Aitken Spence drop. The rapid decline of the Euro against the The overall cost benefits garnered through the abundance of space, which enforced the Port’s within the growing FOB (Free On Board) import transportation. While seeking avenues of growth Cargo has appointed “Electricity Conservation US Dollar helped increase business yields, but new operating model will eventually be passed management to offer free storage space to market to offset potential loss of existing within Sri Lanka, the segment is also actively Champions” to monitor EMS programmes to those gains were offset by the reduction in fuel to our customers, thereby helping us grow in main line vessel operators. Under the increasing business. Security concerns continue to restrict exploring opportunities to offer its expertise to reduce electricity consumption. Separate energy surcharges. The express segment has extended competitiveness. availability of space, the main line operators our growth in Pakistan, where we offer freight overseas markets that require inland container meters have been fixed at all divisions at Aitken its services into the “Store and Deliver” segment opted to store their empty containers inside the and logistics services through an alliance. Across our operations, we will continue to terminal/dry port operations. International and Spence Logistics for better monitoring and control of the market while aggressively expanding the port by directing consignee drop off containers leverage on our reputation and expertise to emerging markets will be focused as a part of the of electricity consumption. Energy meters have “Record Management” area of its business. The The Qatar Airways cargo GSA increased capacity at the Port’s yards, resulting in a chain effect represent more foreign principals and to acquire overall business growth strategy. also been fixed on all 55 reefer container points segment has also enabled efficiency gains through by upgrading its three narrow body flights to reducing the availability of storage opportunities more nominated business; the rising importance to measure electricity consumption. Among other the development of new customized software. three wide body flights. The GSA also operated to private inland container terminals and We welcome proposals to extend Free Port of compliance means that the integrity and steps taken to reduce environmental impacts in a dedicated freighter to Lahore, Pakistan during increasing the competitiveness amongst the off status to the local ports as this will expand financial stability of partners has begun to matter energy consumptions, Aitken Spence Logistics Yields from the customs brokerage dropped during Ramadan. The performance of the GSA grew dock operators. opportunities for the Sri Lankan logistics industry. much more than previously, which augurs well for invested Rs. 5 million to install solar panels at the year on the back of lower than expected appreciably over the previous year despite the Sri Lanka’s journey towards becoming a logistics the Group. the premises in Mabole. The unit has a capacity volumes from existing clients and lower margins availability of increased capacity in the industry. hub is on course, with supply expanding through of 30kW and it is estimated that the solar panels from transport activity. 86 Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2014 2015 87 Maritime & Logistics Sector would reduce grid electricity consumption by and registered. The segment’s commitments were 2013/14 2014/15 43,200 kWh (155.52GJ). The initiative will reduce also conveyed to key customers, international GHG emissions of the operation by about 40 Direct Energy Consumption (nonrenewable 68,306 GJ 71,722 GJ agents and principals at management meetings. tonnes CO2e in the first year. Aitken Spence sources) Diesel – 99% Diesel – 99% These sessions included details on the segment’s Logistics is planning to expand this investment to Petrol – 1% Petrol – 1% management systems including the EMS, Quality other locations at Wattala and Katunayake during Furnace oil – Not used Furnace oil – Not used Management System (QMS) as well as the Ten the coming financial years. LPG – Not used LPG – Not used Biomass/ Principles of the UN Global Compact. Biomass/ fuel wood – fuel wood – Not used Not used Solar power – installed, The Cargo segment also conducted training Water Solar power – not used not yet in use and awareness for staff on the segment’s environmental sustainability activities to In line with the aspects identified through the Indirect Energy Consumption 6,021 GJ 6,683 GJ encourage compliance and co-operation. Logistics EMS, each SBU implements measures to monitor segment trained 8 staff members representing water usage and to create awareness on the Reductions achieved in energy consumption 7 GJ No reductions achieved all 4 sites as Internal EMS Auditors and is efficient use of water. Further, Aitken Spence Total water withdrawal 43,848 m3 18,893 m3 currently working with local authorities to obtain Logistics commissioned a waste water treatment Water sources significantly affected by the None None environmental protection licenses. plant for the container washing facility in Mabole. withdrawal of water Another waste water treatment plant is due to be Total volume of water recycled and reused by None None constructed at Mabole. the organisation Human Rights at the Workplace Gross direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 4,957 tonnes CO2e 5,207 tonnes CO2e Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 1,238 tonnes CO2 1,374 tonnes CO2 Investment in the new Oracle Warehouse As signatories of the UN Global Compact, the sector has been educated on Group wide policies, Emissions, Effluents & Waste All companies within the sector segregate Reductions achieved in emissions 1.4 tonnes CO2e 11 tonnes CO2e Management System helped improve process practices and procedures regarding the human Shredded waste paper, wood wool reused as 219 kg 100 kg rights protection matrix of the UNGC and the and quantify solid waste generated through operations. Paper and cardboard are collected packing material efficiencies and customer confidence. Business Leaders Initiative on Human Rights. The Cardboard packing material reused 320 cartons 217 cartons sector nominated 9 employees to a network of and sold for recycling. In addition, Aitken Plywood reused as packing material 237 sheets 440 sheets support givers for human rights at the workplace. Spence Cargo uses shredded waste paper as Aitken Spence Cargo engages with local Several fund raising initiatives, driven by employee Polythene packing material reused 34 kg 49 kg The sector also follows an open-door policy where packing material thereby reducing the need for community through development activities, which volunteerism have been carried out across the staff can approach the management including top non–biodegradable packing material. Packing Tires reused and/ or sold for reuse 20 nos 20 nos. include ongoing engagement with schools close segment and channelled towards community management or Group’s Human Resource Division material is also reused where possible. Used Lead acid batteries exchanged with vendors for 5 nos. 14 nos. to key business operations. The segment and its development. for any concerns or suggestions. tyres, scrap metal and batteries are sold to new units employees also provided assistance for national registered contractors for recycle/reuse. The disaster relief efforts during the year, by making Total funds channelled for community development E – waste handed over to be recycled at the 306 units Group Sustainability Division provided compliance contributions towards landslide victims in the efforts, relevant to the scope and nature of the Aitken Spence E – Waste drive Product & Service Responsibility checks on the eligibility of service providers to Badulla district. Internship opportunities are operations, is Rs. 269,000/Total investment on environmental protection (Negligible) Rs. 9.5 million provide waste management services. extended to family members of staff. During the Aitken Spence Cargo and Aitken Spence Shipping last financial year, three such interns obtained maintain QMS that are ISO 9001:2008 certified, During the last financial year Aitken Spence training on the corporate working environment with Compliance with services continually assessed for quality Logistics experienced one vehicle accident which the Aitken Spence Cargo segment. Aitken Spence Cargo is seeking the alignment improvements. Customer feedback is obtained, resulted in 6,000 litres of furnace oil spilling into of its service providers with ISO 14001:2004 considered and improvements implemented (OHS). Accordingly, the SBUs in Maritime and activities at Aitken Spence Logistics amounted to a stream. The team from Aitken Spence Logistics Aitken Spence shipping segment facilitated and ISO 9001:2008 system requirements and accordingly. Aitken Spence Logistics is at present Logistics sector have taken necessary action over Rs.1 million. responded on time to contain the spill with sand employee book donations and medical welfare as such, conveyed the segment’s sustainability assessing service processes at the Mabola to provide a healthy and safe environment for bags and filter the oil out. Representatives of Aitken Spence Cargo developed a Dengue hazard donations. In addition, Aitken Spence Shipping commitments to 102 key suppliers/transporters, operational site as per the ISO 14001:2004 EMS its staff and customers. Each SBU has either the National Water Board and the Public Health inspection checklist for the SBUs, which was used also provides training and internship opportunities inviting them to register and provide details guidelines, with a view to obtaining certification. an OHS representative or a committee of OHS Inspector of the location inspected the site and in inspections carried out at the office premises. for youth to explore new career opportunities in of their company/ establishment and vehicle All operations are also regularly checked for representatives with adequate training in fire verified that there was minimal impact on the The segment communicates its OHS policy to the maritime industry. During the financial year fleet. Team members were assigned to carry occupational and health hazards. safety, first aid and conducting hazard spotting water system. All safety precautions were taken transport service providers in services agreements Logistics segment has engaged in employee out the inspections and monitor the initiative; inspections. Each SBU has trained Fire Wardens to ensure that the team was protected from the and insists on compliance. volunteerism activities impacting over 1,200 consequently, 19 service providers were screened and First Aid Officers representing diverse health and safety hazards of the task. beneficiaries. divisions and levels of management. During the financial year, Aitken Spence Logistics Community Development and The total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes None Occupational Health & Safety (OHS) provided over 621 man-hours of training for 181 Employee Volunteerism concerning marketing communications As an ‘Essential Action Point’ of the Group’s employees, covering the topics of fire safety, Total number of substantiated complaints received concerning breaches of customer privacy None Across the sector, SBUs engage in various integrated sustainability policy, all SBUs practice health and fitness. In addition, a “Four-zone” fire strategic initiatives on community development The total monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations None ‘HIRAC’ (Hazard Identification Risk Assessment alarm control panel was installed at the Container and to provide employees an opportunity to concerning the provision and use of products and services and Control) for Occupational Health and Safety Freight Warehouse. Total investment on OHS volunteer their services to the community. 88 Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2014 2015 89 Strategic Investments Sector • Printing & Packaging • Garment Manufacture • Power Generation Rs. 80.5 Mn Total contribution • Plantations to the Governments • Holding Company (by direct and indirect taxes) Rs. 132 Mn Our strategic investments are always aligned with funds channelled the Group’s core values as well as their potential for community development to create long term value for the Group. Rs.100 Mn Investment on environmental sustainability Rs. 20.3 Bn Total Assets Rs. 15.1 Bn Total Revenue 5,456GJ energy saved 37% Reduction in total water consumption 2,378 Our success has been our agility in embracing new People strategic investments and our prudence in exiting those segments where value no longer exists. 90 Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2014 2015 91 Strategic Investments Sector 2014/2015 2013/2014 Change Rs. Mn Rs. Mn % • Ceylon Petroleum Revenue 15,110 16,132 (6.3) Corporation • Engine overhauls Profit from operations 826 599 37.8 • Logistics service providers • Fuel Profit before tax 613 199 207.2 • Government of Sri Lanka • Lubricant oil As at 31st March • Central Environment Authority • Spare parts Total invested in PPE 5,671 5,746 (1.3) • Public Utilities Commission of • Generation of • Staff costs Total Assets 20,253 22,769 (11.0) Sri Lanka power – Thermal and • Finance cost • Machinery spare part renewable energy As one of the country’s foremost conglomerates, proposals for thermal projects. The renewable suppliers the Aitken Spence Group has always had energy segment for under 10MW remains open strategic pursuits in economic sectors with for private sector participation, however CEB’s grid present and future potential. At present, our capacity limitation has hindered the expansion of strategic investments are focused on industries this sector. Key such as plantations, power generation, garment Activities Cost • Minimum guarantee manufacture and printing and packaging. Our The Government has strategies in place to expand Structure • Efficient and effective payments as per terms both thermal and renewable power generation; Key strategic investments are always dictated by management of the of Power Purchase two 500MW coal power plants have been Partners their alignment with the Group’s core values as power plants in order Agreement (Capacity well as their potential to create long-term value proposed in Sampur and Trincomalee while a to generate reliable and Business model Revenue charge) for the Group. Our success has been our agility 100MW wind plant has been proposed in Mannar. Streams consistent power, as of • Revenue as per energy in embracing new strategic investments and our The CEB is contemplating developing a wind park required by the Ceylon generation prudence in exiting those segments where value in the Mannar region where the estimated wind Value Power Generation Electricity Board. Propositions no longer exists. potential is around 375MW. The Government has also inked a bilateral agreement with India for The sector recorded a revenue of Rs. 15.1 billion use of nuclear energy. Although nuclear energy Channels for the period under review, a decline of 6.3% is a good source of green energy, the feasibility Key • Power Purchase Agreements from the previous year. This drop was as a result of such projects must be closely examined taking • Thermal – Fuel, lube oil and Resources Customer of the drop in revenue in the power segment. Net into account safety aspects and waste disposal. specialised skilled staff. Relationship profit before tax for the sector returned a growth In the case of Sri Lanka, factors such as the • Renewable – Wind, water of over 200% compared to the previous year, as a availability of natural resources in the form of result of positive contributions from all segments, • Contractual agreements but mainly due to the cessation of the expenses incurred on the maintenance of the two non Significant highlights operational power plants at Matara and Horana, following the sale of these power plants. Power Generation Printing & Garment Plantations Packaging Manufacture • Higher operational • Product • Commissioning of • New Peacock wind and solar, and population density must also The actual quantum of power generated by IPPs The sale of the Horana and Matara thermal power Power Generation efficiencies due differentiation, the USD 3 million estate recorded the be considered by policy makers. depends on CEB requirements; higher rainfall plants had a positive impact on the segment’s The power generation segment operates a to optimum plant process new manufacturing highest ever tea during the year significantly enhanced the CEB’s bottom line compared to the previous year, as 100MW thermal and two small renewable maintenance and optimization and facility in Koggala yield in Sri Lanka The power generation segment’s last of the hydro power generation capacity, resulting in there were no expenses incurred for maintenance energy plants; a 2.5MW hydro power plant and cost management value addition • Higher demand of 3,008 kgs per three power purchase agreements for thermal lower demand for thermal power generation. of the two non operational plants. a 3MW wind power plant generating power for initiatives has been our due to rebound in hectare power generationfor its Embilipitiya power As a result, the dispatch from the Embilipitiya the national grid. The 100MW thermal power • Following the competitive edge the US economy • Adverse weather plant expired in April 2015. The company’s We consider waste to energy conversion plant was curtailed in 2014/2015 resulting in a plant in Embilipitiya was the first company in expiry of the • Higher margins due resulted in growth conditions that continued operations as an IPP hinge solely on decline of 12% over the previous year. Under the projects extremely important to Sri Lanka to the power sector in Sri Lanka to be certified for Power Purchase to focus on niche in export quantities prevailed during the the requirement of the CEB, and the company is in Power Purchase Agreement (PPA), tariffs and generate renewable energy while protecting the environmental quality as well as occupational Agreement of Ace market segments • Rising costs not year affected crop discussions with the CEB on a mutually agreeable fees remain fixed for the entire duration of the environment. However, waste conversion in an health and safety management systems. Power Matara, offering value been compensated levels proposal to extend operations for another 5 agreement, therefore profitability can only be environmentally and socially safe manner requires the Company added solutions by a devaluation • Volatility in the years. The power generated at Embilipitiya increased through internal efficiencies, including high levels of investments and adequate and The thermal power generation segment for was successfully contributes towards transmission and distribution appropriate land. The complex dynamics of the • Investment in of the LKR against export markets for optimal plant maintenance and cost management private sector participation continued to shrink in disposed of during system stability in the Southern Province and business model of such projects are yet to gain sustainability the USD resulted tea and all time low initiatives. The segment practices a rigorous 2014/15; in fact, the only IPP established during the year. its continued operation must be viewed in this wide popularity, however we will continuously initiatives to in margins coming rubber prices had a operation and management procedure to drive the past decade has been one in the North while context. explore opportunities in this area. expand green under pressure negative impact operational efficiencies. the Ceylon Electricity Board (CEB), the main product offerings stakeholder, has not invited any private sector 92 Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2014 2015 93 Strategic Investments Sector Outlook Revenue Profit from Operations Total Assets Aitken Spence remains a major player in the for the year ended 31st March for the year ended 31st March as at 31st March • Personalized services • Suppliers of material • Tea exporters industry, owning a 100MW thermal power • Confidentiality • FMCG market 18,837 Rs.Mn Rs.Mn Rs.Mn • Service providers generation capacity and the segment is 1,382 23,053 22,769 • JIT delivery • Creative agencies committed to further invest in both renewable 16,132 20,253 • Advertising agents 15,110 • Offset printing • Aitken Spence brand • Beverage packaging and non renewable energy, within a conducive • JV partners environment for private sector participation. . • Digital printing • Innovation and markets 826 • Waste buyers (Geo cycle) creativity • Apparel packaging While the outlook for thermal IPPs seems 599 markets uncertain, with regulatory restrictions on any • Overseas print buyers private party applying to generate above 25MW, the future for renewable power projects for less than 10MW is more positive. In terms Key 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 Customer of renewable energy, our short term goal is Activities Relationship to improve the operational efficiencies of our two existing renewable power projects. We • High quality & reliability Key Partners Customer continuously seek to identify resource availability • Short lead time The printing market in Sri Lanka is valued at over capacity. This being the latest technology in pre Segments • Material cost for renewable power generation both locally and Business model Rs. 55 billion per annum with at least 5% 7% press and post press. • Innovative and value • Staff cost overseas to translate those into feasible projects. of growth expected annually. The overcrowded added printing solutions • Plant and machinery cost It is important however that a transparent market has an estimated 4,000 players of different The packaging industry in particular is sensitive • Creative value added Printing & Packaging competitive tender process is in place for to developments in the tea, milk powder and Value • Energy cost sizes offering excessive capacity, leading to heavy high end product Propositions Cost selecting investors for renewable energy projects confectionery markets. The decline of tea exports • Finance Cost price competition locally. The trend in the local • Carbon neutral Structure which would provide equitable economic benefits to Eastern Europe in 2014/15 led to a decline • Service related cost industry however favours larger operators such to the CEB and the investor. in our quantum of value added tea packaging • Personalised products as ours, as Small and Medium Scale Enterprise Revenue (SME) printers are on the decline with a few business, while the milk powder market remained • Sustainable initiatives Key Streams Given the importance of the Embilipitiya power Resources large scale printers serving a major portion of under strain, forcing us to redeploy our resources plant to the national grid, the segment hopes for Channels the market. The way forward for us is to enhance in new segments of the market. This year we also • Basic packaging a positive response from the CEB to our proposal printing and packaging quality, offer value tapped into the niche market of high yield and • Value added packaging to extend the now expired PPA. Our negotiations addition and introduce new technology that offers high volume beverage market, a segment which • Employees • Periodic publications will be on the basis of acceptable commercial a greater variety in the printing processes. we will focus on going forward. • State-of-the-art machinery terms and margins to support the entrepreneurial • Personalised and institutional markets • Financial reports risks of the business. In the event that the PPA Sustainable, green-friendly printing capability • Brand • Social networks • Coffee table books The segment continued to show a promising extension is not feasible, we will seek to sell is becoming a competitive advantage and we • Customer specific materials growth for the period under review as well, • Web marketing • Labels and apparel the plant and machinery to an overseas buyer. are keen to extend our lead in this space. We • State-of-the-art Leeds gold recording a growth in revenue of 14.6%. This • Periodical publishers packaging We are actively pursuing overseas opportunities have focused on new investments that expand certified printing facility growth in revenue coupled with production • Creative agencies for thermal power generation, given our proven our green offering while seeking partnerships efficiencies of the sector resulted in the segment capability in the implementation and management with suppliers within the sustainability chain. • Overseas print buyers achieving a commendable increase in its of such projects. The segment which is ISO 14001 and ISO 12000 • Collaborations profitability. certified, is working towards obtaining Forest During the year, the segment increased its Stewardship Council (FSC) certification in Printing & Packaging capacity by 15% 20% while achieving a 10% 2015/16. and availability. Innovation has always been rate. The segment will also expand its footprint ready to respond to changing market conditions Aitken Spence Printing and Packaging is one of increase in operational efficiency and utilisation. a strength at Aitken Spence and the segment by exploring more partnerships and collaborations with speed and agility. Sri Lanka’s leading providers of offset printing We successfully maintained an order-to-dispatch invests in extensive research and development with the direct export market. solutions for packaging, point of sales material, cycle time of 7 days through best practices in Outlook to offer solutions utilising the latest packaging tags, books, coffee table books, corporate manufacturing, designing, planning and control The demand for packaging is closely linked to publications, and magazines for the local and Market trends indicate that demand for ‘low material and trends. Garment Manufacture as well as effective shop floor control. During the volumes and high varieties’ will increase along socio-economic trends, with food and beverages export markets. Our value proposition is to provide year, we grew our revenue per impression rate by The Garment manufacture segment specializes with value added packaging, as customization The segment is committed to implementing claiming the largest share of the global paper innovative printing solutions with short lead-times over 20% due to yield optimization strategies. It in manufacturing high quality woven-based becomes a priority over mass production. principles and practices of lean production using and board packaging market. Some of the and by focusing on the high quality niche product is also noteworthy that the number of customer apparels including a niche market of children’s Demand is on the rise for technology driven Lean-Six Sigma tools. Several other initiatives shifts expected to impact the industry in the segments. Thus we have been able to penetrate complaints decreased significantly, a reflection garments. The majority of the segment’s exports value innovation, minimum lead time and cost have been identified to increase efficiency, future are smaller pack sizes as households several lucrative markets. At present, more than of the professional and proactive service ethic of are destined for the US market while the EU, effective high quality solutions. The overall including investments in low volume high variety become smaller, busy consumers seeking more 70% of our business is based on the ‘recurring our team. On the technology front, we invested Hong Kong, China and Canada are also important competitiveness of companies will thus depend on equipment, competence and processes; space conveniences, increasing awareness of health and revenue model’ driven by high service levels. further in our Computer-To-Plate (CTP) capabilities markets. Some of the segment’s main clients the product/service quality levels, the strength of expansion to improve the material flow; purchase environmental issues, and the adoption of new while a new Bobst machine enhanced our include prestigious brands such as GAP Inc., Fruit partnerships, speed and cost of solutions, agility of special equipment to reduce queuing time regulatory requirements on packaging recycling. between work stations and to improve throughput We are keeping abreast of these changes and are 94 Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2014 2015 95 Strategic Investments Sector Quality Management Systems and Compliance+ • Manufacture compliance certifications. The high standards defect free high of compliance complement Sri Lanka’s industry quality garments branding strategy “Garments without Guilt”. • Fabric suppliers ensuring legal • Frequent This enables us to defend our markets against • Trims and accessories and infrastructure communication non-compliant low cost vendors from regional suppliers compliance and export with key clients countries. • Government of to customers ensuring through periodic on time delivery meetings, visits and • Middle and high end Sri Lanka and government teleconferences. customers through institutions Outlook different brands • Logistics service providers Our unique selling proposition will remain our • Different products for different demographic track record of on-time, reject free delivery and segments of infants, order-fulfilment, which has given us, preferred Key toddler, kids, men and vendor status with key customers. We will invest Activities Customer further towards strengthening these aspects by Relationship women’s garments bringing in operational efficiencies. The strategic Key expansion of the business will continue apace, in Partners Customer order to enhance production facilities and to drive • ISO WRAP certified Segments Business model efficiency. As we expand, we would also consider garment manufacturing operations of • Raw material cost investing into areas of backward integration. The During the year we commissioned a new segment is also focusing on penetrating the highGarment manufacture • On time reject free Value • Embellishment costs end market which enables better yields. manufacturing facility in Koggala at an investment of delivery of high quality Propositions Cost garments Structure • • Staff costs Transportation costs Our results in the coming year would be closely approximately USD 3 million. related to the macro-economic conditions in Revenue • Finance costs the country. A proposal by the Government to Key total output, 92% is produced as single origins We sell tea under our own brand “Harrow Streams • Utility costs increase private sector salaries substantially, Resources from the mid /high grown tea areas, while the Ceylon Choice” in both the local and overseas Channels if implemented, will lead to a sharp rise in our • Employees balance production is derived from the low markets. We have also reaped strong dividends wages bill, negatively impacting the bottom line. country plantations. We produced 5 million from our entry into China through a joint venture • State of the art machinery kilograms of tea in 2014/15, on over 2,200 partnership with a Chinese party, to produce • Raw material • Manufacturing and hectares of tea plantations. Efficiency measures specialty tea for the Chinese market. During • Embellishment and other • Direct relationship with buyers export of infants, Plantations at our estates resulted in Elpitiya Plantations 2014/15, we began direct exports of bulk tea and service providers • Buying offices toddler, kids, men and The Plantations segment engages in the becoming number one in terms of profitability value added teas to China, Kuwait and Vietnam. • Emails women’s clothing cultivation, manufacture, and marketing of black per hectare among 22 Regional Plantation tea, rubber and oil palm. The Company has Companies (RPCs) in 2014 and first in the high Rubber contributed 8% of the segment’s revenue • Web sites and is grown on low country estates, covering also ventured in to several diversified projects grown elevation average. Elpitiya Plantations • Teleconferencing including commercial forestry, hydro power over 967 hectares in bearing and producing 0.7 also commanded number one position for CTC generation, eco tourism, tea branding and forward high grown elevation tea prices and was third in million kilograms in 2014/15. Rubber prices hit an integration projects such as oil palm milling. combined (High, Mid and Low) tea prices among all time low during the year with no improvement of the Loom Inc., Dimensions Corporate Wear PLC lines and increasing the overall production of approximately USD 3 million. The new 22 RPCs. likely in the short term. In order to minimise our and Next PLC. efficiency of the factories. facility accommodates 16 production lines and The segment’s revenue dropped by 6.5% for the risk within the rubber segment, we have entered at full capacity, will provide 750 employment period under review, resulting from the lower The business model of the segment prioritizes During this financial year the economic rebound in Despite adverse weather, tea production in the in to a forward contract with a British buyer to opportunities. The plant’s production capability contribution from rubber and tea. The financial product quality assurance and compliance, which our main market – the US – contributed towards year 2014/15 was significantly higher and one of export premium quality sole crepe. will enable us to attract new high end clientele year 2014/2015 proved to be a challenging year is a distinct competitive advantage in the present the segment’s growth whereas the economic our estates New Peacock recorded the highest and is scheduled to increase business volume for the plantation sector, as geo-political issues Oil palm now contributes 17% of revenue; it is industry context. The segment has also built a downturn in Europe had a negative impact but ever tea yield in Sri Lanka of 3,008 kilograms per by 30%-40% during the coming year. The affected the Russian market for tea while rubber now grown on all of our low country estates, reputation for on-time and reject free delivery the contribution from this region being small to hectare, for a large estate. environmentally friendly building was constructed prices hit an all time low and erratic weather covering 950 hectares in bearing. Oil palm is a to the market, having completed the last several the segment it did not have a major impact on our in the space of about four months and includes featuring heavy rain and long droughts took Another of our estates Talgaswella was relatively recent introduction to Sri Lanka with years without a single late delivery. Price pressure performance. Price pressure from clients persisted a sky light system to reduce the use of artificial their toll. However, diversification into palm oil, adjudged as the No. 1 estate in terms of social substantial opportunities for growth. During the arises mainly from competitors that operate throughout the year; however productivity lighting and an evaporative cooling system to hydropower, commercial forestry and the joint development amongst all RPC estates. year, we sold 100% of our oil palm production at a lower cost base; however our competitive enhancements drove the business towards its eliminate the usage of air conditioners. venture with China for production of value added locally, catering to heavy demand mainly from strengths enabled us to grow our business by profitability levels, recording a growth in net profit Elpitiya Plantations estates are Rain Forest teas reduced the impact. soap and biscuit manufacturers. The nascent 25.9% in 2014/2015, in comparison with an before tax of 5.4% The segment successfully obtained WRAP Alliance, ISO 22000:HACCP, Forest Stewardship industry remains unregulated, even though the industry growth of 9.4%. We increased production (Worldwide Responsible Accredited Production) Tea brings in the highest revenue to the segment, Council and Ethical Tea Partnership certified. During the year we commissioned a new Ministry of Plantations Industries estimates by 28.0% during the year by adding production Certification, as well as the ISO 9001:2008 contributing a share of 74% in 2014/15. Of our manufacturing facility in Koggala at an investment that by 2020, 50% of the country’s edible oil 96 Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2014 2015 97 Strategic Investments Sector through good agro practices, mechanization on • Managing plantations of Tea, Rubber, Oil Palm, • Periodical visits to estates, and right-sizing the workforce. While Coconut and Cinnamon customers consolidating our production base, we are also • Commodity • Exporters exploring segments such as agro tourism that • Manufacturing of Tea, Rubber, Palm Oil and • Business to brokers • Shippers offer great promise. Specialty Tea Business • JV partners • Retail market • Sustainable forestry management • Direct Production cost within the industry increases • Regulatory bodies communication • Overseas • Hydropower generation with profit margins declining year on year. We are • Ministry of • Customer market pursuing effective mechanisation as a strategy • Eco Tourism Finance/ reviews/ feedback to reduce labour costs while diversifying into Plantation less labour intensive crops such as oil palm. industries We continuously introduce Energy Efficiency • Chamber of Measures (EEMs) while from a marketing Commerce Key perspective; we will seek high value markets that Activities Customer (Conducts auctions Relationship generate better margins. Measures are being for tea and rubber) • Mass marketing (Tea, taken across our operations to optimize the cost of Key rubber and palm oil) production; these will include reducing our energy Partners Customer • Niche marketing usage and introducing viable mechanization as Segments Business model • Diversified businesses well as ICT improvements. In the medium term, we are exploring alternative renewable energy • Labour (Wages & salaries) Cost of Plantations solutions to meet our energy requirements. Efficiency measures at our estates resulted in • • Material cost Energy cost Structure Value Propositions Labour is the largest cost component of the Elpitiya Plantations becoming number one in terms of • Finance cost • Tea plantation industry and presents multiple challenges including labour shortages, low profitability per hectare among 22 Regional Plantation • Cost of services • General overhead cost Key Resources Revenue Streams • Rubber productivity and unionisation, which is often politically influenced. The industry is gearing Companies. • Palm Oil Channels for the biennial wage increase in 2015/16, a • Commercial Forestry regulation imposed by a Collective agreement • Hydro Power irrespective of the segment’s performance. In • Employees • Other crops (Cinnamon/Coconut) order to optimize our human resources, we • Plantations (Fertile land) • Direct exports have undertaken effective training to increase • Auctions productivity and have engaged with unions to 1955 Started ‘Aitken Spence Printing division’ which provides printing and packaging services to • Suppliers maintain good relationships that honour the the local market. • Plant and Machinery • Web marketing collective agreements. • Personal marketing 1977 Established ‘Aitken Spence Garments’ even before the birth of an open economy; with the • Partnerships Changing weather patterns and climatic aim of manufacturing and exporting garments to apparel importers in the USA and EU. conditions have impacted on our crop yields as 1985 Aitken Spence Printing (Pvt) Ltd was incorporated to provide printing and packaging well as market prices; unfortunately the effects services which was initially successfully operated as a division of Aitken Spence & Co. of global warming remain pervasive, forcing us to look at mitigating strategies. We have 1997 Aitken Spence Plantation’s purchased a majority stake in ‘Elpitiya Plantations’ which owns requirement will be met locally through palm oil The segment made its foray into commercial Peacock, Nayapana, Dunsinane – to enable better counteracted the adverse impacts by adopting 15 tea and rubber estates. and coconut oil. forestry 17 years ago and today, commercial quality manufacture of tea. best agricultural practices, planting selected forestry has been undertaken and trees have 2002 The first 20 MW thermal power plant of the Group commences commercial operations in cultivars and importing hybrid varieties of The segment’s diversification into mini hydro been planted on 850 hectares; the stock will be The macro developments surrounding the Matara. seeds. We also carry out soil and foliar analysis power projects (MHPP) has been very successful available for harvesting over the next few years. plantations have not helped create a conducive for fertilizer programs to optimize our yields. 2003 The second 2 MW thermal power plant commences commercial operations in Horana. and we plan to expand such projects in the environment, with the proposed wage hike Among other strategies adopted are rain water future. Currently we operate three mini hydro We also further entrenched in field mechanization threatening bottom lines in the coming year. The 2004 Entered into a joint venture to build and operate a 100 MW power plant in Embilipitiya. harvesting, shade planting and safe pest and power projects with a total generation capacity in the tea and rubber plantations while new agriculture sector continues to benefit from the disease control. 2008 Elpitiya Plantations’ installed and commissioned a mini hydropower plant at its Sheen of 4.46MW. Sheen mini hydro power project poly drive systems and temperature monitoring Government fertiliser subsidy, and we hope the has been ranked among the first 15 of all grid systems were introduced for tea withering. Pilot Government persists with this favourable policy. estate in Nuwara Eliya. The competitive environment will continue to connected MHPPs, on annual plant factor. Four projects were also carried out for bio fertilizer exert immense pressure in the short term, with 2012 Aitken Spence Printing relocates to a state-of-the-art printing facility which is the first LEED more mini hydro projects are currently in the application in the tea fields and to explore low cost teas offered by Kenya and Vietnam certified printing facility in Sri Lanka. pipeline: with a combined generation capacity of viability of Agarwood plantations. We undertook Outlook even as the lucrative tea markets in Russia and 2.65MW. the development of several factories – New 2013 The Group commissions the first wind power project at Ambewela and the Hydro power The Plantation segment’s challenge for the future the Middle East remain restricted. Also globally, project in Matale. is improving productivity and managing cost there is growing demand for substitute beverages 98 Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2014 2015 99 Strategic Investments Sector Students and teachers from estate schools have factory chimneys are at a minimum height of 20ft A polythene free policy is in practice on each also been educated on water conservation while above ground level, and by fumigating estates estate estate employees have been given sign boards have been displayed at public places with pruned tea branches to avoid the use of biodegradable bags for their daily household to educate the estate community as well. Waste artificial chemicals. Where worker housing units purposes to encourage environmental friendly water tanks (septic tanks) have been constructed (line rooms) are located in close proximity to lifestyle choices. Empty chemical cans, fertilizer at all the tea factories to separate the oil content natural water bodies, separate waste water sacks and fluorescent bulbs are collected of the water. Water testing points have been management systems have been constructed separately at the stores and sent to government identified and test reports have been produced at each housing unit to mitigate waste water approved waste collectors periodically. All empty by the relevant regulatory institutions. Endemic discharge to the fresh water. chemical cans are washed at least thrice and plants such as Kumbuk and Green Bamboo punctured before being handed over to avoid have been introduced along the water bodies to The water withdrawn from the water bodies reuse in domestic tasks. Elpitiya Plantations has improve water purity. is used mainly for cleaning and washing in a waste management policy which is displayed the factories. Proper drainage systems are in public places and the expected outcome Aitken Spence Garments takes effort to reduce maintained to ensure that contaminated water is effectively communicated to all estate water wastage and plans to introduce rainwater does not mix with natural water systems, while communities and estate staff members. Inorganic harvesting for gardening use, at its facility. uncontaminated water is channelled to tea fields. waste dumping is prohibited on all estates. Waste segregation units have been placed at Aitken Spence Printing harvests rain water for all divisions while hazardous waste is collected Aitken Spence Garments has a primary level use in cisterns and for gardening; the factory also at central points in each estate, overlooked by water treatment unit through which solids which could restrict the growth of tea in future. Elpitiya Plantations has taken steps to educate follow the requirements of ISO 9001: 2008 uses push type faucets to eliminate excess water a responsible person. A Government approved and oils are separated from water. The team The fall in crude oil prices has led to synthetic technical personnel on energy management, while quality management systems, ISO14001: 2004 consumption. waste collector removes the waste once every is exploring ways of improving their waste rubber being sought at lower prices, as an providing training and awareness for all staff EMS and 18001: 2007 OHS systems. During quarter. Sign boards have been displayed in public management processes. alternative to natural rubber. We are seeking more members including harvesting assistants, on the manufacturing, the Printing segment adheres places and all staff members and employees have forward contracts for sole crepe exports, and will Company’s energy conservation commitments to a switching off policy. Identified machines Biodiversity been given appropriate training and awareness Aitken Spence Power plant in Embilipitiya treats increase our sole crepe manufacturing capacity. and programmes. The segment, which recently with high load are operated at various intervals Conservation of biodiversity is a material aspect on the waste management processes of the all water used before it is allowed to leave the obtained the Rainforest Alliance certification for to minimize the ‘maximum demand’ limit: ‘high for Elpitiya Plantations. The Rainforest Alliance company. facility. All precautions are taken to ensure that Several growth avenues have been identified the upcountry cluster of estates, successfully electricity consuming’ machinery is not operated certification for its upcountry cluster of estates natural water systems are not affected by the to drive the segment’s strategic diversification– generated 16,209.83 GJ of energy to the national during peak hours. The green printing facility involved the implementation of systems to water withdrawn by the facility. Stack emissions, these include commercial forestry, enlarging the grid through its mini hydropower projects. The in Mawaramandiya remains a benchmark in manage activities across 100+ foci within the value added tea segment in overseas markets, sector has also taken steps to optimize processes environment sustainability. The efficacy of the operation. In this effort, most of the flora and mini hydro power plants and tourism, which will and centralize the administration of machine energy management practices and facilities was fauna within the estates have been identified, allow us to leverage on group strengths to market maintenance. reflected in the segment’s energy consumption with daily records maintained by field officers. the natural scenic values of our estates. growing by just 6% despite turnover rising by Rearing of animals in captivity is no longer The garment segment’s facilities optimize the use 14%. allowed on the estates. Small scale jungles have of natural resources, as discussed earlier, and also been mapped and animal corridors have been Sustainability Review adopt a ‘Switch Off’ policy to eliminate waste in developed at each site. Sign boards have been The Strategic Investments sector has made huge the indirect energy consumption of the factory. Water erected at public places and awareness has been strides in taking forward the Group’s sustainability Consumption of water is a significant aspect in conducted on the importance of biodiversity Our power plant in Embilipitiya was one of the agenda. Today, it operates the first green printing the EMS of the Strategic Investments sector. conservation. Invasive plants have been identified first power generation companies in Sri Lanka facility in South Asia. From renewable energy and replaced while all natural water streams and to obtain an integrated management system, generation to conducting biodiversity surveys, Elpitiya Plantations team has identified and water bodies have been protected. Buffer zones and has an ISO 14001:2004 certified EMS, the Strategic Investments sector has made mapped all bodies of water (both perennial and of at least 20m from natural forests have been pending recertification. All processes at the significant gains in managing aspects material to non-perennial) within the estates and demarcated demarcated and maintained. Areas with soil power plant are maintained well above local the businesses. buffer zones, maintaining a minimum of 5m – erosion and the likelihood of landslides have been environmental compliance requirements. At the 8m on both sides of these bodies of water. All identified, and cover crops introduced to mitigate As an essential action point, all companies in sector’s corporate office, a Switch Off policy has employees and harvesting assistants have been the hazards. the sector follow ISO 14001: 2004 Environmental been implemented along with 6S practices to educated on the conservation of water and Management Systems (EMS) guidelines to encourage environmental friendly behaviour. The sprayers have been provided with specific training installation of Variable Speed Controllers has manage activities to protect the environment. resulted in reducing internal energy consumption on the prevention of water pollution. Chemical mixing points have been identified and specifically Emissions, Effluents & Waste Occupational Health and safety is a primary area of substantially. The management of emissions, effluents and Energy constructed at each division in each estate, with the intention of avoiding natural water mixing solid waste is a material aspect for the Strategic concern for Aitken Spence Garments and the team Aitken Spence Printing has obtained the Investments sector. Direct and indirect energy consumption is a Integrated Management System certification with chemicals. routinely trains and educates all staff members and significant aspect in the EMS of all SBUs in the for its environmental, OHS and quality Elpitiya Plantations has controlled emissions by Strategic Investments sector. management procedures. These systems prohibiting open fires on all estates, ensuring OHS teams on first aid, fire safety and welfare. 100 Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2014 2015 101 Strategic Investments Sector waste water and effluents are routinely tested 2013/14 2014/15 to ensure process efficacy and compliance. A Continuous Emission Monitoring System is Direct Energy Consumption 4,220 TJ 3,724 TJ attached to each engine, that promptly responds Diesel – 0.2% Diesel – 0.2% in the event when emission level goes beyond Petrol – 0.01% Petrol – 0.02 the stipulated time. The corporate office of Furnace oil – 96% Furnace oil – 95% Aitken Spence Power is the first group company LPG – 0.01% LPG – 0.01 to implement a polythene free zone in the office Biomass/ fuelwood – Biomass/ fuel wood – environment. The team also supports the waste 3.78% 5.03% segregation and recycling efforts of the Group. Indirect Energy Consumption 27,083 GJ 87,053 GJ Amount of energy saved 7,991 GJ 5,456 GJ Waste water generated at the Aitken Spence Total energy produced from nonrenewable sources 1,564 TJ 1,379 TJ Printing facility (during the cleaning of machinery) is chemically treated at the factory’s effluent Total energy produced from renewable sources 43,627 GJ 52,806 GJ treatment plant (on average, 39m3 per month). Total water withdrawal 133,527 m3 83,891 m3 Treated water is then sent out for further Total volume of water recycled and/ or reused 6,484 m3 1,188 m3 treatment and disposal. Solid waste is segregated Water sources significantly affected by the None None and all polythene, cardboard, plastic containers, withdrawal of water scrap metal is sold for recycling. Soiled cotton, Gross direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 294,774 tonnes CO2e 257,145 tonnes CO2e gold foil (printing material) and ink contaminated containers are handed over to a certified vendor Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions Amount of GHG emissions reduced and/ or offset 5,567 tonnes CO2 1,911 tonnes CO2e 17,894 tonnes CO2 2,372 tonnes CO2e The green printing facility in Mawaramandiya remains team members and are displayed to others in their respective departments. A Company doctor is for recycling. Paper sold for recycling 1,434,099 kg 2,070,866 kg a benchmark in environment sustainability. available on the premises three days a week for Cardboard sold for recycling 2,928 kg 161,548 kg consultations. Occupational Health & Safety Plastic sold for recycling and/ or disposed according 1,254 items 1,250 items and 160 kg incidents. Separate OHS committees have been procedures, the company has not had any major to requirements of the EPL formed at each estate to effectively address accidents in the last several years. Education on (OHS) Community Development and Polythene sold/ handed over for recycling and/ or 31 items 2,265 tonnes OHS concerns. All moving parts of machines OHS and awareness on welfare takes priority in The sector practices ‘HIRAC’ (Hazard Identification disposed according to requirements of the EPL have been covered with machine guards and employee education. Counselling facilities are Employee Volunteerism Risk Assessment and Control) for occupational special heat resistant overalls have been provided also available on a daily basis to all employees of CFL bulbs handed over for recycling and/ or disposed 5 bulbs 21 bulbs The Companies within the sector undertake health and safety (OHS). OHS is a significant for employees who work with ovens. Elpitiya the segment. according to requirements of the EPL multiple strategic initiatives for local economic factor for companies within the sector and strong Plantations does not allow employees to work Fluorescent bulbs handed over for recycling, kept in 903 units development and to enable employee focus is given to OHS activities. under extreme weather conditions such as Aitken Spence Power plant in Embilipitiya had storage to be recycled and/ or disposed according to volunteerism. lightning, strong winds and heavy rain. Employees OHS systems certified in line with the OHSAS At Elpitiya Plantations, all employees including requirements of the EPL have been educated on the probable uncertainties 18001:2007 system, as part of the facility’s Elpitiya Plantations has constructed an elders’ sprayers, factory employees and others who Tires reused and/ or sold for reuse 97,142 kg 20 nos. integrated management system. The facility has and also preventive measures that have to be home at the Meddecombra Estate in Pundaluoya perform high risk jobs are provided with Scrap metal sold for reuse Negligible quantities 375 items its own OHS team headed by a safety engineer. adopted under such conditions. Separate bathing to accommodate thirty retired workers as a tribute appropriate Personal Protective Equipment 215 kg No significant operational accidents have taken places have been constructed at each division for to the services rendered. The home was built in (PPEs); they are regularly examined by either a Glass handed over for recycling 12,930 kg 3kg place during the last financial year. HIRAC employees to encourage hygienic practices. collaboration with the French donor “Foundation medical practitioner or estate medical officer. Soiled cotton handed over for recycling to a CEA 25,340 kg 42,780 kg inspections are also conducted at the segment’s Abbe Pierre” at a fund commitment of over Rs. 23 Store keepers and sprayers have been trained approved vendor and/ or disposed according to OHS is a primary area of concern for Aitken corporate office at Aitken Spence towers. million. This elders’ home is the first of its kind in the proper handling of chemicals including requirements of the EPL Spence Garments and the team routinely trains in the plantation sector in Sri Lanka and includes chemical identification, contamination and safety and educates all staff members and OHS The OHS management system at Aitken Spence Food waste handed over for recycling and/ or to be 25,340 kg 42,408 kg facilities such as hot water, recreation room with precautions. Material Data Sheets (MDSs) are committee members on first aid, fire safety and Printing is certified in line with the ISO 18001: used as animal feed television, kitchen, washrooms with accessibility displayed on all notice boards and the expected welfare. As a standard procedure, each staff 2007 standard, as part of the segment’s Integrated Empty steel barrels sold for reuse 50 nos for differently abled persons as well as features behaviour to ensure safe operation is effectively member must go through a structured OHS Management System certification. The segment E – waste sold or handed over for recycling and/ or 9 items 247 items for aesthetic appeal such as fish ponds and walk communicated to relevant parties. First–aid boxes training programme at least once. Fire drills has trained first aid and fire fighting teams and disposed according to requirements of the EPL ways to enable the elders to spend the rest of have been distributed among all field officers at are carried out on a routine basis and PPEs are special training is provided to staff members HFO sludge disposed in line with CEA requirements 627,000 litres 597,300 litres their lives in a peaceful and healthy environment. each division. Portable drinking water units have provided where necessary. Both factories are on annual basis on health and safety at the The elder’s home was ceremonially declared open been made available at each division to allow Used lubricant oil disposed in line with CEA 13,200 litres 9,900 litres routinely inspected by the Fire Brigade to check workplace, emergency evacuation processes on 16th October 2014. access to fresh water. requirements for the presence of fire hazards and to ensure and first aid. The segment has also introduced Total investment on environmental protection Rs. 103 million Rs. 100 million proper functionality of fire safety equipment. A an accident and incident reporting procedure The estate community includes many differently The emergency preparedness procedure of the and representatives carry out annual HIRAC Chartered Engineer also inspects the electrical abled persons and improving their quality of life company has been effectively communicated inspections for hazard analysis risk assessment equipment in the factories as well as electricity has become a priority for Elpitiya Plantations. to all employees. Field officers are informed of and team members are encouraged to propose usage of the facilities in Koggala and Mathugama The company has identified 26 persons who are the emergency contact person while the estate required improvements. Safety instructions on to ensure the electrical equipment will not suffering from various physical disabilities to ambulance is made available to assist in such handling chemicals are communicated to relevant cause hazards to fire safety. As a result of these provide assistance. Preliminary medical checkups 102 Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2014 2015 103 Strategic Investments Sector have been conducted at all the estates with “Workers Housing Cooperative Society” (WHCS) After Aitken Spence Printing shifted to the new Human Rights at the Workplace the consultation of medical practitioners and at New Peacock estate. The project is expected to facility in Mawaramandiya, many employees The Strategic Investments sector has nominated adequate awareness has been communicated to create value for about 650 families in the estate have been recruited directly or indirectly from the 11 support givers for human rights at the Legend all the Estate Medical Officers (EMOs) for whom community. village. Local suppliers (from Mawaramandiya) workplace; they ensure increased awareness of Palk Strait UNESCO World Heritage Sites a general training programme was also facilitated contribute to 10% of the procurement budget of Elephant Pass Areas of high biodiversity value At Aitken Spence Garments, more than 80% human rights in line with the Group’s commitment at the Kalubovila Teaching Hospital. the company. The Group’s strategic sustainability Chundikkulam Bird Sanctuary Aitken Spence Operations of the workforce is female and almost all of to the UN Global Compact. Cities effort, Empowering Sri Lanka First (ESLF) has a Kilinochchi Indian Ocean Roads Areas prone to landslides have been identified the workforce is from the local community. The centre at the temple in Mawaramandiya which at the Dunsinane estate with the assistance of segment has undertaken many programmes to is overseen by Aitken Spence Printing. The National Building Research Organization (NBRO) develop the community, including assistance for centre provides English language and computer Product & Service Responsibility Bay of Bengal and the estate community has been provided education. literacy lessons for nearly 50 students from the Elpitiya Plantations recently obtained the Kokilai Bird Sanctuary with temporary accommodation facilities. A neighbouring community. The company also Rainforest Alliance certification for the upcountry Gulf of Mannar Madu Road Sanctuary Giants Tank Sanctuary new housing scheme of 400 units is in progress For Aitken Spence Power, local community cluster of estates. The management systems engages with the Pradeshiya Sabha and assists at Dunsinane estate to re-home the internally development and assistance to local development established for this certification complements the community efforts to organize social activities. Trincomalee displaced people who live in temporary shelters. efforts is a priority in order to maintain good existing systems maintained for the HACCP/ISO Novel Headworks Sanctuary Elpitiya Plantations is also upgrading the water relationships with the community. The company Total spending on community development efforts 22000: 2005 certifications, Ethical Tea Partnership Wilpattu National Park Anuradhapura schemes at three divisions of New Peacock gives priority to local suppliers where possible in the sector is Rs. 132 million. and FSC certification. These systems assess the Kalpitiya Somawathi Chaithya Sanctuary estate. Total investment on this project is and 4.31% of the procurement budget in products from the cultivation to final packaging approximately. Rs. 2.1 million and the effort is Embilipitiya power plant, 7% of the procurement and dispatch, maintaining quality standards in Minneriya Giritale Sanctuary expected to create value for 1,550 beneficiaries. budget of the Brandford hydropower plant and 5% Compliance all areas of production, thereby assuring quality, Kandalama Sigiriya Polonnaruwa In addition, funds have already been granted of the procurement budget of the Ambewela wind health and safety. Dambulla Elpitiya Plantations team has established Wasgamuwa National Park for a large scale cooperative outlet at the New power plant was spent on local suppliers. policies, processes and procedures to comply Peacock division which is being launched by the To manage responsible marketing with the requirements of the Rainforest Alliance Maduru Oya National Park communications, Elpitiya Plantations attends Kurunegala Matale Certification (RFA), HACCP/ ISO 22000: 2005 weekly tea auctions and carries out routine visits food safety management systems, Ethical Tea to buyers’ destinations, while frequently engaging Kundasale Partnership (ETP), Forestry Stewardship Council Kandy with buyers through various mediums. Issues Katunayaka Gal Oya National Park (FSC) certification, Environment Protection License Mawaramandiya Pussellawa raised by buyers are conveyed to respective Pundaluoya (EPL), Energy Permits required for the operation, estates. Colombo Nuwara Eliya Plant Quarantine Certificate ( PQC) and respective Hatton Hakgala Botanical Garden Lahugala Kitulana National Park Import Permits. Aitken Spence Garments obtained the ISO Horton Plains Peak Wilderness Sanctuary 9001:2008 certification during the year. The Aitken Spence Garments complies with company won the National Silver Award in the Matugama Yala National Park applicable legal requirements, requirements of Badureliya Uda Walawe National Park Medium Category Manufacturing Sector at the the Environmental Protection License as well Beruwala Sinharaja Forest Reserve Ceylon National Chamber of Industries (CNCI) Elpitiya Embilipitiya Weerawila Bird Sanctuay as the industry standards above compliance Talgaswela Achiever Awards 2014. The facility also complies Wanduraba requirements. The facility is certified in line with Bundala National Park with standards and best practices stipulated by Galle Hambantota the Worldwide Responsible Accredited Production Koggala key customers. Matara (WRAP) certification and has been awarded with a Compliance+ certification. Aitken Spence Aitken Spence Printing maintains the ISO Garments has also obtained the ISO 9001:2008 9001:2008 quality management. The company certification for quality management. procedures have been established in order to complies with health and safety standards set out uses heavy metal free, food grade materials ensure contamination free products are available by clients. for manufacturing processes. The systems and Ace Power Embilipitiya maintains energy to their customers. In addition the segment management systems in line with ISO 14001:2004 system standard, occupational health and safety Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning None systems in line with OHSAS 18001:2007 system marketing communications Aitken Spence Power plant in Embilipitiya treats all standard and quality management systems in line Total number of substantiated complaints received concerning breaches of customer privacy None water used before it is allowed to leave the facility. with ISO 9001:2008 system standards. Total monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services None Aitken Spence Printing complies with the All precautions are taken to ensure that natural water requirements of the Environmental Protection systems are not affected by the water withdrawn by License, ISO 14001: 20014, ISO 9001:2008 and OHSAS18001:2007 among other industry the facility. standards. 104 Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2014 2015 105 Services Sector • Inward Money Transfer • Elevator Agency • Insurance Rs. 97.8 Mn Total contribution • Property Management to the Governments • Technology (by direct and indirect taxes) The Group continues to expand its leadership in the 49 tonnes services sector by constantly venturing into new of carbon emission reduced areas of business while also exploring overseas opportunities by leveraging on its expert knowledge and domain expertise. 2,700 + MMBL locations Rs. 2.9 Bn Total Assets Rs. 1.1 Bn Total Revenue First Company to install the fastest high speed elevator in the tallest building in Sri Lanka 12 tonnes of paper recycled The Services sector of the Group, comprises of 309 diverse businesses including financial services, People insurance, elevator agency, real estate, property management and technology. 106 Aitken Spence PLC Services Sector 2014/2015 2013/2014 Change Rs. Mn Rs. Mn % Revenue 1,057 913 15.7 • Personalised service Profit from operations 150 231 (35.0) • Service excellence which Profit before tax 132 213 (38.3) • Provision and facilitation of results in repeated As at 31st March services for the principals customers Total invested in PPE 2,434 2,459 (1.0) • Principals • Ownership and management of • Direct communication Total Assets 2,928 3,098 (5.5) • Joint Venture Partners real estate • Agents The Services sector of the Group, comprises of Inward Money Transfer • Manufacturers diverse businesses including financial services, MMBL Money Transfer (Pvt) Ltd., (MMBL) is the insurance, elevator agency, real estate, property • Exporters largest principal agent in Sri Lanka for Western management and technology. The business • Importers Union Money transfer services, a partnership units of the sector represent some of the world’s that has thrived since its establishment in 1995. • Construction industry largest companies such as Lloyds of London, MMBL operates branches across the country to OTIS Elevators, Western Union and Oracle. • Institutions provide fast, reliable, and convenient services The Group continues to expand its leadership with the sub-agency network expanded to • Individuals / retail in the services sector by constantly venturing Key Customer over 2,700 locations, including banks, financial customers into new areas of business while also exploring Activities Relationship institutions and retail outlets. overseas opportunities by leveraging on its expert Key knowledge base / domain expertise and financial Remittances from expatriate workers are the Partners strength. single largest foreign income earner for Sri Lanka, Customer Segments • Finance cost with the market worth over USD 7 billion per The revenue of the Services sector recorded a annum; MMBL is the market leader in the cash • Reliability Business model • Technology cost 15.7% growth over the previous financial year, led • Convenience of to cash segment, which is estimated at about • Staff cost mainly by the elevator segment which benefited Services sector 15%-20% of the total remittance market. The • Efficiency enhancement from the boom in infrastructure development Value • Cost of tools & remittance market continues to grow, as the witnessed in the country. The consolidated • Unique experience Propositions Cost equipment operating profits before tax was Rs 131.6 million Structure • On-time delivery • Cost of which was a decline of 38.3% owing to the reduction in margins as a result of the intense Significant highlights infrastructure competition faced in some of the segments Inward Money Transfer Insurance Elevator Agency Key Revenue within the sector and the promotional expenses Resources Streams • In recognition of consistent • Successfully obtained an • Securing the contract incurred by the new ventures. The elevators Channels performance in the Western AA rating for claims and to install the fastest and property management segments showed a Union network, MMBL was settlements from Tokyo high-speed elevators for growth in revenue as well as net profit before granted the opportunity to Marine and Fire Insurance, the tallest building under • In-house expertise tax where as the inward money transfer segment expand its product portfolio. following a systems audit construction in the country. and the technologies segment showed declines • Technology in revenue as well as net profit before tax due to • MMBL was selected to • Undertaking the single • Agency income represent the Asia-Pacific largest installation project in • Local coverage the stiff competition. In addition the marketing • Financial institutions • Commission and promotional expenses of “Heritage Grove”, region in the Western Union Maldives to date. • Infrastructure the luxury country homes and club complex in Global strategy meeting in • Direct marketing • Rent income • Globally renowned Negombo also had a negative impact on the Islamabad. • Business to Business • Fees brands profitability of the sector. We are optimistic that Property Management Information Technology Nanotechnology • Business to Customer • Installation service all three segments which showed a decline in & Heritage Grove profits this financial year would have an improved • Promotional campaigns income performance in the next financial year as a result • Successfully completed • Successfully completed ERP • Entered into a joint of the changes and restructuring implemented to construction of three model implementation projects for venture to promote a nano improve profitability. houses in Negombo, for our two of the largest financial technology based solution “Heritage Grove” project. institutions of the country. for surface protection and • Launch of plant ERMTM, an efficiency enhancements in award winning ERP solution, industries. tailor-made for plantation industry. 108 Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2014 2015 109 Services Sector profile of the Sri Lankan expatriate worker Revenue Profit from Operations Total Assets undergoes a transformation to include a higher for the year ended 31st March for the year ended 31st March as at 31st March number of skilled professionals and white collar workers with the capability to earn higher income. Rs.Mn Rs.Mn Rs.Mn 1,057 231 3,152 3,098 2,928 MMBL recorded a slight growth in the total 913 183 volume of remittances handled but a decline in 836 revenue of 5.7% was witnessed. The remittance 150 industry is highly competitive, with new entrants crowding the market, leading to price competition and resultant reduced margins. The illegal channels remain a threat to the formal industry, even though it has declined over the last five years. 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 The Middle East and the Europe remain the main ‘Send’ regions– our marketing efforts focus on these two regions with special emphasis on Maldives for Lloyds of London, since 1876. Today, superintendence activities contributed to the emerging markets such as South Korea. During we act as agents for several global insurance profitability of the segment. The general cargo the year, key send country initiatives were leaders, while our portfolio of insurance related surveys however recorded a decline in profits launched in Canada, Qatar and Saudi Arabia with services includes quality surveys, hull and due to reduced imports and improved shipping/ The demand for elevators and escalators continues products by marketing core competencies such similar plans in the pipeline for several other as safety, quality, energy efficiency and green countries. Locally, the promotional and marketing machinery surveys among an array of services. transportation methods. to increase in Sri Lanka with the construction boom. philosophy. activity involves an element of education, in a bid to encourage users to opt for legal channels of Although the revenue of the segment declined by 9.5% the insurance segment had a good We continue our association with the World Food Programme, securing a long term contract during It is our belief that in the medium and long term the It is our continuous belief that in the medium and long term, demand will rise for greener, remittance. Formal sub agent education, training and awareness are also conducted at their year with a steady inflow of opportunities, in Sri Lanka. In addition a number of cargo the year to serve as superintendents for their aid and assistance to the North and East. We also demand will rise for greener energy efficient superior energy efficient, and superior OTIS products. In operating locations to ensure a shared philosophy surveys were undertaken in the Maldives and successfully obtained an AA rating for claims OTIS products. order to drive our future growth, we engage in collaboration with our principal, OTIS to enhance and approach. we have witnessed a growing trend of medical and settlements from Tokyo Marine and Fire its involvement in all aspects of our operations. investigations, with several claims from foreign Insurance, following a systems audit. The remittance market is poised to grow as newer underwriters. The net profit before tax showed allowing companies to be satisfied with settling The demand for elevators and escalators services including mobiles and web channels are a growth of 3.4%. The main reason for the The future direction of the industry makes claims under subrogation and closing the file. continues to increase in Sri Lanka with the offered to fulfill customer demand. In 2015/16, decline in revenue was the drop in pre shipment recoveries an essential aspect to be explored by construction boom leading to new high rise office Property Management MMBL will introduce a “direct to account the ancillary service providers to the insurance Going forward, we would capitalize on our buildings, hotels, apartment complexes, shopping surveys for tea exports, whereas the growth The Property Management segment manages service in order to offer greater convenience to industry. The lack of an effective mechanism long term association with Lloyds, by using its malls and mixed development projects. However, in profits was due primarily to the enhanced the Aitken Spence Towers at Vauxhall Street, its customer base. We will pursue a strategy and machinery results in most insurers failing extensive network across the world to coordinate OTIS products face stiff competition in a price control of expenditure and the recovery of bad Colombo. In addition to being the Group’s of consolidating the cash to cash business in to pursue recovery action against wrongdoers, and carry out cargo surveys in other countries in conscious market – our strategy therefore has debts. In comparison to last financial year the headquarters, the Towers also house several our current markets and tapping into hitherto particular the Far East. been to target more quality conscious clients that corporate tenants; leading to 100% occupancy of unexplored corridors with potential. We seek high end products and to differentiate the the rentable space of nearly 200,000 square feet. would continue to invest in new products and compliance mechanisms, while expanding our Elevators local network and service levels to enlarge our The Elevator agency segment is the 1876 The Group was appointed as agents for Lloyds of London: position which the company holds footprint. representative in Sri Lanka and the Maldives to this date by providing survey and claim settling agents for reputed insurance companies. for OTIS, the world leader in the manufacture of MMBL offers an unmatched value proposition – 1989 Aitken Spence acquires a majority stake in Elevators (Pvt) Ltd, which provides marketing, people-moving equipment. The segment enjoyed the largest network in the world complemented installing and maintaining services of OTIS lifts, escalators and other equipment. a positive year, registering a growth in sales and by the largest network of locations in Sri Lanka, securing several major projects. The installation 1995 Construction and operation of “Aitken Spence Tower” at Vauxhall Street. together with cutting edge technology and strict of the fastest elevators we have offered to compliance with laws and regulations worldwide. 2006 Entering into the financial services market by becoming a principal agent for Western Union Sri Lanka todate, is now in progress and it must This will continue to be our competitive edge as Money Transfer Services in Sri Lanka. be noted that projects delivered during the year we fortify our leadership position. have all been completed as scheduled, adhering 2008 Aitken Spence Corporate office is relocated to ‘Aitken Spence Tower II’, with the to strict deadlines. The segment revenue and completion of the construction of a modern office complex. profit before tax grew by 65.0% and 18.5% Insurance 2013 The Group enter into a joint venture with US partners to build and operate luxury villas in a respectively. gated community in Negombo branded as “ Heritage Grove”. The Insurance segment has served as survey and claims settlement agents in Sri Lanka and the 110 Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2014 2015 111 Services Sector The Towers represent some of the best planned to facilitate energy efficiency, including the use of of food waste collected at the end of each day; At ASDPL, personal protective equipment has office space in the capital with an advanced natural lighting, LED lamps, T5 fluorescent lamps, boxes were placed on all tables at the lunch been provided to all staff and the OHS team environmental management system, details of and lighting controls with lux level sensors to room for employees to place excess food. As has engaged in training events and planning which are discussed later in this section. reduce electricity usage in periphery lights, and a result of this effort, the average food waste discussions towards increasing fire safety and capacitor bank for power factor correction. in the lunch room has reduced by 25%. During emergency evacuation preparedness of Aitken the last financial year, ASPDL collaborated with Spence Towers. Heritage Grove Water the Group Sustainability Division to organise an e-waste collection drive. This effort was carried The OHS representative of MMBL conducts Our new venture “Heritage Grove” which initially Each SBU takes measures to monitor water usage out to create awareness amongst employees and awareness sessions on road safety, vehicle commenced as a luxury retirement living concept and to create awareness on efficient use of water. Aitken Spence SBUs and to facilitate a process maintenance and general OHS at internal underwent a strategic shift in marketing with the At Aitken Spence Towers, water efficiency is to dispose electronic waste in a responsible induction programmes and monthly sales scope of the market expanding in response to pursued by installing fixtures that reduce the flow manner. Altogether, 772 e-waste items were meetings. stakeholder feedback. rate of water, motion sensors that prevent excess handed over to certified recycling companies flow of water and dual flush systems in cisterns. Heritage Grove now offers the “country club” at the event. ASPDL maintains storage units to Aitken Spence Towers also harvests rainwater Community Development and living concept of the luxury high-end living, with collect scheduled waste items such as CFL bulbs which is used in the cisterns to reduce freshwater luxury villas and all amenities and conveniences, consumption. till sufficient quantities have been accumulated Employee Volunteerism and is an ideal alternative for those who want so that it can be handed over to certified recycling Total spending on community development efforts to avoid the boxed in living style offered by vendors. in the sector is Rs. 1.8 million, with the sector apartments. The property in Negombo is just Emissions, Effluents & Waste undertaking strategic initiatives at SBU level. For MMBL Money Transfer Ltd. (MMBL), solid minutes away from Colombo via the Katunayake Expressway. The target market of Heritage Grove Heritage Grove now offers the “country club” living The sector’s businesses all segregate and quantify the solid waste they generate; paper and waste generation arises mainly from the use of MMBL uses its expertise in the remittance would remain high net worth individuals who concept of the luxury high-end living, with luxury cardboard are collected and sold for recycling at printer cartridges and paper. In order to reduce the generation of solid waste, MMBL Money Transfer industry to conduct awareness campaigns wish to make Sri Lanka their second home and Group level. Aitken Spence Property overlooks designed to increase financial literacy among Sri Lankans of the same stature. We have now villas and all amenities and conveniences, for those the waste management process for Aitken Ltd., has implemented a fax solution system at an investment of Rs. 1.8 million. The solution led to customers and also to create awareness of the expanded the scope of the market by styling the Spence Towers and sells paper and cardboard benefits of using legal channels for remittances. property as a high end country home, with no age who want to avoid the boxed in living style offered by for recycling. CFL bulbs, fluorescent bulbs and an 80% reduction in paper and printing material MMBL also conducts monthly training use in a week. limit on potential occupants. Our main objective has been to promote Sri Lanka as a safe and apartments. batteries are handed over to recycling service providers. The Group Sustainability Division programmes on financial literacy for potential migrant workers through 22 island wide training healthy destination for those expatriates who provided compliance checks on the eligibility of centres of the Sri Lanka Bureau of Foreign wish to live in this facility and provide Sri Lankans improved business development drive in the next maintenance costs and downtime, leading to service providers to provide waste management Occupational Health & Safety Employment (SLBFE). The programme emphasizes with a hitherto not available product. financial year and has already won several new much higher efficiencies. The product also has services. As an incentive to reduce waste of (OHS) effective management of finances and the safe, contracts. a good utility value for hotels and hospitals, food, ASPDL set up notices and placards in the reliable and convenient transfer of money. As set out in the Group’s integrated sustainability Market feedback also indicated that potential where the no-residue coating may be used to executive lunch room at Aitken Spence Towers In the short term, our focus will be on building a policy, the Services sector practices ‘HIRAC’ buyers were interested in seeing a completed enhance the sanitation and protection of almost to encourage staff members to share excess resource base capable of implementing Oracle (Hazard Identification Risk Assessment and model of the concept; the prototype of the villas all surfaces. food instead of discarding it. Awareness was related services. We will continue to focus on the Control) for occupational health & safety (OHS). has just been completed and an integrated increased by publicly displaying the quantum marketing campaign has been launched featuring Oracle E-business installation market, which holds these villas. great potential, while also seeking to tap into the Sustainability Review small and medium enterprise (SME) market. While All Service sector businesses are aligned to the local market offers room to expand, we are the Group’s integrated sustainability policy and Information Technology also seeking to venture overseas. have implemented Environmental Management Aitken Spence Technologies is an Oracle Gold Systems (EMSs) in line with the ISO 14001:2004 Level partner and a member of the IBM partner system guidelines world program, offering IT services to implement Nanotechnology Enterprise Content Management and Enterprise During the year we invested as a joint venture Energy Resource Management systems. partner in Ecocorp Asia (Pvt) Ltd, a provider of nanotechnology based solutions for businesses. Direct and indirect energy consumption is a The segment which is still in its infancy, had Working on an agency model, the company material aspect for all SBUs in the Services sector. a difficult year with the Company reporting a provides expertise and skill for applications of a The sector is committed to reducing AC and raw loss for this financial year although successfully surface-protection coating made of nanoparticles power consumption in their corporate operations. completing several system installations during which is manufactured under license in Germany. The Building Management System of the Aitken the year including key customers such as KIA, The product can be customized to many settings Spence Towers at Vauxhall Street is managed by Commercial Bank and Nations Trust Bank. Despite and is especially effective for industrial purposes Aitken Spence Property Development (Pvt) Ltd. the initial setback this year, the new management where machines and moulds when coated (ASPDL). The building is fitted with many features team of the segment is now gearing itself for an with this solution, sees a dramatic reduction in 112 Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2014 2015 113 Services Sector Human Rights at the Workplace 2013/14 2014/15 The Services sector nominated 3 support Direct Energy Consumption (nonrenewable 1,300 GJ 1,312 GJ givers for human rights at the workplace with sources) Diesel – 3% Diesel – 4% representation from diverse management levels Petrol – 97% Petrol – 96% and operational divisions. The support givers Furnace oil – Not used Furnace oil – Not used work with the HR partners of the sector to ensure Biomass/ fuel wood – Biomass/ fuel wood – awareness and protection of human rights at the Not used Not used workplace. LPG – Not used LPG – Not used At MMBL, a customer/agent hotline is Indirect Energy Consumption 11,015 GJ 10,831 GJ promoted in all communication material to Total energy produced from nonrenewable 7.68 GJ 3,051 GJ ensure the customer grievances are heard and energy sources accommodated. Reductions achieved in energy consumption No saving achieved 173 GJ Total water withdrawal 28,899 m3 28,504 m3 Water sources significantly affected by the None None Product & Service Responsibility withdrawal of water In a bid to improve the emergency evacuation Total volume of water recycled and reused by None None and fire safety systems of Aitken Spence Towers, the organisation ASPDL obtained records of all tenants and their Gross direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 90 tonnesCO2e 91 tonnesCO2e employees; routine HIRAC inspections were also Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 2,264 tonnesCO2 2,226 tonnesCO2 conducted at the premises to ensure safety and Amount of emissions reduced and/ or offset 10 tonnes (from the 49 tonnes employee welfare. recycling of paper MMBL takes a proactive approach to its customer Paper sold for recycling to a certified vendor 10,428kg 11,746 kg management, with stringent processes in place to Cardboard sold for reuse 165 kg identify the right customers and to maintain their Plastic sold for reuse/ recycling 240 cans 334 cans privacy. Business Development Officers (BDOs) Bulbs handed over for recycling to a certified 564 CFL bulbs 36 CFL bulbs, and Customer Service agents engage with lapsed vendor 105 TFL bulbs customers to identify reasons for dissatisfaction Lead acid batteries sold to a certified vendor 375 batteries 394 batteries with the aim of service improvement. Alkaline batteries handed over to a certified 60 batteries vendor Food waste handed over to municipal waste ~40kg per day ~30kg per day collectors (8,101 kg) E-waste handed over for recycling 53 nos. The Building Management System of the Aitken Total investment on environmental protection Rs. 27,210/Rs. 25,250/Spence Towers is fitted with many features to facilitate energy efficiency, including the use of The total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes None natural lighting and lighting controls with lux level concerning marketing communications Total number of substantiated complaints received concerning breaches of customer privacy None sensors to reduce electricity usage in periphery lights. The total monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations None concerning the provision and use of products and services Compliance Central Bank of Sri Lanka and Western Union. An external party carries out quarterly compliance MMBL appointed a compliance officer in audits to ensure that all MMBL sub agents are May 2014 with a view to strengthening the in line with overall compliance requirements. compliance aspect of their operations; the officer’s MMBL is also overseen by the Central Bank of primary responsibilities include monitoring and Sri Lanka with all details of the transactions being investigating incidences of concern and training submitted to them monthly. staff members and the agent network. The compliance officer is required to ensure that the agent network complies with the requirement of 114 Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2014 2015 115 GOVERNANCE REPORTS > Corporate Governance Report • scrutinising and challenging performance • approving quarterly accounts and annually Board Commitment Being a leading conglomerate in Sri Lanka, we at Aitken Spence across the Group’s business sectors, audited accounts and any audited accounts for special purposes, The Directors of Aitken Spence PLC allocates adequate time for the fulfilment of their are committed to ensure the best practices in the area of Corporate • assessing the risk and the integrity of financial information and controls, • recommending the appointment or removal responsibilities as Directors of the Company. In addition to attending Board Meetings, Governance and believe that it’s not merely the compliance of a set of • determining the Company’s policy of the External Auditors subject to the individual Directors are members of various sub approval of the shareholders at the Annual regulations but a mechanism that entrusts the optimism of the value of for executive remuneration, and the General Meeting, committees of the Board and attend meetings after due preparation prior to such meetings. They remuneration packages. our stakeholders scattered around the globe. We believe in doing the • appointing Directors to the Audit, dedicate sufficient time before such meetings to review respective documentation relating to right thing, the right way and that it is essential that transparency and Annually each Non-Executive Director declares his independence/non-independence in compliance Remuneration and Nomination Committees who possess the experience and expertise the meeting and call for additional information accountability is maintained in all areas of business at all times. It is with the relevant statutory regulations. to add value to the committees to which for any further clarifications where necessary. Further the Directors pay due attention to the they are appointed, our view that good governance is not just a matter for the Board but a documentation and the information so provided The Board • self-evaluation of the Board that is and make well informed decisions. They also culture which must be fostered throughout the Group. conducted on its own performance and that ensure that adequate measures are taken for the The Role of the Board of its committees, implementation and follow up of the decisions The Board strives to ensure effective management The Board has an equal number of Executive and The Independent Directors remain independent The Board is responsible for the formulation and so made. and control of business while maintaining high Non-Executive Directors which ensures that when from day-to-day management and are free from implementation of sound business strategies • reviewing and approving the operational level of business ethics optimizing the value for decisions are made no faction could dominate the any business and/or other relationship which may and financial budgets and monitoring the The Board is aware of other commitments of within the Group and is responsible to ensure that all its stakeholders. The Board acts as trustees of Board’s decision making. hinder their exercise of unbiased judgment. This performance of the individual Strategic its Directors and is satisfied that these neither the Group adheres to relevant laws/regulations its shareholders and thus plays a pivotal role in enables them to act critically and independently Business Units of the Group, whilst seeking conflict nor impair their performance of duties at of the country, international laws, regulatory ensuring good governance in all areas concerned. As evident from the profiles of the Board of in the best interest of the Company. They refrain complete information to form views, critique the optimal level as Directors of the Company, authorities, professional institutes and trade The Board further ensures the compliance of Directors (pages 44 to 47), the Board of Aitken from participating in decision making in any management and take strategic decisions, with sufficient time being allocated by each associations. The Board is responsible for: the regulations set out in the Listing Rules of Spence PLC consists of professionals as well as instance where they have any material business member to fulfil his/her duties. Each Director is entrepreneurs who have many years of experience • ensuring that the Managing and Finance • identification of principle risks and ensuring expected to report his/her intention to join the the Colombo Stock Exchange (CSE), the Code of interest (which are permitted by the applicable in the corporate world. Their proficiency in the Director, Board of Management and the the implementation of suitable systems to Board of another company outside the Group with Ethics jointly issued by the Securities Exchange regulations). They carry out the following diverse areas of business, academic and/or Senior Management Teams demonstrate the manage and mitigate risks, relevant changes of their commitments reported Commission of Sri Lanka (SEC) and the Institute responsibilities: of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka (CA entrepreneurial financial skills, business acumen, right balance of independence, knowledge, to the Board as and when they occur. • contributing with their experience and • reviewing the appropriateness and reliability Sri Lanka), the Companies Act No. 7 of 2007 broad practical wisdom and unique perspectives skill, background and experience to discuss skill, they provide unbiased independent of the Company’s internal control and risk (Companies Act) and other Codes issued by enable the efficient and effective decision making and implement strategy and initiate fresh Board Meetings judgement on issues related to strategy, and management information systems to Chambers of Commerce, Professional Institutions and leadership of the Group. perspectives, financial and operational performance, secure the integrity of all that encompass The Board convened six times during this financial and Industry Associations. various aspects of the businesses, year and the meetings were presided over by the Although the Chairman, Deshamanya D.H.S. key appointments, standards of business • overseeing those delegated with the Jayawardena and Ms. D.S.T. Jayawardena are conduct, ethics and all matters pertaining to Chairman. An annual calendar of Board meetings responsibility to conduct the operations of • evaluation and approval of the Group’s are prepared beginning of each financial year and related to each other, they act independently in the the Board, the Company is adhering to the policies and The Company best interest of the Company in spirit, intention, Business Plan that consist of all new it is circulated among the Directors enabling them • offering constructive criticism of strategies procedures of the Group effectively and businesses and investment proposals to plan their commitment and facilitate effective Board Composition purpose and attitude in their decision making. efficiently, brought before the Board, in depth prior to creation and/or where participation. In an instance of a Director’s Board Balance and Independence • effective implementation of senior necessary termination of existing business non-attendance at the meetings due to personal activities of the Group, commitments or illness, he/she is provided The Board consists of a Chairman, Managing Independence of Non-Executive Directors management succession strategy, and Finance Director and eight other Directors. with briefing material for discussion with the Mr. G. C. Wickremasinghe : The Board having considered the circumstances and the criterion of • advising on and approving mergers, • reviewing the reports of the Board Chairman or the Managing and Finance Director independence in relation to Mr. G.C. Wickremasinghe, has construed Mr. Wickremasinghe to be acquisitions and divestures (not excluding Sub Committees and where applicable on a later date. Attendance at the 2014/2015 Board Balance independent due to his frequent overseas travels and the fact that he refrains from any involvement in strategic business partnerships, acquisitions implementing their recommendations, Board Meetings are indicated in the Table in the the day-to-day management of the Company or any of its subsidiaries. or disposal of investments and equity following page. Mr. C. H. Gomez : The Board construed Mr. C.H. Gomez as an Independent Director as he resides • ensuring that the Company’s values and interests) that results in corporate re50% overseas and therefore refrains from any involvement in the day-to-day management of the Company principles are aligned with the adoption structuring/re-engineering, or any of its subsidiaries.. of and compliance of appropriate and applicable statutes, accounting and financial In addition, the Board of Directors, both Mr. N. J. de Silva Deva Aditya : Although a Director of the Company and a Director of Institutions individually and collectively, strive to comply with that hold over 15% of the shares of the Company, is determined as an Independent Director after regulations, environmental and ethical 50% standards, and compliance with regulatory best practices on environmental, health, safety taking into consideration all the relevant circumstances, including the fact that he resides overseas. and ethical standards whilst ensuring that the Furthermore, neither he nor the Institution in which he is a Director, directly or indirectly get involved in and stakeholder requirements with satisfactory framework for reporting, interest of all stakeholder groups are considered Executive Directors the day-to-day management of either the Company or its subsidiaries. Non-executive Directors when taking decisions. Mr. V. M. Fernando : Appointed to the Board as an Independent Director. Mr. R. N. Asirwatham : Appointed to the Board as an Independent Director. 118 Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2014 2015 119 Corporate Governance Report • coordinates with the Chairman in the Name of Director Board Direct/ Involvement/ Name of Director Nomination Remuneration Audit Meetings Indirect organization of initial formal induction and Committee Committee Committee Interest Interest in in Supply subsequent periodic training programs for Shareholding Contract the Directors, Chairman Deshamanya D. H. S. Jayawardena 1/1 1/1 Chairman Present on Invitation • ensures that Board procedures are complied Deshamanya D.H.S. Jayawardena 6/6 Indirect Yes with and provides advice on corporate Managing and Finance Director Managing and Finance Director governance and regulatory compliances, Mr. J. M. S. Brito 1/1 1/1 Mr. J.M.S. Brito 6/6 Direct Yes Present on Invitation • ensures the compliance with the Companies Executive Directors Executive/Non-Independent Directors Act, CSE Listing Rules and other relevant Dr. R.M. Fernando 6/6 Yes Dr. R. M. Fernando statutory regulations, Dr. M.P. Dissanayake 5/6 Yes Dr. M. P. Dissanayake Ms. D.S.T. Jayawardena 6/6 Direct Yes Ms. D.S.T. Jayawardena Board Committees Independent/Non-Executive Directors Non-Executive/Independent Directors Mr. G. C. Wickremasinghe 5/6 Direct/ Indirect No The Board has established Board Committees Mr. G. C. Wickremasinghe Chairman Chairman Mr. C. H. Gomez 3/6 Yes to assist with developing and discharging its 1/1 1/1 5/6 Mr. N. J. de Silva Deva Aditya / Mr. A.L. Gooneratne 5/6 Yes duties and responsibilities effectively and Mr. C. H. Gomez 3/6 efficiently. In addition to the Main Board, the Mr. N. J. de Silva Deva Aditya/ Mr. A. L. Gooneratne 5/6 (Alternate Director to Mr. N.J. de Silva Deva Aditya) individual Directors are members of the various (Alternate Director to Mr. N. J. de Silva Deva Aditya) Mr. V. M. Fernando 6/6 Yes sub committees of the Board: the Nomination Mr. V. M. Fernando 1/1 1/1 Mr. R. N. Asirwatham 6/6 Direct Yes Mr. R. N. Asirwatham 1/1 1/1 Chairman Committee, the Audit Committee and the Dates of Meetings 03/06/2014 6/6 Remuneration Committee each of which is 30/06/2014 attended by the respective Director with due Dates of Meetings 01/07/2014 28/06/2014 01/07/2014 07/08/2014 preparation prior to such meetings. The Directors 08/08/2014 28/10/2014 dedicate sufficient time before such meetings 24/09/2014 11/12/2014 to review respective documentation relating to 27/10/2014 10/02/2015 09/12/2014 the meeting, and call for additional information 09/02/2015 for any further clarification, in addition to familiarising the micro and macroeconomic The notices of Board Meetings are provided along Board Meetings and Sub Committee meetings. factors, legal risk and political changes in the Division of Roles and functions and responsibilities of the Chairman with the agenda well ahead of the scheduled Additionally he: global business environment. and the Managing and Finance Director. This Responsibilities between the meeting. The Board Papers are circulated among division of duties ensures a balance of power and the Directors ahead of the meeting providing • assists the Chairman in ensuring that the The committees are provided with all essential Chairman and Managing Director authority within the organisation so that no one adequate time to review and call for any Board Members have full and timely access resources to empower them to undertake Aitken Spence recognises the importance of the person has unfettered powers of decision making additional information and clarification to assist to all relevant information/documentation their duties in an effective manner. The separation and clear distinction between the and implementation. them to formulate independent views. whilst making sure that appropriate Company Secretary acts as secretary to the sub facilities are available for the proper committees, and the recorded minutes of each Minutes of the Board Meetings are accurately conduct of meetings and effective decision committee meeting are circulated to all directors The Chairman Deshamanya D. H. S. Jayawardena recorded and circulated among the Directors making, on completion. for confirmation at the next meeting. Where One of the most successful and proficient business leaders in the country, our Chairman is responsible applicable, any conflicts/concerns that cannot for providing leadership and preserving order at Board Meetings and the good corporate governance of be unanimously resolved are recorded in the our Group whilst facilitating the effective discharge of Board functions and business strategies. He is Board Minutes. Instances where decisions are responsible for: made by way of circular resolutions, all relevant • ensuring that the Board adheres to procedures and the relevant statutes whilst being in complete information pertaining to the resolution are sent Board of Directors control of the affairs of the Company, along with such resolution to enable the Directors to clearly understand the purpose for which a • ensuring that its obligations to the various stakeholders and regulatory bodies are met, resolution is being circulated. • encouraging effective participation by both Executive and Non-Executive Directors on matters taken up for consideration, The Role of the Company Secretary Group Sustainability Audit Remuneration Nominations • ensuring that all Directors are adequately briefed on issues arising at Board Meetings and that Mr. R. E. V. Casie Chetty acts as Secretary to Management they effectively contribute with their respective capabilities towards the best benefit of the Committee Committee Committee Committee the Board and is responsible for the collection, Committee Company; and, review and distribution of all papers submitted to the Board for consideration and the preparation • ensuring that shareholders are given adequate opportunity to make observations, express their of the respective agenda. He is present at all views and seek clarifications at meetings of shareholders. 120 Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2014 2015 121 Corporate Governance Report Company Secretary and the Managing and The Articles of Association of the Company empowers the Board of Directors to either fill a casual Code of Business Conduct and The Managing and Finance Director Mr. J. M.S. Brito Finance Director of the Group. A fellow member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka, London and Wales, with a vacancy in the directorate or to appoint additional Directors. Directors so appointed hold office until the Ethics The Board recognizes the need for continuous next Annual General Meeting at which they are eligible for election. The Company has developed and institutionalised Degree in Law and a Master’s Degree in Business Administration, Mr. J. M. S. Brito is responsible for: training and development, in shaping of a Board a strong set of corporate values and a Code of • Day-to-day management of the Group’s business operations, with the support of the Executive The Company’s Articles of Association provide for one third of the Directors for the time being, or if of skilled leaders. As such subsequent periodic Conduct that is circulated to Directors and all Directors, Board of Management, and the senior management team, their number is not a multiple of three the number nearest to one third (but not exceeding one third) training in respect of the areas mentioned below employees. The Board ensures that Directors to retire from office by rotation other than the offices of the Chairman and the Managing and Finance • revision and implementation of the Company’s strategies and policies, are supplemented with one-on-one meetings and employees strictly comply with the Code Director, who are not subject to retirement by rotation. with the management of each subsidiary, visit of Business Conduct and Ethics at all levels • maintaining a close working relationship with the Chairman, and being a sounding board for the sites/factories/hotels and hold meetings with key The retiring Directors are selected on the basis of the longest serving member in office since their in the performance of their official duties, Chairman as and when necessary, investors, suppliers, customers, service providers last election. In the event that more than one Director is appointed on the same date, the retiring communications, role modelling and in any other • is accountable for guaranteeing that the correct Board procedures are followed, and that the and other key stakeholders where appropriate. Director is determined either by agreement or by lot. A retiring Director is eligible for re-election. In circumstances, so as to prevent the tarnishing of applicable rules and regulations are reviewed regularly and complied with, order to ensure that the Board comprises of members who add value to the Group, the Board evaluates our Company’s image in any manner. The violation All Directors are further encouraged to attend the contribution made by each retiring Director before recommending such Director for re-election. of the code of ethics is an offence that is subject • advises the Board on corporate governance matters and acts as the interface between the seminars/training programmes relevant and useful to disciplinary action. management and regulatory authorities as and when necessary, to them in enhancing their business acumen and professionalism in carrying out their duties and Nomination Committee Report (see page 131). the event that a Director is proven to have acted Furthermore as an industry leader in sustainability, • manages the procedure whereby the Directors and the Board can, as needed, obtain independent This provides an avenue to highlight improvement dishonestly, fraudulently or held to be liable for have also been invited to participate in forums Aitken Spence PLC also subscribes to various professional advice at the Company’s expense in discharging their/its duties, areas and remedial actions on the Board’s any act or omission in his capacity as a Director. and/or seminars in their capacity as speakers, international voluntary codes of practice including • reviews and approves the operational and financial budgets/targets in line with the short-, moderators or panellists in their respective areas administration processes with evaluation of the The United Nations Global Compact (UNGC), mediumand long-term objectives of the Company and The Group, of expertise progress of such areas identified whilst ensuring Global Reporting Initiatives (GRI) and those that any gaps pertaining to investor relations and Internal Controls and Risk outlined on pages 220 to 230 of this report. • ensuring that the Company and the Group achieves the budgets or targets approved, Board administration and processes are rectified. Independent Advice Management • evaluation of performance conducted by the Board on a regular basis, as well as bi-annually, The Board is responsible for formulating and The Board acknowledges that certain occasions The Remuneration Committee consults the along with assessment of whether failure to meet such set targets was reasonable under the Chairman and the Managing and Finance Director implementing sound systems of internal control Going Concern may arise when one or more of the Directors given circumstances, and risk management for the Group and for The relevant Declaration/Going Concern may feel it necessary, whether as a full Board or regarding the remuneration proposal including • providing the Board explanations for variances and recommend any corrective action that needs in their individual capacities, to seek impartial establishment and revision of salary packages (as periodically reviewing its effectiveness and Statement is set out in the ‘Annual Report of the to be adopted. professional guidance at the Company’s expense. and when necessary) to Executive Directors and integrity in safeguarding the Company’s assets Directors’ on pages 136 to 139 of this Annual The agreed upon formal procedure enabling such the Senior Management, taking into consideration and prevention of their misuse or unauthorised Report. advice is managed by the Company Secretary the internal and external socio-economic factors. disposal. The Group’s internal audit division Appointment of Directors Induction and Professional Development and is also extended to all Board Committees No Director is involved in determining his/her own assists the Board of Directors and the Audit Upon an appointment of a new Director to the On appointment, Directors receive a Letter of to enable the execution of duties in respect of remuneration. Committee in carrying out the above task. Risk Management Board, the Company informs the Colombo Stock Appointment outlining the terms of appointment, matters being deliberated. An overview of the Group’s framework for duties and responsibilities and expected time A portion of the remuneration is in the form of Any internal control system has its inherent Exchange with a brief résumé of the Director, identifying and managing risk, both at an commitments. Additionally both Executive and a performance bonus which is based upon the limitations. We are aware of the inherent containing the nature of his/her expertise in operational and strategic level, is set out on Non-Executive Directors are taken through a achievement of both individual and corporate limitations in that the systems are designed relevant functional areas, other directorships Re-election of Directors to manage risk, and hence we have taken pages 39 to 43. held, memberships on Board Committees and the tailored formal induction programme as soon goals and targets. In accordance with the Companies Act and appropriate steps to minimise situations of nature of the appointment. as practicable and jointly coordinated by the the Articles of Association of the Company, Non-Executive Directors are remunerated in misstatements or loss. We have a fully equipped the relevant Directors submit themselves for accordance with the Articles of Association of the internal audit division to assist the maintenance Annual Report Company Structure and Strategy: includes Group structure, history, vision, mission, goals, re-election at each Annual General Meeting. The Company; the fees and reimbursable expenses of our sound system of internal control for The Board of Directors is responsible for the employees, succession plans, Board procedures including ethics and corporate governance practices, Nomination Committee declares to the Board that are payable in consideration of the basis of purposes of protecting stakeholder investment preparation of the Annual Report and confirm Board Committees, Board Minutes, Board effectiveness reviews, action plans and financial matters. the contributions made by the Directors offering contribution/services performed at the Board and and assets. that the quarterly reports, annual financial themselves for re-election at the Annual General Committee Meetings, and the Company’s year-end statements and the annual review of operations Company’s functions at operational levels: of all business areas, key relationships with all Meeting are effective and affirms the Company’s financial performance. of the Company and its subsidiaries, that are stakeholders including suppliers and customers, major contracts, Group Risk Profile and our approach continuous support of their re-election. Review Effectiveness incorporated in this Annual Report have been to risk. prepared and presented in a reliable manner, Indemnification of Directors The Board and the Audit Committee have based on a balanced and comprehensive In accordance with the Company’s Articles of reviewed the effectiveness of the financial, Industry and competitive environment: not limited to customer trends, consumer and regulatory Appraisal of the Board and the operational and compliance controls and internal assessment of the financial performance of the environment, including governance and all relevant consumer and industry bodies, CSR, environment Association and the Companies Act, Directors Company and its subsidiaries. Chief Executive Officer are granted an indemnity from the Company in control systems, including risk management for and sustainability. Assessment of the performance of the Board, respect of liabilities incurred as a result of their the period and have taken appropriate remedial All financial statements are in accordance with Sentiment and reputation: includes brand positioning and media profile marketing campaigns, its Committees and individual Directors forms office. For this purpose the Company maintains steps where necessary. the Companies Act, the Sri Lanka Accounting brand values, analyst and investor opinion, review of investor surveys, key stakeholder relationships an integral part and takes place annually on a a Directors’ and Officers’ liability insurance and Auditing Standards Act and the Listing inclusive of employees, customers, suppliers, service providers, opinion leaders, an overview of our self-appraisal basis within the terms of reference policy throughout the financial year. Neither our Rules of the CSE. We have duly complied with remuneration policy and pensions. to its/their key responsibilities outlined on the indemnity nor the insurance provides cover in all the requirements prescribed by the regulatory 122 Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2014 2015 123 Corporate Governance Report authorities including the CSE and the Registrar of decision making. Additionally, all investors/ Reference to SEC Compliance Details of Compliance Companies. Messrs KPMG Chartered Accountants shareholders are encouraged to carry out & ICASL Code, CSE audited the consolidated financial statements and adequate analysis and obtain independent advice the financial statements of the Company. regarding their investment in the Company. Listing Rules 1. Company Further the following external and internal communication platforms enable the Company A. Directors The Shareholders to effectively engage in a two way dialogue with A.1 / 7.10.1(a), 7.10.2(a) and 7.10.3(c-d) The Board (see pages 44 47) Relationship with Shareholders and Other existing and potential shareholders as well as all stakeholders – sharing applicable comments or The Board consists of a Chairman, a Managing and Finance Director, and eight other Directors, five of whom are Non-Executive Directors .The Board considers Stakeholders observations, seeking clarifications and a means the long term interest of all stakeholders of our Group in their continuous efforts to ensure good governance and the effective functioning of our Company. Aitken Spence PLC has many stakeholders to respond to queries regarding various aspects and is aware of the importance of maintaining about the Company. The names and profiles of each of the Directors are on pages 44 to 47 of this Annual Report. Although Deshamanya D.H.S. Jayawardena and Ms. D.S.T. a two way communication with each of the Jayawardena are related to each other they act independently in the best interest of the Group, none of the other Directors are related to each other, enabling stakeholders. As such all stakeholders seeking each of the Directors to express their views independently and objectively. non price sensitive information are welcome to External Communication Platforms contact the Company throughout the year. • Above-the-line-advertising Company Board meetings A.1.1 Complied Please refer Page 120 • Collaborative marketing platforms Responsibilities of the Board A.1.2 Complied Please refer Pages 119 In addition the Board conducts regular discussions with institutional investors based on mutual • Aitken Spence PLC Integrated Annual Report Compliance with laws and access to independent A.1.3 Complied Please refer Page 122 understanding of objectives, particularly those • Aitken Spence PLC editorials and opinion professional advice relating to governance and strategy. Existing pieces placed in relevant media Company Secretary A.1.4 Complied Please refer Page 120 and prospective investors are able to make well • Aitken Spence PLC Stakeholder/Institutional informed decisions in their dealings with the Independent judgment of the Directors A.1.5 Complied Please refer Page 118 Investor discussion sessions Company through comprehensive and balanced Dedicating adequate time and effort A.1.6 Complied Please refer Pages 119 121 • Aitken Spence PLC Sustainability reports/financial statements published quarterly Disclosures Training for new and existing Directors A.1.7 Complied Please refer Pages 122 and on an annual basis. The Company further conducts meetings between major shareholders • Aitken Spence PLC Website A.2. Chairman and Chief Executive Officer on an ongoing basis, whilst at the same time • Digital Signage in Public Spaces There is a clear demarcation of the responsibilities between our Chairman and our Managing and Finance Director who is the Chief Executive Officer. The answering queries from all shareholders and • Media round tables functions performed by our Chairman and our Managing and Finance Director are distinct and separate, ensuring the balance of power and authority within the analysts, through the Company Secretarial • Independently run client satisfaction surveys organisation, so that no person has unfettered powers of decision-making and implementation. Division and/or Communications Team. • Participation in local and international Clear division of responsibilities of the Chairman and A.2 Complied As mentioned above, our Company has segregated The principle communication with individual industry events and trade shows the CEO the duties between our Chairman and Managing and investors is via the company website, the • Press releases and press conferences Finance Director (pages 121 and 122). quarterly financial statements, corporate • Social media platforms such as Facebook, disclosures, annual report and through the Annual A.3 Chairman’s Role Twitter, LinkedIn and Foursquare General Meeting at which they are encouraged to The Chairman of our Company is one of the most successful business leaders in this country. He is responsible for preserving order within the Board and good be present, actively participate in and vote. The corporate governance of our Group whilst facilitating the effective discharge of Board functions business strategies. Annual General Meeting provides an opportunity Internal Communication Platforms for shareholders to make any applicable • Group Intranet Role of Chairman A.3.1 Complied Please refer Page 121 comments or observations, seek clarifications and • Employee Meetings (various structures) A.4 Financial Acumen cast their vote on relevant issues. Shareholders • Memos Financial acumen A.4 Complied Our Directors with their academic and/or are free to informally meet with the Directors after the conclusion of the meeting. • Departmental Meetings entrepreneurial financial skills, business acumen and • Key Performance Indicators (KPI) Goal wide practical wisdom contribute substantial value, The comprehensive Annual Report equips both Setting and Assessment Meetings knowledge and independent judgment to decision existing and potential stakeholders with upmaking on matters concerning finance and investment • The Group’s Newsletters to-date information and facilitates appropriate (see pages 44 47, 118) 124 Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2014 2015 125 Corporate Governance Report Reference to SEC Compliance Details of Compliance Reference to SEC Compliance Details of Compliance & ICASL Code, CSE & ICASL Code, CSE Listing Rules Listing Rules A.5 Board Balance The number of board meetings attended by the Directors is given on page 120 of this Annual Report. Presence of Non-Executive Directors A.5.1 Complied Please refer Page 118 7.10.1(a), 7.10.2(a) and Names of the Chairmen and the members of the 7.10.3(a) Board Committees are provided on page 131 to 134, 137 and in the inner back cover of this Annual Report. Independence of Non-Executive Directors A.5.2, 5.3 and 5.5 Complied Please refer Pages 118 7.10.2(a-b) and A.11 Appraisal of Chief Executive 7.10.3(a-b) Setting of the annual targets and the appraisal of the A.11.1 and A.11.2 Complied Please refer Page 122 and 123 Annual Declaration of Non-Executive Directors A.5.4 Complied Please refer Page 118 CEO 7.10.2(b) B.1/ 7.10.5 Remuneration Procedure Requirement to appoint a ‘Senior Non-Executive A.5.6, A.5.7 and 5.8 Not This is not relevant to the Company as the Chairman Establishment of a Remuneration Committee and its B.1.1 ,B.1.2 and B.1.3 Complied Please refer Page 134 and in the inner back cover of Director ‘ applicable and the Managing and Finance Director roles are composition 7.10.5 (a) and this Annual Report. segregated. 7.10.5 (b) Chairman conducting meetings with the Non-Executive A.5.9 Complied The Chairman meets with the Independent nonDetermination of the remuneration of the Non-Executive B.1.4 Compiled Please refer Page 123 Directors Executive Directors as and when necessary. Directors Recording of concerns in the Board minutes A.5.10 Complied Please refer Page 120 Consultation with the Chairman and the CEO B.1.5 Complied Please refer Page 123 A.6 Supply of Information B.2 Level and Makeup of Remuneration Obligation of the Management to provide appropriate A.6.1 Complied The Group has a state-of-the-art management Level and makeup of the remuneration of Directors and B.2.1, 2.2 and 2.3 Complied Please refer Page 123,134 and timely information information system to process and monitor the comparison of remuneration with other Companies performance of the Group. Appropriate and timely Performance-based remuneration B.2.4 Complied Please refer Page 123,134 information is made available to the Board members who make further inquiries when necessary. Executive share options B.2.5 Not As of date, the Company has no share options made applicable available to the Directors, Executives or employees of Adequate time for circulation of respective Board A.6.2 Complied Please refer Page 120 the Company. documents Designing the remuneration B.2.6 Complied The procedure followed in deciding the remuneration A.7 Appointments to the Board of employees is set out in the Remuneration Nomination Committee and the assessment of A.7.1 and 7.2 Complied The names of the members of the Committee are on Committee report that is given on page 134. composition of the Board page 131 and on the inner back cover of this Annual Early Termination of Directors B.2.7 and B.2.8 Compiled Is determined by the Articles of Association of the Report. Company. Disclosure to Shareholders A.7.3 Complied Please refer Page 124 Remuneration of Non-Executive Directors B.2.9 Complied Non-Executive Directors are paid a fee and/or a A.8 Re-election reimbursement for their participation in Board and Re-election of Directors A.8.1 and 8.2 Complied Please refer Page 122 Committee meetings as set out under B.1.4. A.9 Appraisal of Board performance B.3 / 7.10.5 (C) DISCLOSURE OF REMUNERATION Appraisals of the Board and the subcommittees A.9.1, A.9.2 and A.9.3 Complied Please refer Page 122 and 123 Disclosure of remuneration B.3.1 Complied The names of the members of our Remuneration Committee are indicated in page 137 and listed on A.10 Disclosure of information in respect of Directors: the inner back cover. The report of the Committee Directors’ disclosures A.10.1 Complied The names of the Directors of the Board, their is given on page 134 of this Annual Report. Please 7.10.3(c-d) leadership expertise, skills, and their profiles are refer note 9 to the financial statements for the details disclosed on pages 44 to 47 of this Annual Report. of remuneration paid to Board of Directors and key Directors’ interests in contracts are indicated in Note management personnel. 44 of the financial statements of this Annual Report. 126 Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2014 2015 127 Corporate Governance Report Reference to SEC Compliance Details of Compliance Reference to SEC Compliance Details of Compliance & ICASL Code, CSE & ICASL Code, CSE Listing Rules Listing Rules C. RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS Declaration by the Board as to whether the business is D.1.5 Complied The relevant declaration is presented in the Annual a going concern. Report of the Directors on page 137 of this Annual C.1 Constructive use of Annual General Meeting Report. Use of Proxy C.1.1 Complied We ensure that all proxy votes are counted and the Requirement for an Extraordinary General Meeting in a D.1.6 Not This is not applicable to us however should the quantum of proxies lodged on each resolution is situation of serious loss of capital applicable situation arise, an Extraordinary General Meeting conveyed to our Chairman. would be called upon and our shareholders would be Separate resolution for substantially separate issues C.1.2 Complied Separate resolutions are proposed at an Annual notified accordingly. General Meeting on each substantially separate Disclosure of related party transactions D.1.7 Complied The Directors disclose their interest in transactions issue. in companies in as and when basis. However, they Chairman of Board Committees to be present C.1.3 Complied At the Annual General Meeting the respective make disclosures of their interest in transactions with Chairmen of the Remuneration, Audit and Nomination the Company in compliance with the requirements Committees are present to provide any clarification to of the companies act and other relevant statutory shareholders as necessary. requirements. The Company maintains an interest Adequate notice of Annual General Meeting and C.1.4 and C.1.5 Complied The notice and the agenda for the Annual General register as stipulated in the Companies Act. summary of Procedure Meeting together with the Annual Report of the D.2 Internal Control Company containing the relevant documents are sent Directors to review Internal Controls D.2.1 Complied Please refer Pages 123, 138 to the shareholders giving 15 working days’ notice prior to the date of the Annual General Meeting. Requirement to review the need for an Internal Audit D.2.2 Not The Group already has an Internal Audit Division, function applicable to assist in the maintenance of internal control for C.2 COMMUNICATION WITH SHAREHOLDERS protecting stakeholder investments and assets. Effective communication with the Shareholders C.2.1, C.2.2, C.2.3, C.2.4 Complied The Board maintains a two-way communication with Please refer Page 123 all investors providing an opportunity to seek nonprice sensitive information throughout the year by D.3 /7.10.6 Audit Committee conducting meetings and discussions and answering Composition of the Audit Committee and its Duties D.3.1 and D.3.2/ Complied Please refer Pages 132 and 133 and in the inner back queries through our Company Secretarial Division 7.10.6(a) and cover of this Annual Report. and/or Communications Teams 7.10.6(b) C.3 MAJOR TRANSACTION Terms of Reference of the Audit Committee D.3.3 Complied Please refer Page 132 and 133 Disclosures of Major transactions C.3.1 Complied There were no major transactions during the financial Disclosures of names of the members of the Audit D.3.4 Complied The names of the members of the Audit Committee year that materially altered our Company’s net asset Committee 7.10.6(c) are indicated on page 137 and in the inner back cover base or the consolidated Group net asset base. of this Annual Report. D. ACCOUNTABILITY AND AUDIT The Audit Committee reviews the scope and results D.1 Financial Reporting of the audits, its effectiveness, and the independence and objectivity of our Internal Audit function. Report Board responsibility to present the financial statements D.1.1 Complied Please refer Pages 123 and 124 of the Audit Committee is on pages 132 and 133 of Annual Report of the Directors D.1.2 Complied The Directors have made the required declarations on this Annual Report. pages 136 to 139 of this Annual Report. D.4 Code of Business Conduct and Ethics Statement by the Directors and the Auditors D.1.3 Complied The Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities is on We are committed to carrying out all business activities to the highest standards of integrity, ethical values and professionalism, whilst following the laws of page 135 of this Annual Report. The Auditor’s Report the country, international laws and compliance as per our stakeholders’ expectations. on the financial statements for the year ended 31st Disclosure on a presence of code of business conduct D.4.1 Complied Please refer Page 123 March 2015 is presented on page 142 of this Annual and ethics Report. Affirmation of the code of conduct and ethics D.4.2 Complied As per our Chairman’s statement on Page 14 of this Management discussion and analysis D.1.4 Complied The management discussion and analysis of the Annual Report, we affirm our adherence to good company and its subsidiaries on pages 22 to 115 of business conduct and ethics. this Annual Report. 128 Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2014 2015 129 Corporate Governance Report Nomination Committee Report NOMINATION COMMITTEE MEMBERS Composition of the Committee Reference to SEC Compliance Details of Compliance & ICASL Code, CSE The Committee is composed of the Chairman and the Managing /Finance Director of Aitken Spence PLC Chairman along with three Independent Non-Executive Directors. The Chairman of the Committee is an Independent Listing Rules Mr. G.C. Wickremasinghe1 Non-Executive Director. The members of the Committee possess wide experience and business acumen. D.5 Corporate Governance Disclosures Members The Chairman and the Managing /Finance Director of the Company made valuable contributions to the Disclosures of Corporate Governance D.5.1 Complied We aim to achieve greater year-on-year growth and deliberations of the Committee. value creation, improve stakeholder satisfaction and Deshamanya D.H.S. Jayawardena2 relationships in all our business activities, whilst Mr. J.M.S. Brito3 Number of Committee Meetings adhering to the highest standards of corporate Mr. V.M. Fernando1 governance as is evident in this Annual Report on The Committee formally met once during the year under review where all members were present. Mr. R.N. Asirwatham1 pages 118 to 139. Terms of Reference of the Committee 2. SHAREHOLDERS Secretary • Broaden, balance and diversify the effectiveness and composition of the Board, E. INSTITUTIONAL INVESTORS Mr. R.E.V. Casie Chetty • Identify and recommend suitable candidates as Directors to the Board considering the succession Shareholder voting E.1.1 Complied Please refer Pages 124, 187 plan and requirements of the Board and the Group, F.1 Investing and divesting decision • Regularly review the structure, size and composition of the Boards of Group Companies, • Oversee the Board, Committees of the Board and Individual Directors and evaluate their Investing and divesting decision F.1 Complied Please refer Page 119 performance, F.2 Shareholder Voting • Ensure the Board consists of persons possessing a large reservoir of knowledge, experience and Individual shareholders’ voting F.2 Complied Please refer Page 124, 187 entrepreneurial skills to advance the effectiveness of the Board. • Review the Charter for the appointment and re-appointment of Directors to the Board and suggest amendments wherever necessary. Key functions performed during the year under review • Considered and promoted Board diversity and effectiveness, • Reviewed and recommended changes to the Boards of Group Companies where necessary, • Evaluated and recommended suitable internal and external candidates to higher levels of management, • Actively contributed to Board discussions and decision making. Methodology of the Committee The Committee works closely with the Board of Directors and makes recommendations on matters that are referred to it for consideration. The year ahead The Committee will continue to review and to make decisions and recommendations that are fair, free from any bias and not influenced by personal and business relationships. This enables the Committee to make sound and measured judgments in attracting the best talent to the Group while retaining the services of talented employees by providing them fair and equal opportunities for promotion within the Group. G.C. Wickremasinghe Chairman Nomination Committee 1 Independent Non-Executive Director 2 Chairman of Aitken Spence PLC Colombo 3 Managing / Finance Director 11th May 2015 of Aitken Spence PLC 130 Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2014 2015 131 Audit Committee Report AUDIT COMMITTEE MEMBERS Composition of the Committee Summary of key focus areas in the year ended 31st March 2015 The Committee consists of Independent Non-Executive Directors and is also chaired by an Independent • Reviewed the Risk Management System and highlighted the areas which required attention, Chairman Non-Executive Director. • Reviewed the operational and any other management information reports submitted to the Mr. R.N. Asirwatham1, Committee, Number of Committee Meetings • Reviewed the quarterly and annual financial statements submitted by the Group to the Colombo Members The Committee formally met six times during the year under review. Stock Exchange, and recommended improvements in the content and presentation, Mr. G.C. Wickremasinghe1, • Evaluated significant accounting issues and recommended appropriate action wherever necessary, Mr. C.H. Gomez1, Attendance by Invitation • Reviewed, approved, monitored and suggested necessary changes to the external audit and internal Mr. N.J. de S. Deva Aditya1/ Mr. A.L. Gooneratne The Managing and Finance Director, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Corporate Officer and the Chief Internal audit plans, (Alternate Director for Mr. N.J. de S. Deva Aditya) Auditor attended the meetings by invitation. • Reviewed and ensured the adequacy of the Group’s internal controls and recommended corrective Secretary measures where necessary, Summary of key terms of reference • Discussed the reports of the Internal Auditors, considered the response from the Management and Mr. R.E.V. Casie Chetty suggested suitable action, Risk Management • Assessed the performance of the Internal Auditors and set out guidelines for the effective discharge • Ensuring the Group’s internal controls and risk management systems are adequate, of duties, • Ensuring that the business is conducted in accordance with the relevant laws of the country, • Assessed the independence and evaluated the performance of External Auditors, international laws and codes of regulatory authorities, professional institutes and trade • Reviewed the fees and out of pocket expenses proposed by the External Auditors and made associations. recommendations to the Board. Financial Reporting and Financial Control Re-appointment of Auditors • Review the operational and any other management information reports submitted to the Committee, The Audit Committee having evaluated the performance of the External Auditors decided to recommend to • Review the Group quarterly and annual financial statements that are prepared in strict compliance the Board the re-appointment of Messes KPMG, Chartered Accountants as the Auditors of the Company with the Companies Act No. 7 of 2007, Sri Lanka Accounting Standards currently applicable and the for the current year, subject to the approval of the shareholders at the forthcoming Annual General requirements of any other regulatory bodies as applicable, Meeting. • Evaluation of the adequacy and effectiveness of the Group’s accounting policies and all proposed changes in accounting policies and practices. External Audit • Review and approve the external audit plan presented by the External Auditors, • Review and monitor the progress of the external audit, R.N. Asirwatham • Review the management letter issued by the External Auditors, and ensuring that the management Chairman takes appropriate action to satisfactorily resolve issues highlighted, Audit Committee • Assess the independence and effectiveness of the External Auditors on an annual basis, Colombo • Review the fees proposed by the External Auditors and make recommendations to the Board on 6th May 2015 their re-appointment which is subjected to approval of the shareholders at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting which would be effective until the conclusion of the succeeding Annual General Meeting. Internal Audit • Review the adequacy of the Internal Audit coverage of the Group, • Approve and monitor the internal audit plan. A separate plan is prepared for the IT Security unit, in the Internal Audit Division, • Review the financial and operational audit reports, IT security reports and risk reports of the Internal Auditors’ and management’s response to same, • Evaluate the independence and effectiveness of the internal audit function, • Review the effectiveness and resources required by the Group’s Internal Audit Division. 1 Independent Non-Executive Director 132 Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2014 2015 133 Remuneration Committee Report Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities REMUNERATION COMMITTEE Composition of the Committee The Companies Act No.7 of 2007 requires the the Company could be exposed and its impact to relation to the financial statements is set out in MEMBERS The Committee consists of a majority of Independent Non-Executive Directors and is also chaired by an Independent NonDirectors of the Company to be responsible for the Company. the Independent Auditors Report. Executive Director. The members of the Committee have wide experience and knowledge of business and industry. the preparation and presentation of the financial Chairman statements and other statutory reports. The The Directors having considered the Group’s The Directors confirm that to the best of their Attendance by Invitation responsibilities of the Directors, in relation to the business plans, and a review of its current knowledge all payments to employees, regulatory Mr. G.C. Wickremasinghe 1 financial statements of Aitken Spence PLC and the and future operations, are of the view that the and statutory authorities due and payable by The Chairman and the Managing/Finance Director attended the meeting on invitation and contributed greatly by making valuable Consolidated Financial Statements of the Group Company and the Group have adequate resources the Company and its subsidiaries have been Members recommendations. are set out in this report. to continue in operation. The Directors have either duly paid or adequately provided for in Mr. V. M. Fernando1 Independence of the Committee adopted the going concern basis in preparing the the financial statements. The Directors further Mr. R.N. Asirwatham1 The Directors confirm that the financial financial statements. confirm that they promote the highest ethical, The Committee is independent of the management and is totally free from any business, personal or other relationships that may statements and other statutory reports of the environmental and safety standards within the interfere in making independent judgments. The financial statements presented in this Annual Company and its subsidiaries for the year ended Group. The Directors also ensure that the relevant Secretary 31st March 2015 incorporated in this report have Report for the year ended 31st March 2015, have national laws, international laws and codes of Number of Committee Meetings Mr. R.E.V. Casie Chetty been prepared in accordance with the Companies been prepared based on the Sri Lanka Accounting regulatory authorities, professional institutes and The Committee formally met once during the year under review. Act No.7 of 2007, the Sri Lanka Accounting and Standards (SLFRS/LKASs) which came into trade associations have been complied with by Auditing Standards Act No. 15 of 1995 and the effect from 1st January 2012. The Directors have the Group. By Invitation Terms of Reference of the Committee Listing Rules of the Colombo Stock Exchange. selected the appropriate accounting policies and Deshamanya D.H.S. Jayawardena2 such policies adopted by the Group are disclosed • Recommending a remuneration policy for the Directors and the Management team, Mr. J.M.S. Brito3 • Reviewing, monitoring and evaluating the performance of the Managing Directors, Executive Directors and the individual The Directors have taken appropriate steps to and explained in the financial statements. ensure that the Companies within the Group By order of the Board, as well as the collective performance of the Directors and the Senior Management of the Strategic Business Units, maintain adequate and accurate records which The Board of Directors confirm that the Company • Evaluating and recommending the individual remuneration packages of the Managing Directors, Executive Directors and and the Group’s Consolidated Statements of reflect the true financial position of each such Senior Management after giving due consideration to their skills, experience, level of responsibility, performance and Financial Position as at 31st March 2015 and Company and hence the Group. The Directors industry norms, the Comprehensive Income Statements for the have taken appropriate and reasonable steps to • Determining compensation packages on termination of employment. Company and the Group for the financial year safeguard the assets of the Company and the Group. The Directors have instituted appropriate ended 31st March 2015 reflect a true and fair R.E.V. Casie Chetty Key functions performed during the year under review view of the Company and the Group. systems of internal control in order to minimise Company Secretary • Approved promotions after evaluating the performance of the Group, the Strategic Business Units and the contribution and detect fraud, errors and other irregularities. made by employees to their respective Strategic Business Units, The Directors have provided the Auditors with The Directors in maintaining a sound system of Colombo every opportunity to carry out any reviews and • The employee incentive scheme was revised based on a study conducted by AON Hewitt, a renowned human capital and internal control and in protecting the assets of the 26th May 2015 tests that they consider appropriate and necessary management consulting services provider. Cost of living, inflation and comparative industry norms were also considered Company, have further adopted risk management for the performance of their responsibilities. The when determining the remuneration packages, strategies to identify and evaluate the risks which responsibility of the Independent Auditors in • Recommended revision of remuneration packages based on performance, cost of living and comparative industry norms, • Abiding by the principles of good governance. Methodology of the Committee • The Group Remuneration policy remained unchanged during the year under review, • The Committee approved promotions and revision of individual remuneration packages after evaluating performance of the Group, Strategic Business Units and the contribution of employees to their respective Strategic Business Unit, • One of the key purposes of the policy with regard to remuneration is to attract the best talent and retain them in the organisation, • The Committee adopts a structured and unbiased methodology to evaluate employee performance to ensure equality among employees to prevent discrimination based on gender, age, ethnicity and religion. The year ahead The Committee would continue to propose remuneration policies and practices to attract and retain the best talent to the Group. G.C. Wickremasinghe 1 Independent Non-Executive Director Chairman 2 Chairman of Aitken Spence PLC Remuneration Committee 3 Managing / Finance Director of Aitken Spence PLC Colombo 11th May 2015 134 Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2014 2015 135 Annual Report of the Board of Directors The details set out herein provide the pertinent the Chairman’s Message, Managing Director’s 4. Synopsis of the Income 12 to the financial statements. It is the policy of 5.4 Market Value of Freehold Properties 8. Information on the Board of information required by the Companies Act No. Review, Management Discussion and Analysis Statement of the Company and the Group to provide for deferred taxation on all Land recognised as property, plant and equipment Directors and the Board Sub 7 of 2007, the Colombo Stock Exchange Listing and the Group Performance Review of this Annual the Group known timing differences on the liability method. in the financial statements in the Group is Committees Rules and the best accounting practices. The Report. These reports together with the audited The deferred tax balances of the Group are given recorded at either fair value or revalued amounts. Board of Directors of Aitken Spence PLC has the financial statements of the Company and the 4.1. Group Revenue and Profits in notes 23 and 31 to the financial statements. The land carried at revalued amounts of the 8.1 Board of Directors pleasure in presenting the Annual Report and the Group reflect the respective state of affairs of the Group was revalued by professionally qualified Revenue generated by the Company during the The Board of Directors of the Company as at 31st Audited Financial Statements for the year ended Company and the Group. 4.4 Dividends independent valuers during the financial year year amounted to Rs. 593 million (2014 – Rs. March 2015 comprised of : 31st March 2015 which were approved on 26th of 2013/2014, with the exception of those owned 612 million). The Group revenue was Rs. 35,319 The Directors recommended a first and final Deshamanya D.H.S. Jayawardena (Chairman) May 2015. 3. Accounting policies and changes by Aitken Spence Hotel Holdings PLC, Golden million (2014 – Rs. 35,059 million). An analysis dividend payment of Rs. 2.00 per share for the Mr. J.M.S. Brito (Managing and Finance Director) during the year of Group revenue based on business and year, the total dividend is paid out of dividends Sun Resorts (Pvt) Ltd and PR Holiday Homes 1. Principal Activities The Company and the Group prepared the geographical segments is disclosed in note 6 to received by the Company where 10% withholding (Pvt) Limited which were revalued during the Dr. R.M. Fernando Aitken Spence PLC is the holding Company the financial statements. The profit after tax of tax on dividends has been deducted. The Directors financial year 2011/2012. Revaluation of these Dr. M.P. Dissanayake financial statements in accordance with the that directly or indirectly owns investments in the Group was Rs. 4,884 million (2014Rs. 4,579 are confident that the Company would meet the lands is performed with sufficient regularity so Sri Lanka Accounting Standards (SLFRSs /LKASs). Ms. D.S.T. Jayawardena companies which form the Aitken Spence Group. million).The Group’s profit attributable to the solvency test requirement under Section 56 (2) that the carrying value of the lands do not differ The Board of Directors wish to confirm that there Mr. G.C. Wickremasinghe In addition to the above, the Company provides equity shareholders of the parent company for of the Companies Act No. 7 of 2007 immediately materially to its market value. Revaluation was were no changes to the accounting policies used management and related services to the Group the year was Rs. 3,579 million (2014 Rs.3,672 after the payment of the dividend. performed by professionally qualified independent Mr. C.H. Gomez by the Company and the Group other than the companies. During the year there were no million). The segmental profits are disclosed in valuers having appropriate experience in valuing Mr. N.J. de S. Deva Aditya adoption of SLFRS 10-Consolidated Financial significant changes in the principal activities of note 6 to the financial statements. properties in the locality of the land being Statements, SLFRS 11-Joint Arrangements, 5. Synopsis of the Statement of Mr. V.M. Fernando the Company and the Group. revalued. If the fair value of land does not change SLFRS 12-Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities Financial Position of the Company Mr. R.N. Asirwatham other than by an insignificant amount at each and SLFRS 13-Fair Value Measurement. The 4.2. Donations The activities of the Group are categorised into and the Group reporting date the Group revalues such land every Group also adopted the amendments to SLAS 1 All above Directors of the Company held office four main sectors namely Tourism, Maritime & During the year, donations amounting to Rs. 4.3 five years. Presentation of Financial Statements and modified 5.1 Stated Capital and Reserves during the entire year. The profiles of the Directors Logistics, Strategic Investments and Services. million were made by the Company, while the the presentation of items of other comprehensive Details of the revalued land, revaluation surplus are given on pages 44 to 47 of this Annual Report. Companies within each sector and their principal donations made by the other Group entities during As at 31st March 2015 the Company had issued income in the statement of profit or loss and other and the original cost are given in note 15.3.1 to activities are described on pages 236 to 242 of the year amounted to Rs. 5.4 million. 405,996,045 ordinary shares and the stated comprehensive income. the financial statements. Group records all other this Annual Report. capital of the Company was Rs. 2,135 million. 8.2 Board Sub Committees The Company’s reserves as at 31st March 2015 assets at cost and checks for any impairment of A detailed note of the accounting policies adopted 4.3 Taxation The following Directors serve as members of the were Rs.10,595 million (2014Rs. 10,794 million) these assets when the Group identifies any trigger 2. Review of Operations in the preparation of the Financial Statements of A detailed statement of the income tax rates Audit Committee, the Remuneration Committee whereas the total Group’s reserves as at 31st for impairment. the Company and the Group are given on pages applicable to the individual companies in the and the Nomination Committee. A review of operational and financial March 2015 were Rs. 32,887 million (2014-Rs. 150 to 163. Group and a reconciliation of the accounting performance, the future plans of the Company 30,123 million). The movement in these reserves profits with the taxable profits are given in note 5.5 Contingent Liabilities Audit Committee and the Group are described in greater detail in is shown in the Statement of Changes in Equity – The details of contingent liabilities are disclosed Company and Group on pages 146 and 147. Mr. R.N. Asirwatham (Chairman) in note 42 to the financial statements. Mr. G.C. Wickremasinghe 5.2. Property, Plant and Equipment 6. Events occurring after the Mr. C.H. Gomez Group Group For the year ended 31 st March 2015 2014 The carrying value of property plant and Reporting Date Mr. N.J. de S. Deva Aditya / Mr. A.L. Gooneratne Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 equipment for the Company and the Group as at (Alternate Director to Mr. N.J. de S. Deva Aditya) No event of material significance that requires 31st March 2015 amounted to Rs. 143 million Net profit before tax 5,709,923 5,444,946 adjustments to the financial statements has and Rs. 28,697 million respectively. The total Remuneration Committee Provision for taxation including deferred tax (826,323) (865,457) arisen other than that disclosed in note 47 to the expenditure on the acquisition of property, Net profit after tax 4,883,600 4,579,489 financial statements. Mr. G.C. Wickremasinghe (Chairman) plant and equipment during the year in respect Other comprehensive income 2,907 1,289,379 of new assets by the Company and the Group Mr. V.M. Fernando Total comprehensive income for the year 4,886,507 5,868,868 amounted to Rs. 43 million and Rs. 6,477 million 7. Going Concern Mr. R.N. Asirwatham Total comprehensive income attributable to non-controlling interests (1,313,001) (1,071,005) respectively. The Board of Directors is satisfied that the Total comprehensive income attributable to equity shareholders 3,573,506 4,797,863 Company and the Group have adequate Nomination Committee Transactions directly recognised in the equity statement 1,729 16,432 5.3. Investment Property resources to continue their operations without Mr. G.C. Wickremasinghe (Chairman) any disruption in the foreseeable future. The Deshamanya D.H.S. Jayawardena Balance brought forward from the previous year 30,123,418 25,918,117 The carrying value of land and building classified Company’s financial statements are prepared on a Amount available for appropriations 33,698,653 30,732,412 as investment property of the Company and the Mr. J.M.S. Brito going concern basis. Final Dividend for 2013/2014 (2012/2013) (811,992) (608,994) Group as at 31st March 2015 amounted to Mr. V.M. Fernando Total reserves and earnings 32,886,661 30,123,418 Rs. 3,437 million and Rs.1,648 million respectively. Mr. R.N. Asirwatham Stated Capital 2,135,140 2,135,140 Balance Attributable to Equity holders of the Company at the end of the period 35,021,801 32,258,558 136 Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2014 2015 137 Annual Report of the Board of Directors 8.3 Re-election of Directors 8.5 Interest Register The Group applies very high standards to protect 14. Corporate Sustainability 16. Auditors The amount payable to such other auditors for Dr. R. M. Fernando who retires in terms of Article An Interest Register is maintained by the and nurture the environment in which it operates permitted audit and non audit related services The Board of Directors guides and supports the The independent auditors’ report on the financial 84 of the Articles of Association of the Company Company as per the Companies Act No. 7 of 2007. and ensures strict adherence to all environment including tax advisory services was Rs. 6.25 Group’s sustainability strategy. It welcomes the statements is given on page 142 of the Annual as a Director offers himself for re-election at the The share ownership of the Directors is indicated laws and practices. million. As far as the Directors are aware the implementation of the structured and dynamic Report. The retiring auditors Messrs KPMG forthcoming Annual General Meeting. on pages 234 of this Annual Report. auditors neither have any other relationship with The Company has no restrictions with regard to integrated sustainability framework. Awards Chartered Accountants have stated their the Company nor any of its subsidiaries, joint shareholders carrying out appropriate analysis and recognition received during the year are willingness to continue in office and a resolution Mr. V. M. Fernando who retires in terms of Article ventures and equity accounted investees that 8.6 Directors’ Remuneration or obtaining independent advice regarding their a testament to the Group’s commitment as it to re-appoint them as auditors and grant authority 84 of the Articles of Association of the Company would have an impact on their independence. investment in the Company and has made all continue to benchmark its practices against to the Board to determine their remuneration will as a Director offers himself for re-election at the The Directors’ remuneration and fees in respect of endeavours to ensure the equitable treatment global standards and best practices in a myriad of be proposed at the Annual General Meeting. forthcoming Annual General Meeting. the Company and the Group for the financial year of shareholders. The Company’s corporate aspects that affect or potentially affect delivery of ended 31st March 2015 are disclosed on page 166 The audit fees payable for the year to the governance practices are set out on pages 118 to growth. More details of the Group’s sustainability Deshamanya D.H.S. Jayawardena attained the of the financial statements. Company auditors Messrs KPMG Chartered 134 of the Annual Report. efforts are included in the Management age of 70 years on 17th August 2012 and in Accountants was Rs. 1.05 million. Discussion and Analysis of this report and at D.H.S. Jayawardena accordance with Section 210(2) of the Companies 8.7 Related Party Transactions www.aitkenspence.com/sustainability. Act No. 7 of 2007, vacates office at the 11. Risk Management In addition to the above Rs. 2.05 million Chairman forthcoming Annual General Meeting. A notice of Related party transactions of the Group are was payable by the Company for permitted The Directors have established and adhere to a a resolution has been received from a shareholder disclosed in note 44 to the financial statements. 15. Shareholder Information audit related and non audit related services. These interests have been duly declared by the comprehensive risk management framework at that the age limit of 70 years referred to in There were 4,324 shareholders as at 31st March Messrs KPMG Chartered Accountants the Directors. both Strategic Business Units and Group levels Section 210(1) of the said Companies Act shall 2015. The distribution schedule of the number of auditors of the Company are also the auditors to ensure the achievements of their corporate J.M.S Brito not apply to Deshamanya D.H.S. Jayawardena shareholders and their share holdings are detailed of certain subsidiaries, joint ventures and objectives. The categories of risks faced by the Managing & Finance Director who has attained the age of 72 years and that he 8.8 Subsidiary Board of Directors in pages 231 to 235 of this Annual Report. The associate companies of the Group. The list of Group are identified, the significance they pose be re-elected as a Director at the Annual General The names of Directors of the subsidiaries and names of the twenty largest shareholders, the subsidiaries, joint ventures and associate are evaluated and mitigating strategies are Meeting. joint venture companies who held office as at 31st together with their shareholdings as at 31st companies audited by them are included on pages adopted by the Group. The Board of Directors March 2015 and Directors who ceased to hold March 2015 are given on page 233 of this Annual 236 to 242 of this Annual Report. Mr. G.C. Wickremasinghe attained the age of 70 reviews the risk management process through the office during the accounting period are indicated Audit Committee. The Risk Management Report of Report. The percentage of the shares held by the years on 15th August 2003 and in accordance The amount payable by the Group to Messrs on pages 236 to 242 of this Annual Report. the Group is on pages 40 to 43 of this report. public as at 31st March 2015 was 38.65%. with Section 210(2) of the Companies Act No. 7 KPMG Chartered Accountants as audit fees was R.E.V. Casie Chetty of 2007, vacates office at the forthcoming Annual Information relating to earnings per share and the Rs. 11.52 million while a further Rs. 2.99 million Company Secretary General Meeting. A notice of a resolution has 9. Human Resources 12. Internal Controls net assets per share for the Company and Group, was payable for permitted audit and non audit been received from a shareholder that the age The Human Resources strategies applied and the dividend per share and the market price related services. In addition to the above Rs 5.03 Colombo The Board of Directors ensures that the Group has limit of 70 years referred to in Section 210(1) of practised by the Group have translated into the per share are given on pages 231 to 235 of this million was payable to other auditors for carrying 26th May 2015 an effective internal control system which ensures the said Companies Act shall not apply to Mr. G.C. creation of a dynamic and competent human Annual Report. out audits of the subsidiaries conducted by them. that the assets of the Company and the Group are Wickremasinghe who has attained the age of 81 resource team with sound succession planning safeguarded and appropriate systems are in place years and that he be re-elected as a Director at and a remarkably low attrition rate. The Group’s to minimise and detect fraud, errors and other the Annual General Meeting. employment strategies are reviewed periodically irregularities. The system ensures that the Group by the relevant committees and the Board of adopts procedures which result in financial and Mr. R.N. Asirwatham attained the age of 70 years Directors. The Human Resource Report is set out operational effectiveness and efficiency. on 26th August 2012 and in accordance with on pages 34 to 38 of the Annual Report. Section 210(2) of the Companies Act No. 7 of The Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities on 2007, vacates office at the forthcoming Annual page 135 and the Audit Committee Report set General Meeting. A notice of a resolution has 10. Governance out on pages 132 and 133 of this report provide been received from a shareholder that the age The Group has not engaged in any activity, which further information in respect of the above. limit of 70 years referred to in Section 210(1) of contravenes national and international laws. The the said Companies Act shall not apply to Mr. R.N. Group rigidly adheres to relevant national and Asirwatham who has attained the age of 72 years international rules and regulations and codes 13. Statutory Payments and that he be re-elected as a Director at the of Professional Institutes and Associations, The Directors to the best of their knowledge Annual General Meeting. Industrial Associations, Chambers of Commerce and belief are satisfied that all statutory and Regulatory Bodies. The Group complies with financial obligations to the Government and to 8.4 Directors’ Shareholding and their the Listing Rules of the Colombo Stock Exchange the employees have been either duly paid or and the Code of Best Practice on Corporate adequately provided in the financial statements. A Interests Governance issued jointly by the Institute of confirmation of same is included in the Statement The Directors’ shareholdings and their interests Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka and the of Directors’ Responsibilities on page 135 of this are provided in the Investor section on page 234 Securities and Exchange Commission of Sri Lanka. Annual Report of this Annual Report. 138 Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2014 2015 139 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS > Independent Auditors’ Report Income Statements Group Company For the year ended 31st March 2015 2014 2015 2014 Notes Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 (Restated) Revenue 7 35,318,891 35,059,123 593,174 612,246 Revenue taxes (388,398) (481,744) (10,990) (11,519) Net revenue 34,930,493 34,577,379 582,184 600,727 Other operating income 8 507,572 466,891 847,437 650,785 Changes in inventories of finished goods and work-in-progress 58,757 94,604 TO THE SHAREHOLDERS OF An audit involves performing procedures to obtain a) The basis of opinion and scope and limitations Raw materials and consumables used (9,023,459) (10,837,263) AITKEN SPENCE PLC audit evidence about the amounts and disclosures of the audit are as stated above in the financial statements. The procedures Employee benefits expense (5,183,101) (4,633,215) (412,093) (375,091) Report on the Financial Statements selected depend on the auditors’ judgment, b) In our opinion: Depreciation, amortisation and impairment of 9 (2,398,555) (1,460,578) (64,627) (63,540) We have audited the accompanying financial including the assessment of the risks of material intangible assets and finance lease receivable • we have obtained all the information statements of Aitken Spence PLC (“the misstatement of the financial statements, Other operating expenses direct 10 (7,712,699) (7,315,595) and explanations that were required for Company”), and the consolidated financial whether due to fraud or error. In making those Other operating expenses indirect (5,522,299) (5,388,111) (333,355) (491,257) the audit and, as far as appears from our statements of the Company and its subsidiaries risk assessments, the auditor considers internal Profit from operations 9 5,656,709 5,504,112 619,546 321,624 examination, proper accounting records (“Group”), which comprise the statement of control relevant to the entity’s preparation of have been kept by the Company, financial position as at March 31, 2015 and the the financial statements that give a true and Finance income 11 623,857 787,443 449,815 620,066 income statement, the statements of profit or fair view in order to design audit procedures • The financial statements of the Company Finance expenses 11 (901,530) (1,276,070) (394,123) (518,614) loss and other comprehensive income, changes that are appropriate in the circumstances, but give a true and fair view of its financial Net finance income / (expense) (277,673) (488,627) 55,692 101,452 in equity and cash flows for the year then ended, not for the purpose of expressing an opinion position as at March 31, 2015, and of its and notes, comprising a summary of significant on the effectiveness of the entity’s internal financial performance and cash flows for Share of profit of equity-accounted investees (net of tax) 22 330,887 429,461 accounting policies and other explanatory control. An audit also includes evaluating the the year then ended in accordance with Sri information set out on pages 143 to 216 of the appropriateness of accounting policies used and Lanka Accounting Standards. annual report. the reasonableness of accounting estimates Profit before tax 5,709,923 5,444,946 675,238 423,076 made by Board, as well as evaluating the overall • The financial statements of the Company, Income tax expense 12 (826,323) (865,457) (52,050) (13,653) Board’s Responsibility for the Financial presentation of the financial statements. and the Group comply with the requirements Profit for the year 4,883,600 4,579,489 623,188 409,423 Statements of sections 151 and 153 of the Companies We believe that the audit evidence we have Act No. 07 of 2007. Attributable to: The Board of Directors (“Board”) is responsible obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a Equity holders of the company 3,579,008 3,671,870 623,188 409,423 for the preparation of these financial statements basis for our audit opinion. that give a true and fair view in accordance with Non-controlling interests 1,304,592 907,619 Sri Lanka Accounting Standards, and for such Profit for the year 4,883,600 4,579,489 623,188 409,423 internal control as Board determines is necessary Opinion to enable the preparation of financial statements In our opinion, the consolidated financial Earnings per share Basic/Diluted (Rs.) 13 8.82 9.04 1.53 1.01 that are free from material misstatement, whether statements give a true and fair view of the CHARTERED ACCOUNTANTS Dividends per share (Rs.) 14 2.00 2.00 2.00 2.00 due to fraud or error. financial position of the Group as at March 31, 2015, and of its financial performance and cash flows for the year then ended in accordance with Colombo Auditors’ Responsibility The notes on pages 150 through 216 form an integral part of these financial statements. Sri Lanka Accounting Standards. 26 May 2015 Our responsibility is to express an opinion on Figures in brackets indicate deductions. these financial statements based on our audit. We conducted our audit in accordance with Sri Lanka Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Auditing Standards. Those standards require Requirements that we comply with ethical requirements and As required by section 163 (2) of the Companies plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable Act No. 07 of 2007, we state the following: assurance about whether the financial statements are free from material misstatement. 142 Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2014 2015 143 Statements of Profit or Loss and Other Comprehensive Income Statements of Financial Position Group Company Group Company For the year ended 31st March 2015 2014 2015 2014 As at 31.03.2015 31.03.2014 01.04.2013 31.03.2015 31.03.2014 Notes Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Notes Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 (Restated) (Restated) (Restated) Profit for the year 4,883,600 4,579,489 623,188 409,423 ASSETS Non-Current Assets Property, plant and equipment 15 28,696,631 24,799,321 23,534,930 143,187 143,967 Other comprehensive income Investment property 16 1,648,301 1,648,301 1,661,596 3,437,195 3,439,945 Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss Intangible assets 17 507,171 600,927 350,368 30,862 53,059 Revaluation of property, plant and equipment 15 90,961 1,164,688 Leasehold property 18 1,906,527 1,461,100 1,463,930 Actuarial gains / (losses) on defined benefit obligations 32 (48,207) (51,302) (6,915) (2,200) Pre-paid operating leases 19 1,072,370 1,010,199 980,681 Finance lease receivable 20 2,245,884 2,325,091 Share of other comprehensive income of equity-accounted 22 (15,912) 6,880 Investments in subsidiaries 21 7,740,483 7,839,662 investees (net of tax) Investments in equity-accounted investees 22 5,403,518 3,367,589 3,059,987 498,980 367,576 Income tax on other comprehensive income 12 7,478 8,228 Deferred tax assets 23 215,907 224,495 225,749 34,320 1,128,494 (6,915) (2,200) Other financial assets 24 279,346 339,540 414,409 89,733 134,170 39,729,771 35,697,356 34,016,741 11,940,440 11,978,379 Items that are or may be reclassified to profit or loss Current Assets Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations (111,954) 183,465 Inventories 25 1,484,504 1,723,718 1,873,771 1,999 2,167 Net change in fair value of available-for-sale financial assets 71,109 (24,397) 2,404 (2,476) Pre-paid operating leases 19 930 50 50 Net change in fair value of available-for-sale financial 9,432 1,817 (6,212) Finance lease receivable 20 1,333,200 146,948 168,964 Trade and other receivables 26 7,770,650 9,049,706 9,691,280 2,849,860 2,768,751 assets reclassified to profit or loss Current tax receivable 229,366 243,779 182,233 204,687 215,560 (31,413) 160,885 (3,808) (2,476) Deposits and prepayments 799,353 867,318 1,021,509 34,350 44,151 Other comprehensive income for the year, (net of tax) 2,907 1,289,379 (10,723) (4,676) Other financial assets 24 10,947,256 10,514,376 6,726,161 4,863,453 4,322,147 Cash and short-term deposits 27 2,911,135 2,672,100 2,059,378 185,561 62,504 Total comprehensive income for the year 4,886,507 5,868,868 612,465 404,747 25,476,394 25,217,995 21,723,346 8,139,910 7,415,280 Assets classified as held for sale 28 226,923 149,125 149,125 135,035 57,237 Attributable to: Total Assets 65,433,088 61,064,476 55,889,212 20,215,385 19,450,896 Equity holders of the parent 3,573,506 4,797,863 612,465 404,747 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Non-controlling interests 1,313,001 1,071,005 Equity Stated capital 29 2,135,140 2,135,140 2,135,140 2,135,140 2,135,140 Total comprehensive income for the year 4,886,507 5,868,868 612,465 404,747 Reserves 29 13,864,351 13,884,656 12,695,793 6,507,996 6,357,104 Retained earnings 19,022,310 16,238,762 13,222,324 4,086,727 4,437,146 Total equity attributable to equity holders of the company 35,021,801 32,258,558 28,053,257 12,729,863 12,929,390 The notes on pages 150 through 216 form an integral part of these financial statements. Non-controlling interests 7,257,649 6,667,889 5,560,028 Total Equity 42,279,450 38,926,447 33,613,285 12,729,863 12,929,390 Figures in brackets indicate deductions. Non-Current Liabilities Interest-bearing liabilities 30 9,436,495 7,312,336 6,216,851 2,690,920 3,426,394 Deferred tax liabilities 31 655,224 635,979 495,385 Employee benefits 32 635,684 545,527 421,726 98,240 86,426 10,727,403 8,493,842 7,133,962 2,789,160 3,512,820 Current Liabilities Interest-bearing liabilities 30 2,723,741 1,626,693 1,363,236 1,161,334 371,837 Provisions 33 457,751 272,083 Trade and other payables 34 7,074,023 6,402,722 7,448,976 3,279,879 2,324,439 Current tax payable 538,103 594,741 489,222 Other financial liabilities 35 639 530 Bank overdrafts and other short-term borrowings 27 2,089,729 4,562,280 5,568,448 254,619 312,410 12,426,235 13,644,187 15,141,965 4,696,362 3,008,686 Total Equity and Liabilities 65,433,088 61,064,476 55,889,212 20,215,385 19,450,896 The above statements of financial position are to be read in conjunction with the notes to the financial statements on pages 150 to 216. I certify that the financial statements for the year ended 31st March 2015 are in compliance with the requirements of the Companies Act No. 7 of 2007. Ms. N. Sivapragasam Chief Financial Officer The Board of Directors is responsible for preparation and presentation of these financial statements. For and on behalf of the Board: D.H.S. Jayawardena J.M.S. Brito Chairman Managing & Finance Director 26th May 2015 Colombo, Sri Lanka 144 Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2014 2015 145 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity Company Statement of Changes in Equity For the year ended 31st March 2015 Attributable to equity holders of the company NonTotal For the year ended 31st March 2015 Stated General Available for Retained Total Stated Revaluation Other General Exchange Available Retained Total controlling equity capital reserves sale reserve earnings capital reserve Capital reserves fluctuation for sale earnings interests Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 reserves reserve reserve Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Balance as at 01st April 2013 2,135,140 6,332,868 (3,898) 4,669,527 13,133,637 Profit for the year 409,423 409,423 Balance as at 01st April 2013 2,135,140 5,478,094 127,521 6,359,580 707,064 23,534 13,222,324 28,053,257 5,560,028 33,613,285 Other comprehensive income for the year (note 29.3.2) (2,476) (2,200) (4,676) Profit for the year 3,671,870 3,671,870 907,619 4,579,489 Total comprehensive income for the year (2,476) 407,223 404,747 Other comprehensive 1,063,175 111,818 (16,740) (32,260) 1,125,993 163,386 1,289,379 income for the year (note 29.3.1) Transfer to general reserve 30,610 (30,610) Total comprehensive 1,063,175 111,818 (16,740) 3,639,610 4,797,863 1,071,005 5,868,868 Dividends for 2012/2013 (note 14) (608,994) (608,994) income for the year Total contributions and distributions recognised directly in equity 30,610 (639,604) (608,994) Share of net assets of 10,385 10,385 (239) 10,146 Balance as at 31st March 2014 2,135,140 6,363,478 (6,374) 4,437,146 12,929,390 equity-accounted investees Effect of acquisitions, disposals 6,047 6,047 439,526 445,573 Profit for the year 623,188 623,188 and change in percentage holdings in subsidiaries Other comprehensive income for the year (note 29.3.2) (3,808) (6,915) (10,723) Transfer to general reserve 30,610 (30,610) Total comprehensive income for the year (3,808) 616,273 612,465 Dividends for 2012/2013 (note 14) (608,994) (608,994) (608,994) Transfer to general reserve 154,700 (154,700) Dividends paid to non-controlling interests (402,431) (402,431) Dividends for 2013/2014 (note 14) (811,992) (811,992) Total contributions and distributions 30,610 (623,172) (592,562) 36,856 (555,706) Total contributions and distributions recognised directly in equity 154,700 (966,692) (811,992) recognised directly in equity Balance as at 31st March 2015 2,135,140 6,518,178 (10,182) 4,086,727 12,729,863 Balance as at 31st March 2014 2,135,140 6,541,269 127,521 6,390,190 818,882 6,794 16,238,762 32,258,558 6,667,889 38,926,447 The notes on pages 150 through 216 form an integral part of these financial statements. Figures in brackets indicate deductions. Profit for the year 3,579,008 3,579,008 1,304,592 4,883,600 Other comprehensive income 67,757 (89,742) 68,106 (51,623) (5,502) 8,409 2,907 for the year (note 29.3.1) Total comprehensive 67,757 (89,742) 68,106 3,527,385 3,573,506 1,313,001 4,886,507 income for the year Share of net assets of (1,827) (1,827) (625) (2,452) equity-accounted investees Effect of acquisitions, disposals and 3,556 3,556 (133,675) (130,119) change in percentage holdings in subsidiaries Transfer of revaluation reserve on disposal (221,126) 221,126 Transfer to general reserve 154,700 (154,700) Dividends for 2013/2014 (note 14) (811,992) (811,992) (811,992) Dividends paid to non-controlling interests (588,941) (588,941) Total contributions and distributions (221,126) 154,700 (743,837) (810,263) (723,241) (1,533,504) recognised directly in equity Balance as at 31st March 2015 2,135,140 6,387,900 127,521 6,544,890 729,140 74,900 19,022,310 35,021,801 7,257,649 42,279,450 The notes on pages 150 through 216 form an integral part of these financial statements. Figures in brackets indicate deductions. 146 Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2014 2015 147 Cash Flow Statements Group Company Group Company For the year ended 31st March 2015 2014 2015 2014 For the year ended 31st March 2015 2014 2015 2014 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 (Restated) (Restated) Cash flows from operating activities (brought forward from previous page) Profit before tax 5,709,923 5,444,946 675,238 423,076 Cash flows from financing activities Adjustments for Proceeds from interest-bearing liabilities 5,825,248 2,500,163 394,560 1,265,363 Depreciation and amortisation 1,391,376 1,410,578 64,627 63,540 Repayment of interest-bearing liabilities (2,729,268) (1,468,032) (382,500) (172,500) Impairment of intangible assets and finance lease receivables 1,007,179 50,000 Interest expense 806,365 1,174,238 384,516 509,732 Issue of shares by subsidiaries 2,382 (Gain) / loss on disposal of property plant and equipment (16,100) 96,669 (8,011) (5,688) Dividends paid to equity holders of the parent (675,796) (607,561) (675,796) (607,561) Loss on disposal of investment property 12,543 12,543 Net cash generated from / (used in) financing activities 2,422,566 424,570 (663,736) 485,302 (Gain) / loss on disposal of group investments (6,724) 128,974 Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 2,800,174 1,540,953 155,417 (228,279) (Gain) / loss on disposal of equity securities classified as available-for-sale financial assets 9,315 (26,570) (6,212) Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year (1,890,180) (3,509,070) (249,906) (36,996) Interest income (623,857) (787,443) (449,815) (620,066) Effect of movements in exchange rates (88,588) 77,937 25,431 15,369 Share of profit of equity-accounted investees (net of tax) (330,887) (429,461) Impairment of investments in subsidiaries 14,292 159,198 Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year (note 27) 821,406 (1,890,180) (69,058) (249,906) Impairment losses / (reversals) of inventories 152 133,178 27 Impairment losses / (reversals) and write offs of trade & other receivables (20,051) 427,270 3,635 26,881 Notes to the Cash Flow Statements Movement in assets held for sale (77,798) A. Divestment of subsidiaries. Net unrealised foreign exchange (gain) / loss (70,929) (77,674) 5,867 (17,969) Consequent to the expiration of the power purchase agreements signed between the Ceylon Electricity board and Ace Power Matara (Pvt) Ltd., and Ace Power Provision for retirement benefit obligations 127,216 103,867 18,669 17,222 Horana (Pvt) Ltd, during 2011/2012 and 2012/2013 respectively, the Group disposed its investment in Ace Power Matara (Pvt) Ltd., and commenced liquidation 2,195,257 2,087,195 156,569 145,393 of Ace Power Horana (Pvt) Ltd., during the financial year. Further the Group divested 40% stake in Ahungalla Resorts Ltd., a subsidiary, in a stratergic partnership Operating profit before working capital changes 7,905,180 7,532,141 831,807 568,469 with RIU Spain resulting in the company now being treated as an equity accounted investee. The fair values of assets and liabilities thus divested are as follows; (Increase)/decrease in trade and other receivables 997,620 542,657 (84,744) 519,876 Rs.’000 (Increase)/decrease in inventories 116,210 23,922 141 317 (Increase)/ decrease in deposits and prepayments 65,417 215,923 9,801 8,924 Property, plant and equipment 1,278,299 Increase/(decrease) in trade and other payables 927,200 (1,346,871) 819,245 (32,091) Inventories 122,852 Increase/(decrease) in provisions (457,751) 185,668 Trade and other receivables 301,487 1,648,696 (378,701) 744,443 497,026 Deposits and prepayments 2,548 Cash generated from operations 9,553,876 7,153,440 1,576,250 1,065,495 Employee benefits (1,701) Interest paid (795,702) (1,166,270) (373,853) (501,764) Trade and other payables (392,094) Income tax paid (841,593) (729,835) (41,177) (60,618) Cash and cash equivalents (272,335) Retirement benefit obligations paid (81,785) (53,355) (13,770) (6,401) Total identifiable net assets disposed 1,039,056 (1,719,080) (1,949,460) (428,800) (568,783) Reclassified under equity-accounted investees (900,548) Net cash generated from/(used in) operating activities 7,834,796 5,203,980 1,147,450 496,712 Non-controlling interest disposed (127,980) Cash flows from investing activities Loss on disposal 6,724 Interest received from deposits 635,116 775,423 462,106 606,918 Purchase consideration received 17,252 Investment in subsidiaries & equity-accounted investees (1,013,638) (216,692) (270,540) (796,742) Cash and cash equivalents disposed 272,335 Purchase of equity and debt securities (5,000) (5,000) Net cash inflow on disposal of subsidiary 289,587 Proceeds from disposal of subsidiary (note A) 289,587 17,252 Purchase of property, plant and equipment (6,477,417) (1,307,212) (42,601) (40,291) The notes on pages 150 through 216 form an integral part of these financial statements. Purchase of intangible assets (7,541) (6,756) (332) (1,531) Figures in brackets indicate deductions. Purchase of leasehold rights (464,842) Purchase of pre-paid operating leases (44,003) Proceeds from disposal of property, plant and equipment 191,565 404,276 12,044 7,535 Receipts on finance lease receivables 147,725 176,776 Proceeds from sale of equity and debt securities 144,684 331,096 60,346 47,708 Proceeds / (purchase) of other financial assets and liabilities (net) (450,742) (4,028,461) (561,572) (1,033,890) Dividends paid to non-controlling interests (588,941) (402,431) Dividends received from equity-accounted investees 186,259 186,384 Net cash generated from/(used in) investing activities (7,457,188) (4,087,597) (328,297) (1,210,293) (carried forward to next page) 148 Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2014 2015 149 Notes to the Financial Statements 1 Reporting Entity March 2015 were authorised for issue information presented in rupees has been market participant's ability to generate in an arm’s length transaction at the Transaction costs, other than those by the Board of Directors on the 26 th of rounded to the nearest thousand. economic benefits by using the asset in reporting date. associated with the issue of debt or Aitken Spence PLC., (the “Company”) May 2015. its highest and best use or by selling it to equity securities, that the Group incurs in is a public limited liability Company incorporated and domiciled in Sri Lanka. 2.6 Use of estimates and another market participant that would use 2.6.6 Recognition of deferred tax assets connection with a business combination 2.4 Basis of measurement judgements the asset in its highest and best use. Management applies significant judgment are expensed as incurred. The ordinary shares of the Company are listed on the Colombo Stock Exchange. The consolidated financial statements The preparation of financial statements of to the extent the deferred tax assets can The Group uses valuation techniques that Any contingent consideration payable is The Company’s registered office and the have been prepared on the historical cost the Group and the Company in conformity be recognised based on an assessment are appropriate in the circumstances and measured at fair value at the acquisition principal place of business is located at basis, except that land and short-term with Sri Lanka Accounting Standards of the probability of the Group’s future for which sufficient data are available to date. If the contingent consideration “Aitken Spence Tower II”, 315 Vauxhall investments are measured at fair value requires the management to make taxable income against which the measure fair value, maximising the use of is classified as equity, then it is not Street, Colombo 02. and the retirement benefit obligations judgments, estimates and assumptions deferred tax assets can be utilised. In relevant observable inputs and minimising re-measured and settlement is accounted are measured at the present value of the that affect the application of policies addition, significant judgment is required the use of unobservable inputs. within equity. Otherwise, subsequent The consolidated financial statements defined benefit obligation as explained and reported values of assets, liabilities, in assessing the impact of any legal changes in the fair value of the of the Company as at, and for the year in the respective notes to the financial income and expenses. The estimates or economic limits or uncertainties in 2.6.2 Useful lives of depreciable assets contingent consideration are recognised ended 31st March 2015 comprise the statements. and associated assumptions are based various future tax jurisdictions. Management reviews its estimation in the income statement. financial statements of Company and on historical experience and various its subsidiaries (together referred to as Fair value is the price that would other factors that are believed to be of the useful lives of depreciable 2.7 Going concern The goodwill arising on acquisition of the “Group” and individually as “Group be received to sell an asset or paid reasonable under the circumstances, the assets at each reporting date based The Directors have made an assessment subsidiaries is presented as an intangible entities”) and the Group’s interest in to transfer a liability in an orderly results of which form the basis of making on the expected utility of the assets. of the Group’s ability to continue as a asset. equity-accounted investees. transaction between market participants a judgment about the carrying values of Uncertainties in these estimates relate to going concern, and being satisfied that it at the measurement date. assets and liabilities that are not readily technical obsolescence that may change After initial recognition, goodwill is has the resources to continue in business The principal activities of the Company apparent from other sources. Actual the useful life of certain property, plant measured at cost less any accumulated When measuring fair value of an asset for the foreseeable future, confirm that and the other entities consolidated with it results may differ from these estimates. and equipment. impairment losses. Goodwill is tested for or liability, the Group uses observable they do not intend either to liquidate or to are disclosed in pages 136,236 to 242 of impairment annually as at 31 March and market data as far as possible. Fair cease operations of any business unit of this report. Estimates and underlying assumptions 2.6.3 Business combinations when circumstances indicate that the Values are categorised into different the Group other than those disclosed in are reviewed on an ongoing basis. Management uses valuation techniques carrying value may be impaired. For the Aitken Spence PLC does not have an levels in a fair value hierarchy based the notes to the financial statements. Revisions to accounting estimates are in determining the fair values of purpose of impairment testing, goodwill identifiable parent. on the inputs used in the valuation recognised in the period in which the the various elements of a business acquired in a business combination is, techniques. estimates are revised and in any future 3 Summary of Significant combination. The fair value of contingent from the acquisition date, allocated to 2 Basis of Preparation periods affected. consideration is dependent on the Accounting Policies each of the Group’s cash-generating Level 1 inputs are unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical outcome of many variables that affect The accounting policies set out below units that are expected to benefit from 2.1 Statement of compliance Information about significant areas future profitability. assets or liabilities have been applied consistently for the combination, irrespective of whether The consolidated financial statements of estimation, uncertainty and critical all periods presented in the financial other assets or liabilities of the acquiree of the Group and the separate financial judgments in applying accounting policies Level 2 inputs are inputs other than 2.6.4 Defined benefit obligation statements by the Group and the are assigned to those units. statements of the Company have been that have the most significant effect on quoted prices included within Level 1 that Management’s estimate of the defined Company. prepared in accordance with the Sri the amounts recognised in the financial If the Group’s interest in the net are observable for the asset or liability benefit obligation is based on a number Lanka Accounting Standards (herein statements, is provided below: fair value of the identifiable assets, either directly (i.e. as prices) or indirectly of critical underlying assumptions such 3.1 Basis of consolidation referred to as SLFRSs/LKASs) effective (i.e. derived from prices) liabilities and contingent liabilities of 2.6.1 Fair value of non-financial assets as standard rates of inflation, mortality, from 1st January 2012, laid down by The 3.1.1 Business combinations and the entity acquired exceed the cost of discount rate and anticipation of future Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Level 3 inputs are inputs that are not The fair value used by the Group in the Goodwill the acquisition of the entity, the surplus, salary increases. Variation in these Lanka (ICASL) and in compliance with the based on observable market data measurement of non-financial assets Business combinations are accounted for which is a gain on bargain purchase assumptions may significantly impact the requirements of the Companies Act No. (unobservable inputs) is based on the presumption that the using the acquisition method as at the is recognised immediately in the defined benefit obligation amount and the 07 of 2007 and the Sri Lanka Accounting transaction to sell the asset or transfer acquisition date, which is the date on consolidated income statement. If inputs used to measure the fair value annual defined benefit expense. and Auditing Standards Act No. 15 of the liability takes place either in the which control is transferred to the Group. 1995. of an asset or liability fall into different principal market for the asset or liability, Where goodwill has been allocated to levels of the fair value hierarchy, then the 2.6.5 Fair value of financial instruments a cash-generating unit and part of the or in the absence of a principal market, The Group measures goodwill at the 2.2 Responsibility for financial fair value measurement is categorised in the most advantageous market that is Management applies valuation acquisition date, as excess of the operation within that unit is disposed statements in its entirety in the same level of the accessible by the Group for the asset or techniques to determine the fair value aggregate of the fair value of the of, the goodwill associated with the fair value hierarchy as the lowest level liability of financial instruments where active consideration transferred; the recognised operation disposed of is included in the The Board of Directors of the Company input that is significant to the entire market quotes are not available. This amount of any non-controlling interests carrying amount of the operation when is responsible for the preparation and measurement. The fair value of an asset or a liability requires management to develop in the acquiree; the fair value of the determining the gain or loss on disposal fair presentation of these financial is measured using the assumptions that estimates and assumptions based on pre-existing interest in the acquire If of the operation. Goodwill disposed of statements 2.5 Functional currency market participants would act in their market inputs, using observable data the business combination is achieved in in this circumstance is measured based economic best interest when pricing the that market participants would use in stages; and the net recognised amount on the relative values of the operation 2.3 Approval of financial The financial statements are presented asset or liability. pricing the instrument. Where such data disposed of and the portion of the cash statements by Directors in Sri Lankan Rupees, which is the (generally fair value) of the identifiable Group’s functional currency. All financial is not observable, management uses its assets acquired and liabilities assumed generating unit retained. The financial statements of the Group A fair value measurement of a nonbest estimate. Estimated fair values of measured at the acquisition date. and the Company for the year ended 31st financial asset takes into account a financial instruments may vary from the actual prices that would be achieved 150 Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2014 2015 151 Notes to the Financial Statements 3.1.2 Subsidiaries The accounting policies of subsidiaries 3.1.5 Equity accounted investees represents profits or loss after tax of the in preparing the consolidated financial reporting date. Income and expenses Subsidiaries are those entities controlled have been changed when necessary to (investments in associates and joint entity and the non-controlling interests in statements. Unrealised gains arising of the foreign entities are translated at by the Group. Control is achieved when align them with the policies adopted by ventures) the subsidiaries of the equity-accounted from transactions with equity accounted exchange rate approximating to the actual the Group is exposed, or has rights, to the Group Associates are those entities in which the investees. investees are eliminated to the extent rate at the dates of the transactions. For variable returns from its involvement with Group has significant influence, but does of the Group’s interest in the investee. practical purposes this is presumed to be 3.1.3 Non-controlling interest Adjustments are made if necessary, to Unrealised losses are eliminated in the the average rate during each month. the investee and has the ability to affect not have control, over the financial and the financial statements of the equity same way as unrealised gains, but only those returns through its power over the The proportion of the profits or losses operating policies. Significant influence is accounted investees to bring the to the extent that there is no evidence of Foreign currency differences are investee. The Group controls an investee after taxation applicable to outside presumed to exist when the Group holds accounting policies in line with those impairment. recognised in other comprehensive if, and only if, the Group has: shareholders of subsidiary companies between 20% 50% of the voting rights of the Group. After application of the income and presented in the foreign is included under the heading “Non – of another entity. Power over the investee (i.e., equity method, the Group determines 3.2 Foreign currencies currency translation reserve in equity controlling interests “in the Consolidated existing rights that give it the Joint ventures are arrangements in whether it is necessary to recognise except to the extent the translation Income Statement. Losses applicable 3.2.1 Foreign currency transactions current ability to direct the relevant which the Group has joint control and on impairment loss on its investment difference is allocated to the nonto the non-controlling interests in a activities of the investee) have rights to the net assets of the in its equity accounted investee. The Transactions in foreign currencies are controlling interest. When a foreign subsidiary is allocated to the nonarrangement. The group has Joint Control Group determines at each reporting initially recorded by the Group’s entities operation is disposed of such that control, Exposure, or rights, to variable controlling interest even if doing so in a venture when there is contractually date whether there is any objective at their respective functional currency significant influence or joint control returns from its involvement with causes the non-controlling interests to agreed sharing of control of the venture evidence that the investment in the equity spot rates at the date the transaction first is lost, the cumulative amount in the the investee have a deficit balance. and the decisions about the relevant accounted investee is impaired. If this qualifies for recognition. translation reserve related to that foreign The ability to use its power over the The interest of the minority shareholders activities of the venture require the is the case, the Group calculates the operation is reclassified to the income amount of impairment as the difference Monetary assets and liabilities statement as part of the gain or loss on investee to affect its returns in the net assets employed of these unanimous consent of the parties sharing between the recoverable amount of denominated in foreign currencies are disposal. If the Group disposes of only companies are reflected under the control The Group considers all relevant facts the equity-accounted investees and its translated at the functional currency spot part of its interest in the subsidiary but heading “Non – controlling interests” in and circumstances in assessing whether Associates and Joint ventures are treated carrying value and recognises the amount rates of exchange at the reporting date. retains control, the relevant portion of the the Consolidated Statement of Financial it has power over an investee which Position. as equity accounted investees and are in ‘share of losses of an equity accounted translation reserve is transferred to the Non-monetary assets and liabilities includes; The contractual arrangement accounted for using the equity method. investee’ in the income statement. non-controlling interest. When the Group denominated in foreign currencies that with the other vote holders of the Acquisitions of non-controlling interests disposes of only part of its interest in an Under the equity method Investments Upon loss of significant influence over are measured based on historical cost investee, Rights arising from other are accounted for as transactions with the equity accounted investee that includes in equity-accounted investees are the associate or the joint control over the in a foreign currency are translated contractual arrangements and the Group’s equity holders in their capacity as owners a foreign operation while retaining recognised initially at cost, which joint venture , the Group measures and using the exchange rate at the date voting rights and potential voting rights and therefore no goodwill is recognised significant influence or joint-control, the includes transaction costs. The carrying recognises any retained investment at its of transaction. Non-monetary assets over the investee. as a result of such transactions. relevant proportion of the cumulative amount of the investment is adjusted at fair value. Any difference between the and liabilities denominated in foreign Adjustments by non-controlling interests amount is reclassified to the income The Group re-assesses whether or each reporting date to recognise changes carrying amount of the equity accounted currencies that are measured at fair value arising from transactions that do not statement. not it controls an investee if facts and in the Group’s share of net assets of investee disposed and the fair value are retranslated to the reporting currency involve the loss of control are based on a circumstances indicate that there are of the retaining investment and the at the exchange rate that prevailed at the proportionate amount of the net assets of the equity-accounted investees arising 3.3 Financial instruments changes to one or more of the three since the acquisition date. Goodwill proceeds from disposal is recognised in date the fair value was determined. the subsidiary. Financial assets and financial liabilities elements of control. Consolidation of relating to the equity-accounted investees the income statement. Foreign currency differences arising are recognised when a Group company a subsidiary begins when the Group 3.1.4 Loss of control is included in the carrying amount of on retranslation are recognised in the becomes a party to the contractual obtains control over the subsidiary and the investment. Dividends declared 3.1.6 Reporting date On the loss of control, the Group income statement, except for differences provisions of the instrument. ceases when the Group loses control of by the equity-accounted investees are All the Group’s subsidiaries, and equityimmediately derecognises the assets arising on the retranslation of available the subsidiary. Assets, liabilities, income recognised against the equity value of the accounted investees has the same The classification of financial instruments including goodwill and liabilities of the for sale equity investments, a financial and expenses of a subsidiary acquired or Group’s investment. reporting period as the parent company at initial recognition is dependent on subsidiary, any non-controlling interests liability designated as a hedge of the disposed of during the year are included other than Fiji Ports Terminal Limited, a their purpose and characteristics and and the other components of equity The income statement reflects the Group’s net investment in a foreign operation, in the consolidated financial statements subsidiary company, whose financial year the management’s intention in acquiring related to the subsidiary. Any surplus share of the results of operations of the or qualifying cash flow hedges, which from the date the Group gains control ends on the 31st of December. them. or deficit arising on the loss of control equity accounted investees. When there are recognised in other comprehensive until the date the Group ceases to control is recognised in profit and loss. If the is a change recognised directly in the income. the subsidiary. 3.1.7 Intra-group transactions Financial instruments are initially Group retains any interest in the previous equity of the entity, the Group recognises Foreign currency gains and losses are measured at fair value. Transaction Entities that are subsidiaries of another subsidiary, then such interest is measured its share of any changes, when Pricing policies of all intra-group sales reported on a net basis in the income costs that are directly attributable to the entity which is a subsidiary of the at fair value at the date that control is applicable, in the statement of changes are identical to those adopted for normal statement. acquisition or issue of financial assets or company are also treated as subsidiaries lost. Subsequently, it is accounted for in equity. Unrealised gains and losses trading transactions, which are at market financial liabilities other than financial of the company. as an equity-accounted investee or as resulting from transactions between prices. 3.2.2 Foreign operations instruments recognised as fair value an available–for-sale financial asset the Group and the equity-accounted through profit and loss, are added to The financial statements of subsidiaries depending on the level of influence investees are eliminated to the extent 3.1.8 Transactions eliminated on Subsidiaries incorporated outside Sri or deducted from the fair value of the are included in the consolidated financial retained. of the interest in the equity-accounted consolidation Lanka are treated as foreign operations. financial instruments. Transaction costs, statements from the date of acquisition, investees. Intra-group balances and transactions, The assets and liabilities of foreign A change in the ownership interest of a which are insignificant are expensed being the date on which the Group and any unrealised gains and losses operations, including goodwill and fair subsidiary, without a loss of control, is immediately to the income statement. obtains control, and continues to be The Group’s share of profit or loss of or income and expenses arising from value adjustments arising on acquisition, consolidated until the date when such accounted for as an equity transaction. equity accounted investees is shown on are translated to the reporting currency intra-group transactions, are eliminated control ceases. the face of the income statement and at the rate of exchange prevailing on the 152 Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2014 2015 153 Notes to the Financial Statements 3.3.1 Non-derivative financial assets Loans and receivables comprise cash Interest income on available-for-sale debt An impairment loss in respect of other 3.3.1.3 Derecognition of financial assets The Group has not designated any and cash equivalents, trade and other securities calculated using the effective financial assets measured at amortised The Group derecognises a financial asset financial liabilities upon initial recognition 3.3.1.1 Initial recognition and measurement receivables. interest method and dividend income on cost is calculated as the difference when; at fair value through profit or loss. Financial assets are classified as financial available for sale quoted and unquoted between its carrying amount and the assets at fair value through profit or loss, 3.3.1.1.3 Held-to-maturity financial assets equity investments are recognised in the present value of the estimated future The right to receive cash flows from 3.3.2.1.2 Other financial Liabilities loans and receivables, held-to-maturity income statement. cash flows discounted at the current the asset have expired or the entity If the Group has the positive intent All financial liabilities other than those financial assets and available-for-sale market rate of return for a similar has transferred its rights to receive and ability to hold debt securities until at fair value through profit and loss are financial assets. 3.3.1.2 Impairment of financial assets financial asset. When a subsequent event cash flows from the asset or has maturity, then such financial assets classified as other financial liabilities are classified as held-to–maturity. A financial asset not carried at fair causes the amount of impairment loss assumed an obligation to pay the The Group initially recognises loans and Held-to-maturity financial assets are value through profit or loss is assessed to decrease, the decrease in impairment received cash flows in full without All other financial liabilities are receivables and deposits on the date that recognised initially at fair value plus any at each reporting date to determine loss is reversed through the income material delay to a third party under recognised initially at fair value plus they are originated. All other financial directly attributable transaction costs whether there is objective evidence that statement to the extent that the carrying a pass-through arrangement; and directly attributable transaction costs. assets including assets designated at fair if the transaction costs are significant. is impaired. A financial asset is impaired amount of the financial asset at the date either Subsequent to initial recognition these value through profit or loss are recognised Subsequent to initial recognition held-toif, there is objective evidence as a result the impairment is reversed, does not financial liabilities are measured at initially on the trade date at which the The entity has transferred maturity financial assets are measured of one or more events that has occurred exceed what the amortised cost would amortised cost using the effective interest Group becomes a party to the contractual substantially all the risks and at amortised cost using the effective after the initial recognition of the have been had the impairment not been rate method. The financial liabilities provisions of the instrument. The Group rewards of the asset, or interest method, less any impairment financial asset (an incurred ‘loss event’) recognised. include trade and other payables, bank determines the classification of its losses. and the estimated future cash flows of overdrafts, loans and borrowings, financial assets at initial recognition. The entity has neither transferred the investment have been affected. 3.3.1.2.2 Available for sale financial guarantee contracts. nor retained substantially all the During the financial year the Group has For equity instruments classified as 3.3.1.1.1 Financial assets at fair value through profit risks and rewards of the asset, but not designated any financial assets as 3.3.1.2.1 Loans & Receivables available for sale financial assets a 3.3.2.2 Derecognition of financial liabilities or loss has transferred control of the asset. held-to-maturity investments. significant or prolonged decline in the fair The Group derecognises a financial A financial asset is recognised at The objective evidence of impairment could include significant financial value of the investment below its cost is On derecognition of a financial asset, liability when its contractual obligations fair value through profit or loss, if 3.3.1.1.4 Available-for-sale financial assets difficulty of the issuer or counter party, considered to be objective evidence of the difference between the carrying are discharged, cancelled or expired. it is classified as held for trading or Available-for-sale financial assets are breach of contract such as default in impairment. amount of the asset or the carrying is designated as such upon initial non-derivative financial assets that are interest or principal payments, or it amount allocated to the portion of the 3.3.3 Offsetting of financial instruments recognition. Financial assets are Impairment losses of an available-for-sale designated as available for sale or are becomes probable that the borrower asset transferred and the sum of the Financial assets and financial liabilities classified as held for trading if they are security investment are recognised by not classified in any of the previous will enter bankruptcy or financial consideration received together with are offset and the net amount reported in acquired for the purpose of trading in the transferring the cumulative loss that has categories of financial assets. Availablereorganisation. receivable and any cumulative gain or the consolidated statement of financial near term. Financial assets at fair value been recognised in other comprehensive for-sale financial assets are recognised loss that had been recognised in other position if, and only if, there is a currently through profit or loss are measured at income to the income statement as initially at fair value plus any directly The Group considers impairment of comprehensive income is recognised in enforceable legal right to offset the fair value, and any changes therein, are a reclassification adjustment. The attributable transaction costs. trade receivables at both a specific the income statement. recognised amounts and there is an recognised in the income statement. cumulative loss that is reclassified significant individual debtor level and intention to settle on a net basis, or to Subsequent to initial recognition, they collectively. Any Group company which from other comprehensive income to 3.3.2 Non–derivative financial liabilities Attributable transaction costs of fair realise the assets and settle the liabilities are measured at fair value and any has any individually significant debtors the income statement is the difference value through profit or loss financial 3.3.2.1 Initial recognition and measurement simultaneously. changes therein, other than impairment assesses them for specific impairment. between the acquisition cost, net of any assets are recognised in the income losses and foreign currency differences All individually insignificant debtors principal repayment and amortisation, The Group initially recognises debt statement when incurred. 3.3.4 Derivative financial instruments on available for sale debt instruments, that are not specifically impaired are and the current fair value, less any securities issued and subordinated are recognised in other comprehensive impairment loss previously recognised liabilities on the date that they are The Group enters into a variety of Financial assets at fair value through then collectively assessed for any income and presented in the fair value in the income statement. Changes in originated. All other financial liabilities derivative financial instruments to profit or loss comprise of its portfolio of impairment that has been incurred reserve in equity. When an investment impairment provisions attributable to time (including liabilities designated at manage its exposure to interest rate and investments in treasury bills and treasury but not yet identified by grouping is derecognised the gain or loss value are reflected as a component of fair value through profit or loss) are foreign exchange risks, including foreign bonds. The Group has not designated any them together based on similar risk accumulated in equity is reclassified to interest income. recognised initially on the trade date at exchange forward contracts, interest rate equity instruments in this category characteristics. In assessing collective the income statement. which the Group becomes a party to the swaps and cross currency swaps. impairment the Group uses historical If, in a subsequent period, the fair value contractual provisions of the instrument. 3.3.1.1.2 Loans and receivables trends of the probability of default, the Derivatives are initially recognised at fair The Group designates listed and unlisted of an impaired available-for-sale debt Loans and receivables are financial assets timing of recoveries and the amount value on the date the derivative contracts equity investments that are not held for security increases and the increase 3.3.2.1.1 Financial liabilities at fair value through with fixed or determinable payments of loss incurred and adjusted for the are entered into and are subsequently trading purposes as available-for-sale can be objectively related to an event profit or loss that are not quoted in an active market. management’s judgment. The carrying remeasured to their fair value at the end financial instruments. Debt securities occurring after the impairment loss was Such assets are recognised initially at amount of the trade receivables is Financial liabilities at fair value through of each reporting period. in this category are those which are recognised in the income statement, fair value plus any directly attributable reduced through the use of the bad profit or loss include financial liabilities intended to be held for an indefinite the impairment loss is reversed, with transaction costs, if the transaction costs debt provision account and the amount held for trading and financial liabilities 3.3.5 Share capital period of time and which may be sold the amount of the reversal recognised are significant. Subsequent to initial of the loss is recognised in the income designated upon initial recognition at fair or redeemed in response to needs for in the income statement. However, Ordinary shares are classified as equity. recognition loans and receivables are statement. If there is no realistic prospect value through profit loss. liquidity or in response to changes in any subsequent recovery in the fair Incremental costs directly attributable measured at amortised cost using the of future recovery of a debt, the amount market conditions. value of an impaired available-for-sale Gains or losses on liabilities held for to the issue of ordinary shares are effective interest rate method (EIR) less is written off. equity security is recognised in other trading are recognised in the income recognised as a deduction from equity. any impairment losses. comprehensive income. statement. 154 Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2014 2015 155 Notes to the Financial Statements 3.4. Property, plant & equipment and is not taken into account in arriving at Motor Vehicles 04 10 years 3.5.2 Depreciation of the lease or any other basis more intangible assets include the purchase the gain or loss on disposal. The details Furniture and Fittings 10 years No depreciation is provided on land representative of the time pattern of the price, import duties, non-refundable 3.4.1 Recognition and measurement of revaluation of land are disclosed in benefits derived from the lease. purchase taxes and any directly Computer Equipment 3-5 years treated as investment property. Items of property, plant and equipment note 15.3.1to the financial statements. attributable cost of preparing the asset other than land, are measured at cost Crockery, Cutlery and Glassware3-5 years Depreciation of other investment The initial cost of acquiring a leasehold for its intended use. less accumulated depreciation and 3.4.2 Significant components of property Speed Boats 5 years property of the Group is provided for property treated as an operating lease is accumulated impairment losses. plant & equipment on a consistent basis, over the period recognised as a non current asset and is The cost of intangible assets acquired in Soft Furnishing 5-10 years appropriate to the estimated useful lives amortised over the period of the lease in a business combination is the fair value When parts of an item of property, plant The cost of an item of property, plant and accordance with the pattern of benefits of the asset at the date of acquisition. and equipment have different useful Power generation plants of some of of the assets on a straight-line method. equipment comprises its purchase price expected to be derived from the lease. lives than the underlying asset, they are the Group companies in the renewable Leased Assets over the periods and any directly attributable costs of The carrying amount of leasehold property The cost of an internally generated identified and accounted separately as energy segment that are not depreciated of the lease bringing the asset to working condition is tested for impairment annually. intangible asset arising from the major components of property, plant and as above are depreciated on the unit of for its intended use. The cost of selfBuildings over 20 50 years development phase of an internal project equipment and depreciated separately production basis. constructed assets includes the cost of 3.6.3 Determining whether an which is capitalised includes all directly based on their useful life. attributable costs necessary to create, materials, direct labour and any other The cost of replacement of components In the consolidated financial statements, arrangement contains a lease costs directly attributable to bringing of assets recognised in the carrying properties which are occupied by produce, and prepare the asset to be 3.4.3 Subsequent cost At the inception of an arrangement, the asset to the working condition for its amount of property, plant and equipment companies within the Group for the capable of operating in the manner the Group determines whether such intended use, and borrowing costs if the The Group recognises in the carrying production or supply of goods and intended by the Management. Other is depreciated over the balance useful life an arrangement is a lease or contains recognition criteria are met. This also amount of property, plant and equipment services or for administrative purposes is development expenditure and expenditure of the asset. a lease. This will be apparent if the includes cost of dismantling and removing the cost of replacing a part of an item, treated as property, plant and equipment, on research activities, undertaken with following two criteria are met: the items and restoring them in the site when it is probable that the future The cost of major planned overhauls while these properties are treated as the prospect of gaining new technical on which they are located. economic benefits embodied in the item capitalised are depreciated over investment property in the financial the fulfilment of the arrangement is knowledge and understanding is will flow to the Group and the cost of the period until the next planned statements of the company owning the dependent on the use of a specific expensed in the income statement as and All items of property, plant and equipment the item can be measured reliably. The maintenance. asset. asset or assets; and when incurred. are recognised initially at cost. carrying amounts of the parts that are replaced are derecognised from the 3.5 Investment properties 3.6 Leases the arrangement contains a right to 3.7.2 Subsequent costs The Group recognises land owned by it cost of the asset. The cost of day-to-day use the asset(s). 3.5.1 Recognition and measurement 3.6.1 Finance leases Subsequent expenditure on intangible in the statement of financial position at servicing of property, plant and equipment assets is capitalised only when it the revalued amount. Revaluations are are recognised in the income statement A property that is held to earn rentals Leases in terms of which the Group At the inception or on reassessment of increases the future economic benefits performed with sufficient regularity such as and when incurred. or for capital appreciation or both rather assumes substantially all the risks and the arrangement, the Group separates embodied in the specific asset to which that the carrying amount does not differ than for use in the production or supply rewards of ownership are classified as payments and other consideration it relates. materially from that which would be 3.4.4 Depreciation of goods or services or for administrative finance leases. On initial recognition, required by such an arrangement into determined using fair values at the end purposes; or sale in the ordinary course of the leased assets under property, plant those in respect of the lease and those of each reporting period. If the fair values Depreciation is based on the cost of an 3.7.3 Subsequent measurement business, by the Group are accounted for and equipment, is measured at an for other elements, on the basis of their asset less its residual value. After initial recognition an intangible of land does not change other than by an as investment properties amount equal to the lower of its fair relative fair values. In respect of a finance insignificant amount at each reporting value and the present value of minimum lease, If the Group concludes that it is asset is stated at its costs less any Depreciation is recognised in the income period the Group will revalue such land An investment property is measured lease payments. Subsequent to initial impractical to separate the payments accumulated amortisation and any statement on a straight line basis over every 5 years. initially at its cost. The cost of a recognition, the asset is accounted for in reliably, then an asset and a liability accumulated impairment losses. the estimated useful lives of each component of an item of property, plant purchased investment property comprises accordance with the accounting policy are recognised at an amount equal to Any revaluation increase arising on the of its purchase price and any directly The useful economic life of an intangible and equipment. Depreciation of an asset applicable to that asset. the fair value of the underlying asset. revaluation of such land is recognised attributable expenditure. The cost of a asset is assessed to be either finite or begins when it is available for use and Subsequently as payments are made the in other comprehensive income and self-constructed investment property is its Minimum lease payments under finance indefinite. ceases at the earlier of the date that liability is reduced and imputed finance accumulated in equity, except to the cost at the date when the construction or leases are apportioned between the cost on the liability is recognised using the asset is classified as held for sale or Intangible assets with finite lives are extent that it reverses a revaluation development is complete. finance expense and the reduction of the the Group’s incremental borrowing rate. on the date that the asset is disposed. amortised over the useful economic life decrease for the same asset previously outstanding liability. The finance expense Leased assets are depreciated over the of the asset. The amortisation period and recognised in the income statement, in The Group applies the cost model for shorter of the lease term and their useful is allocated to each period during the 3.7 Intangible assets the amortisation method for an intangible which case the increase is credited to investment properties in accordance with lease term so as to produce a constant lives unless it is reasonably certain that 3.7.1 Initial Recognition and asset with a finite useful life is reviewed the income statement to the extent of Sri Lanka Accounting Standard (LKAS periodic rate interest on the remaining the Group will obtain ownership by the measurement at least at the end of each reporting date. the decrease previously expensed. A 40) -“Investment Property”. Accordingly, balance of the liability. end of the lease term. Changes in the expected useful life or decrease in the carrying amount arising land classified as investment properties The Group recognises intangible assets are stated at cost less any accumulated if it is probable that the expected future the expected pattern of consumption of on a revaluation of land is recognised in The estimated useful lives are as follows: 3.6.2 Operating leases impairment losses and buildings classified economic benefits that are attributable future economic benefits embodied in the income statement to the extent that Leases where the lessor effectively the asset is accounted for by changing it exceeds the balance, if any, held in the Leased Assets Over the periods of the as investment properties are stated at to the asset will flow to the entity and retains substantially all the risks and the amortisation period or method, as property’s revaluation reserve relating to lease cost less any accumulated depreciation the cost of the asset can be measured rewards of ownership over the assets are appropriate, and are treated as changes a previous revaluation of the same land. and any accumulated impairment losses. reliably. Buildings 20 50 years classified as operating leases. Payments in accounting estimates. The amortisation Upon disposal, any related revaluation Plant and Machinery 10 20 years under operating leases are recognised Separately acquired intangible assets are expense on intangible assets with reserve is transferred from the as an expense in the income statement measured on initial recognition at cost. finite lives is recognised in the income Equipment 04 05 years revaluation reserve to retained earnings on a straight-line basis over the term The cost of such separately acquired statement Power Generation Plants 10 20 years 156 Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2014 2015 157 Notes to the Financial Statements Intangible assets with indefinite 3.8 Inventories recoverable amounts of such assets are Reversals of impairment losses are scheme established in the Maldives. The 3.13 Provisions useful lives are not amortised, but are estimated. recognised in the income statement. Group contributes 7% of the pensionable Inventories are measured at the lower A provision is recognised if, as a result tested for impairment annually, either wage of such employees to this scheme of cost and net realisable value. The The recoverable amount of goodwill is of past events, the Group has a present individually or at the cash-generating cost of inventories is based on a 3.11 Liabilities and provisions legal or constructive obligation that can unit level. The assessment of indefinite estimated at each reporting date, or as 3.12.2.3 Employee provident fund – South India weighted average cost. The cost includes Liabilities classified as current liabilities be estimated reliably, and it is probable life is reviewed annually to determine and when an indication of impairment is expenditure incurred in acquiring the in the statement of financial position Group companies in South India that an outflow of economic benefits will whether the indefinite life continues to be identified. inventories and bringing them to their are those which fall due for payment contribute a sum of 12% of the basic be required to settle the obligation. supportable. If not, the change in useful on demand of the creditor or within one salaries of all employees as provident existing location and condition. In the An impairment loss is recognised if life from indefinite to finite is made on a year of the reporting date. Non-current fund benefits to the Employee Provident Provisions are determined by discounting case of manufactured inventories, cost the carrying amount of an asset or prospective basis. liabilities are those balances that become Organization of India. the expected future cash flows at a includes an appropriate share of factory its cash-generating unit exceeds its overheads recoverable amount. A cash-generating repayable after one year from the pre-tax rate that reflects current market 3.7.4 Intangible assets recognised by the reporting date. 3.12.2.4 Employee provident fund – Fiji assessments of the time value of money unit is the smallest identifiable asset Group. Net realisable value is the estimated and the risks specific to the liability. The group that generates cash flows that are Group company, Fiji Ports Terminal selling price in the ordinary course of All known liabilities have been accounted unwinding of the discount is recognised 3.7.4.1 Computer software largely independent from other assets. Ltd., contributes a sum of 10% (8% till business, less the estimated costs of for in preparing the financial statements. as finance cost. All computer software cost incurred Impairment losses are recognised in the December 2014) of the basic salaries of completion and selling expenses based income statement. all employees as provident fund benefits and licensed for use by the Group, 3.12 Employee benefits on normal operating capacity. to Fiji National Provident Fund. 3.13.1 Provision for major overhauls which does not form an integral part of related hardware, which can be clearly Impairment losses recognised in respect 3.12.1 Short-term employee benefits Provision is made on a monthly basis 3.9 Non-current assets held for sale of cash-generating units on acquisition of 3.12.3 Defined benefit plan retiring for major overhaul costs based on the identified and reliably measured with the Short-term employee benefit obligations probability of leading to future economic Non-current assets that are expected to subsidiaries are allocated first to reduce are measured on an undiscounted basis gratuity estimated overhauls to be carried out benefits, are capitalised under intangible be recovered primarily through a disposal the carrying amount of any goodwill A defined benefit plan is a postwithin the estimated interval between and are expensed as the related service is assets rather than through continuing use are allocated to the unit, and then to reduce employment benefit plan other than a two major overhauls. The cost of the provided. A liability is recognised for the classified as held for sale. Immediately the carrying amount of the other assets defined contribution plan. The liability actual overhaul carried out is set off amount expected to be paid in cash as exThe Group amortises computer software before classification as held for sale, in the unit (or group of units) on a pro rata recognised in the statement of financial against the provision. The adequacy of gratia in the short term, if the Group has over period of 3 to 5 years. these assets (or components of a disposal basis. position in respect of defined benefit the provision balance is reviewed at a present legal or constructive obligation group) are re-measured in accordance to pay this amount as a result of past plans is the present value of the defined a consistent frequency, and any under 3.7.4.2 Website Costs with the Group’s accounting policies. 3.10.1 Calculation of recoverable amount service rendered by the employee, and benefit obligation at the reporting / over provision which arises due to a Costs incurred on development of Thereafter the assets (or disposal The recoverable amount of an asset or the obligation can be measured reliably. date. The defined benefit obligation is change in estimate and the timing of websites are capitalised as intangible group) are measured at the lower of cash-generating unit is the greater of calculated annually using the projected the major overhauls, is adjusted in the assets when the entity is satisfied that their carrying amount and fair value its value in use and its fair value less 3.12.2 Defined contribution plan unit credit method. The present value income statement for the period in which the web site will generate probable less cost to sell. Any impairment loss costs to sell. In assessing value in use, of the defined benefit obligation is such under / over provision is identified. A defined contribution plan is a posteconomic benefits in the future. on the above assets is first allocated the estimated future cash flows are determined by discounting the estimated employment benefit plan under which to goodwill and then to the remaining discounted to their present value using a future cash flows using interest rates that 3.14 Revenue an entity pays a fixed employee benefit The Group amortises website costs over a assets and liabilities on a pro rata pre-tax discount rate that reflects current are denominated in the currency in which Group revenue represents sales to contribution into a separate entity and period of 3 to 5 years. basis, except that no loss is allocated to market assessments of the time value of the benefits will be paid, and that have customers outside the Group and will have no further legal or constructive inventories, financial assets, deferred money and the risks specific to the asset terms of maturity approximating to the excludes value added tax. obligations to pay any additional 3.7.4.3 Goodwill tax assets, employee benefit assets and or cash-generating unit. terms of the liability. amounts. Obligations for contributions to Goodwill that arises upon the acquisition investment property, which are continued 3.14.1 Revenue recognition a defined contribution plan are recognised of subsidiaries is included in intangible to be measured in accordance with the 3.10.2 Reversal of impairment Provision has been made in the financial as an employee benefit expense in Revenue is recognised to the extent that assets. The policy on measurement of Group’s accounting policies. Impairment An impairment loss in respect of goodwill statements for retiring gratuities from the the income statement in the periods it is probable that the economic benefits goodwill at initial recognition is given in losses on initial classification as heldis not reversed. In respect of other assets, first year of service for all employees. during which services are rendered by will flow to the Group and the revenue note 3.1.1. for-sale and subsequent gains or losses impairment losses recognised in prior employees. However, according to the Payment of can be reliably measured, regardless of on re-measurement are recognised in periods are assessed at each reporting Gratuity Act No. 12 of 1983, the liability when the payment is being received. 3.7.5 Subsequent measurement the income statement. Gains are not date for any indications that the loss 3.12.2.1 Employee provident fund and Employee for payment to an employee arises only Revenue is measured at the fair value of recognised in excess of any cumulative has decreased or no longer exists. An Goodwill is measured at cost less trust fund after the completion of 5 years continued the consideration received or receivable, impairment loss. impairment loss is reversed if there has accumulated impairment losses. In The Group contributes a sum not less service. taking into account contractually defined respect of equity accounted investees, been a change in the estimates used to than 12% of the gross emoluments of terms of payment. 3.10 Impairment – Non-financial determine the recoverable amount. the carrying amount of goodwill is The liability is not externally funded. assets employees employed in Sri Lanka as The Group also assesses its revenue included in the carrying amount of the provident fund benefits and 3% as trust investment, and an impairment loss on The carrying amounts of the Group’s nonAn impairment loss is reversed only to the Group recognises all actuarial gains and arrangements against specific criteria fund benefits. such an investment is allocated to the financial assets, other than inventories extent that the asset’s carrying amount losses arising from defined benefit plans in order to determine if it is acting as carrying amount of the equity accounted and deferred tax assets are reviewed at does not exceed the carrying amount immediately in the other comprehensive principal or agent. 3.12.2.2 Employees pension scheme – Maldives investee. each reporting date to determine whether that would have been determined, net income as they occur. there is any indication of impairment. of depreciation or amortisation, if no All Maldivian employees of the Group If any such indication exists, the impairment loss had been recognised. are members of the retirement pension 158 Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2014 2015 159 Notes to the Financial Statements 3.14.2 Sale of goods reference to the stage of completion of 3.16 Finance Income /(Expenses) recognised in the income statement 3.18.2 Deferred taxation 3.19 Operating Segments Revenue from the sale of goods is the transaction at the reporting date. over the expected useful life in a pattern Deferred tax is recognised in respect Finance income comprises interest An operating segment is a distinguishable recognised on accrual basis when Stage of completion is measured by of consumption of the benefit of the of temporary differences between the income on funds invested, net changes in component of the Group that engages in the significant risks and rewards of reference to cost incurred to date as a underlying asset. carrying amounts of assets and liabilities fair value of financial assets classified as business activities from which it earns ownership of the goods have been percentage of estimated total cost for for financial reporting purposes and the fair value through profit or loss , and gains When loans or similar assistance are revenue and incurs expenses, including transferred to the buyer. each installation. amounts used for taxation purposes. on the disposal of interest generating provided by governments or related revenue and expenses that relate to investments whether classified under fair Deferred tax is not recognised for transactions with the Group’s other 3.14.3.5 Commission income institutions with an interest rate below 3.14.3 Rendering of services value through profit or loss or availabletemporary differences arising on initial segments. the applicable market rate, the effect of Revenue from rendering of services is When the Group acts in the capacity of for-sale financial assets recognition of goodwill, the initial this favourable interest is regarded as a an agent rather than the principal in a recognition of assets or liabilities in The operations of the Group are recognised by reference to the stage of government grant. transaction, the revenue recognition is Finance expenses comprise interest a transaction that is not a business categorised under four segments based completion of the transaction at the end the net amount of commission earned by expense on borrowings and leases, and combination and that affects neither on the nature of the products or services of the reporting period impairment losses recognised on financial 3.18 Income tax expense provided by each segment and the the Group. accounting nor taxable profit, and the assets. Borrowing costs that are not Income tax expense comprises of current differences relating to investments in risks and rewards associated with the 3.14.3.1 Hotel operation 3.14.4 Use by others of entity assets directly attributable to the acquisition, and deferred tax. The income tax expense subsidiaries and jointly controlled entities economic environment in which these In respect of the Group’s hotel operations, construction or production of a qualifying is recognised in the income statement segments operate. The performance 3.14.4.1 Interest income to the extent that they probably will not apartment revenue is recognised on the asset are recognised in the income except to the extent that it relates to of the Group is evaluated based on the reverse in the foreseeable future. rooms occupied on a daily basis, and food Interest income is recognised as it statement using the effective interest the items recognised directly in the performance of these four main segments and beverage sales are accounted for at accrues in the income statement. For method. However, borrowing costs that statement of other comprehensive income Deferred tax is measured at the tax by the Group’s Managing Director (chief the time of sale. all financial instruments measured at are directly attributable to the acquisition, or statement of changes in equity, in rates that are expected to be applied to operating decision maker). The internal amortised cost and interest bearing construction or production of a qualifying which case it is recognised directly in the temporary differences when they reverse, management reports prepared on these 3.14.3.2 Loyalty points programme of Hotel financial assets classified as availableasset that takes a substantial period of respective statements. based on the laws that have been segments are reviewed by the Group’s Companies, for-sale the interest income is recorded enacted or substantively enacted by the time to get ready for its intended use or Managing Director on a monthly basis. ‘Diamond Club” a loyalty programme, using the effective interest rate (EIR). sale, are capitalised as part of the asset. 3.18.1 Current Tax reporting date. Details of the Group companies operating allows customers to accumulate points EIR is the rate that exactly discounts Borrowing costs capitalised are disclosed The current tax is the expected tax under each segment and the products when they patronise the Group’s hotels the estimated future cash payments or in note 11to the financial statements. payable on the taxable income for A deferred tax asset is recognised and services offered under each segment in Sri Lanka which could be redeemed receipts through the expected life of the the year, using tax rates enacted or for unused tax losses and deductible are provided under Group Companies in for future hotel accommodation, subject financial instrument or a shorter period 3.17 Government grants and substantially enacted at the reporting temporary differences, to the extent that pages 236 to 242 to a minimum number of points being where appropriate, to the net carrying subsidies. date, and any adjustment to tax payable it is probable that future taxable profits obtained. Consideration received on hotel amount of the financial asset or liability. in respect of previous years. will be available against which they 3.20 Movement of reserves Government grants are recognised where rooms occupied is allocated between For interest bearing financial assets can be utilised. Deferred tax assets are there is reasonable assurance that the Movements of reserves are disclosed in the current sales and the points issued, carried at fair value, interest is recognised Taxation for the current and previous reviewed at each reporting date and are grant will be received and all attached the statement of changes in equity. with the consideration allocated to the on discounted cash flow method. Interest periods to the extent unpaid is recognised reduced to the extent that it is no longer conditions will be complied with. points equal to their fair value. Fair income is included under finance income as a liability in the financial statements. probable that the related tax benefit will be realised. 3.21 Cash flow value of the points is determined by in the income statement. When the grant relates to an expense When the amount of taxation already applying a statistical analysis. The fair paid in respect of current and prior The cash flow statement is reported item, it is recognised as income on a value of the points issued is deferred 3.14.4.2 Dividend income periods exceeds the amount due for those Deferred tax assets and liabilities based on the “indirect method”. systematic basis over the periods that the and recognised as revenue when the periods, the excess is recognised as an recognised by individual companies Dividend income is recognised in the costs, which it is intended to compensate, points are redeemed. The Group has not asset in the financial statements. within the Group are disclosed separately 3.22 Commitments and income statement on the date that the are expensed. included extensive disclosure regarding as assets and liabilities in the Group contingencies Group’s right to receive payment is the loyalty programme as the amounts Grants and subsidies which intend to 3.18.1.1 Companies incorporated in Sri Lanka statement of financial position and are Contingencies are possible assets or established, which is generally when the are not significant. compensate an expense or loss already not offset against each other. obligations that arise from a past event dividend is declared. Provision for current tax for companies incurred or received for the purpose of and would be confirmed only on the incorporated in Sri Lanka has been 3.18.3 Economic service charge 3.14.3.3 Lease income 3.14.4.3 Rental income immediate financial support with no occurrence or non-occurrence of uncertain computed in accordance with the Inland future related costs, are recognised in the As per the provisions of the Economic future events, which are beyond the Minimum lease payments receivable Rental income arising from renting Revenue Act No. 10 of 2006 and its income statement in the period in which Service Charge Act No 13 of 2006, Group’s control. under a finance lease are apportioned of property, plant and equipment and amendments thereto. between the finance income and the the grant becomes receivable. economic service charge is payable on investment properties is recognised as Commitments and Contingent liabilities reduction of the outstanding receivable. 3.18.1.2 Companies incorporated outside Sri the liable turnover at specified rates. revenue on a straight-line basis over the Grants and subsidies related to assets are are disclosed in Note 38 and 42 to the The finance income is allocated to each Lanka Economic service charge is deductible term of the lease. immediately recognised in the statement financial statements. period during the lease term so as to from the income tax liability. Any of financial position as deferred income, Provision for current tax for companies unclaimed liability is carried forward and produce a constant periodic rate of 3.15 Expenditure and recognised in the income statement incorporated outside Sri Lanka have been set off against the income tax payable as 3.23 Earnings per share interest on the remaining balance of the computed in accordance to the relevant All expenditure incurred in the running on a systematic and rational basis over per the relevant provisions in the Act. The Group presents basic and diluted financial asset. tax statutes as disclosed in note 12.3 to of the business and in maintaining the the useful life of the asset. earnings per share (EPS) for its ordinary capital assets in a state of efficiency has the financial statements. 3.14.3.4 Installation of elevators shares. Basic EPS is calculated by been charged to revenue in arriving at the When the Group receives non-monetary dividing the profit or loss attributable to Revenue on installation of elevators is profit for the year. grants, the asset and the grant are ordinary shareholders of the Company by recognised in the income statement by recorded gross at nominal amounts and the weighted average number of ordinary 160 Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2014 2015 161 Notes to the Financial Statements shares outstanding during the period. joint ventures depending on the Group’s not materially impacted the fair value Amendments to SLFRS 10, SLFRS 5.2 Property, plant and equipment 5.7 Contingent consideration Diluted EPS is determined by adjusting rights to the assets and obligations measurements carried out by the 12 and LKAS 28 – Investment Entities: owned by the Group The fair value of contingent consideration the profit or loss attributable to ordinary for the liabilities of the arrangements. Group. However the Group has included Applying the Consolidation Exception External, independent qualified valuers arising in a business combination is shareholders and the weighted average When making this assessment, the additional disclosures in this regard in effective for annual periods beginning on having appropriate experience in valuing calculated based on the expected number of ordinary shares outstanding Group considers the structure of the Notes 37 in the financial statements or after 1st of January 2016 properties in locations of properties payment amount and their associated for the effects of all dilutive potential arrangements, the legal form of any being valued, value the land owned by Amendments to LKAS 27 – Equity probabilities discounted to present value ordinary shares. separate vehicles, the contractual terms 4.1.5 Amendments to SLAS 1 the Group based on the market values. when appropriate. of the arrangements and other facts and Presentation of Financial Method in Separate Financial Statements This is the estimated amount for which 3.24 Events occurring after the circumstances. Previously, the structure Statements effective for annual periods beginning land could be exchanged on the date of reporting date of the arrangement was the sole focus of As a result of the amendment to on or after 1st of January 2016 the valuation between a willing buyer All material events after the reporting classification. SLAS 1, the Group modified the and a willing seller in an arm’s length Amendments to SLFRS 10 and LKAS date have been considered, disclosed and presentation of items of other transaction. The Group re-evaluated its involvement 28 – Sale or Contribution of Assets adjusted where applicable. comprehensive income in the statement in its joint arrangements and identified between an Investor and its Associate the investments in Aitken Spence Travels of profit or loss and other comprehensive or Joint Venture effective for annual 5.3 Investment property income, to present separately items that 4 New Accounting Standards (Pvt) Ltd., and its subsidiaries, Colombo would be reclassified to profit or loss from periods beginning on or after 1st of Investment property is valued for International Nautical & Engineering January 2016 disclosure purposes by the Directors issued those that would not be. Comparative College (Pvt) Ltd., Aitken Spence C based on the market value, being the 4.1 New and amended standards information has been re-presented Amendments to SLFRS 11 – Accounting & T Investments (Pvt) Ltd., and Ace estimated amount for which the property and interpretations adopted accordingly. for Acquisitions of Interests in Joint Bangladesh Ltd., as joint ventures. could be exchanged on the reporting date during the year Application of this standard impacted the Operations effective for annual periods between a willing buyer and a willing 4.2 New and amended standards beginning on or after 1st of January 2016 seller in an arm’s length transaction. For the first time, the Group applied, Group financial statements by replacing issued but not effective as at the the following new Sri Lanka Accounting proportionate consolidation of these reporting date Standards and amendments which companies with the equity method of 5 Determination of fair values 5.4 Equity securities became applicable to the financial The Institute of Chartered Accountants accounting. A number of the Group’s accounting The fair value of the equity securities statements with effect from 1st January of Sri Lanka has issued the following policies and disclosures require the is determined by reference to their 2014 Changes to the basis of accounting for the standards which become effective for determination of fair values, for both quoted share price at the reporting date investments in companies mentioned in annual periods beginning after the financial and non-financial assets if quoted; or if unquoted either using 4.1.1 SLFRS 10 Consolidated Financial 4.1.1 and 4.1.2 above were applied with current financial year. Accordingly these and liabilities. Fair values have been discounted cash flow analysis using Statements retrospective effect as per the transitional standards have not been applied in determined for measurement and expected future cash flows and a market provisions under the relevant standards. preparing theses financial statements. With the adoption of SLFRS 10, the disclosure purposes based on the related discounted rate, or based on the Quantitative impact of adoption of these The Group is currently in the process Group changed its accounting policy following methods. Where applicable net assets of the investee company. two standards on the financial statements of evaluating the potential effect for determining whether an investee is further information about the of the group is provided in the note 22.1 of adoption of these standards and a subsidiary based on the definition of amendments on its financial statements. assumptions made in determining fair 5.5 Financial instruments other than control as explained in note 3.1.2. to the financial statements equity securities carried at fair Such impact has not been quantified as value is disclosed in the notes specific to that asset or liability value through profit or loss and 4.1.3 SLFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests at the balance sheet date. The Group will On adoption of this standard, the Group available-for-sale investments reassessed the control conclusion for in Other Entities be adopting these standards as and when they become effective. 5.1 Property, plant and equipment Fair value of these financial instruments its investees and changed the control SLFRS 12 sets out the requirements acquired in business is estimated by discounting the difference conclusion for Shipping & Cargo Logistics for disclosures relating to an entity’s SLFRS 9 – Financial Instruments – combinations between the contractual price of the (Pvt) Ltd., Spence Maldives (Pvt) Ltd., interests in subsidiaries, joint instrument and the current price of the effective for annual periods beginning on The fair value of property, plant and Ace Aviation Services Maldives (Pvt) arrangements, associates and structured instrument for the residual maturity of or after 1st of January 2018 equipment recognised as a result of a Ltd.,Aitken Spence Garments Ltd., and entities. Disclosures required under this the contract based on quoted price, or MMBL Money Transfer (Pvt) Ltd., and business combination is the estimated standard are provided in Notes 21 and 22. SLFRS 14 – Regulatory Deferral obtained from brokers if not quoted, using treated them as subsidiaries based on amount for which a property could be Accounts– effective for annual periods a credit adjusted risk free interest rate. exchanged on the date of acquisition de facto circumstances. These investees 4.1.4 SLFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement beginning on or after 1st of January 2016 were previously accounted for as between a willing buyer and a willing SLFRS 13 establishes a single seller in an arm’s length transaction. The 5.6 Defined benefit plan – Joint Ventures using the proportionate framework for measuring fair value and SLFRS 15 – Revenue from Contracts with retirement benefit obligations consolidation method. Customers– effective for annual periods fair value of items of plant, equipment making disclosures about fair value fixtures and fittings is based on market The define benefit plan is valued by a measurements, when such measurements beginning on or after 1st of January 2018 prices for similar items when available professionally qualified external actuary 4.1.2 SLFRS 11 Joint Arrangements are required or permitted by other SLASs. Amendment to LKAS 16 and LKAS 41 and depreciated replacement cost when using the projected unit credit method With the adoption of SLFRS 11 in In particular, it unifies the definition of using the standard rate of inflation, an – Agriculture; Bearer Biological Plants appropriate. Sri Lanka, the Group changed its fair value as the price at which an orderly appropriate discount rate and anticipation effective for annual periods beginning on accounting policy for its interests in transaction to sell an asset or to transfer of future salary increases. or after 1st of January 2016 joint arrangements. Under SLFRS 11,the a liability would take place between Group classifies its interests in joint market participants at the measurement arrangements as either joint operations or date. Application of this standard has 162 Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2014 2015 163 Notes to the Financial Statements 6 Operating segments 6.2 Geographical information 6.1 Business segments Geographical analysis of the Group’s revenue and non current assets is stated based on the country where the sale occurred or the service was rendered. 6.1.1 Business segment analysis of group revenue and profit 6.2.1 Geographical information revenue Tourism sector Maritime & Strategic Services Total Total revenue generated Revenue from external customers logistics sector investments sector 2014/2015 2013/2014 2014/2015 2013/2014 2014/2015 2013/2014 2014/2015 2013/2014 2014/2015 2013/2014 2014/2015 2013/2014 2014/2015 2013/2014 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Sri Lanka 28,617,345 29,820,773 22,611,478 23,956,793 Total revenue generated 17,829,450 16,965,337 7,738,781 7,447,979 15,165,970 16,196,090 1,086,303 943,434 41,820,504 41,552,840 Maldives 11,210,295 10,337,613 10,749,979 9,733,880 Intra-segmental revenue (985,772) (1,037,701) (219,414) (242,581) (56,365) (64,473) (29,619) (30,320) (1,291,170) (1,375,075) Other countries 1,992,864 1,394,454 1,957,434 1,368,450 41,820,504 41,552,840 35,318,891 35,059,123 Total revenue with inter segmental revenue 16,843,678 15,927,636 7,519,367 7,205,398 15,109,605 16,131,617 1,056,684 913,114 40,529,334 40,177,765 6.2.2 Geographical information non current assets Inter segmental revenue (23,496) (21,972) (290,652) (294,784) (213,041) (197,193) (178,086) (176,517) (705,275) (690,466) Total revenue with Non current assets equity-accounted investees 16,820,182 15,905,664 7,228,715 6,910,614 14,896,564 15,934,424 878,598 736,597 39,824,059 39,487,299 2014/2015 2013/2014 Share of equity-accounted investees’ Rs.’000 Rs.’000 revenue (3,006,134) (2,807,867) (482,162) (545,496) (1,015,408) (1,074,813) (1,464) (4,505,168) (4,428,176) Sri Lanka 20,264,515 22,867,551 Revenue from external customers 13,814,048 13,097,797 6,746,553 6,365,118 13,881,156 14,859,611 877,134 736,597 35,318,891 35,059,123 Maldives 8,971,134 7,790,829 Profit from operations 3,974,501 4,029,969 706,411 643,871 825,635 599,215 150,162 231,057 5,656,709 5,504,112 Other countries 4,642,783 1,173,566 Finance income 265,989 276,243 44,839 51,703 297,811 439,311 15,218 20,186 623,857 787,443 33,878,432 31,831,946 Finance expenses (237,587) (236,451) (60,596) (71,602) (595,628) (960,192) (7,719) (7,825) (901,530) (1,276,070) Investments in equity-accounted investees 5,403,518 3,367,589 Share of profit of equity-accounted Goodwill on consolidation 447,821 497,821 investees (net of tax) 227,326 257,198 44,830 81,400 84,772 121,080 (26,041) (30,217) 330,887 429,461 39,729,771 35,697,356 Profit before tax 4,230,229 4,326,959 735,484 705,372 612,590 199,414 131,620 213,201 5,709,923 5,444,946 Income tax expense (551,968) (602,566) (121,611) (137,465) (103,644) (83,927) (49,100) (41,499) (826,323) (865,457) 7 Revenue Profit for the year 3,678,261 3,724,393 613,873 567,907 508,946 115,487 82,520 171,702 4,883,600 4,579,489 Group Company Depreciation and amortisation 837,755 781,662 235,882 221,963 238,543 329,209 79,196 77,744 1,391,376 1,410,578 2014/2015 2013/2014 2014/2015 2013/2014 Impairment losses / (reversals) and Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 write offs (6,283) (1,549) 6,662 8,391 974,974 601,041 11,927 2,565 987,280 610,448 Rendering of services 31,011,252 31,410,606 528,080 547,152 Other non cash expenses 30,850 25,231 42,482 30,462 43,129 38,948 10,755 9,226 127,216 103,867 Sale of goods 3,852,346 3,163,735 There were no impairment losses or any reversals of impairment losses recognised directly in equity during the year. Lease interest income 455,293 484,782 Royalty income 65,094 65,094 Rs. 9.97 billion of revenue, which amounts to 28% of the Group’s total revenue for the year, is attributable to one customer (state owned enterprise) recorded 35,318,891 35,059,123 593,174 612,246 under the strategic investment sector. 6.1.2 Business segment analysis of group assets and liabilities 8 Other operating income Tourism sector Maritime & Strategic Services Total Group Company logistics sector investments sector 2014/2015 2013/2014 2014/2015 2013/2014 2014/2015 2013/2014 2014/2015 2013/2014 2014/2015 2013/2014 2014/2015 2013/2014 2014/2015 2013/2014 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Dividends from group subsidiaries and equity-accounted investees 966,551 639,479 Dividends on available-for-sale financial assets 2,742 3,069 142 125 Segment assets 29,979,653 24,866,154 7,235,126 7,179,046 19,426,671 22,014,526 2,713,376 2,990,215 59,354,826 57,049,941 Gain / (loss) on disposal of subsidiaries* 6,724 (128,974) Investments in equity Gain / (loss) on disposal of equity securities classified as available-for-sale financial assets (9,315) 26,570 6,212 -accounted investees 3,729,241 1,881,534 633,300 623,894 826,780 754,001 214,197 108,160 5,403,518 3,367,589 Gain / (loss) on disposal of property, plant and equipment 16,100 (96,669) 8,011 5,688 Goodwill on consolidation 447,821 497,821 Loss on disposal of investment property (12,543) (12,543) Assets classified as held for sale 226,923 149,125 Insurance income arising from loss of operation ** 350,967 391,365 Total assets 33,708,894 26,747,688 7,868,426 7,802,940 20,253,451 22,768,527 2,927,573 3,098,375 65,433,088 61,064,476 Net foreign exchange gain / (loss) 125,268 146,246 (5,913) 17,966 Segment liabilities 11,044,120 6,743,366 2,072,735 2,025,388 9,339,114 12,651,125 627,204 638,978 23,083,173 22,058,857 Sundry income 15,086 8,853 1,408 70 Eliminations / adjustments 70,465 79,172 507,572 466,891 847,437 650,785 Total liabilities 11,044,120 6,743,366 2,072,735 2,025,388 9,339,114 12,651,125 627,204 638,978 23,153,638 22,138,029 * Gain / (loss) on disposal of subsidiaries includes the loss on disposal of Ace Power Matara (Pvt) Ltd., and the surplus on the loss of control of Ahungalla Resorts (Pvt) Ltd., Additions to non current assets 5,870,907 900,588 576,077 221,427 486,620 137,436 60,199 54,517 6,993,803 1,313,968 a former subsidiary now accounted as a equity accounted investee. ** During 2013/2014, sixteen ocean villas of ADS Resorts (Pvt) Ltd.,(Adhaaran Select Huduranfushi) – Maldives was destroyed due to a fire. Insurance income reflected above is the compensation agreed by the insurance company for the loss of operations due to business interruption and loss of material for the two years. 164 Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2014 2015 165 Notes to the Financial Statements 9 Profit from operations 12 Income Tax Expense The income tax provision of Aitken Spence PLC., its subsidiaries and equity accounted investees which are resident in Sri Lanka have been calculated on Profit from operations is stated after charging the following: their adjusted profits at 28% in terms of the Inland Revenue Act No. 10 of 2006 and amendments thereto (other than in respect of companies set out in notes 12.1, 12.2 and 12.3 below). Group Company 2014/2015 2013/2014 2014/2015 2013/2014 Tax status of companies in the Group which are; Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 • Enjoying income tax exemptions/concessionary tax rates are given in note 12.1 • Incorporated in Sri Lanka and operating outside Sri Lanka are given in note 12.2 Cost of inventories and services 22,366,413 23,362,420 397,077 361,072 • Incorporated and operating outside Sri Lanka are given in note 12.3 Directors’ remuneration and fees 353,389 338,491 84,493 72,790 Auditors’ remuneration 12.1 Companies exempt from income tax /liable to tax at concessionary rates KPMG 11,517 10,296 1,050 950 Other Auditors 5,028 5,859 Companies exempt from tax Fees paid to Auditors for non-audit services Company Statute Period KPMG 2,986 1,560 2,047 391 Aitken Spence Hotels (International) Ltd Section 13(b) of the Inland Revenue Act No. 10 of 2006 Indefinite Other Auditors 6,248 3,684 Negombo Beach Resorts (Pvt) Ltd Section 17A of the Inland Revenue (Amendment) Act No. 08 of 2012 12 years from 1st year of profit Depreciation of property, plant and equipment and investment property 1,286,496 1,308,316 42,098 39,031 Aitken Spence C & T Investments (Pvt) Ltd Section 17A of the Inland Revenue (Amendment) Act No. 08 of 2012 10 years from 1st year of profit Amortisation of intangible assets and operating leases 104,880 102,262 22,529 24,509 Aitken Spence Resorts (Pvt) Ltd Section 17A of the Inland Revenue (Amendment) Act No. 08 of 2012 10 years from 1st year of profit Impairment losses / (reversals) and write offs Ace Apparels (Pvt) Ltd Section 16C of the Inland Revenue (Amendment) Act No. 08 of 2012 5 years from 1st year of profit Impairment of intangible assets 50,000 50,000 Ace Wind Power (Pvt) Limited Section 17 of BOI Law No. 4 of 1978 5 years ending 2018/2019 Impairment of finance lease receivables 957,179 Branford Hydropower (Pvt) Ltd Section 17 of BOI Law No. 4 of 1978 5 years ending 2018/2019 Impairment losses / (reversals) and write offs of trade & other receivables (20,051) 427,270 3,635 26,881 Ace Power Embilipitiya (Pvt) Ltd Section 17 of BOI Law No. 4 of 1978 10 years ended 2014/2015 Impairment losses / (reversals) of inventories 152 133,178 27 Logilink (Pvt) Ltd Section 17 of BOI Law No. 4 of 1978 5 years ended 2014/2015 Impairment of investments in subsidiaries 14,292 159,198 Operating lease payments 505,838 450,643 Companies liable to tax at concessionary rates Legal expenses 8,720 9,254 1,181 73 Company Tax Rate & Statute Period Defined contribution plan cost Provident Fund and Trust Fund 333,808 296,011 40,388 35,709 Ace Container Repair (Pvt) Ltd 12% under section 52 of the Inland Revenue Act No. 10 of 2006 Indefinite Defined contribution plan cost Overseas (Maldives, South India and Fiji) 57,858 52,664 Ace Exports (Pvt) Ltd 12% under section 52 & 56 of the Inland Revenue Act No. 10 of 2006 Indefinite Defined benefit plan cost Retirement benefits 127,216 103,867 18,669 17,222 Aitken Spence (Garments) Ltd 12% under section 52 of the Inland Revenue Act No. 10 of 2006 Indefinite Aitken Spence Apparels (Pvt) Ltd 12% under section 56 of the Inland Revenue Act No. 10 of 2006 Indefinite 10 Other operating expenses-direct Aitken Spence Hotel Holdings PLC 12% under section 46 of the Inland Revenue Act No. 10 of 2006 Indefinite Direct operating expenses as disclosed in the income statement refers to the cost of services other than staff costs which are directly related to revenue. Aitken Spence Hotel Managements (Pvt) Ltd 12% under section 46 of the Inland Revenue Act No. 10 of 2006 Indefinite Since most of the companies in the Group operate in service industries, other direct operating expenses represents a substantial portion of the total operating costs. Aitken Spence Hotels Ltd 12% under section 46 of the Inland Revenue Act No. 10 of 2006 Indefinite Aitken Spence Plantation Managements PLC 12% under section 46 of Inland Revenue Act No. 10 of 2006 Indefinite 11 Finance income and finance expenses Browns Beach Hotels PLC 12% under section 46 of the Inland Revenue Act No. 10 of 2006 Indefinite Group Company Elpitiya Plantations PLC Agricultural profits liable for tax at 10% under section 48A of Inland Indefinite 2014/2015 2013/2014 2014/2015 2013/2014 Revenue Act No. 10 of 2006 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Golden Sun Resorts (Pvt) Ltd 12% under section 46 of the Inland Revenue Act No. 10 of 2006 Indefinite Finance income Hethersett Hotels Ltd 12% under section 46 of the Inland Revenue Act No. 10 of 2006 Indefinite Interest income on financial assets classified as fair value through profit or loss 123,575 158,568 123,575 158,568 Kandalama Hotels Ltd 12% under section 46 of the Inland Revenue Act No. 10 of 2006 Indefinite Interest income on loans and receivables 499,250 628,875 314,427 449,685 MPS Hotels Ltd 12% under section 46 of the Inland Revenue Act No. 10 of 2006 Indefinite Dividend income on preference shares 11,813 11,813 Paradise Resort Pasikudah (Pvt) Ltd 12% under section 46 of the Inland Revenue Act No. 10 of 2006 Indefinite Net change in fair value of financial assets classified as fair value through profit or loss 1,032 Aitken Spence Property Developments (Pvt) Ltd 10% under section 17 of BOI Law No. 4 of 1978 2 years ended 2014/2015 20% under section 17 of BOI Law No. 4 of 1978 Indefinite 623,857 787,443 449,815 620,066 Vauxhall Property Developments (Pvt) Ltd 2% of turnover under section 17 of BOI Law No. 4 of 1978 15 years ending 2018/2019 Finance expenses Interest expense on financial liabilities measured at amortised cost (804,836) (1,173,110) (384,516) (509,732) In addition to the above, the following income tax exemptions / concessions are available to companies operating in the Group in terms of the Inland Revenue Net change in fair value of financial assets classified as fair value through profit or loss (1,529) (1,128) (530) Act No. 10 of 2006 and amendments thereto; Other finance charges (95,165) (101,832) (9,077) (8,882) • Profits and income earned in foreign currency (other than any commission, discount or similar receipt) from services rendered in or outside Sri Lanka to a (901,530) (1,276,070) (394,123) (518,614) party outside Sri Lanka for which payments received in foreign currency, are exempt from income tax in terms of section 13 (ddd). Borrowing costs capitalised by the Group on qualifying assets during the financial year amounted to Rs. 119.5 million.(2013/2014 nil). (Company-nil). The average • Profits and income from transhipment agency fees are liable to tax at the rate of 12% in terms of section 59. rate of borrowing costs eligible for capitalisation for the foreign currency borrowing was 3.98% and for the rupee denominated borrowing was 6.62%. 166 Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2014 2015 167 Notes to the Financial Statements • Profits and income earned in foreign currency from the supply of any services by an agent of a ship operator to such agent's foreign principal are liable to tax 12.5 Tax recognised in other comprehensive income at the rate of 12% in terms of section 58. Group • Profits and income from any undertaking for the operation and maintenance of facilities for storage, development of software and educational services 2014/2015 2013/2014 carried out in Sri Lanka are liable to tax at the rate of 10%. Before tax Tax (expense) Net of tax Before tax Tax (expense) Net of tax • Maximum of 25% qualifying payment deduction under section 34 (2)(s), for expansion purposes with investments in fixed assets of not less than / income / income Rs. 50 million made by any undertaking on or after April 1, 2011 but prior to April 1, 2014 on investments specified in section 16C or section 17A. Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Revaluation of property, plant and equipment 90,961 90,961 1,164,688 1,164,688 12.2 Companies Incorporated in Sri Lanka and operating outside Sri Lanka Actuarial gains / (losses) on defined benefit obligations (48,207) 7,478 (40,729) (51,302) 8,228 (43,074) Company Countries Operated Tax Status Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations (111,954) (111,954) 183,465 183,465 Aitken Spence Hotel Maldives, Oman Business profits liable to tax at 12% in Oman and income derived from Maldives is subject to Managements Asia (Pvt) Ltd withholding tax*. Such profits and income are exempt from tax in Sri Lanka, under Section 13 (b) of Net change in fair value of available-for-sale financial the Inland Revenue Act No. 10 of 2006 assets 71,109 71,109 (24,397) (24,397) Port Management Container Mozambique, Fiji Profits and income derived from Mozambique and Fiji are subject to withholding tax* and exempt Net change in fair value of available-for-sale financial Service (Pvt) Ltd from tax in Sri Lanka, under Section 13 (b) of the Inland Revenue Act No. 10 of 2006. assets reclassified to profit or loss 9,432 9,432 1,817 1,817 Share of other comprehensive income of equity* P rofits and income derived from the provision of services to non-resident companies operating in Maldives, Fiji and Mozambique are subject to withholding tax accounted investees (net of tax) (15,912) (15,912) 6,880 6,880 at 10%, 15% and 20% respectively. (4,571) 7,478 2,907 1,281,151 8,228 1,289,379 12.3 Companies Incorporated and operating outside Sri Lanka Tax recognised in other comprehensive income excludes, the Group’s share of tax expense of the equity-accounted investees recognised in the other comprehensive income of Rs. 3.0 million tax income (2013/2014 Rs. 1.5 million tax expense) which is included in ‘share of other comprehensive income of Company Country Tax Status equity-accounted investees (net of tax)’. Crest Star (BVI) Ltd British Virgin Islands Nil Crest Star Ltd Hong Kong Nil 12.6 Reconciliation of the accounting profit and tax for the current year Ace Aviation Services Maldives (Pvt) Ltd Maldives Liable at 15% as per Maldives tax law Group Company ADS Resorts (Pvt) Ltd Maldives Liable at 15% as per Maldives tax law 2014/2015 2013/2014 2014/2015 2013/2014 Cowrie Investments (Pvt) Ltd Maldives Liable at 15% as per Maldives tax law Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Interlifts International (Pvt) Ltd Maldives Liable at 15% as per Maldives tax law Profit before tax 5,709,923 5,444,946 675,238 423,076 Jetan Travel Services Company (Pvt) Ltd Maldives Liable at 15% as per Maldives tax law Consolidation adjustments (434,639) (538,660) Spence Maldives (Pvt) Ltd Maldives Liable at 15% as per Maldives tax law Profit after adjustments 5,275,284 4,906,286 675,238 423,076 Unique Resorts (Pvt) Ltd Maldives Liable at 15% as per Maldives tax law Income not liable for income tax (1,110,301) (1,243,803) (24,766) (12,743) Fiji Ports Terminal Ltd (Ports Terminal Ltd) Fiji Liable at 20% as per Fiji tax law Effect of revenue subject to tax at source 784,173 685,298 40,076 36,531 Aitken Spence Hotel Managements (South India) Pvt Ltd India Liable at 30.9% as per Indian tax law Adjusted profit 4,949,156 4,347,781 690,548 446,864 Aitken Spence Hotel Services (Pvt) Ltd India Liable at 30.9% as per Indian tax law Non taxable receipts / gains (49,230) (20,501) (966,550) (651,417) PR Holiday Homes Private Ltd India Liable at 30.9% as per Indian tax law Aggregate disallowed expenses 2,208,904 2,446,106 397,665 426,399 Ace Bangladesh Ltd Bangladesh Liable at 37.5% as per as per Bangladesh tax law Capital allowances (1,772,103) (2,166,887) (37,975) (52,780) Aggregate allowable deductions (984,117) (2,235,950) (87,119) (80,833) 12.4 Tax recognised in income statements Utilisation of tax losses (97,575) (135,740) (18,096) Group Company Qualifying payment deductions (83,176) (83,176) 2014/2015 2013/2014 2014/2015 2013/2014 Current year tax losses not utilised 427,711 2,456,694 43,507 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Taxable income 4,599,570 4,608,327 40,076 70,137 Current tax expense Tax on current year profits (note 12.6) 705,440 702,111 4,008 13,653 Income tax charged at; Under / (over) provision in respect of previous years (1,624) 4 48,042 Standard rate of 28% 92,647 111,340 10,000 Withholding tax on dividends paid by subsidiaries 83,711 64,089 Concessionary rate of 10% or 12% 97,640 101,581 787,527 766,204 52,050 13,653 Other rates 837 750 Deferred tax expense Varying rates on off shore profits 514,316 488,440 4,008 3,653 Deferred tax expense (note 12.7) 38,796 99,253 705,440 702,111 4,008 13,653 826,323 865,457 52,050 13,653 Income tax expense excludes, the Group’s share of tax expense of the equity-accounted investees recognised in profit/(loss) of Rs. 59.1 million (2013/2014 Rs. 75.6 million) which is included in ‘share of profit of equity-accounted investees (net of tax)’. 168 Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2014 2015 169 12.7 Deferred tax expense 14 Dividends per share Group Company 2014/2015 2013/2014 2014/2015 2013/2014 2014/2015 2013/2014 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Final ordinary dividend recommended Rs. 2.00 per share (2013/2014 Rs.2.00 per share) 811,992 811,992 Deferred tax expense arising from ; 811,992 811,992 Property, plant and equipment 77,860 41,286 The Directors have recommended a final dividend payment of Rs. 2.00 per share for the year ended 31st March 2015 to be approved at the Annual General Defined benefit obligations (4,339) (10,565) Meeting on 30 June 2015. Tax losses carried forward (25,191) 23,192 In compliance with Sri Lanka Accounting Standard LKAS 10 Events after the reporting period, the final dividend recommended is not recognised as a liability in Undistributed profits of consolidated entities (8,707) 46,817 the financial statements as at 31st March 2015. Deferred interest expense (300) Other items (827) (1,177) 15 Property, plant and equipments 38,796 99,253 15.1 Group 12.8 Tax losses carried forward Freehold Freehold Plant Motor Leasehold Furniture Capital Total Land buildings machinery vehicles motor and work-inGroup Company and vehicles fittings progress 2014/2015 2013/2014 2014/2015 2013/2014 equipment Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Tax losses brought forward 5,014,324 2,455,610 132,995 151,296 Cost or revaluation Adjustments to tax loss brought forward and tax losses arising during the year (802,979) 2,694,454 (49,753) (205) Balance as at 01st April 2014 8,506,328 13,619,801 8,353,104 2,615,518 23,774 1,557,708 1,126,972 35,803,205 Utilisation of tax losses (97,575) (135,740) (18,096) Surplus on revaluation* 90,961 90,961 4,113,770 5,014,324 83,242 132,995 Companies disposed during the year (284) (248,821) (609,229) (4,154) (862,488) Reclassified under equity-accounted investees (855,000) (142,664) (997,664) As specified above, some companies in the Group have carried forward tax losses which are available to be set off against the future tax profits of those Exchange difference (3,113) 135,040 22,468 (108,171) 2,441 6,868 2,246 57,779 companies. Deferred tax assets not accounted in respect of these losses amounted to Rs. 587.0 million (2013/2014 Rs. 888.2 million). Deferred tax asset not Additions 507,349 764,203 783,552 274,207 11,924 85,833 4,050,349 6,477,417 accounted on the carried forward losses of the Company amounted to Rs. 23.3 million (2013/2014 Rs. 37.2 million). Transfers (12,467) 11,181 1,286 Disposals / write-off (4,135) (72,999) (74,335) (8,305) (4,149) (138,265) (302,188) 12.9 Super Gain Tax Balance as at 31st March 2015 8,246,241 14,253,621 8,488,077 2,707,219 29,834 1,643,392 4,898,638 40,267,022 The interim budget proposals presented by the Minister of Finance on 29th January 2015 and the pursuant bill gazetted on 30th March 2015, impose a one off tax of 25% on taxable profits for the year of assessment 2013/2014 on any company or each company in a group of companies, if the company’s/Group’s profit before Accumulated depreciation income tax exceeds Rs. 2,000 million. Balance as at 01st April 2014 3,838,741 4,439,649 1,706,944 9,833 1,008,717 11,003,884 In the absence of applicability and measurement criteria for the computation of this tax at the time of publishing these financial statements, the Group is not in a Companies disposed during the year (102,719) (476,747) (2,387) (581,853) position to assess the impact of this one-off tax on these financials for the year ended 31 March 2015 and therefore no provision has been made on account of the Exchange difference 48,662 12,990 (79,672) 1,860 4,747 (11,413) said tax in these financial statements. Charge for the year 397,755 551,239 220,497 12,119 104,886 1,286,496 The liability will be recognised in the financial statements when the bill is enacted. Transfers (4,530) 4,596 (66) Disposals / write-off (336) (60,602) (56,484) (7,996) (1,305) (126,723) 13 Earnings per share Balance as at 31st March 2015 4,177,573 4,471,125 1,791,285 15,816 1,114,592 11,570,391 Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the net profit for the year attributable to equity holders of the company, by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year. Carrying amount as at 31st March 2015 8,246,241 10,076,048 4,016,952 915,934 14,018 528,800 4,898,638 28,696,631 Carrying amount as at 31st March 2014 8,506,328 9,781,060 3,913,455 908,574 13,941 548,991 1,126,972 24,799,321 The following reflects the income and share data used in the basic earnings per share computations. * Related to revaluation of land prior to reclasification of Ahungalla Resorts Ltd., under equity-accounted investees. Group Company The value of property, plant and equipment pledged by the Group as security for facilities obtained from banks amounted to Rs.651.7 million 2014/2015 2013/2014 2014/2015 2013/2014 (2013/2014Rs. 668.8 million). Net profit attributable to ordinary shareholders of the parent (Rs.) 3,579,007,541 3,671,870,041 623,187,932 409,422,660 Capital work-in-progress represents the amount of expenditure recognised under property plant and equipment during the construction of a capital asset. Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue 405,996,045 405,996,045 405,996,045 405,996,045 The exchange difference has arisen as a result of the translation of property, plant and equipment of foreign operations which are accounted for in foreign Earnings per share (Rs.) 8.82 9.04 1.53 1.01 currencies and translated to the reporting currency at the closing date. There were no potentially dilutive ordinary shares outstanding at any time during the year, hence diluted earnings per share is equal to the basic earnings per share. In compliance with the accounting policy, the Group revalues land owned by the Group companies by independent professional valuers at least once in every five years. Details of the revalued land are given in the note 15.3.1 to the financial statements. There were no tax implications or tax liabilities arising due to the revaluation of land. On re-assessment of the fair value of the Group’s assets, it has been identified that there is no permanent impairment of property plant & equipment which requires provision in the financial statements. Property plant and equipment as at 31st March 2015 includes fully depreciated assets having a gross carrying amount (cost) of Rs.1,735.1 million that are still in use. 170 Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2014 2015 171 Notes to the Financial Statements 15.2 Company Company Location Last Extent Carrying Revaluation Carrying revaluation amount surplus amount Plant Motor Furniture Total date as at 31.03.2015 and at cost machinery vehicles and exchange and fittings difference equipment Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Golden Sun Resorts (Pvt) Ltd.a 418, Parallel Road, Kudawaskaduwa, 20.10.2012 5 A 1R 37.90 P 280,500 260,727 19,773 Cost or revaluation Kalutara Balance as at 01st April 2014 132,612 134,061 91,525 358,198 Golden Sun Resorts (Pvt) Ltd.a 49, Sea Beach Road, Kalutara 20.10.2012 0 A 1R 30.32 P 21,000 19,520 1,480 Additions 13,613 28,091 897 42,601 Heritance (Pvt) Ltd.a Moragalla, Beruwala 23.01.2014 5 A 3 R 6.80 P 278,000 266,920 11,080 Disposals (1,095) (25,806) (26,901) Kandalama Hotels Ltd.a Kandalama, Dambulla 23.01.2014 169 A 2 R 22.00 P 9,000 1,616 7,384 Balance as at 31st March 2015 145,130 136,346 92,422 373,898 Logilink (Pvt) Ltd.a 309/4 a, Negombo Road, Welisara 24.01.2014 2 A 1 R 9.50 P 129,325 46,834 82,491 M.P.S. Hotels Ltd.a 200/21, Peradeniya Road, Kandy 29.01.2014 3 A 3 R 1.52 P 300,500 59,324 241,176 Accumulated depreciation Neptune Ayurvedic Village (Pvt) Ltd.a Ayurvedic village Moragalla, 23.01.2014 0 A 0 R 19.30 P 4,425 362 4,063 Balance as at 01st April 2014 111,943 60,650 41,638 214,231 Beruwala Charge for the year 10,996 20,406 7,946 39,348 PR Holiday Homes Private Ltd.c Cochin Kerala, India 31.03.2012 14 A 0 R 7.52 P 186,026 41,886 144,140 Disposals (1,061) (21,807) (22,868) Vauxhall Investments Ltd.b 316, K. Cyril C. Perera Mw., Colombo 13 14.06.2013 0 A 1 R 21.08 P 137,430 115,591 21,839 Balance as at 31st March 2015 121,878 59,249 49,584 230,711 Vauxhall Property Developments Ltd.a 305, Vauxhall Street, Colombo 02 31.03.2014 0 A 2 R 24.73 P 549,832 535,101 14,731 7,656,658 6,283,000 1,373,658 Carrying amount as at 31st March 2015 23,252 77,097 42,838 143,187 The above land have been revalued by independent, qualified valuers on the basis of current market value. Carrying amount as at 31st March 2014 20,669 73,411 49,887 143,967 a Valuation of the land was carried out by Mr. K.C.B Condegama, A.I.V (Sri Lanka) There was no property plant and equipment pledged by the Company as security for facilities obtained from banks. b Valuation of the land was carried out by Mr. Arthur Perera, A.M.I.V. (Sri Lanka) c Valuation of the land was carried out by Mr. T.T. Kripananda Singh, B.S.C.(Engg.) Civil, MICA, FIE, FIV, C.(Engg.) of N. Raj Kumar and Associates, India. Property plant and equipment as at 31st March 2015 includes fully depreciated assets having a gross carrying amount (cost) of Rs. 110.7 million that are still in use. 15.3 Freehold land 15.3.2 Land carried at cost / fair value 15.3.1 Land carried at revalued amount Company Location Acquisition date Extent Carrying amount as at 31.03.2015 Company Location Last Extent Carrying Revaluation Carrying Rs.’000 revaluation amount surplus amount date as at 31.03.2015 and at cost Aitken Spence Hotel Holdings PLC. “Heritance Ahungalla”, Galle Road, Ahungalla 10.06.2013 0 A 0 R 39.26 P 5,207 exchange Ace Containers (Pvt) Ltd. No.377, Negombo Road, Welisara, Ragama 18.07.2013 1 A 1 R 17.80 P 87,065 difference Perumbalam Resorts (Pvt) Ltd. Cochin Kerala, India 30.04.2012 4 A 0 R 9.00 P 8,851 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Aitken Spence Hotel Managements 144/7, Rajiv Gandhi Salai, Kottivakkam, OMR, Chennai, 09.06 2014 0 A 3 R 15.14 P 488,460 Aitken Spence PLC. a 315, Vauxhall Street, Colombo 02 31.03.2014 1 A 0 R 12.78 P 907,095 905,938 1,157 (South India) Ltd. India Aitken Spence PLC.b 316, K. Cyril C. Perera Mw., Colombo 13 14.06.2013 1 A 0 R 20.40 P 402,570 397,579 4,991 589,583 Aitken Spence PLC.a 170, Sri Wickrema Mw., Colombo 15 27.01.2014 3 A 3 R 31.00 P 313,000 270,039 42,961 Aitken Spence PLC.a Moragalla, Beruwala 21.01.2014 10 A 1 R 23.97 P 540,750 539,796 954 15.3.3 Total carrying amount of land Aitken Spence PLC.a 290/1, Inner Harbour Road, Trincomalee 15.03.2014 0 A 1 R 4.95 P 14,500 14,500 Carrying amount as Ace Containers (Pvt) Ltd.a 775/5, Negombo Road, Wattala 24.01.2014 22 A 0 R 24.88 P 1,329,300 1,233,909 95,391 at 31.03.2015 Ace Containers (Pvt) Ltd.a 385, Colombo Road, Welisara 24.01.2014 8 A 3 R 12.23 P 458,975 372,302 86,673 Rs.’000 Ace Distriparks (Pvt) Ltd.a 80, Negombo Road, Wattala 24.01.2014 2 A 2 R 17.03 P 417,000 47,438 369,562 Land carried at revalued amount 7,656,658 Meeraladuwa (Pvt) Ltd. a Meeraladuwa Island, Ahungalla 23.01.2014 29 A 2 R 9.00 P 450,830 350,568 100,262 Land carried at cost 589,583 Aitken Spence (Garments) Ltd.a 222, Agalawatte Road, Matugama 08.02.2014 2A3R0P 25,300 20,140 5,160 8,246,241 Aitken Spence Hotel Holdings PLC.a “Heritance Ahungalla”, Galle Road, 31.03.2012 11 A 3 R 34.02 P 565,000 547,559 17,441 Ahungalla Aitken Spence Property Developments 90, St. Rita’s Estate, Mawaramandiya. 06.02.2014 3 A 0 R 25.08 P 50,500 26,072 24,428 Ltd.a Aitken Spence Resorts Ltd.a Kudawaskaduwa, Kalutara 21.01.2014 1 A 3 R 23.20 P 86,000 34,022 51,978 Aitken Spence Resorts Ltd.a Kudawaskaduwa, Kalutara 21.01.2014 0 A 1 R 34.30 P 16,700 2,725 13,975 Branford Hydropower (Pvt) Ltd.a 263, 1st lane, Gangabada Road, 14.03.2014 2 A 0 R 14.00 P 13,350 2,817 10,533 Kaludewala, Matale Clark Spence and Co., Ltd.a 24-24/1, Church Street, Galle 04.03.2014 0 A 1 R 27.90 P 169,750 169,715 35 172 Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2014 2015 173 Notes to the Financial Statements 16 Investment property 17 Intangible assets 16.1 Movement during the year 17.1 Group Group Company Goodwill Software Other Total 2014/2015 2013/2014 2014/2015 2013/2014 intangibles Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Cost or revaluation Cost or valuation Balance at the beginning of the period 1,648,301 1,663,350 3,494,039 3,509,088 Balance as at 01st April 2014 596,590 321,406 1,884 919,880 Disposals / write-off (15,049) (15,049) Exchange difference 757 757 Balance at the end of the period 1,648,301 1,648,301 3,494,039 3,494,039 Additions 7,163 378 7,541 Balance as at 31st March 2015 596,590 329,326 2,262 928,178 Accumulated depreciation Balance at the beginning of the period 1,754 54,094 53,093 Accumulated amortisation / impairment Charge for the year 752 2,750 3,507 Balance as at 01st April 2014 98,769 219,692 492 318,953 Disposals / write-off (2,506) (2,506) Exchange difference 727 727 Balance at the end of the period 56,844 54,094 Amortisation for the year 50,596 731 51,327 Carrying amount as at 31st March 1,648,301 1,648,301 3,437,195 3,439,945 Impairment during the year 50,000 50,000 Balance as at 31st March 2015 148,769 271,015 1,223 421,007 16.2 Details of land under investment property Location Extent Carrying value of Number of Carrying amount as at 31st March 2015 447,821 58,311 1,039 507,171 investment property buildings Carrying amount as at 31st March 2014 497,821 101,714 1,392 600,927 Group Company There were no intangible assets pledged by the Group as security for facilities obtained from the banks. Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Intangible assets as at 31st March 2015 includes fully amortised assets having a gross carrying amount (cost) of Rs. 113.2 million that are still in use. 315, Vauxhall Street, Colombo 02 1 A 0 R 12.78 P 900,000 2 316, K. Cyril C. Perera Mw., Colombo 13 1 A 0 R 20.40 P 223,650 3 The recoverable amount of goodwill is determined based on value-in-use calculations. These calculations use cash flow projections based on financial budgets 170, Sri Wickrema Mw., Colombo 15 3 A 3 R 31.00 P 193,605 8 approved by management covering five year periods. The key assumptions used are given below; Moragalla, Beruwala 10 A 1 R 23.97 P 548,439 9 Business growth – Based on the long term average growth rate for each business unit. 290/1, Inner Harbour Road, Trincomalee 0 A 1 R 4.95 P 12,700 1 The weighted average growth rate used is consistent with the forecast included in industry reports. Irakkakandi Village, VC road, Nilaweli 113 A 1 R 1.00 P 1,630,801 1,558,801 Inflation – Based on current inflation rate. 3/2, Seewali lane, Kudaedanda, Wattala 0 A 0 R 36.10 P 17,500 Discount rate – Risk free rate adjusted for the specific risk relating to the industry. 1,648,301 3,437,195 Margin – Based on past performance and budgeted expectations. Properties which are occupied by the companies within the Group for the production or supply of goods and services or for administration purposes are treated as property plant and equipment in the consolidated financial statements. These properties are treated as investment property in the relevant company’s statement 17.2 Company of financial position, if such company has rented out the property to other Group companies. Software 2014/2015 2013/2014 16.3 Market value Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Investment properties in the Group are accounted for on the cost model. The open market value of the above properties based on the Directors valuation as at 31st March 2015 and 31st March 2014 for the Group was Rs. 1,648 million and for the company was Rs. 3,792 million (2013/2014 Rs. 3,794 million). Cost or valuation Balance at the beginning of the period 159,912 158,381 16.4 Income earned from investment property Additions 332 1,531 Total rent income earned by the company from the investment property during the year was Rs. 18.1 million (2013/2014 Rs. 15.7 million) (Group-nil). There were Balance at the end of the period 160,244 159,912 no direct operating expenses arising on any of the above investment properties. There were no restrictions on the realisability of any investment property or on the remittance of income or proceeds of disposal. Accumulated amortisation Balance at the beginning of the period 106,853 82,344 Charge for the year 22,529 24,509 Balance at the end of the period 129,382 106,853 Carrying amount as at 31st March 30,862 53,059 There were no intangible assets pledged by the Company as security for facilities obtained from the banks. Intangible assets as at 31st March 2015 includes fully amortised assets having a gross carrying amount (cost) of Rs. 51.9 million that are still in use. 174 Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2014 2015 175 Notes to the Financial Statements 18 Leasehold properties 19.3 Details of leases under operating lease Group Company Location of the leased properties Unexpired lease periods 2014/2015 2013/2014 Kandalama Hotels Ltd. Dambulla 27 years Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Hethersett Hotels Ltd. Nuwara Eliya 79 years Cost Jetan Travel Services Company (Pvt) Ltd. * ** Maldives 26 years Balance at the beginning of the period 1,830,220 1,776,460 Cowrie Investments (Pvt) Ltd. * ** Maldives 33 years Exchange difference 41,371 53,760 ADS Resorts (Pvt) Ltd. * ** Maldives 11 years Additions 464,842 Unique Resorts (Pvt) Ltd. * ** Maldives 30 years Balance at the end of the period 2,336,433 1,830,220 Ace Container Terminals (Pvt) Ltd. * Biyagama 72 years Ace Container Terminals (Pvt) Ltd. * Katunayake 72 years Accumulated amortisation Ace Power Embilipitiya (Pvt) Ltd. Embilipitiya 18 years Balance at the beginning of the period 369,120 312,530 Branford Hydropower (Pvt) Ltd. Matale 18 years Exchange difference 8,128 9,458 Ace Windpower (Pvt) Ltd Ambewela 12 years Amortisation for the period 52,658 47,132 Ace Apparels (Pvt) Ltd. * Koggala 49 years Balance at the end of the period 429,906 369,120 Fiji Ports Terminal Ltd. Fiji 12 years Carrying amount as at 31st March 1,906,527 1,461,100 Leasehold properties represent the acquisition cost of leasehold rights of some of the hotel properties in the Maldives. The amount paid for the acquisition of the 20 Finance lease receivable leasehold rights of A’arah island during the year is recognised under additions during the year. The power plant owned by Ace Power Embilipitiya (Pvt) Ltd., which is being operated in accordance with a power purchase agreement entered into with the Ceylon Electricity Board, is recognized under IFRIC 4, and the arrangement is accounted as a finance lease where Ace Power Embilipitiya (Pvt) Ltd., is treated as the lessor. The non escalable capacity charge in the tariff which is included in income is treated as the capital and interest recovery of the lease. 19 Operating leases Due to the expiry of the above power purchasing agreement on 06th April 2015 the residual value of the asset as at 31st March 2015 was re-assessed based 19.1 Pre-paid operating leases on the market price of the asset and the residual value was reduced to the value obtained from the equipment manufacturer.The decrease in residual value Group amounted to Rs. 957 million. 2014/2015 2013/2014 20.1 Movement during the year Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Balance at the beginning of the period 1,010,249 980,731 Group Additions during the period 44,003 2014/2015 2013/2014 Amortisation for the period (895) (50) Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Exchange difference 19,943 29,568 Balance at the beginning of the period 2,392,832 2,494,055 Balance at the end of the period 1,073,300 1,010,249 Settlements during the period (147,725) (176,776) Current portion of pre-paid operating leases 930 50 Impairment for the year (957,179) Non current portion of pre-paid operating leases 1,072,370 1,010,199 Exchange difference 45,272 75,553 Balance at the end of the period 1,333,200 2,392,832 Prepaid lease rentals for the properties marked “*” in note 19.3 are recognised under pre-paid operating leases. Amortisation for properties marked “**” in note 19.3 will commence on or after the financial year 2016/2017. Current portion of finance lease receivables 1,333,200 146,948 Non current portion of finance lease receivables 2,245,884 19.2 Operating lease commitments Lease rentals due on non-cancellable operating leases of the Group are as follows; 20.2 Ageing of gross finance lease receivable and present value of lease receivable 31.03.2015 31.03.2014 Group Gross Unearned Present value Gross Unearned Present value 31.03.2015 31.03.2014 investment income investment income Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Lease rentals payable within one year 504,152 508,912 Not Later than one year 1,333,200 1,333,200 600,118 453,170 146,948 Lease rentals payable between one and five years 2,354,880 2,368,030 One to five years 2,245,884 2,245,884 Lease rentals payable after five years 7,312,789 7,766,098 Over five years 10,171,821 10,643,040 1,333,200 1,333,200 2,846,002 453,170 2,392,832 176 Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2014 2015 177 Notes to the Financial Statements 21 Investments in subsidiaries Country of Number of Company Group Non31.03.2015 31.03.2014 incorporation shares holding holding controlling 21.1 Investments in subsidiaries unquoted holding Country of Number of Company Group Non31.03.2015 31.03.2014 % % % Rs.’000 Rs.’000 incorporation shares holding holding controlling Ace Power Generation Horana (Pvt) Ltd. Sri Lanka 200,470 holding Ace Power Generation Matara (Pvt) Ltd. Sri Lanka 215,234 % % % Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Ace Aviation Services Maldives (Pvt) Ltd. Maldives 490 49.00 49.00 51.00 639 a) Ordinary Shares Interlifts International (Pvt) Ltd. Maldives 38,550 65.00 65.00 35.00 3,258 Ace Apparels (Pvt) Ltd. Sri Lanka 13,100,000 100.00 100.00 131,000 Ace Alliance Power Ltd. (a) Bangladesh 6,400 64.00 64.00 36.00 96 96 Ace Cargo (Pvt) Ltd. (c) Sri Lanka 990,000 100.00 100.00 245,173 245,173 Alliance Spence Power Ltd. (a) Bangladesh 5,100 51.00 51.00 49.00 80 80 Ace Container Repairs (Pvt) Ltd. (c) Sri Lanka 2,250,000 100.00 100.00 22,500 22,500 Fiji Ports Terminal Ltd. (a) (c) Fiji Islands 1,572,993 51.00 51.00 49.00 749,242 749,242 Ace Container Terminals (Pvt) Ltd. (c) Sri Lanka 1,550,002 100.00 100.00 15,500 15,500 A E Lanka (Pvt) Ltd. * Sri Lanka 100.00 Ace Containers (Pvt) Ltd. (c) Sri Lanka 4,010,000 100.00 100.00 40,100 40,100 Aitken Spence Aviation (Pvt) Ltd. (a) * Sri Lanka 100.00 Ace Distriparks (Pvt) Ltd. (c) Sri Lanka 8,900,000 100.00 100.00 89,000 89,000 Aitken Spence Resources (Pvt) Ltd. * Sri Lanka 100.00 Ace Exports (Pvt) Ltd. Sri Lanka 1,400,000 100.00 100.00 14,000 14,000 Aitken Spence Shipping Services Ltd. (c)* Sri Lanka 100.00 Ace Freight Management (Pvt) Ltd. (c) Sri Lanka 5,222,500 100.00 100.00 36,307 36,307 Clark Spence and Company (Pvt) Ltd. (c) * Sri Lanka 100.00 Ace International Express (Pvt) Ltd. (c) Sri Lanka 10,000 100.00 100.00 100 100 Port Management Container Services (Pvt) Ltd. (c)* Sri Lanka 100.00 Ace Printing and Packaging (Pvt) Ltd. Sri Lanka 10,000 100.00 100.00 100 100 Aitken Spence Resorts (Pvt) Ltd. * Sri Lanka 74.49 25.51 Ace Windpower (Pvt) Ltd. Sri Lanka 13,250,000 100.00 100.00 132,500 132,500 Golden Sun Resorts (Pvt) Ltd. * Sri Lanka 74.49 25.51 Aitken Spence Apparels (Pvt) Ltd. Sri Lanka 1,500,000 100.00 100.00 15,000 15,000 M.P.S. Hotels (Pvt) Ltd. * Sri Lanka 74.49 25.51 Aitken Spence Cargo (Pvt) Ltd. (c) Sri Lanka 10,000 100.00 100.00 820 820 Neptune Ayurvedic Village (Pvt) Ltd. * Sri Lanka 74.49 25.51 Aitken Spence Exports (Pvt) Ltd. Sri Lanka 52,500 100.00 100.00 514 514 Heritance (Pvt) Ltd. * Sri Lanka 73.00 27.00 Aitken Spence Group Ltd. (b) (c) Sri Lanka 10,000 100.00 100.00 100 100 Aitken Spence Hotels Ltd. * Sri Lanka 72.99 27.01 Aitken Spence Hotel Managements (Pvt) Ltd. Sri Lanka 4,020,000 100.00 100.00 40,200 40,200 Hethersett Hotels Ltd. * Sri Lanka 65.22 34.78 Aitken Spence Insurance (Pvt) Ltd. Sri Lanka 10,000 100.00 100.00 100 100 Hapag-Lloyd Lanka (Pvt) Ltd. (a) (c)* Sri Lanka 60.00 40.00 Aitken Spence Insurance Brokers (Pvt) Ltd. Sri Lanka 150,000 100.00 100.00 1,500 1,500 Shipping & Cargo Logistics (Pvt) Ltd. (a) (c)* Sri Lanka 50.00 50.00 Aitken Spence Maritime Ltd. (c) Sri Lanka 140,000 100.00 100.00 1,400 1,400 Aitken Spence Hotel Managements (South India) India 86.99 13.01 Aitken Spence Printing and Packaging (Pvt) Ltd. Sri Lanka 10,000,000 100.00 100.00 100,000 100,000 Ltd. * Aitken Spence Shipping Ltd. (c) Sri Lanka 2,038,072 100.00 100.00 132,717 132,717 Aitken Spence Hotel Services (Pvt) Ltd.* India 86.99 13.01 Aitken Spence Technologies (Pvt) Ltd. (b) Sri Lanka 1,577,506 100.00 100.00 13,888 13,888 PR Holiday Homes (Pvt) Ltd. * India 73.57 26.43 Branford Hydropower (Pvt) Ltd. Sri Lanka 16,400,100 100.00 100.00 223,000 223,000 Perumbalam Resorts (Pvt) Ltd. * India 73.57 26.43 Logilink (Pvt) Ltd. (c) Sri Lanka 30,000,000 100.00 100.00 222,690 222,690 Crest Star Ltd. * Hongkong 74.49 25.51 Royal Spence Aviation (Pvt) Ltd. Sri Lanka 50,000 100.00 100.00 500 500 Crest Star (BVI) Ltd. (a)* British Virgin 74.49 25.51 Spence International (Pvt) Ltd. (c) Sri Lanka 1,500,000 100.00 100.00 15,000 15,000 Islands Spence Logistics (Pvt) Ltd. (c) Sri Lanka 25,000 100.00 100.00 650 650 ADS Resorts (Pvt) Ltd. * Maldives 86.99 13.01 Triton (Pvt) Ltd. Sri Lanka 10,000 100.00 100.00 50 50 Unique Resorts (Pvt) Ltd. * Maldives 86.99 13.01 Vauxhall Cargo Logistics (Pvt) Ltd. (c) Sri Lanka 10,000,000 100.00 100.00 50,000 50,000 Jetan Travel Services Company (Pvt) Ltd. * Maldives 70.77 29.23 Vauxhall Investments (Pvt) Ltd. Sri Lanka 1,320,000 100.00 100.00 13,200 13,200 Spence Maldives (Pvt) Ltd. (c) * Maldives 60.00 40.00 Vauxhall Property Developments (Pvt) Ltd. Sri Lanka 11,270,000 100.00 100.00 153,401 153,401 Cowrie Investments (Pvt) Ltd. (a)* Maldives 44.69 55.31 Aitken Spence Developments (Pvt) Ltd. (c) Sri Lanka 46,000 92.00 92.00 8.00 1,825 1,825 5,223,513 5,500,080 Aitken Spence Property Developments (Pvt) Ltd. (b) Sri Lanka 74,865,000 90.00 99.96 0.04 748,650 748,650 b) Preference Shares Western Power Company (Pvt) Ltd. Sri Lanka 80 80.00 80.00 20.00 200,000 200,000 Aitken Spence Aviation (Pvt) Ltd. Sri Lanka 500,000 100.00 100.00 5,000 5,000 Elevators (Pvt) Ltd. (a) Sri Lanka 154,686 77.35 77.35 22.65 11,542 7,302 Aitken Spence Hotel Holdings PLC. (a) Sri Lanka 16,500,000 100.00 100.00 165,000 165,000 Aitken Spence Moscow (Pvt) Ltd. Sri Lanka 37,500 75.00 75.00 25.00 375 375 Aitken Spence (Garments) Ltd. Sri Lanka 4,000,000 72.70 72.70 27.30 40,000 40,000 Ace Power Embilipitiya (Pvt) Ltd. (a) Sri Lanka 124,033,413 74.00 74.00 26.00 1,404,415 1,404,415 210,000 210,000 Ace Aviation Services (Pvt) Ltd. (c)* Sri Lanka 26,251 50.00 100.00 263 263 Provision for impairment of investments (151,317) (328,705) Aitken Spence (Garments) Ltd. Sri Lanka 998,750 50.00 50.00 50.00 26,257 26,257 5,282,196 5,381,375 MMBL Money Transfer (Pvt) Ltd. (a) (b) Sri Lanka 3,000,000 50.00 50.00 50.00 35,566 35,566 Aitken Spence Hotel Management Asia (Pvt) Ltd. Sri Lanka 4,924,500 49.00 86.99 13.01 49,245 49,245 (b)* Aitken Spence Hotels International (Pvt) Ltd. * Sri Lanka 10,323,225 49.00 86.99 13.01 99,000 99,000 Kandalama Hotels (Pvt) Ltd. * Sri Lanka 6,000,000 37.00 82.99 17.01 182,050 182,050 Aitken Spence Corporate Finance (Pvt) Ltd. Sri Lanka 2 100.00 100.00 178 Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2014 2015 179 Notes to the Financial Statements 21.2 Investment in subsidiaries quoted 22 Investments in equity-accounted investees Country of Number of Company Group Non31.03.2015 31.03.2014 Note Group Company incorporation shares holding holding controlling 31.03.2015 31.03.2014 31.03.2015 31.03.2014 holding Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 % % % Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Recognised in statement of financial position Aitken Spence Hotel Holdings PLC. Sri Lanka 239,472,667 71.20 74.49 25.51 2,458,287 2,458,287 (a) (Ordinary Shares) Interest in joint ventures 22.1.1 3,061,899 1,273,093 333,980 202,576 2,458,287 2,458,287 Interest in associates 22.2.1 2,341,619 2,094,496 165,000 165,000 Market value of quoted investments as at 31st March 16,044,669 16,763,087 Carrying amount as at 31st March 5,403,518 3,367,589 498,980 367,576 Recognised in income statement 21.3 Carrying amount as at 31st March Interest in joint ventures 22.1.2 261,053 273,394 Investment in subsidiaries unquoted 5,282,196 5,381,375 Interest in associates 22.2.2 69,834 156,067 Investment in subsidiaries quoted 2,458,287 2,458,287 Share of profit of equity-accounted investees (net of tax) 330,887 429,461 7,740,483 7,839,662 Recognised in statement of profit or loss and other comprehensive income During the period under review the Company impaired an investment in the renewable power sector and recognised an impairment loss of Rs.50 million under other Interest in joint ventures 22.1.2 (4,205) (6,005) operating expenses indirect, in the income statement. Interest in associates 22.2.2 (11,707) 12,885 * Investments are held by one of the following companies Aitken Spence Hotel Holdings PLC., Aitken Spence Hotels Ltd., Ace Cargo (Pvt) Ltd., Triton Ltd., Aitken Spence Shipping Share of other comprehensive income of equity-accounted investees (net of tax) (15,912) 6,880 Ltd., Aitken Spence Cargo (Pvt) Ltd., Aitken Spence Maritime Ltd., Aitken Spence Hotels (International) Ltd., Crest Star (BVI) Ltd., Aitken Spence Hotel Management Asia (Pvt) Ltd., Aitken Spence Hotel Management (Pvt) Ltd., Vauxhall Property Developments (Pvt) Ltd., Port Management Container Services (Pvt) Ltd., or PR Holiday Homes (Pvt) Ltd. 22.1 Interest in joint ventures The value of shares pledged by the Group as securities for facilities obtained from banks amounted to Rs.112.5 million (2013/2014 223 million) Principal activities of the Group’s interest in subsidiaries are described in pages 236 to 241. 22.1.1 Investment in joint ventures a,b,c refer note 44 Group Company No. of Holding 31.03.2015 31.03.2014 No. of Holding 31.03.2015 31.03.2014 21.4 Non-controlling interests shares % Rs.’000 Rs.’000 shares % Rs.’000 Rs.’000 The following table summarises the financial information relating to each of the Group’s subsidiaries that has material non-controlling interests, before any intra-group Aitken Spence Travels (Pvt) Ltd. (a) (consolidated with 1,704,000 50.00 60,876 60,876 1,704,000 50.00 60,876 60,876 eliminations. Ace Travels & Conventions (Pvt) Ltd.* and Aitken 31.03.2015 31.03.2014 Spence Overseas Travel Services (Pvt) Ltd.*) Aitken Other Total Aitken Other Total (Ordinary shares Unquoted) Spence Hotel individually Spence Hotel individually Aitken Spence C & T Investments (Pvt) Ltd. (a) (b) 14,170,000 50.00 141,700 141,700 14,170,000 50.00 141,700 141,700 Holding PLC immaterial Holding PLC immaterial (Ordinary shares Unquoted) and Group subsidiaries and Group subsidiaries EcoCorp Asia (Pvt) Ltd. 125,100 50.00 131,404 125,100 50.00 131,404 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 (Ordinary shares Unquoted) Non current assets 22,776,605 16,745,283 Ahungalla Resorts Ltd. * 33,846,957 60.00 1,586,852 Current assets 10,011,662 9,231,645 Colombo International Nautical and Engineering 253,334 40.00 502,950 502,950 Non current liabilities (5,707,821) (3,235,046) College (Pvt) Ltd. (a)(c)* Current liabilities (5,211,214) (3,574,040) (consolidated with Cinec Skills (Pvt) Ltd) Net assets 21,869,232 19,167,842 (Ordinary shares Unquoted) Carrying amount of non-controlling interests 5,709,105 1,548,544 7,257,649 5,076,986 1,590,903 6,667,889 Ace Bangladesh Ltd. (a) * 7,350 49.00 4,790 4,790 Revenue 13,270,918 12,947,076 (Ordinary shares Unquoted) Profit for the year 3,435,622 3,517,015 Delta Shipping (Pvt) Ltd. * 128 Other comprehensive income for the year, (net of tax) 138,795 514,461 (Ordinary shares Unquoted) Total comprehensive income for the year 3,574,417 4,031,476 Carrying amount as at 31st March 2,428,572 710,444 333,980 202,576 Profit for the year allocated to non-controlling interests 924,825 379,767 1,304,592 918,322 (10,703) 907,619 Share of movement in equity value 633,327 562,649 Other comprehensive income for the year, (net of tax) 55,450 (47,041) 8,409 152,012 11,374 163,386 Equity value of investments 3,061,899 1,273,093 333,980 202,576 allocated to non-controlling interests Total comprehensive income for the year 980,275 332,726 1,313,001 1,070,334 671 1,071,005 allocated to non-controlling interests Cash flows from operating activities 3,986,307 3,820,890 Cash flows from investing activities (6,137,551) (3,446,368) Cash flows from financing activities 2,412,926 (607,312) Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 261,682 (232,790) Dividends paid to non-controlling interests 347,533 241,408 588,941 329,719 72,712 402,431 180 Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2014 2015 181 Notes to the Financial Statements 22.1.2 Summarised financial information of joint ventures Group 23 Deferred tax assets 31.03.2015 31.03.2014 23.1 Movement in deferred tax assets Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Group Carrying amount of interest in joint ventures 3,061,899 1,273,093 2014/2015 2013/2014 Group’s Share of : Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Profit for the year, (net of tax) 261,053 273,394 Balance at the beginning of the year 224,495 225,749 Other comprehensive income for the year, (net of tax) (4,205) (6,005) Exchange difference 1,097 541 Total comprehensive income for the year 256,848 267,389 Reversal of temporary differences transferred from/ (to) income statement * Investments are held by one of the following companies Aitken Spence Hotel Holdings PLC., Ace Cargo (Pvt) Ltd., Aitken Spence Travels (Pvt) Ltd., or Port Recognised in profit / (loss) (14,479) (7,091) Management Container Services (Pvt) Ltd. Recognised in other comprehensive income 4,794 5,296 Ace Bangladesh Ltd., is incorporated in Bangladesh while all other joint venture companies are incorporated in Sri Lanka. Balance at the end of the year 215,907 224,495 Principal activities of the Group’s interest in joint ventures are described in pages 241 to 242. a,b,c refer note 44 23.2 Composition of deferred tax assets Group 22.2 Interest in associates 31.03.2015 31.03.2014 22.2.1 Investment in associates Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Deferred tax assets attributable to; Group Company Defined benefit obligations 65,796 63,661 No. of Holding 31.03.2015 31.03.2014 No. of Holding 31.03.2015 31.03.2014 Tax losses carried forward 192,270 240,581 shares % Rs.’000 Rs.’000 shares % Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Other items 22,673 23,079 Aitken Spence Plantation Managements PLC (b) 8,300,000 38.95 165,000 165,000 8,300,000 38.95 165,000 165,000 Property, plant and equipment (64,832) (102,826) (consolidated with Elpitiya Plantations PLC (a) (b)) Net deferred tax assets 215,907 224,495 (Ordinary shares Quoted) Browns Beach Hotels PLC. (a)* 48,627,103 27.96 928,077 928,077 23.3 Movement in tax effect of temporary differences Group (consolidated with Negombo Beach Hotels (Pvt) Ltd.) (Ordinary shares Quoted) As at Recognised Recognised Exchange As at Recognised Recognised Exchange As at 31.03. 2015 in profit in other difference 31.03. 2014 in profit in other difference 01.04 2013 Amethyst Leisure Ltd * 86,532,335 17.46 191,409 / (loss) comprehensive / (loss) comprehensive (consolidated with Paradise Resorts income income Pasikudah (Pvt) Ltd) Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 (Ordinary shares Unquoted) Deferred tax assets Carrying amount as at 31st March 1,284,486 1,093,077 165,000 165,000 Defined benefit obligations 65,796 (2,659) 4,794 63,661 7,641 5,296 50,724 Share of movement in equity value 1,057,133 1,001,419 Tax losses carried forward 192,270 (48,311) 240,581 (32,768) 273,349 Equity value of investments 2,341,619 2,094,496 165,000 165,000 Other items 22,673 (406) 23,079 1,079 (1,936) 23,936 Market value of quoted investments as at 31st March 1,593,328 1,301,565 377,650 377,650 280,739 (51,376) 4,794 327,321 (24,048) 5,296 (1,936) 348,009 Deferred tax liability 22.2.2 Summarised financial information of associates Group Property, plant and equipment (64,832) 36,897 1,097 (102,826) 16,957 2,477 (122,260) 31.03.2015 31.03.2014 (64,832) 36,897 1,097 (102,826) 16,957 2,477 (122,260) Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Net deferred tax assets 215,907 (14,479) 4,794 1,097 224,495 (7,091) 5,296 541 225,749 Carrying amount of interest in associates 2,341,619 2,094,496 Group’s Share of : Profit for the year, (net of tax) 69,834 156,067 Other comprehensive income for the year, (net of tax) (11,707) 12,885 Total comprehensive income for the year 58,127 168,952 * Investments are held by Aitken Spence Hotel Holdings PLC. All associate companies are incorporated in Sri Lanka. Principal activities of the Group’s interest in associates are described in pages 241 to 242. a,b refer note 44 182 Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2014 2015 183 Notes to the Financial Statements 24 Other financial assets 24.3 Bank deposits Group Company Bank deposits include fixed deposits, call deposits and bank reverse repos which are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate. These financial assets are expected to be recovered through contractual cash flows. 31.03.2015 31.03.2014 31.03.2015 31.03.2014 Notes Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 24.4 Government securities Other financial assets non-current Government Securities are treasury bills and treasury bonds held for trading purposes and are measured at fair value through profit or loss. Unquoted debt securities and equity securities 24.1 279,346 339,540 89,733 134,170 24.5 Forward foreign exchange contracts 279,346 339,540 89,733 134,170 Other financial assets current 24.5.1 Net capital exposure of forward foreign exchange contracts Unquoted debt securities and equity securities 24.1 45,711 63,158 45,711 55,686 The Group’s financial assets at fair value through profit or loss include forward foreign exchange contracts, which at the reporting date comprised of US Dollar contracts. Quoted equity securities 24.2 39,837 29,632 5,111 3,641 Bank deposits 24.3 9,447,159 8,901,681 3,398,789 2,743,481 Group Company Government securities 24.4 1,413,842 1,519,339 1,413,842 1,519,339 31.03.2015 31.03.2014 31.03.2015 31.03.2014 Forward foreign exchange contracts 24.5 707 566 USD.’000 USD.’000 USD.’000 USD.’000 10,947,256 10,514,376 4,863,453 4,322,147 Net capital exposure 7,693 4,291 1,000 24.1 Unquoted debt securities and equity securities Group Company 24.5.2 Derivative financial asset No. of shares 31.03.2015 31.03.2014 No. of shares 31.03.2015 31.03.2014 Derivative financial asset recognised, in respect of forward foreign exchange contracts arises due to the positive movement in fair value of forward contracts. Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Group Sumiko Lanka Hotels (Pvt) Ltd. 31.03.2015 31.03.2014 (Redeemable Debentures) 106,659 159,027 106,659 159,027 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rainforest Ecolodge (Pvt) Ltd. (Ordinary shares) 3,500,000 35,000 30,000 3,500,000 35,000 30,000 Derivative financial asset recognised 69 566 Palm Village Hotels Ltd. (Ordinary shares) 4,410 1,766 Business Process Outsourcing LLC. (Ordinary shares) 30,000 8,640 8,640 30,000 8,640 8,640 25 Inventories Poovar Island Resorts (Ordinary shares) 988,764 126,650 126,650 Barefoot Resorts and Leisure (Pvt) Ltd. (Ordinary shares) 86,590 Group Company Cargo Village Ltd. (Ordinary shares) 38,571 357 357 31.03.2015 31.03.2014 31.03.2015 31.03.2014 Ingrin Institute of Printing & Graphics Sri Lanka Ltd. Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 (Ordinary shares) 10,000 100 100 Raw materials 860,305 1,393,637 277,406 415,774 150,299 199,433 Work-in-progress and finished goods 79,401 170,783 Adjustment for fair value of investments 47,651 (22,685) (14,855) (9,577) Consumables 561,129 306,433 2,026 2,167 Exchange difference 9,609 1,500,835 1,870,853 2,026 2,167 Carrying amount as at 31st March 325,057 402,698 135,444 189,856 Impairment of inventories (16,331) (147,135) (27) Current unquoted debt and equity securities (45,711) (63,158) (45,711) (55,686) 1,484,504 1,723,718 1,999 2,167 Non current unquoted debt and equity securities 279,346 339,540 89,733 134,170 Consequent to the divestment of the Groups investment in Ace Power Matara (Pvt) Ltd and Ace Power Horana (Pvt) the Group wrote off the carrying amount of the inventories of the two companies against the provision made in the previous year. 24.2 Quoted equity securities Value of inventories pledged as security for facilities obtained by the Group from banks, amounted to Rs. 148.3 million as at 31st March 2015. (2013/2014 Rs. 145.5 million) (Company-nil). Group Company No. of shares 31.03.2015 31.03.2014 No. of shares 31.03.2015 31.03.2014 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 DFCC Bank (Ordinary shares) 24,770 399 399 24,770 399 399 Overseas Realty (Ceylon) PLC. (Ordinary shares) 3,750 37 37 3,750 37 37 Colombo Dockyard PLC. (Ordinary shares) 13,543 123 123 Hatton National Bank PLC. (Ordinary shares) 191,400 4,060 4,060 4,619 4,619 436 436 Adjustment for fair value of investments 35,218 25,013 4,675 3,205 Carrying amount as at 31st March 39,837 29,632 5,111 3,641 184 Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2014 2015 185 Notes to the Financial Statements 26 Trade and other receivables 29 Stated capital and reserves 29.1 Stated capital Group Company 31.03.2015 31.03.2014 31.03.2015 31.03.2014 31.03.2015 31.03.2014 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Trade receivables 5,619,715 7,140,710 31,073 26,924 Stated capital as at 31st March 2,135,140 2,135,140 Other receivables 1,532,316 2,045,330 408,722 438,788 Amounts due from subsidiaries 2,340,808 2,284,520 31.03.2015 31.03.2014 Amounts due from equity-accounted investees 680,684 197,576 77,393 19,599 No. of shares No. of shares Loans to employees 28,694 35,296 22,380 25,801 No. of shares as at 31st March 405,996,045 405,996,045 7,861,409 9,418,912 2,880,376 2,795,632 The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive dividends as declared from time to time and are entitled to one vote per individual present at meetings of Impairment of trade and other receivables (90,759) (369,206) (30,516) (26,881) the shareholders or one vote per share in the case of a poll. 7,770,650 9,049,706 2,849,860 2,768,751 29.2 Reserves Consequent to the divestment of the Groups investment in Ace Power Matara (Pvt) Ltd and Ace Power Horana (Pvt) the Group wrote off the carrying amount of the trade and other receivables of the two companies against the provision made in the previous year. Revaluation reserve The movement of loans above Rs. 20,000/given to executive staff is as follows; Revaluation reserve relates to the amount by which the Group has revalued its property, plant and equipment. There were no restrictions on distribution of these balances to the shareholders. Company 2014/2015 2013/2014 General reserve Rs.’000 Rs.’000 General reserve reflects the amount the Group has reserved over the years from its earnings. Balance as at the beginning of the year 25,801 23,654 Loans granted during the year 7,700 14,275 Exchange fluctuation reserve 33,501 37,929 Exchange fluctuation reserve comprises of all foreign exchange differences arising from the translation of foreign subsidiaries in the Group. Recoveries during the year (11,121) (12,128) Balance at the end of the year 22,380 25,801 Other capital reserves This represents the portion of share premium of subsidiaries attributable to the Group. 27 Cash and cash equivalents Available-for-sale reserve Group Company This represents the cumulative net change in the fair value of available-for-sale financial assets until the investments are derecognised or impaired. 31.03.2015 31.03.2014 31.03.2015 31.03.2014 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Cash at bank and in hand 1,913,062 2,185,569 185,561 62,504 Short term deposits 998,073 486,531 Cash and short-term deposits in the statement of financial position 2,911,135 2,672,100 185,561 62,504 Bank overdrafts and other short-term borrowings (2,089,729) (4,562,280) (254,619) (312,410) Cash and cash equivalents in the statement of cash flows 821,406 (1,890,180) (69,058) (249,906) 28 Assets classified as held for sale Consequent to the decision made by the Group to divest from the ship owning business in 2007/2008 and the sale of ships by the Group’s ship owning companies, the Group recognised the fair values of the investments in Ceyaki Shipping (Pvt) Ltd. & Ceyspence (Pvt) Ltd. under assets held for sale. Further, subsequent to the expiration of the power purchase agreements signed between the Ceylon Electricity board and Ace Power Horana (Pvt) Ltd during 2012/2013, Group commenced liquidation of Ace Power Horana (Pvt) Ltd during 2014/2015 and recognised the fair value of the investment under assets held for sale. The liquidation of these companies are not yet concluded. Group Company 31.03.2015 31.03.2014 31.03.2015 31.03.2014 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Share of net assets of equity-accounted investees classified as held for sale 141,446 141,446 57,237 57,237 Net current assets of group companies classified as held for sale 85,477 7,679 77,798 226,923 149,125 135,035 57,237 There were no discontinued operations recognised in the income statement during the period. 186 Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2014 2015 187 Notes to the Financial Statements 29.3 Other comprehensive income accumulated in reserves 30 Interest-bearing liabilities 29.3.1 Group 30.1 Movement of interest-bearing liabilities Attributable to equity holders of the company NonTotal equity 30.1.1 Group as at 31 March 2015 Revaluation Exchange Available Retained Total controlling Bank / financial institute Balance Transaction Impact of New loans Capital Balance Total reserve fluctuation for sale earnings interests as at cost exchange obtained repayment as at interest reserve reserve 31.03.2015 amortised rate during the 01.04.2014 paid Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 fluctuation year 2014/2015 For the year ended 31st March 2015 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Revaluation of property, plant and equipment 67,757 67,757 23,204 90,961 HSBC 6,234,487 94,750 4,630,165 (1,719,155) 3,228,727 210,367 Acturial gains / (losses) on defined benefit obligations (42,113) (42,113) (6,094) (48,207) DFCC Bank 2,204,847 3,128 800,523 (329,205) 1,730,401 123,883 Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations (89,742) (89,742) (22,212) (111,954) DEG 1,733,160 31,300 394,560 1,307,300 51,561 Net change in fair value of available-for-sale financial 63,512 63,512 7,597 71,109 Hatton National Bank PLC 1,093,125 3,628 (621,230) 1,710,727 158,953 assets Commercial Bank of Ceylon PLC 751,916 (37,079) 788,995 62,610 Net change in fair value of available-for-sale financial 4,594 4,594 4,838 9,432 Fiji Ports Corporation Ltd 168,607 (18,242) (22,599) 209,448 7,607 assets reclassified to profit or loss Transaction cost to be amortised (25,906) 10,663 (36,569) Share of other comprehensive income of equity-accounted (15,987) (15,987) 75 (15,912) 12,160,236 10,663 114,564 5,825,248 (2,729,268) 8,939,029 614,981 investees (net of tax) Income tax on other comprehensive income 6,477 6,477 1,001 7,478 Current portion of interest -bearing liabilities (2,723,741) (1,626,693) Total 67,757 (89,742) 68,106 (51,623) (5,502) 8,409 2,907 Non current portion interest -bearing liabilities 9,436,495 7,312,336 For the year ended 31st March 2014 30.1.2 Company as at 31 March 2015 Revaluation of property, plant and equipment 1,063,175 1,063,175 101,513 1,164,688 Bank / financial institute Balance Transaction Impact of New loans Capital Balance Total Acturial gains / (losses) on defined benefit obligations (52,829) (52,829) 1,527 (51,302) as at cost exchange obtained repayment as at interest Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations 111,814 111,814 71,651 183,465 31.03.2015 amortised rate during the 01.04.2014 paid fluctuation year 2014/2015 Net change in fair value of available-for-sale financial (18,557) (18,557) (5,840) (24,397) assets Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Net change in fair value of available-for-sale financial 1,817 1,817 1,817 DEG 1,733,160 31,300 394,560 1,307,300 51,561 assets reclassified to profit or loss DFCC Bank 945,000 (242,500) 1,187,500 75,497 Share of other comprehensive income of equity-accounted 4 12,292 12,296 (5,416) 6,880 Commercial Bank of Ceylon PLC 675,000 (17,500) 692,500 54,015 investees (net of tax) Hatton National Bank PLC 525,000 (122,500) 647,500 41,303 Income tax on other comprehensive income 8,277 8,277 (49) 8,228 Transaction cost to be amortised (25,906) 10,663 (36,569) Total 1,063,175 111,818 (16,740) (32,260) 1,125,993 163,386 1,289,379 3,852,254 10,663 31,300 394,560 (382,500) 3,798,231 222,376 29.3.2 Company Current portion of interest -bearing liabilities (1,161,334) (371,837) Available for Retained Total equity Non current portion interest -bearing liabilities 2,690,920 3,426,394 sale reserve earnings Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 30.2 Analysed by capital repayment For the year ended 31st March 2015 30.2.1 Group as at 31 March 2015 Acturial gains / (losses) on defined benefit obligations (6,915) (6,915) Bank / financial institute Payable in Payable Payable Payable Payable Total Net change in fair value of available-for-sale financial assets 2,404 2,404 less than 3 within 3 within 1 2 within 2 5 after 5 Net change in fair value of available-for-sale financial assets reclassified to profit or loss (6,212) (6,212) months 12 months years years years Total (3,808) (6,915) (10,723) Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 For the year ended 31st March 2014 HSBC 267,592 1,030,515 1,381,922 2,182,018 1,372,440 6,234,487 Acturial gains / (losses) on defined benefit obligations (2,200) (2,200) DFCC Bank 100,472 353,917 639,979 714,455 396,024 2,204,847 Net change in fair value of available-for-sale financial assets (2,476) (2,476) DEG 266,640 266,640 533,280 666,600 1,733,160 Total (2,476) (2,200) (4,676) Hatton National Bank PLC 83,794 253,613 410,651 267,652 77,415 1,093,125 Commercial Bank of Ceylon PLC 8,496 77,989 156,484 508,947 751,916 Fiji Ports Corporation Ltd 5,791 17,728 24,480 51,989 68,619 168,607 Transaction cost to be amortised (2,582) (6,864) (7,323) (9,137) (25,906) 730,203 1,993,538 3,139,473 4,382,524 1,914,498 12,160,236 188 Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2014 2015 189 Notes to the Financial Statements 30.2.2 Company as at 31 March 2015 30.4 Analysed by currency equivalent in Rupees Bank / financial institute Payable in Payable Payable Payable Payable Total Group Company less than 3 within 3 within 1 2 within 2 5 after 5 months 12 months years years years 31.03.2015 31.03.2014 31.03.2015 31.03.2014 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. Equivalent Equivalent Equivalent Equivalent DEG 266,640 266,640 533,280 666,600 1,733,160 % Rs.’000 Rs.’000 % Rs.’000 Rs.’000 DFCC Bank 80,000 292,500 502,500 70,000 945,000 United States Dollars 60% 7,269,989 4,901,543 45% 1,733,160 1,307,300 Commercial Bank of Ceylon PLC 5,000 67,500 142,500 460,000 675,000 Sri Lankan Rupees 32% 3,896,163 3,864,607 55% 2,145,000 2,527,500 Hatton National Bank PLC 35,000 157,500 262,500 70,000 525,000 Other currencies 8% 1,019,990 209,448 Transaction cost to be amortised (2,582) (6,864) (7,323) (9,137) (25,906) Transaction cost to be amortised (25,906) (36,569) (25,906) (36,569) 384,058 777,276 1,433,457 1,257,463 3,852,254 100% 12,160,236 8,939,029 100% 3,852,254 3,798,231 30.3 Analysed by interest rate 31 Deferred tax liabilities Group Company 31.03.2015 31.03.2014 31.03.2015 31.03.2014 31.1 Movement in deferred tax liabilities Total Secured Total Secured Total Secured Total Secured Group borrowing borrowing borrowing borrowing borrowing borrowing borrowing borrowing 2014/2015 2013/2014 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Term loans linked to AWPLR Balance at the beginning of the year 635,979 495,385 DFCC Bank. 2,051,056 1,106,058 1,547,848 360,350 945,000 1,187,500 Companies acquired during the year 47,355 Hatton National Bank PLC. 901,369 376,369 1,085,712 438,212 525,000 647,500 Exchange difference (2,388) 4,009 Commercial Bank of Ceylon PLC. 751,916 76,916 788,995 96,495 675,000 692,500 Origination of temporary differences transferred to / (from) income statement 3,704,341 1,559,343 3,422,555 895,057 2,145,000 2,527,500 Recognised in profit / (loss) 24,317 92,162 Recognised in other comprehensive income (2,684) (2,932) Term loans linked to LIBOR Balance at the end of the year 655,224 635,979 HSBC. 5,383,038 5,383,038 3,228,583 2,604,263 DEG 1,733,160 1,307,300 1,733,160 1,307,300 31.2 Composition of deferred tax liabilities DFCC Bank. 153,791 153,791 182,553 182,553 Group Hatton National Bank PLC. 183,107 183,107 31.03.2015 31.03.2014 7,269,989 5,536,829 4,901,543 2,969,923 1,733,160 1,307,300 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Deferred tax liabilities attributable to ; Term loans linked to AWDR Property, plant and equipment 733,261 621,505 Hatton National Bank PLC. 191,756 441,908 Undistributed profits of consolidated entities 70,466 79,173 191,756 441,908 Defined benefit obligations (39,837) (30,693) Tax losses carried forward (106,652) (33,150) Fixed rate term loans Other items (2,014) (856) HSBC. 851,449 851,384 144 Net deferred tax liabilities 655,224 635,979 Fiji Ports Corporation Ltd. 168,607 209,448 1,020,056 851,384 209,592 Transaction cost to be amortised (25,906) (36,569) (25,906) (36,569) Total interest bearing loans and borrowings 12,160,236 7,947,556 8,939,029 3,864,980 3,852,254 3,798,231 Secured bank loans are secured over the carrying amount of property, plant & equipment of Rs. 651.7 million, inventory of Rs. 148.3 million, investment in shares of Rs. 112.5 million, corporate guarantees and leasehold rights of Maldives hotel properties of Rs. 10,767.5 million. 190 Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2014 2015 191 Notes to the Financial Statements 31.3 Movement in tax effect of temporary differences Group The provision for retirement benefits obligations for the year is based on the actuarial valuation carried out by professionally qualified actuaries, Messrs. Actuarial & Management Consultants (Pvt) Ltd., as at 31st March 2015. The actuarial present value of the promised retirement benefits as at 31st March 2015 amounted to As at Recognised Recognised Exchange As at Recognised Recognised Exchange Companies As at Rs. 635,683,563/(Company Rs. 98,239,706/-) The liability is not externally funded. 31 .03.2015 in profit in other difference 31.03.2014 in profit in other difference acquired 01.04.2013 / (loss) comprehensive / (loss) comprehensive income income 32.3 Actuarial assumptions Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 The principal actuarial assumptions used in determining the cost are given below; Deferred tax liabilities 32.3.1 Financial assumptions Property, plant and 2014/2015 2013/2014 equipment 733,261 114,757 (3,001) 621,505 58,243 4,165 54,745 504,352 Undistributed profits of Discount rate 9.5% p.a. 10.5% p.a. consolidated entities 70,466 (8,707) 79,173 46,817 32,356 Salary increments Deferred interest * Executive staff 11.0% p.a. 11.0% p.a. expense (300) 300 * Non Executive & other staff 7.5% p.a. 7.5% p.a. 803,727 106,050 (3,001) 700,678 104,760 4,165 54,745 537,008 It’s also assumed that the company will continue in business as a going concern. Deferred tax assets Defined benefit 32.3.2 Demographic assumptions obligations (39,837) (6,998) (2,684) 538 (30,693) (2,924) (2,932) (138) (6,650) (18,049) Mortality & Disability Based on published statistics Tax losses carried and mortality tables. forward (106,652) (73,502) (33,150) (9,576) (23,574) Retirement age 55 years 55 years Other items (2,014) (1,233) 75 (856) (98) (18) (740) Staff turnover rates at each age category (148,503) (81,733) (2,684) 613 (64,699) (12,598) (2,932) (156) (7,390) (41,623) * 20 years 0.07 0.07 Net deferred tax * 25 years 0.05 0.05 liabilities 655,224 24,317 (2,684) (2,388) 635,979 92,162 (2,932) 4,009 47,355 495,385 * 30 years 0.05 0.05 * 35 years 0.04 0.04 32 Employee benefits * 40 years 0.03 0.03 32.1 Retirement benefits obligations * above 40 years 0.00 0.00 Group Company 31.03.2015 31.03.2014 31.03.2015 31.03.2014 32.3 Sensitivity analysis Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 The following table demonstrates the sensitivity to a reasonably possible changes at the reporting date in the key assumptions employed with all other variables Present value of unfunded obligations 635,684 545,527 98,240 86,426 held constant in the employment benefit liability measurement. Total present value of the obligation 635,684 545,527 98,240 86,426 The sensitivity of the statement of financial position is the effect of the assumed changes in discount rate and salary increment rate on the employment benefit 32.2 Movement in present value of the defined benefit obligations obligation for the year. Group Company 31.03.2015 31.03.2014 2014/2015 2013/2014 2014/2015 2013/2014 Increase Decrease Increase Decrease Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Defined benefit obligations at the beginning of the period 545,527 421,726 86,426 73,405 Discount rate (1% movement) (44,590) 50,548 (34,733) 43,126 Expenses recognised in profit or loss Salary increments (1% movement) 51,139 (45,834) 44,381 (36,425) Current service cost 75,886 52,979 9,594 8,414 Interest cost 51,330 50,888 9,075 8,808 Expenses recognised in other comprehensive income Actuarial (gains) / losses arising from; financial assumptions 38,605 50,805 4,476 5,470 demographic assumptions experience adjustment 9,602 497 2,439 (3,270) Exchange difference (1,780) 266 Others Benefits paid by the plan (81,785) (53,355) (13,770) (6,401) Defined benefit obligations of companies acquired during the year 21,721 Defined benefit obligations of companies disposed during the year (1,701) Defined benefit obligations at the end of the period 635,684 545,527 98,240 86,426 192 Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2014 2015 193 Notes to the Financial Statements 33 Provisions 36 Financial instruments Accounting classifications and fair values Group The following tables shows the carrying amounts and fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities of the Group and the Company. 2014/2015 2013/2014 36.1 Accounting classifications & fair values of financial instruments Group Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Notes Trading at Loans and Available Other Non Total Fair value Balance at the beginning of the period 457,751 272,083 fair value receivables for sale financial financial carrying liabilities instruments amount Additional provision for the year 180,526 377,114 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Amounts used during the year (112,849) (191,446) Adjustment due to impending expiry of the Power Purchase Agreement (525,428) As at 31st March 2015 Balance at the end of the period 457,751 Financial assets Trade and other receivables 26 7,503,078 267,572 7,770,650 7,770,650 (a) Provision was made in the financial statements on a monthly basis for major overhaul costs of the power plant in Embilipitiya based on the estimated overhauls to be carried out within a reasonable period. The management revisited the carrying value of the provision in the light of the impending expiry of the power purchase Deposits and prepayments 287,874 511,479 799,353 799,353 (a) agreement. Accordingly an amount of Rs. 525 million was written back to the income statement during the year. Other financial assets 24 Unquoted debt securities and equity securities 106,659 218,398 325,057 325,057 34 Trade and other payables Quoted equity shares 39,837 39,837 39,837 Other bank deposits 9,447,159 9,447,159 9,447,159 Group Company Government securities 1,413,842 1,413,842 1,413,842 31.03.2015 31.03.2014 31.03.2015 31.03.2014 Forward foreign exchange contracts 707 707 707 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Cash and short-term deposits 27 2,911,135 2,911,135 2,911,135 (a) Trade payables 1,181,065 1,808,957 1,414,549 20,255,905 258,235 779,051 22,707,740 22,707,740 Other payables 4,162,499 3,390,561 280,398 267,584 Amounts due to subsidiaries 1,281,662 861,673 Financial liabilities Amounts due to equity-accounted investees 1,586,824 1,195,764 1,574,184 1,187,742 Interest-bearing liabilities 30 12,160,236 12,160,236 12,160,236 Unclaimed dividends 143,635 7,440 143,635 7,440 Trade and other payables 34 5,458,765 1,615,258 7,074,023 7,074,023 (a) 7,074,023 6,402,722 3,279,879 2,324,439 Other financial liabilities 35 Forward foreign exchange contracts 639 639 639 35 Other financial liabilities Bank overdrafts and other short-term borrowings 27 2,089,729 2,089,729 2,089,729 (a) Other financial liabilities includes derivative financial liability, which arises due to the negative movement in fair value of foreign exchange forward contracts. 639 19,708,730 1,615,258 21,324,627 21,324,627 Refer note 24.5.1 for Group’s holding of forward contracts details. Notes Trading at Loans and Available Other Non Total Fair value Group Company fair value receivables for sale financial financial carrying 31.03.2015 31.03.2014 31.03.2015 31.03.2014 liabilities instruments amount Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Derivative financial liability recognised 639 530 As at 31st March 2014 639 530 Financial assets Trade and other receivables 26 8,955,794 93,912 9,049,706 9,049,706 (a) Deposits and prepayments 153,860 713,458 867,318 867,318 (a) Other financial assets 24 Unquoted debt securities and equity securities 159,027 243,671 402,698 402,698 Quoted equity shares 29,632 29,632 29,632 Other bank deposits 8,901,681 8,901,681 8,901,681 Government securities 1,519,339 1,519,339 1,519,339 Forward foreign exchange contracts 566 566 566 Cash and short-term deposits 27 2,672,100 2,672,100 2,672,100 (a) 1,519,905 20,842,462 273,303 807,370 23,443,040 23,443,040 Financial liabilities Interest-bearing liabilities 30 8,939,029 8,939,029 8,939,029 Trade and other payables 34 5,583,614 819,108 6,402,722 6,402,722 (a) Bank overdrafts and other short-term borrowings 27 4,562,280 4,562,280 4,562,280 (a) 19,084,923 819,108 19,904,031 19,904,031 194 Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2014 2015 195 Notes to the Financial Statements 36.2 Accounting classifications & fair values of financial instruments Company 37 Fair value measurement Notes Trading at Loans and Available Other Non Total Fair value The Group and the Company uses the following hierarchy for determining and disclosing the fair value of assets and liabilities by valuation techniques: fair value receivables for sale financial financial carrying Level 1: quoted (unadjusted) prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities liabilities instruments amount Level 2: inputs other than quoted prices included within level 1 that are observable for the assets or liabilities, either directly or indirectly Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Level 3: techniques which use inputs that have a significant effect on the recorded fair value that are not based on observable market data As at 31st March 2015 The following table provides the fair value measurement hierarchy of the Group’s assets and liabilities. Financial assets Trade and other receivables 26 2,832,293 17,567 2,849,860 2,849,860 (a) 37.1.1 Fair value measurement hierarchy Group Deposits and prepayments 704 33,646 34,350 34,350 (a) Other financial assets 24 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Unquoted debt securities & equity securities 106,659 28,785 135,444 135,444 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Quoted equity shares 5,111 5,111 5,111 As at 31st March 2015 Other bank deposits 3,398,789 3,398,789 3,398,789 Recurring fair value measurements Government securities 1,413,842 1,413,842 1,413,842 Assets measured at fair value : Cash and short-term deposits 27 185,561 185,561 185,561 (a) Property, plant and equipment 1,413,842 6,524,006 33,896 51,213 8,022,957 8,022,957 Freehold land 7,656,658 7,656,658 Other financial assets Financial liabilities Unquoted equity securities 180,191 38,207 218,398 Interest-bearing liabilities 30 3,852,254 3,852,254 3,852,254 Quoted equity shares 39,837 39,837 Trade and other payables 34 2,949,231 330,648 3,279,879 3,279,879 (a) Government securities 1,413,842 1,413,842 Other financial liabilities Forward foreign exchange contracts 707 707 Forward foreign exchange contracts 530 530 530 1,453,679 180,898 7,694,865 9,329,442 Bank overdrafts and other short-term 27 254,619 254,619 254,619 (a) Assets for which fair values are disclosed : borrowings Investment property 530 7,056,104 330,648 7,387,282 7,387,282 Freehold land 1,648,301 1,648,301 Other financial assets Notes Trading at Loans and Available Other Non Total Fair value Unquoted debt securities 106,659 106,659 fair value receivables for sale financial financial carrying Other bank deposits 9,447,159 9,447,159 liabilities instruments amount 9,553,818 1,648,301 11,202,119 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Liabilities measured at fair value : As at 31st March 2014 Other financial liabilities Financial assets Forward foreign exchange contracts 639 639 Trade and other receivables 26 2,756,413 12,338 2,768,751 2,768,751 (a) 639 639 Deposits and prepayments 704 43,447 44,151 44,151 (a) Liabilites for which fair values are disclosed : Other financial assets 24 Interest-bearing liabilities 12,160,236 12,160,236 Unquoted debt securities & equity securities 159,027 30,829 189,856 189,856 12,160,236 12,160,236 Quoted equity shares 3,641 3,641 3,641 Other bank deposits 2,743,481 2,743,481 2,743,481 Non-recurring fair value measurements Government securities 1,519,339 1,519,339 1,519,339 Assets classified as held for sale 226,923 226,923 Cash and short-term deposits 27 62,504 62,504 62,504 (a) 226,923 226,923 1,519,339 5,722,129 34,470 55,785 7,331,723 7,331,723 As at 31st March 2014 Financial assets measured at fair value : Financial liabilities Other financial assets Interest-bearing liabilities 30 3,798,231 3,798,231 3,798,231 Unquoted equity securities 243,671 243,671 Trade and other payables 34 2,131,924 192,515 2,324,439 2,324,439 (a) Quoted equity shares 29,632 29,632 Bank overdrafts and other short-term 27 312,410 312,410 312,410 (a) Government securities 1,519,339 1,519,339 borrowings Forward foreign exchange contracts 566 566 6,242,565 192,515 6,435,080 6,435,080 1,548,971 566 243,671 1,793,208 (a) The carrying amount of financial assets and financial liabilities is a reasonable approximation of the fair value. The Group and the Company does not have any financial instruments designated as fair value through profit or loss on initial recognition as at 31st March 2015. None of the financial assets were pledged by the Group and Company as securities for facilities obtained from banks for 2014/2015. (Group and Company 2013/2014 297 million). 196 Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2014 2015 197 Notes to the Financial Statements 37.1.2 Fair value measurement hierarchy Company 37.2 Reconciliation of fair value measurement of “Level 3” financial instruments Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Group Company Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Unquoted Freehold land Unquoted equity equity As at 31st March 2015 securities securities Recurring fair value measurements Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Assets measured at fair value : Balance as at 01st April 2013 270,832 7,247,675 33,646 Other financial assets Exchange difference (13,416) Unquoted equity securities 28,785 28,785 Purchases 107,381 Quoted equity shares 5,111 5,111 Sales (99) Government securities 1,413,842 1,413,842 Total gains and losses recognised in other comprehensive income 1,418,953 28,785 1,447,738 Net change in fair value of available-for-sale financial assets (unrealised) (27,062) (2,817) Assets for which fair values are disclosed : Revaluation of property, plant and equipment (unrealised) 1,164,688 Investment property Balance as at 31st March 2014 243,671 8,506,328 30,829 Freehold land 3,382,350 3,382,350 Other financial assets Exchange difference (9,609) (3,113) Unquoted debt securities 106,659 106,659 Companies disposed / transferred (855,284) Other bank deposits 3,398,789 3,398,789 Purchases 5,000 507,349 5,000 3,505,448 3,382,350 6,887,798 Sales (91,000) (1,766) Liabilities for which fair values are disclosed : Total gains and losses recognised in other comprehensive income Interest-bearing liabilities 3,852,254 3,852,254 Net change in fair value of available-for-sale financial assets (unrealised) 60,904 934 Other financial liabilities Net change in fair value of available-for-sale financial assets reclassified to profit or loss (realised) 9,432 (6,212) Forward foreign exchange contracts 530 530 Revaluation of property, plant and equipment (unrealised) 90,961 3,852,784 3,852,784 Transfers out of Level 3 (180,191) Non-recurring fair value measurements Balance as at 31st March 2015 38,207 8,246,241 28,785 Assets classified as held for sale 135,035 135,035 135,035 135,035 37.2.1 Transfers between Levels of fair value hierarchy An investment under equity securities which is classified as available-for-sale, was categorised under Level 2 from Level 3 during the year with the change in As at 31st March 2014 valuation technique used to fair value the investment to market return on a comparable investment. The fair value of this investment was categorised as Level 3 Financial assets measured at fair value : as at 31st March 2014. Other financial assets Other than the above there were no transfers between Level 1, Level 2 and Level 3 during 2014/2015. There were no transfers between Level 1, Level 2 and Level Unquoted equity securities 30,829 30,829 3 during 2013/2014. Quoted equity shares 3,641 3,641 Government securities 1,519,339 1,519,339 1,522,980 30,829 1,553,809 198 Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2014 2015 199 Notes to the Financial Statements 37.3 Valuation techniques and significant unobservable inputs 38 Financial risk management objectives and policies The following table shows the valuation techniques used for both Group and Company in measuring Level 2 and Level 3 fair values, and the significant Please refer the comprehensive risk report on pages 39 to 43 of the annual report for a detailed description of the Group’s risk management structure, process and unobservable inputs used. procedures. 37.3.1 Assets and liabilities measured at fair value Recurring The use of financial instruments has an inherent risk due to changes in a myriad variables that reflect market conditions. Unmanaged risks can lead to undesirable outcomes where the Group is unable to achieve its financial objectives and falls short of budgeted targets. The financial risk management strategy of the Assets and liabilities Valuation technique Significant Sensitivity of the input to Group endeavours to minimise the risks associated with the use of financial instruments by establishing a number of policies and guidelines that are followed unobservable inputs the fair value throughout the Group. The Group periodically reviews and updates these policies to ensure that they are kept relevant in today’s fast changing market conditions. Property, plant and equipment Market comparable method Price per perch of land Estimated fair value In this part of the report we would be covering the financial impact that would arise from market risk, credit risk and liquidity risk, the most important elements of Freehold land This method considers the selling price of a similar property would increase/ the financial risk that the Group is subject to. within a reasonably recent period of time in determining the (decrease) if ; fair value of property being revalued. This involves evaluation Price per perch 38.1 Market risk of recent active market prices of similar assets, making increases/(decreases) The market risk occurs due to the actual cashflow originating from a financial instrument being different to the expected cashflow. This anomaly could occur due appropriate adjustments for difference in size, nature and to the impact of external factors such as fluctuations in market interest rates and exchange rates. Market risk could possibly result in the revenues and expenses location of the property. of the Group being adversely affected thereby impacting the profit attributable to the shareholders. In order to identify, manage and minimise the market risk the Other financial assets Net assets basis Carrying value of assets Variability of inputs are Group has put into practice a number of policies and procedures. Unquoted equity securities and liabilities adjusted insignificant to have an for market participants’ impact on fair values. 38.1.1 Currency risk assumptions. The Group has businesses spread across the globe and transacts in a multitude of currencies. The currency risk arises when a financial transaction is denominated Market return on a comparable investment Current market interest Not applicable in a currency other than that of the reporting currency of an entity. The Group’s worldwide presence in many geographies exposes it to the currency risk in the rates form of transaction and translation exposure. Other financial assets / liabilities Market comparison technique Forward exchange rates Not applicable Transaction exposure arises where there are contracted cashflows (receivables and payables) whose values are subject to unanticipated changes in exchange Forward foreign exchange contracts The fair values are based on broker quotes. Similar contracts as at reporting date. rates due to the contract being denominated in a foreign currency. Translation exposure arises to the extent to which financial reporting is affected by exchange are traded in an active market and the quotes reflect the rate movements when the reporting currency is different to those currencies in which revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities are denominated. actual transactions in similar instruments. The Group transacts in many foreign currencies other than the functional reporting currency. Therefore the Group is exposed to currency risk on revenue generation, expenses, investments and borrowings. The Group has significant investments in the Maldives, India and Fiji whose net assets are exposed to foreign 37.3.2 Assets and liabilities for which fair values are disclosed Recurring currency translation risk. Revenue generations and expenses incurred in these countries are exposed to foreign currency transaction risk. Assets and liabilities Valuation technique Significant unobservable inputs The total interest bearing liabilities of the Group denominated in USD amounted to Rs 7.3 billion. Recent overseas acquisitions in the hotels sector were mostly Investment property Market comparable method Price per perch of land financed through USD denominated borrowings. The Company has negotiated a USD 20 million term loan facility from DEG (Germany) and USD 13 million has Freehold land This method considers the selling price of a similar property within a been drawn down so far of which approximately 46% has been invested in an overseas project which generates cashflows mainly in USD. The translation reasonably recent period of time in determining the fair value of property being exposure resulting from the USD borrowing has been minimised to a high degree through these investments. The investments made by the hotels sector in revalued. This involves evaluation of recent active market prices of similar acquiring properties overseas were made using USD borrowings. These investments will generate a significant portion of their cashflows in USD and hence would assets, making appropriate adjustments for difference in size, nature and minimise the currency risk to a great extent. location of the property. A major portion of the foreign currency borrowings have been made by Group companies with matching incomes which act as a natural hedge against translation Other financial assets Discounted cash flows Current market interest rates exposure. Transaction exposures are minimised by selectively entering into forward contracts when future cashflows can be estimated with reasonable accuracy. Unquoted debt securities The Group treasury monitors foreign exchange markets on a continuous basis and advises on appropriate risk mitigating strategies. Other bank deposits Significant movement in exchange rates during the year ended 31st March 2015 Interest-bearing liabilities Discounted cash flows Current market interest rates Highest Level Lowest Level Spread Year end rate Rate Date Rate Date 37.3.1 Assets and liabilities measured at fair value Non-recurring USD/LKR 133.32 26, 27 & 31.03.2015 130.15 20.08.2014 3.1750 133.32 Assets and liabilities Valuation technique Significant unobservable inputs EUR/USD 1.3928 06.05.2014 1.0496 13.03.2015 0.3432 1.0731 Assets classified as held for sale Valued at the cash available with the disposal group held for sale. Not applicable Foreign currency sensitivity The main foreign currencies the Group uses to transact are the US Dollar and the Euro. The exposure to other foreign currencies is not considered as it is insignificant. In order to estimate the approximate impact of the currency risk on financial instruments a 5% fluctuation was considered in USD/LKR exchange rates. In calculation of this risk it is assumed that all other variables are held constant. The sensitivity analysis relates only to assets and liabilities depicted in financial statements as at the end of the financial year. 200 Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2014 2015 201 Notes to the Financial Statements Group Group 2014/2015 2013/2014 2014/2015 2013/2014 Effect on profit before tax Effect on equity Effect on profit before tax Effect on equity Financial Rupee USD financial Financial Rupee USD financial USD net USD forward USD net USD forward assets financial liabilities assets financial liabilities financial assets contracts financial assets contracts liabilities Rs. Equivalent liabilities Rs. Equivalent USD'000 USD'000 USD'000 USD'000 USD'000 USD'000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Exposure as at 31st March 1,413,842 3,896,097 7,269,989 1,519,339 3,864,463 4,901,543 Net exposure as at 31st March 4,957 (7,693) 81,275 23,770 (4,291) 56,351 Impact on profit before tax Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Decrease of 100 basis points in rupee interest rates 3,678 38,961 N/A 6,484 38,645 N/A LKR depreciates against the USD by 5% 33,045 (51,484) 541,780 155,374 (28,223) 368,337 Increase of 100 basis points in rupee interest rates (3,653) (38,961) N/A (6,415) (38,645) N/A LKR appreciates against the USD by 5% (33,045) 51,484 (541,780) (155,374) 28,223 (368,337) Decrease of 10 basis points in USD interest rates N/A N/A 7,270 N/A N/A 4,902 The effect on the equity arises from the investments made by the Group in the Maldives, India and Fiji. Increase of 10 basis points in USD interest rates N/A N/A (7,270) N/A N/A (4,902) We have not accounted for the sensitivity arising in any of the other investments as the Group’s exposure to such is not significant. At the reporting date the interest rate profile of the Company’s interest bearing financial instruments was as follows. Company Company 2014/2015 2013/2014 2014/2015 2013/2014 Effect on profit before tax Effect on profit before tax Financial Rupee USD financial Financial Rupee USD financial USD net financial assets USD forward contracts USD net financial assets assets financial liabilities assets financial liabilities USD’000 USD’000 USD’000 liabilities Rs. Equivalent liabilities Rs. Equivalent Net exposure as at 31st March (4,337) 1,000 (2,958) Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs’ 000 Rs’ 000 Rs’ 000 Exposure as at 31st March 1,413,842 2,145,000 1,733,160 1,519,339 2,527,500 1,307,300 LKR depreciates against the USD by 5% (28,909) 6,708 (19,332) Impact on profit before tax LKR appreciates against the USD by 5% 28,909 (6,708) 19,332 Decrease of 100 basis points in rupee interest rates 3,678 21,450 N/A 6,484 25,275 N/A Increase of 100 basis points in rupee interest rates (3,653) (21,450) N/A (6,415) (25,275) N/A 38.1.2 Interest rate risk Decrease of 10 basis points in USD interest rates N/A N/A 1,733 N/A N/A 1,307 Changes in market interest rates result in the fluctuation of present values of future cash flows derived from financial instruments thereby giving rise to interest Increase of 10 basis points in USD interest rates N/A N/A (1,733) N/A N/A (1,307) rate risk. Values of financial instruments could rise or decline depending on the variations in interest rates resulting in mark to market gains or losses in investment portfolios. Mark to market values could have an impact on the reported financial results of the Group. 38.1.3 Equity price risk The Group has in its investment portfolio, a range of financial instruments with both fixed and variable interest rates such as treasury bills and treasury bonds. The Group has adopted that its investment in subsidiaries, joint ventures and associate companies are recorded at cost as per LKAS 27 and 28 standards and These financial instruments are subject to interest rate risk depending on the volatility of market interest rates. Liabilities with variable interest rates such as therefore scoped out from LKAS 32 and 39 Financial Instruments. LIBOR linked borrowings would expose the Group to cashflow risk as the amount of interest paid would change depending on market interest rates. Investments The Investments made by the Group which do not belong to the above categories are classified as financial assets and categorized as available for sale (AFS). with fixed interest rates would expose the Group to variations in fair values in the process of marking to market of portfolios. It is important for the Group to maintain these variations within acceptable limits to ensure the predictability and consistency of reported results. At the reporting date the value of investments classified as AFS are as follows; Appropriate interest rate risk management strategies are used by the Group treasury to manage the interest rate risk in portfolio investments. The Group treasury Listed equity instruments Rs. 40 million (As at 31.03.2014; Rs. 30 million) attempts to forecast long term interest rate trends in order to determine the most suitable tenure of investments with the objective of minimising the Unlisted equity instruments Rs. 218 million (As at 31.03.2014; Rs. 244 million) re-investment risk as well as to minimise any adverse impact on marking to market of the portfolio. Interest rate swaps are used when there is a need to hedge A sensitivity analysis of the above has not been carried out as the Group’s exposure to such is not material. the risks on debt instruments with variable rates. Close monitoring of market trends is carried out to improve the accuracy of such decisions. The Group treasury continuously monitors the interest rate environment to advise SBUs on the most suitable strategy with regard to borrowings. The Group’s long 38.2 Liquidity risk term borrowings are usually negotiated during troughs in the interest rate cycle in order to extend the favourable impact to future reporting periods. Liquidity refers to the availability of cash or assets which can be converted to cash in a short period of time in order to meet future liabilities of a business. An entity would require sufficient funds for a number of purposes such as operational requirements, debt servicing and investments. Additionally, a shortage Significant movement in interest rates during the year ended 31st March 2015 of liquidity would have a negative impact on stakeholder confidence in a business entity. The Group has ensured that it maintains sufficient liquidity reserves Highest Level Lowest Level Spread Year end rate to meet all its funding requirements by closely monitoring and forecasting future funding needs and securing funding sources for both regular and emergency Rate Period Rate Period requirements. LKR Interest rate * 7.37% March-2015 5.89% September-2014 1.48% 6.80% Management of working capital by shortening the working capital cycle is given a high priority by the Group. All sector finance heads do constantly monitor the USD Interest rate ** 0.41% March-2015 0.32% October-2014 0.09% 0.40% adequacy of working capital of their sectors and take corrective action when necessary. The Group has implemented procurement and vendor evaluation policies to prevent payment of excessive prices to suppliers and to obtain maximum credit in order to ensure a strong working capital position. Special attention has been * One year Government Treasury bill rate given to cash inflows and outflows both at a consolidate and sector levels. The maturity profile of the Group’s investments is monitored and adjusted to meet ** Six months USD LIBOR expected future cash outflows in the short, medium and long terms. Interest rate sensitivity Funding requirements of the sectors and consolidated levels are evaluated at regular intervals by analysing business expansion strategies. The Group has adopted At the reporting date the interest rate sensitivity profile of the Group’s interest bearing financial instruments and its impact on the profit before tax was as follows. a conservative investment strategy in order to preserve the scarce capital. At opportune moments funds are mobilised by accessing capital markets and the Group ensures that future interest expenses are minimised on borrowings by negotiating attractive interest rates with the respective lenders. The Group has regularly made use of attractive interest rates offered by international banks on foreign currency denominated fundings mostly to finance its overseas investments. 202 Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2014 2015 203 Notes to the Financial Statements The table below summarises the maturity profile of the Group’s financial liabilities based on contractual undiscounted payments. Liquidity position Group Group Company As at 31st March 2015 On demand Less than 3 3 to 12 1 to 2 years 2 to 5 years More than 5 Total As at 31.03.2015 31.03.2014 31.03.2015 31.03.2014 months months years Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Cash in hand and at bank 2,911,135 2,672,100 185,561 62,504 Interest bearing liabilities 730,203 1,993,538 3,139,473 4,382,524 1,914,498 12,160,236 Trade & other receivable within 30 days 2,961,387 3,178,364 439,795 465,712 Bank overdrafts and other short term borrowings 2,089,729 2,089,729 Short Term deposit 10,861,001 10,421,020 4,812,631 4,262,820 Trade payables 903,193 153,762 124,110 1,181,065 Total Liquid assets 16,733,523 16,271,484 5,437,987 4,791,036 Other Payables 2,878,604 379,424 1,019,672 4,277,700 Less: 5,871,526 1,263,389 3,137,320 3,139,473 4,382,524 1,914,498 19,708,730 Bank overdraft and other short term borrowing 2,089,729 4,562,280 254,619 312,410 Trade payable on demand 903,193 1,485,530 As at 31st March 2014 On demand Less than 3 3 to 12 1 to 2 years 2 to 5 years More than 5 Total Other payable at on demand 2,878,604 1,819,228 2,894,630 2,062,742 months months years Total on demand liabilities 5,871,526 7,867,038 3,149,249 2,375,152 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Excess / short Liquidity through operating cycle 10,861,997 8,404,446 2,288,739 2,415,884 Interest bearing liabilities 351,855 1,274,838 1,984,224 4,163,462 1,164,650 8,939,029 Undrawn approved bank facilities 13,757,653 11,083,012 6,207,153 6,022,990 Bank overdrafts and other short term borrowings 4,562,280 4,562,280 Market value of discounted securities 1,413,842 1,519,339 1,413,842 1,519,339 Trade payables 1,485,530 176,001 147,426 1,808,957 Liquidity available on demand 15,171,495 12,602,351 7,620,995 7,542,329 Other Payables 1,819,228 1,309,699 645,730 3,774,657 7,867,038 1,837,555 2,067,994 1,984,224 4,163,462 1,164,650 19,084,923 38.3 Credit risk The Table below summarises the maturity profile of the Company’s financial liabilities based on contractual undiscounted payments. Credit risk refers to the risk borne by the Group owing to the risk of a counter party defaulting on its contractual obligations in relation to a financial instrument or customer contract. The Group is exposed to credit risk from its operating activities and from its financing activities, including deposits with banks, foreign Company exchange transactions and other financial instruments. The maximum credit risk of the Group and the Company is limited to the carrying value of these financial As at 31st March 2015 On demand Less than 3 3 to 12 1 to 2 years 2 to 5 years More than 5 Total assets as at the reporting date. months months years Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Group Company Interest bearing liabilities 384,058 777,276 1,433,457 1,257,463 3,852,254 31.03.2015 31.03.2014 31.03.2015 31.03.2014 Bank overdraft and other short term borrowings 254,619 254,619 Exposure Exposure Exposure Exposure Other payables 2,894,630 1,250 53,352 2,949,231 Rs.’000 % Rs.’000 % Rs.’000 % Rs.’000 % 3,149,249 385,308 830,628 1,433,457 1,257,463 7,056,104 Trade and other receivables 7,503,078 34.22 8,955,794 39.56 2,832,293 35.53 2,756,413 37.88 Deposits and prepayments 287,874 1.31 153,860 0.68 704 0.01 704 0.01 As at 31st March 2014 On demand Less than 3 3 to 12 1 to 2 years 2 to 5 years More than 5 Total Other financial assets months months years Unquoted debt securities and equity securities 325,057 1.48 402,698 1.78 135,444 1.70 189,856 2.61 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Quoted equity shares 39,837 0.18 29,632 0.13 5,111 0.06 3,641 0.05 Interest bearing liabilities 64,838 306,999 889,514 2,216,318 320,562 3,798,231 Other bank deposits 9,447,159 43.08 8,901,681 39.33 3,398,789 42.64 2,743,481 37.71 Bank overdraft and other short term borrowings 312,410 312,410 Government securities 1,413,842 6.45 1,519,339 6.71 1,413,842 17.74 1,519,339 20.88 Other payables 2,062,742 19,182 50,000 2,131,924 Forward foreign exchange contracts 707 0.00 566 0.00 2,375,152 84,020 356,999 889,514 2,216,318 320,562 6,242,565 Cash and short-term deposits 2,911,135 13.28 2,672,100 11.80 185,561 2.33 62,504 0.86 Total 21,928,689 100.00 22,635,670 100.00 7,971,744 100.00 7,275,938 100.00 The Group treasury manages the risk arising from investments made in financial institutions in accordance with the policy direction provided by the Board. The transactions are carried out only with a limited number of institutions all of which have stable credit ratings from internationally recognised rating providers. The Group’s exposures and credit ratings of counterparties are continuously monitored and the investment portfolio is diversified amongst several institutions to minimize the unsystematic risk. 204 Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2014 2015 205 Notes to the Financial Statements 38.3.1 Trade receivables 39 Capital management Trade receivables consist of recoverables from a large number of customers spread across diverse industries, segments and geographical areas. The capital management strategy of the Group has the twin key objectives of ensuring the availability of a sufficient amount of capital for long term investments and growth while maintaining an adequate liquidity buffer for business operations. Sustaining the financial health to withstand economic cycles while The majority of the Group’s trade receivables are due for settlement within 90 days comprising of 86.8% of trade receivables as at the end of the financial year. maintaining stakeholder confidence in the Group is another vital requirement that it has integrated into the capital management strategy. The credit policy for each segment of business varies due to the diversity of operations in the Group. The credit policies that best suit their respective business environment are developed for each sector and the responsibility for this rests with the head of finance and the senior management teams. Capital not being available in sufficient quantities or at a reasonable cost is a factor which can retard the performance of the Group. The management, being conscious of these factors, has implemented the capital management policy to ensure the long term sustainability and competitiveness of the Group. In this The credit policies of Group companies are prepared subsequent to analysing credit profiles of customers. In this regard factors such as the credit history, legal regard another important factor that the Group is aware of is to make certain that there is no idle capital which will act as a drag on the returns generated. Too status, market share, geographical locations of operations, and industry information are considered. Reference from bankers or credit information databases are much capital invested in a business will have a dampening impact on the performance while too little capital will prevent an organization from achieving its long obtained when it is considered necessary. Each Group company has identified credit limits for their customers. In the event a customer does not meet the criteria term objectives. or the stipulated benchmark on a transaction, then the business is carried out with such customers only up to the value of the collaterals or advances obtained. Apart from the state owned enterprise who is the largest customer of the Strategic Investments sector, the Group does not have a significant credit risk exposure 39.1 Types of capital to any other single counterparty. Concentration of credit risk of the state owned enterprise is 48.4 % of total trade receivables of the Group as at 31st March Equity and debt are the two components of the financial capital of the Group. The equity capital consists of the stated capital, retained earnings and reserves 2015. Out of the total receivables outstanding over 90 days, 77.7% is from the state owned enterprise. while the debt capital is made up of the long and short term debt. The debt capital is sourced from lending institutions and capital markets. Although the Group raises debt capital often it has not raised new equity capital from shareholders for a number of years. The Group is confident that these receivables will be recovered in the immediate future. The Group periodically evaluates its projected capital requirements for the future considering investment needs and other capital utilisation requirements. Such Trade receivable settlement profile evaluations may point out gaps in the required amount of capital which would be filled through either the issue of new equity or debt. The debt to equity ratio 31.03.2015 31.03.2014 (defined as the ratio between non-current interest bearing borrowings to the total equity and minority interest) is carefully monitored to ensure the efficient use of Rs.’000 Rs.’000 shareholder’s equity. Managing the debt to equity ratio is a vital element of capital management as it has a direct bearing on the Group’s ability to raise low cost Less than 30 days 2,961,387 3,178,364 capital. More than 30 days but less than 60 days 1,311,056 2,002,219 In the past the Group has raised debt capital both from lending institutions as well as from the capital market. Debt capital is sourced subsequent to detailed More than 60 days but less than 90 days 607,404 1,626,979 evaluation of lender proposals. Important factors such as the tenure of the debt, interest rates, capital repayment terms including any grace periods and More than 90 days but less than 180 days 651,429 96,811 repayment amounts and other terms and conditions including covenants are taken into account prior to making a decision. Minimising the weighted average cost More than 180 days but less than 365 days 45,327 24,789 of capital is one of the key considerations in determining sourcing options. The Group has raised debt both in LKR and in USD. Since the Group is a net foreign More than 365 days 43,112 211,547 exchange earner taking advantage of the relatively low interest rates on USD denominated debt is a sensible option. Total gross trade receivables 5,619,715 7,140,710 Whilst raising of capital is carried out both at Group and sector levels the Group treasury plays an active role in ensuring that the cost of capital is maintained at Impairment provision for trade receivables (56,601) (48,758) the optimum level and the financial and other covenants linked to the sourcing arrangements are acceptable. Total net trade receivables 5,563,114 7,091,952 39.2 Capital allocation and investment Collateral acquired for mitigating credit risk Implementation of the Group’s long term strategy for growth requires continuous capital investments in the different sectors in which the Group carries out The Group as a policy does not offer credit to individuals unless collateral in the form of bank guarantees or advances are provided to cover the receivable. The business. The allocation of limited capital available is done pursuant to careful evaluation of investment opportunities to ascertain expected returns. The Group’s total collateral obtained on trade receivables is Rs. 240.3 million as at the balance sheet . The Group focuses on quality and the realisability of such collateral to capital investment decisions are supported by complex financial modelling, thorough sensitivity analysis and legal, financial and technical due diligence. IRR mitigate potential credit losses. hurdle rates are consistently used to both identify and rank suitable investment opportunities. 38.3.2 Bank deposits Once a decision is taken to proceed with a capital investment the Group takes relevant steps to ensure that the investment is carried out in the optimum The Group’s bank deposits have been made in several banks in order to minimise the credit risk in accordance with the policy directions provided by the Board. manner. When the investment involves external shareholders, the Group take steps to protect its rights by entering into carefully drafted legal agreements. Post As a further step in order to minimise the credit risk the Group’s exposure and credit ratings of investee banks are continuously monitored and a diversified investment evaluations are carried out at frequent intervals to ensure that the returns envisaged at the evaluation stage are actually delivered. Exposure limits are investment portfolio is maintained. In the event of any weakening of credit metrics of an investee bank the Group may decide to liquidate its investments and used to control the default risk especially in portfolio investments. At the evaluation stage for capital investments financial modelling, sensitivity analysis, and the move to an institution with a higher credit rating. calculation of internal rate of return are carried out either by the Group’s Corporate Finance division, or the respective Sector through which the investment will take place with the assistance of the former. Other bank deposits consist of fixed and call deposits made in financial institutions. Following is an analysis other bank deposits, based on the credit rating of financial institution, of such deposits are placed with. 39.3 Adequate financial reserves Group Company The Group continuously endeavours to maintain adequate reserves of capital so as to ensure the long term financial health of the organization. Possible risks that could result in financial losses are identified and steps are taken to mitigate the probabilities. Sound cashflow planning practices have been implemented 31.03.2015 31.03.2014 31.03.2015 31.03.2014 Group-wide ensuring efficient collection of receivables and shortening the cash cycle. A special emphasis is placed on minimizing operating costs through critical Distribution Distribution Distribution Distribution evaluation and justification of all cost elements. Rs.’000 % Rs.’000 % Rs.’000 % Rs.’000 % The Group policies regarding managing receivables have been communicated to respective heads of finance of all sectors. The corporate finance division of the Credit Rating Group monitors the Group-wide status of receivables and submits exception reports to the management for advise on required action. Fitch ratings ; AAA(lka) 181,318 1.9 32,000 0.4 AA+(lka) 4,418,041 46.8 4,530,221 50.9 1,866,361 54.9 1,291,057 47.1 39.4 Capital management policy AA-(lka) 4,643,135 49.1 4,321,750 48.5 1,532,428 45.1 1,452,424 52.9 The capital management policy of the Group is aimed at maximising the return on scarce capital whilst safeguarding the already invested capital. Ensuring JCR-VIS ; AAA 3,372 0.0 that there is adequate capital for the Group to invest and grow while continuing with its regular business operations requires decision makers to look at many Fitch ratings (Australia) ; AA201,293 2.1 17,710 0.2 facets of the business and consider a number of variables, both internal and external. The rapid pace of change in the operating environment has a profound impact on many factors affecting the use of capital, and a deep understanding derived from years of experience in a business sector is vital to ensure successful Total other bank deposits 9,447,159 100.0 8,901,681 100.0 3,398,789 100.0 2,743,481 100.0 management of capital. 206 Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2014 2015 207 Notes to the Financial Statements The Group’s capital management policy fundamentally stems from various decisions the Board has taken regarding capital investments and the optimum utilization of cash 43 Directors’ fees resources. This policy is a reflection of the current thinking of the Board on present and future industry, market and economic risks and conditions. Potential investments The Directors of the Company have received fees amounting to Rs. 108,000 /from subsidiaries for the year ended 31st March 2015. and divestments are discussed at length by the Group directors and various aspects of risk and return parameters are considered prior to making capital investment decisions. Exception reports on receivables are discussed either by the Board or Board Committees and appropriate decisions are taken. 44 Related party transactions The Group treasury and the corporate finance division play a vital role in implementing the capital management policy. The corporate finance division provides The Aitken Spence Group and the Company carries out transactions in the ordinary course of business with parties who are defined as related parties as per Sri management information necessary to base policy decisions such as key performance indicators of sectors highlighting financial performances. Some of the Lanka Accounting Standard-LKAS 24 Related Party Disclosures. Transactions and outstanding balances between the companies within the group and related important parameters which guide the capital management policy include the tolerance for gearing, interest risk appetite and the view on the exchange rate parties are given in note no. 44.2 44.8. movement. The underlying variables such as the market borrowing and lending rates, exchange rates, inflation and other macroeconomic indicators are constantly monitored by the Group treasury and recommendations regarding the appropriate policy changes are made to the management. 44.1 Parent and ultimate controlling party Capital management is a vital function in ensuring the long term survival and growth of the Group. The decisions that are taken at the present time will have far reaching Company does not have an identifiable parent of its own. implications in the future. The Group’s capital management policy, therefore, is constantly evolving and attempts to link its future strategy to present day financing decisions. 44.2 Transactions with key management personnel 40 Contracts for capital expenditure 44.2.1 Aitken Spence PLC., considers its Board of Directors as the key management personnel of the company. The Board of Directors, Vice Presidents and Assistant Vice Presidents of subsidiary companies are considered as key management personnel of such companies. The following commitments for capital expenditure approved by the Directors as at 31st March have not been provided for in the financial statements. 44.2.2 There were no loans given to Directors of the company during the financial year or as at the year end. 40.1 Commitments for capital expenditure for subsidiaries 44.2.3 Compensation paid to / on behalf of key management personnel of the Company is as follows; 31.03.2015 31.03.2014 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Company Group Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Approximate amount approved but not contracted for 3,487,253 20,401,297 Approximate amount contracted for but not incurred 718,246 1,076,493 Short term employee benefits 84,493 472,100 4,205,499 21,477,790 Post-employment benefits 41,819 No post-employment benefits were paid to key management personnel of Aitken Spence PLC during the financial year. The Company/Group did not have any The above includes commitments for the acquisition of property, plant and equipment of Rs. 4,134.7 million (2013/2014Rs. 21,362.3 million) and for the material transactions with its key management personnel or their close family members during the year. acquisition of intangible assets of Rs. 70.8 million (2013/2014Rs. 115.5 million). 44.2.4 Key management personnel of Aitken Spence PLC hold positions in other companies, some of which had trading transactions with the Group during the 40.2 Commitments for capital expenditure for joint ventures year. Such companies the Group had transactions with are identified below. 31.03.2015 31.03.2014 Mr. D.H.S. Jayawardena Chairman of the company is also the Chairman or a Director of Aitken Spence Hotel Holdings PLC, and Aitken Spence Hotel Management Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Asia (Pvt) Ltd., which are subsidiaries of the Group. He is also the Chairman of Browns Beach Hotels PLC., and Negombo Beach Resorts (Pvt) Ltd., which are Approximate amount approved but not contracted for 61,368 192,059 equity-accounted investees of the Group, and the Chairman, Managing Director or a Director of companies indicated by “*” in the list of companies disclosed Approximate amount contracted for but not incurred 1,655,951 6,770 under note 44.5. 1,717,319 198,829 Mr. J.M.S. Brito, Managing & Finance Director of the company is also the Chairman or a Director of the subsidiaries and equity-accounted investees that are indicated by “a” in notes 21 and 22 to the financial statements. He is also a Director of SriLankan Airlines Ltd., (Appointed w.e.f. 12th February 2015). The above includes commitments for the acquisition of property, plant and equipment of Rs. 1,712.0 million (2013/2014Rs. 194.1 million) and for the acquisition of intangible assets of Rs. 5.3 million (2013/2014Rs. 4.7 million). Dr. R.M. Fernando a Director of the company is also the Managing Director or a Director of the companies marked by “b” in note 21 and 22 to the financial statements. 41 Cessation of power purchase agreement of Ace Power Embilipitiya (Pvt) Ltd Dr. P. Dissanayake a Director of the company is also the Chairman, Managing Director or a Director of the companies marked by “c” in note 21 to the financial The Power Purchase Agreement (PPA) dated 9 May 2003 signed between Ace Power Embilipitiya (Pvt) Ltd and the Ceylon Electricity Board (CEB) expired on 6th April statements. 2015. In response to a formal letter of intent from the Ceylon Electricity Board the Company submitted a proposal for an extension of the PPA. The outcome of the sought Mr. C. H. Gomez a Director of the company is also a Director of Aitken Spence Hotel Holdings PLC. extension is uncertain. Based on the negotiations that have taken place with the CEB up to the date of approval of these financial statements the Board of Ace Power Embilipitiya (Pvt) Ltd has made an assessment of the entity’s ability to continue as a going concern, and does not intend to either liquidate or cease trading. Mr. N. J. de S Deva Aditya a Director of the company is also a Director of Aitken Spence Hotel Holdings PLC. He is also a Director of Distilleries Company of Sri Lanka PLC. 42 Contingent liabilities Mr. V.M. Fernando a Director of the company is also the Chairman of Shipping and Cargo Logistics (Pvt) Ltd., which is a subsidiary company of the Group and a The contingent liabilities as at 31.03.2015 on guarantees given by Aitken Spence PLC to third parties amounted to Rs. 1,261.3 million. Of this sum Rs. 962.0 Director of Eco Corp Asia (Pvt) Ltd., which is a equity-accounted investee of the Group. He is also the Chairman or a Director of Hyundai Lanka (Pvt) Ltd., Dynamic million and Rs. 299.3 million relates to facilities obtained by subsidiaries and equity-accounted investees respectively and none to other related companies listed AV Technologies (Pvt) Ltd., and SriLankan Airlines Ltd., (Resigned w.e.f. 10th January 2015). in note 44.5 to the financial statements. Liabilities as at 31.03.2015 on guarantees given by subsidiaries and equity-accounted investees to other companies Mr. R.N. Asirwatham a Director of the company is also a Director of Aitken Spence Hotel Holdings PLC. He is also a Director of CIC Holdings PLC, Ceylon Agro amounted to Rs. 11,092.8 million. None of the above guarantees were in relation to facilities obtained by companies other than companies within the Group. Industries Ltd., Dankotuwa Porcelain PLC., Dialtex Industries Ltd., Mercantile Merchant Bank Ltd., Rajawella (Holdings) Pvt Ltd., and Royal Ceramics Lanka PLC. There were no guarantees given in relation to facilities obtained by Aitken Spence PLC. Miss. D.S.T. Jayawardena a Director of the company is also a Director of Aitken Spence Hotel Holdings PLC., which is a subsidiary of the Group, Director of Cey Spence (Pvt) Ltd which was previously an equity accounted investee now under liquidation, and the share of net assets of which is reflected under assets Eco Corp Asia (Pvt) Ltd., Amethyst Leisure Ltd., and Paradise Resorts Pasikudah (Pvt) Ltd., which are equity-accounted investees of the Group. She is also the classified as held for sale in the consolidated financial statements of the Group was issued an income tax assessment under the Inland Revenue Act in relation to Chairperson or a Director of Splendor Media (Pvt) Ltd., Stassen Exports (Pvt) Ltd,. Stassen Foods (Pvt) Ltd., and Stassen Natural Foods (Pvt) Ltd. the year of assessment 2007/2008. The Tax Appeals Commission hearing the appeal has determined the income tax assessment in favour of the Department of Inland Revenue. Pursuant to the determination of the Tax Appeals Commission the company has appealed against the determination to the Court of Appeal. The contingent liability to the Group is estimated to be Rs. 70 million inclusive of any penalties. Based on expert advice the Directors are confident that the ultimate resolution of the case will not have a material adverse impact on the financial statements of the Group. 208 Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2014 2015 209 Notes to the Financial Statements 44.3 Transactions with subsidiary companies 44.4.2 Transactions with associate companies Transactions with Transactions with Transactions with Transactions with Aitken Spence PLC Group companies Aitken Spence PLC Group companies 2014/2015 2013/2014 2014/2015 2013/2014 2014/2015 2013/2014 2014/2015 2013/2014 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Income from services rendered 521,352 557,527 N/A N/A Sale of goods and services 10,132 6,123 25,029 21,822 Rent income received 17,049 14,655 N/A N/A Allocation of common personnel and administration expenses 682 532 682 532 Allocation of common personnel and administration expenses 40,315 35,137 N/A N/A Purchase of goods and services 3,543 1,153 7,204 4,997 Purchase of goods and services 44,796 47,051 N/A N/A Net transfers under finance arrangements 34,500 34,500 Net borrowings under finance arrangements 11,539 130,611 N/A N/A Interest paid 689 689 Interest income received 51,214 71,774 N/A N/A Sales of assets 5,300 5,300 Interest paid 50,931 52,599 N/A N/A Transactions with Aitken Spence Plantation Managements PLC and its Group, Browns Beach Hotels PLC and its Group, Paradise Resorts Pasikuda (Pvt) Ltd., are Sales of assets 6,680 N/A N/A reflected under transactions with associates above. Transactions with A.D.S. Resorts Private Ltd., Ace Alliance Power Ltd., Ace Aviation Services (Pvt) Ltd., Ace Aviation Services Maldives Private Ltd. , Ace Cargo (Pvt) Ltd., Ace Container Repair (Pvt) Ltd., Ace Container Terminals (Pvt) Ltd., Ace Containers (Pvt) Ltd., Ace Distriparks (Pvt) Ltd., Ace Exports (Pvt) Ltd., 44.5 Transactions with other related companies Ace Freight Management (Pvt) Ltd., Ace International Express (Pvt) Ltd., Ace Power Embilipitiya (Pvt) Ltd., Ace Power Generation Horana (Pvt) Ltd., Ace Power Transactions with Transactions with Generation Matara (Pvt) Ltd., Ace Printing & Packaging (Pvt) Ltd., Ace Wind Power (Pvt) Ltd., AE Lanka (Pvt) Ltd., Aitken Spence (Garments) Ltd., Aitken Spence Aitken Spence PLC Group companies Apparels (Pvt) Ltd., Aitken Spence Aviation (Pvt) Ltd., Aitken Spence Cargo (Pvt) Ltd., Aitken Spence Developments (Pvt) Ltd., Aitken Spence Exports (Pvt) Ltd., 2014/2015 2013/2014 2014/2015 2013/2014 Aitken Spence Hotel Holdings PLC., Aitken Spence Hotel Managements (Pvt) Ltd., Aitken Spence Hotel Managements (South India) Private Ltd., Aitken Spence Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Hotel Managements Asia (Pvt) Ltd., Aitken Spence Hotels International (Pvt) Ltd., Aitken Spence Hotels Ltd., Aitken Spence Insurance (Pvt) Ltd., Aitken Spence Insurance Brokers (Pvt) Ltd., Aitken Spence Maritime Ltd., Aitken Spence Moscow (Pvt) Ltd., Aitken Spence Printing & Packaging (Pvt) Ltd., Aitken Spence Property Sale of goods and services 183 335,756 457,789 Developments (Pvt) Ltd., Aitken Spence Resorts (Pvt) Ltd., Aitken Spence Resources (Pvt) Ltd., Aitken Spence Shipping Ltd., Aitken Spence Shipping Services Ltd., Purchase of goods and services 30,043 11,626 665,773 494,492 Aitken Spence Technologies (Pvt) Ltd., Alliance Spence Power Ltd., Branford Hydropower (Pvt) Ltd., Clark Spence & Company (Pvt) Ltd., Cowrie Investment Private Interest income received 20,600 Ltd., Crest Star (B.V.I.) Ltd., Elevators (Pvt) Ltd. , Golden Sun Resorts (Pvt) Ltd. , Hapag-Lloyd Lanka (Pvt) Ltd. , Heritance (Pvt) Ltd. , Hethersett Hotels Ltd., Interlifts Interest paid 140,853 201,972 International Private Ltd., Jetan Travel Services Company Private Ltd., Kandalama Hotels (Pvt) Ltd., Logilink (Pvt) Ltd., M.P.S. Hotels (Pvt) Ltd., Meeraladuwa Loans obtained 24,158 (Pvt) Ltd., MMBL Money Transfer (Pvt) Ltd., Neptune Ayurvedic Village (Pvt) Ltd., Port Management Container Services (Pvt) Ltd., Royal Spence Aviation (Pvt) Repayment of loans and debentures 112,500 254,316 Ltd., Shipping & Cargo Logistics (Pvt) Ltd., Spence International (Pvt) Ltd., Spence Logistics (Pvt) Ltd., Spence Maldives Private Ltd., Unique Resorts Private Ltd., Vauxhall Cargo Logistics (Pvt) Ltd., Vauxhall Investments (Pvt) Ltd., Vauxhall Property Developments (Pvt) Ltd., Western Power Company (Pvt) Ltd. are reflected Transactions with Ambewela Livestock Company Ltd.*, Bell Solutions (Pvt) Ltd.*, Ceylon Agro Industries Ltd., CIC Holdings PLC, Continental Insurance Lanka Ltd., under transactions with subsidiary companies above. Dankotuwa Porcelain PLC, Dialtex Industries Ltd., Distilleries Company of Sri Lanka PLC*, Dynamic AV Technologies (Pvt) Ltd., Hyundai Lanka (Pvt) Ltd., Indo Lanka Exports (Pvt) Ltd.*, Lanka Bell (Pvt) Ltd.*, Lanka Dairies (Pvt) Ltd.*, Lanka Milk Foods (CWE) PLC*, Melsta Logistics Pvt Ltd., Melsta Regal Finance Ltd., Mercantile 44.4 Transactions with equity-accounted investees Merchant Bank Ltd ., Pattipola Livestock Company Ltd.*, Periceyl (Pvt) Ltd.*, Rajawella (Holdings) Pvt. Ltd., Royal Ceramics PLC, Splendor Media (Pvt) Ltd., Sri 44.4.1 Transactions with joint venture companies Lankan Airlines Ltd., Stassen Exports (Pvt) Ltd.*, Stassen Foods (Pvt) Ltd.*, Stassen International (Pvt) Ltd.*, Stassen Natural Foods (Pvt) Ltd.*, Telecom Frontier (Pvt) Ltd.*, Texpro Industries Ltd.* are reflected under transactions with other related companies, above. Transactions with Transactions with Aitken Spence PLC Group companies 44.6 Transactions with post-employment benefit plans 2014/2015 2013/2014 2014/2015 2013/2014 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Transactions with Transactions with Aitken Spence PLC Group companies Sale of goods and services 38,318 32,861 1,461,757 1,452,492 2014/2015 2013/2014 2014/2015 2013/2014 Rent income received 1,080 1,080 1,080 1,080 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Allocation of common personnel and administration expenses 12,490 11,546 12,490 11,546 Contributions to the provident fund 175,841 158,867 32,957 27,155 Purchase of goods and services 858 863 113,440 23,795 Net borrowings under finance arrangements 497,000 497,000 Contributions to the Aitken Spence & Associated Companies Executive Staff Provident Fund., and the Aitken Spence & Associated Companies Clerical Staff Interest paid 62,925 67,078 62,925 134,156 Provident Fund., are reflected under transactions with post-employment benefit plans, above. Sales of assets 11 Transactions with Ace Bangladesh Ltd., Ace Travels & Conventions (Pvt) Ltd., Ahungalla Resorts Ltd., Aitken Spence C & T Investments (Pvt) Ltd., Aitken Spence Overseas Travel Services (Pvt) Ltd., Aitken Spence Travels (Pvt) Ltd., Colombo International Nautical & Engineering College (Pvt) Ltd., Delta Shipping (Pvt) Ltd., EcoCorp Asia (Pvt) Ltd. are reflected under transactions with joint ventures above. 210 Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2014 2015 211 Notes to the Financial Statements 44.7 Amounts due from related parties 45 Foreign currency translation The principal exchange rates used for translation purposes were; Balances with Balances with Aitken Spence PLC Group companies 31.03.2015 31.03.2014 31.03.2015 31.03.2014 31.03.2015 31.03.2014 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 United States Dollar 133.32 130.73 44.7.1 Amount due from subsidiaries British Pound 197.24 217.41 Euro 144.29 179.67 Fully owned subsidiaries 1,702,851 1,580,701 N/A N/A Oman Rial 345.18 339.49 Partly owned subsidiaries 637,957 703,819 N/A N/A Fiji Dollar 64.67 70.84 2,340,808 2,284,520 N/A N/A South African Rand 10.96 12.33 Provision for doubtful debts 3,635 N/A N/A Indian Rupee 2.12 2.18 Maldivian Rufiyaa 8.61 8.39 44.7.2 Amount due from equity-accounted investees Bangladesh Taka 1.71 1.68 Joint ventures 55,773 12,329 618,892 188,357 Associates 21,620 7,270 61,792 9,219 46 Number of employees 77,393 19,599 680,684 197,576 The number of employees of the Group at the end of the year was 7,131 (2013/2014 6,797) The number of employees of the Company at the end of the year was Provision for doubtful debts 207 (2013/2014 205). 44.7.3 Amount due from other related companies 47 Events occurring after the reporting date Other related companies 42,503 31,287 The Board of Directors of the Company resolved to recommend a first and final ordinary dividend of Rs. 2.00 per share for the year 2014/2015 to be approved at Provision for doubtful debts 293 465 the Annual General Meeting. Details of the dividend is disclosed in note 14 to the financial statements. Aitken Spence Hotels International (Pvt) Ltd., a subsidiary of the Aitken Spence Group, invested USD 5 million in Ace Resorts (Pvt) Ltd., to acquire the leasehold 44.8 Amounts due to related parties rights of Raafushi island in Noonu Atol of the Maldives. Balances with Balances with The Power Purchase Agreement (PPA) dated 9th May 2003 signed between the Company and the Ceylon Electricity Board (CEB) and Ace Power Embilipitiya (Pvt) Aitken Spence PLC Group companies Ltd., a subsidiary of Aitken Spence PLC., expired on 6th April 2015. 31.03.2015 31.03.2014 31.03.2015 31.03.2014 There were no other material events that occurred after the reporting date that require adjustments to or disclosure in the financial statements. Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 44.8.1 Amount due to subsidiaries 48 Comparative information Fully owned subsidiaries 1,006,462 708,515 N/A N/A Except for the adoption of new accounting standards in Sri Lanka with effect from 1st January 2014, (refer note 4.1) the Group has consistently applied the Partly owned subsidiaries 275,200 153,158 N/A N/A accounting policies with those adopted in the previous financial year. The presentation and classification of the financial statements of the previous period, have 1,281,662 861,673 N/A N/A been adjusted, where relevant, for better presentation. The following tables summarise the material impacts for the comparative periods resulting from the changes in accounting policies on the Group’s financial 44.8.2 Amount due to equity-accounted investees statements. Joint ventures 1,527,686 1,187,612 1,537,939 1,195,504 Associates 46,498 130 48,885 260 1,574,184 1,187,742 1,586,824 1,195,764 44.8.3 Amount due to other related companies Other related companies 17,320 14,033 44.9 Terms and conditions of transactions with related parties All related party transactions are carried out in the normal course of business and transacted at normal business terms .The sales to and purchases from related parties are made on terms equivalent to those that prevail in arm’s length transactions and comparable with those that would have been charged from unrelated companies. All related party outstanding balances at the year-end are unsecured and are to be settled in cash. The Group does not have any material commitments to related parties, other than those disclosed in note 42 to the financial statements. 212 Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2014 2015 213 Notes to the Financial Statements 48.1 Impact on consolidated income statement for the year ended 31st March 2014. 48.3 Impact on consolidated cash flow statement for the year ended 31st March 2014 As previously Application of Application of ReAs restated reported SLFRS 10 SLFRS 11 classifications As previously Application of Application of ReAs restated reported SLFRS 10 SLFRS 11 classifications Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Revenue 36,598,095 1,814,391 (3,353,363) 35,059,123 Net cash from operating activities 5,297,677 72,338 (166,035) 5,203,980 Revenue taxes (489,725) (278) 8,259 (481,744) Net cash from investing activities (4,240,047) (13,737) 166,187 (4,087,597) Net revenue 36,108,370 1,814,113 (3,345,104) 34,577,379 Net cash from financing activities 407,539 8,123 8,908 424,570 Other operating income 455,093 35,453 (23,655) 466,891 Net increase / (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 1,465,169 66,724 9,060 1,540,953 Changes in inventories of finished goods and work-in-progress 57,895 36,709 94,604 Raw materials and consumables used (10,435,289) (401,974) (10,837,263) 48.4 Impact on consolidated statements of financial position Employee benefits expense (4,381,840) (199,964) 274,095 (325,506) (4,633,215) Depreciation, amortisation and impairment of intangible assets (1,499,420) (13,000) 51,842 (1,460,578) 48.4.1 Impact on consolidated statements of financial position as at 01.04.2013 Other operating expenses-direct (9,152,620) (1,033,123) 2,544,642 325,506 (7,315,595) Other operating expenses-indirect (5,449,197) (152,462) 213,548 (5,388,111) As previously Application of Application of ReAs restated reported SLFRS 10 SLFRS 11 classifications Profit from operations 5,702,992 85,752 (284,632) 5,504,112 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Financial income 800,721 234 (13,512) 787,443 Property, plant and equipment 24,041,780 63,711 (570,561) 23,534,930 Financial expenses (1,250,669) (9,599) (15,802) (1,276,070) Investment property 1,661,596 1,661,596 Net financing income / (expenses) (449,948) (9,365) (29,314) (488,627) Intangible assets 654,056 363 (304,051) 350,368 Investments in equity-accounted investees 1,931,205 1,128,782 3,059,987 Share of profit of equity-accounted investees (net of tax) 156,067 273,394 429,461 Deferred tax assets 222,147 3,863 (261) 225,749 Profit before tax 5,409,111 76,387 (40,552) 5,444,946 Inventories 1,824,723 55,547 (1,479) (5,020) 1,873,771 Income tax expenses (900,476) (5,533) 40,552 (865,457) Trade and other receivables 9,972,627 190,725 (472,072) 9,691,280 Profit for the year 4,508,635 70,854 4,579,489 Current tax receivable 180,918 1,507 (192) 182,233 Deposits and prepayments 1,129,843 15,779 (124,113) 1,021,509 Attributable to: Other financial assets 7,226,280 847 (86,557) 7,140,570 Equity holders of the parent 3,671,870 3,671,870 Minority interest 836,765 70,854 907,619 Cash and short-term deposits 2,217,994 76,811 (235,427) 2,059,378 Profit for the year 4,508,635 70,854 4,579,489 Others 5,087,841 5,087,841 Total Assets 56,151,010 409,153 (665,931) (5,020) 55,889,212 48.2 Impact on consolidated statement of profit or loss and other comprehensive income for the year ended 31st March 2014 Interest bearing liabilities 7,615,444 14,370 (49,727) 7,580,087 As previously Application of Application of ReAs restated Deferred tax liabilities 504,743 1,561 (10,919) 495,385 reported SLFRS 10 SLFRS 11 classifications Employee benefits 447,390 18,283 (43,947) 421,726 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Trade and other payables 7,713,638 136,640 (401,302) 7,448,976 Profit for the year 4,508,635 70,854 4,579,489 Current tax payable 501,238 3,141 (15,157) 489,222 Bank overdrafts and other short-term borrowings 5,588,753 124,574 (144,879) 5,568,448 Other comprehensive income Others 277,103 (5,020) 272,083 Revaluation of property, plant and equipment 1,160,838 3,850 1,164,688 Total Liabilities 22,648,309 298,569 (665,931) (5,020) 22,275,927 Acturial gains / (losses) on defined benefit obligations (56,676) (1,379) 6,753 (51,302) Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations 183,091 378 (4) 183,465 Non-controlling interests 5,449,444 110,584 5,560,028 Net change in fair value of available-for-sale financial assets & (22,580) (22,580) Others 28,053,257 28,053,257 reclassified to profit or loss Total Equity 33,502,701 110,584 33,613,285 Share of other comprehensive income of 12,885 (6,005) 6,880 equity-accounted investees (net of tax) Income tax on other comprehensive income 8,724 248 (744) 8,228 Other comprehensive income for the year, (net of tax) 1,286,282 3,097 1,289,379 Total comprehensive income for the year 5,794,917 73,951 5,868,868 Attributable to: Equity holders of the parent 4,797,863 4,797,863 Non-controlling interests 997,054 73,951 1,071,005 Total comprehensive income for the year 5,794,917 73,951 5,868,868 214 Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2014 2015 215 Notes to the Financial Statements Ten Year Summary 48.4.2 Impact on consolidated statements of financial position as at 31.03.2014 Year ended 31st March 2015 **2014 **2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 As previously Application of Application of ReAs restated Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 reported SLFRS 10 SLFRS 11 classifications Operating Results Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Revenue 35,318,891 35,059,123 35,822,630 31,021,623 25,143,811 24,168,970 29,307,818 27,515,960 19,765,632 13,593,263 Property, plant and equipment 25,220,920 71,424 (493,023) 24,799,321 Profit before taxation 5,709,923 5,444,946 5,069,032 5,183,354 3,815,555 3,353,169 3,396,916 3,064,792 2,582,088 1,910,115 Investment property 1,737,575 (89,274) 1,648,301 Taxation 826,323 865,457 713,755 746,090 387,335 366,193 328,385 235,110 298,018 197,623 Profit after taxation 4,883,600 4,579,489 4,355,278 4,437,264 3,428,220 2,986,976 3,068,531 2,829,682 2,284,070 1,712,492 Intangible assets 902,600 208 (301,881) 600,927 Profit attributable to Aitken Spence PLC 3,579,008 3,671,870 3,287,607 3,487,669 2,535,956 2,059,636 2,040,010 1,841,150 1,459,774 1,213,661 Investments in equity-accounted investees 2,094,496 1,273,093 3,367,589 Deferred tax assets 220,021 4,768 (294) 224,495 Equity & Liabilities Inventories 1,639,400 92,255 (2,917) (5,020) 1,723,718 Stated capital 2,135,140 2,135,140 2,135,140 2,135,140 2,135,140 2,135,140 2,135,140 2,135,140 2,135,140 2,135,140 Trade and other receivables 9,312,667 219,542 (482,503) 9,049,706 Reserves 13,864,351 13,884,656 12,695,793 12,454,684 11,071,652 9,317,199 7,227,545 3,505,284 2,673,510 2,370,383 Retained earnings 19,022,310 16,238,762 13,222,324 10,564,698 8,309,395 7,442,131 7,715,269 6,263,600 5,122,472 4,022,929 Current tax receivable 241,230 2,629 (80) 243,779 Non-controlling interest 7,257,649 6,667,889 5,560,028 4,708,800 5,129,687 4,566,388 4,553,439 3,881,704 3,193,710 2,679,745 Deposits and prepayments 1,059,688 13,370 (205,740) 867,318 Non-current liabilities 10,727,403 8,493,842 7,133,962 6,563,195 4,746,363 5,730,436 6,677,114 6,903,834 6,832,112 5,815,540 Other financial assets 10,974,820 283 (121,187) 10,853,916 Current liabilities 12,426,235 13,644,187 15,141,965 14,558,490 8,752,588 8,352,184 8,072,337 8,495,631 6,393,881 6,182,957 Cash and short-term deposits 2,728,514 74,517 (130,931) 2,672,100 65,433,088 61,064,476 55,889,212 50,985,007 40,144,825 37,543,478 36,380,844 31,185,193 26,350,825 23,206,694 Others 5,013,306 5,013,306 Total Assets 61,145,237 478,996 (554,737) (5,020) 61,064,476 Assets Property, plant and equipment 28,696,631 24,799,321 23,534,930 22,585,836 23,925,653 23,328,896 22,635,636 16,982,305 16,770,495 15,450,267 Investment property 1,648,301 1,648,301 1,661,596 1,662,349 102,799 28,936 28,936 28,936 28,936 28,936 Interest bearing liabilities 8,956,887 23,980 (41,838) 8,939,029 Intangible assets 507,171 600,927 350,368 643,600 134,026 154,185 109,164 122,520 159,407 191,811 Deferred tax liabilities 639,486 1,761 (5,268) 635,979 Leasehold property 1,906,527 1,461,100 1,463,930 1,521,101 1,354,028 1,462,903 1,499,514 1,351,259 Employee benefits 576,416 23,896 (54,785) 545,527 Pre paid operating leases 1,072,370 1,010,199 980,681 1,028,164 5,455 5,546 5,637 5,728 Trade and other payables 6,576,453 187,912 (361,643) 6,402,722 Finance lease receivables 2,245,884 2,325,091 2,512,923 Current tax payable 597,793 4,732 (7,784) 594,741 Investments in equity-accounted investees 5,403,518 3,367,589 3,059,987 1,770,117 1,335,002 767,498 752,636 764,489 697,111 690,374 Bank overdrafts and other short-term borrowings 4,557,167 88,532 (83,419) 4,562,280 Deferred tax assets 215,907 224,495 225,749 209,769 138,314 56,823 74,008 39,342 Others 462,771 (5,020) 457,751 Other financial assets 279,346 339,540 414,409 392,737 473,945 483,580 404,946 263,576 170,098 213,234 Total Liabilities 22,366,973 330,813 (554,737) (5,020) 22,138,029 Current assets 25,476,394 25,217,995 21,723,346 18,509,286 12,494,114 11,093,448 10,721,243 11,465,087 8,524,778 6,632,072 Assets classified as held for sale 226,923 149,125 149,125 149,125 181,489 161,663 149,124 161,951 65,433,088 61,064,476 55,889,212 50,985,007 40,144,825 37,543,478 36,380,844 31,185,193 26,350,825 23,206,694 Non-controlling interests 6,519,706 148,183 6,667,889 Others 32,258,558 32,258,558 Share Information Total Equity 38,778,264 148,183 38,926,447 Earnings per share (Rs.) 8.82 9.04 8.10 8.59 6.25 *5.07 *5.02 *4.53 *3.60 *2.99 Market value per share (Rs.) 99.50 97.90 119.60 112.70 162.30 post share sub division Market value per share (Rs.) 1,373.75 315.00 430.00 380.00 339.00 pre share sub division Market capitalisation on 40,397 39,747 48,557 45,756 65,893 37,182 8,526 11,639 10,285 9,176 31st March (Rs. Mn) Price earnings ratio 11.29 10.82 14.77 13.12 25.97 18.05 4.18 6.32 7.05 7.56 Net assets per share (Rs.) 86.26 79.46 69.10 61.96 53.00 *46.54 *42.06 *29.32 *24.46 *21.01 Employees Information No. of employees 7,131 6,797 6,207 5,791 5,328 5,042 5,045 5,090 4,199 4,209 Value added per employee (Rs. ‘000) 2,031 1,941 1,979 1,915 1,884 1,770 1,635 1,503 1,467 1,038 Ratios & Statistics Ordinary dividend (Rs. ‘000) 811,992 811,992 608,994 568,394 405,996 270,664 257,131 189,465 175,931 175,931 Dividend per share (Rs.) 2.00 2.00 1.50 1.40 1.00 *0.67 *0.63 *0.47 *0.43 *0.43 Dividend cover (times covered) 4.41 4.52 5.40 6.14 6.25 7.61 7.93 9.72 8.30 6.90 Dividend payout ratio 0.23 0.22 0.19 0.16 0.16 0.13 0.13 0.10 0.12 0.14 Current ratio (times covered) 2.05 1.85 1.43 1.27 1.43 1.33 1.33 1.35 1.33 1.07 Debt-equity ratio 0.22 0.19 0.18 0.19 0.16 0.22 0.29 0.41 0.49 0.48 ROE (%) 10.64 12.18 12.36 15.01 12.55 11.45 14.08 16.86 15.82 15.08 Interest cover ratio 30.47 13.97 8.72 23.08 23.48 6.44 6.54 5.78 4.93 6.38 Note: * The above figures are restated taking into consideration the sub division of shares in October 2010. ** The presentation and classification of information for 2013/2014 & 2012/2013 have been revised with the new accounting standards in Sri Lanka with effect from 1st January 2014. (refer note 4.1) 216 Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2014 2015 217 Consolidated Financial Statements in USD Consolidated Income Statement in USD Consolidated Statements of Financial Position in USD For the year ended 31st March 2015 2014 As at 31.03.2015 31.03.2014 USD.’000 USD.’000 USD.’000 USD.’000 (Restated) (Restated) Revenue 264,918 268,180 ASSETS Revenue taxes (2,913) (3,685) Non-Current Assets Net revenue 262,005 264,495 Property, plant and equipment 215,246 189,699 Investment property 12,363 12,608 Other operating income 3,807 3,571 Intangible assets 3,804 4,597 Changes in inventories of finished goods and work-in-progress 441 724 Leasehold property 14,300 11,176 Raw materials and consumables used (67,683) (82,898) Pre-paid operating leases 8,044 7,727 Employee benefits expense (38,877) (35,441) Finance lease receivables 17,180 Depreciation, amortisation and impairment of intangible assets and finance lease receivables (17,991) (11,172) Investments in equity-accounted investees 40,530 25,760 Other operating expenses direct (57,851) (55,960) Deferred tax assets 1,619 1,717 Other operating expenses indirect (41,421) (41,216) Other financial assets 2,095 2,597 Profit from operations 42,430 42,103 298,001 273,061 Finance income 4,679 6,023 Finance expenses (6,762) (9,761) Current Assets Net finance expense (2,083) (3,738) Inventories 11,135 13,185 Pre-paid operating leases 7 Share of profit of equity-accounted investees (net of tax) 2,482 3,285 Finance lease receivables 10,000 1,124 Profit before tax 42,829 41,650 Trade and other receivables 58,286 69,224 Income tax expense (6,198) (6,620) Current tax receivable 1,720 1,865 Profit for the year 36,631 35,030 Deposits and prepayments 5,996 6,634 Other financial assets 82,113 80,428 Attributable to: Cash and short-term deposits 21,836 20,440 Equity holders of the company 26,845 28,087 191,093 192,900 Non-controlling interests 9,786 6,943 Profit for the year 36,631 35,030 Assets classified as held for sale 1,702 1,141 Total Assets 490,796 467,102 Earnings per share Basic/Diluted USD cents = 6.61 6.92 Exchange rate USD = 133.32 130.73 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Equity Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss and Other Comprehensive Income in USD Stated capital 16,015 16,332 For the year ended 31st March 2015 2014 Reserves 103,993 106,209 USD.’000 USD.’000 Retained earnings 142,682 124,216 (Restated) Total equity attributable to equity holders of the company 262,690 246,757 Profit for the year 36,631 35,030 Non-controlling interests 54,438 51,005 Other comprehensive income Total Equity 317,128 297,762 Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss Revaluation of property, plant and equipment 682 8,909 Non-Current Liabilities Actuarial gains / (losses) on defined benefit obligations (362) (392) Interest-bearing liabilities 70,781 55,935 Share of other comprehensive income of equity-accounted investees (net of tax) (119) 53 Income tax on other comprehensive income 56 63 Deferred tax liabilities 4,915 4,865 257 8,633 Employee benefits 4,768 4,173 Items that are or may be reclassified to profit or loss 80,464 64,973 Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations (840) 1,403 Current Liabilities Net change in fair value of available-for-sale financial assets 533 (187) Interest-bearing liabilities 20,430 12,443 Net change in fair value of available-for-sale financial assets reclassified to profit or loss 71 14 Provisions 3,501 (236) 1,230 Other comprehensive income for the year, (net of tax) 21 9,863 Trade and other payables 53,058 48,976 Total comprehensive income for the year 36,652 44,893 Current tax payable 4,036 4,549 Attributable to: Other financial liabilities 5 Equity holders of the parent 26,804 36,701 Bank overdrafts and other short-term borrowings 15,675 34,898 Non-controlling interests 9,848 8,192 93,204 104,367 Total comprehensive income for the year 36,652 44,893 Total Equity and Liabilities 490,796 467,102 Exchange rate USD = 133.32 130.73 Exchange rate USD = 133.32 130.73 Figures in brackets indicate deductions. 218 Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2014 2015 219 UN Global Compact The United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) is through their own activities and promote action chart of the WEP action is presented at the end a voluntary strategic policy initiative launched in support of broader UN goals. of this section. Labour Standards by the UN in order to encourage businesses to • Compliance on labour standards: Sri Lanka has become signatory to and ratified the core conventions of the International Labour Organisation which align their operations and strategies with 10 Action taken by Aitken Spence PLC and our Group are in the areas of Freedom of Association, Forced Labour, Discrimination and Child Labour. The Group rigidly complies with the labour laws of Sri Lanka universally accepted principles in the areas of companies are summarised in this section of the General Action: and the ILO conventions with respect to employment of persons. The Group offers equal employment opportunities to existing and potential employees human rights, labour standards, environment and report. A more detailed overview is presented in The Aitken Spence Social And Environmental Due irrespective of gender, race, or religion. All eligible persons are given the opportunity to secure employment and thereafter continue in an appropriate anti-corruption. Aitken Spence PLC is a signatory the Management Discussion and Analysis. More Diligence Evaluation Guide which is part of the career path. The Recruitment Policy of the company ensures that discrimination is discouraged and no persons below the legal minimum age are offered of the Global Compact since 28th May 2002 content, including the integrated sustainability social and environmental governance policy and employment. The common practice of the Company is to match the skill sets of employees to the job description and in the remuneration packages and a member of the Global Compact Network policy of Aitken Spence PLC in Sinhala, Tamil and procedure developed in 2013/14 was introduced rather than allocating specific quotas or rates to different groups. General practices of Aitken Spence PLC have been reviewed against the human rights Sri Lanka’s Board and the steering committee, English, is also available on the Sustainability to the Group Companies and were used by framework as explained above. since inception. Page of the Group’s corporate website at www. the respective sustainability teams in the year aitkenspence.com/sustainability. • Voluntary endorsements and benchmarking or Company practices: An assessment has also been conducted of the Company’s Group-wide practices in line end management reviews. This is meant to be The Local Network’s role is to root the Global with the Women’s Empowerment Principles (WEP) and action points which can be implemented have been identified. Further discussions are still in place Aitken Spence PLC was one of the first supporting resource based on guidelines of the Compact within Sri Lanka and to facilitate the to implement the principles within the Group strategies. The Group’s first female Main Board Director was appointed to the Board in 2013. We have also organisations in the World to become signatory IFC Performance Standards to guide the SBU on progress of companies engaged in the Global seen an increase in the number of female representatives in the Management Teams of the Company. 32% of the workforce is female. Our progress in to the Women’s Empowerment Principles (WEP) key areas of concern for management decision Compact with respect to implementation of the implementing the WEP is illustrated at the end of this section. in 2011. Over the years, we have conducted gap making. ten principles, create opportunities for multistakeholder engagement, collective action and to assessments and incorporated action points into The GRI G4 Index will present the indicators deepen the learning experience of all participants the existing systems and procedures to conform relevant to the UNGC principles. to the requirements of the 7 WEPs. A progress Anti – Corruption • Group level practices: Company Code of Ethics has stringent instructions on anti-corruption. The Internal Audit Department of the Company, audits all units periodically to make sure that adequate internal control systems are in place to prevent and detect fraud. All employees including new recruits Progress Made on Internalising the UNGC 10 Principles are required to know the stipulated procedures and carry out their business activities in accordance with them. Even at our estates all executive staff Human Rights receives training and awareness at Group learning programmes. Company procedures on anti-corruption and ethical behaviour are mentioned in all appointment letters. Group’s Corporate Governance procedures, Risk Management and Audit practices also contribute towards prevention of corruption • Assessment of awareness: sustainability team members and staff members chosen randomly at different locations, were assessed on their awareness within the company operations. about the Human Rights Protection Framework during inspections conducted for the Sustainability Awards 2014 • Adopting standard procedures for monitoring: The Aitken Spence Social and Environmental Due Diligence Evaluation Guide was introduced to the SBUS which was used in the year end Management Reviews of the SBUs for sustainability. This guide captures key focus areas such as compliance, action points for the environmental management system, and requirements for the SBUs action points on occupational health and safety. • Facilitating education on human rights concerns: A peer forum was conducted for the Group’s network of support givers on human rights at the workplace (Support Givers Network, formerly referred to as Human Rights Focal Points). First session in the peer forum was on the topic of grievance Handling at the workplace and their role in the process. Environment • Adopting a system approach to mitigate adverse impacts on the environment from business activities: Aitken Spence Companies maintain 43 environmental management systems (EMSs), 12 of which are ISO 14000:2008 certified. Heritance Hotels were the first hotel chain in Sri Lanka to The Women’s Empowerment Principles; obtain the ISO 50001:2011 certification for energy management. Elpitiya Plantations PLC obtained the Rainforest Alliance certification for 6 estates (the Upcountry estate cluster) and is working on extending the certification to their low country estates. More details of the management systems and the certifications Aitken Spence Companies have obtained can be viewed in the Sector Reviews. • Environmental compliance: waste resource management suppliers were screened on legal requirements and environmental standards and Aitken Spence Companies are guided on recommended service providers and the compliance requirements for waste management practices. • Assessment of Awareness: A viva section was added to the assessment of SBU performance in the Sustainability Awards which were conducted for the 3rd consecutive year in 2014. sustainability team members and staff members chosen randomly at different locations were assessed on their awareness about their respective EMSs and ongoing programmes for the EMS. • Facilitating education through experience sharing: The peer education forum for the environmental management representatives was maintained in 2014/15 to ensure the persons responsible to maintain the system requirement have the right awareness, knowledge and contacts to fulfil the responsibility. 220 Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2014 2015 221 UN Global Compact c. Strive to offer health insurance or other needed services – including 50% for survivors of domestic violence – and ensure equal access for all 40% 50% employees. Establish high-level corporate leadership for gender equality d. Respect women and men workers’ rights to time off for medical care Community Leadership and Engagement: Promote equality through and counselling for themselves and their dependents. Measure and publicly report on progress to achieve gender equality. a. Affirm high-level support and direct top-level policies for gender community initiatives and advocacy equality and human rights. e. In consultation with employees, identify and address security issues, a. Make public the company policies and implementation plan for including the safety of women travelling to and from work and on a. Lead by example – showcase company commitment to gender equality promoting gender equality. b. Establish company-wide goals and targets for gender equality and and women’s empowerment. company-related business. b. Establish benchmarks that quantify inclusion of women at all levels. include progress as a factor in managers’ performance reviews. f. Train security staff and managers to recognize signs of violence b. Leverage influence, alone or in partnership, to advocate for gender c. Engage internal and external stakeholders in the development of c. Measure and report on progress, both internally and externally, using against women and understand laws and company policies on human equality and collaborate with business partners, suppliers and company policies, programmes and implementation plans that data disaggregated by gender. trafficking, labour and sexual exploitation. community leaders to promote inclusion. advance equality. d. Incorporate gender markers into ongoing reporting obligations. c. Work with community stakeholders, officials and others to eliminate d. Ensure that all policies are gender-sensitive – identifying factors discrimination and exploitation and open opportunities for women and that impact women and men differently – and that corporate culture 75% girls. advances equality and inclusion. d. Promote and recognize women’s leadership in and contributions to, their communities and ensure sufficient representation of women in Promote education, training and professional development for women any community consultation. a. Invest in workplace policies and programmes that open avenues for e. Use philanthropy and grants programmes to support company 67% advancement of women at all levels and across all business areas, commitment to inclusion, equality and human rights. and encourage women to enter nontraditional job fields. Treat all women and men fairly at work – respect and support human b. Ensure equal access to all company-supported education and training programmes, including literacy classes, vocational and information www.aitkenspence.com/sustainability/ rights and nondiscrimination www.unglobalcompact.org technology training. a. Pay equal remuneration, including benefits, for work of equal value www.weprinciples.org c. Provide equal opportunities for formal and informal networking and and strive to pay a living wage to all women and men. mentoring. b. Ensure that workplace policies and practices are free from genderWEP d. Offer opportunities to promote the business case for women’s based discrimination. empowerment and the positive impact of inclusion for men as well c. Implement gender-sensitive recruitment and retention practices and as women. proactively recruit and appoint women to managerial and executive UNGC positions and to the corporate board of directors. c. Assure sufficient participation of women – 30% or greater – in decision-making and governance at all levels and across all business areas. 40% d. Offer flexible work options, leave and re-entry opportunities to positions of equal pay and status. e. Support access to child and dependent care by providing services, Implement enterprise development, supply chain and marketing resources and information to both women and men. practices that empower women a. Expand business relationships with women-owned enterprises, including small businesses, and women entrepreneurs. 50% b. Support gender-sensitive solutions to credit and lending barriers. c. Ask business partners and peers to respect the company’s Ensure the health, safety and well-being of all women and men commitment to advancing equality and inclusion. workers d. Respect the dignity of women in all marketing and other company a. Taking into account differential impacts on women and men, provide materials. safe working conditions and protection from exposure to hazardous e. Ensure that company products, services and facilities are not used for materials and disclose potential risks, including to reproductive human trafficking and/or labour or sexual exploitation. health. b. Establish a zero-tolerance policy towards all forms of violence at work, including verbal and/or physical abuse, and prevent sexual harassment. 222 Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2014 2015 223 GRI Index GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES General Disclosure Title Page Number Linkage to ISO 26000:2010 clauses, UN External General Disclosure Title Page Number Linkage to ISO 26000:2010 clauses, UN External Standard (or Link) Global Compact (UNGC), and Women’s Assurance Standard (or Link) Global Compact (UNGC), and Women’s Assurance Disclosures Empowerment Principles (WEP) Disclosures Empowerment Principles (WEP) STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS GOVERNANCE G4-1 Statement from the most senior decision maker of the 12 19 ISO 26000: 4.7, 6.2, 7.4.2 G4-34 Governance structure of the organization 118 139 ISO 26000: 6.2, 7.4.3, 7.7.5 organisation G4-35 Delegation of authority for economic, environmental and social 46 G4-2 Description of key impacts, risks and opportunities 22 25/ 39 43 ISO 26000: 4.7, 6.2, 7.4.2 topics G4-36 Executive-level position and positions with responsibility for 46 ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE economic, environmental and social topics G4-3 Name of the organisation Inner back cover ISO 26000: 6.3.10, 6.4.1 to 6.4.2, 6.4.3, G4-37 Consultation between stakeholders and the highest governance 26 29 G4-4 Primary brands, products and services 236 242 6.4.4, 6.4.5, 6.8.5, 7.8 body on economic, environmental and social topics. G4-5 Location of the organisation’s headquarters Inner back cover G4-38 Composition of the highest governance body and its committees 118 139 ISO 26000: 6.2, 7.4.3, 7.7.5 G4-6 Locations of the organisation’s operations 5 WEP: Principle 1 G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form Inner back cover G4-39 Role of the Chair of the highest governance body 118 139 ISO 26000: 6.2, 7.4.3, 7.7.5 G4-8 Markets served 64 115 G4-40 Nomination and selection processes for the highest governance 118 139 ISO 26000: 6.2, 7.4.3, 7.7.5 G4-9 Scale of the organisation 4-9 body and its committees WEP: Principle 1 G4-10 Workforce breakdown 34 38 ISO 26000: 6.3.10, 6.4.1 to 6.4.2, 6.4.3, G4-41 Processes for the highest governance body to avoid/ manage 118 139 ISO 26000: 6.2, 7.4.3, 7.7.5 6.4.4, 6.4.5, 6.8.5, 7.8 conflicts of interest UNGC: Principle 6 G4-42 Role of the highest governance body and senior executives in the 118 139 G4-11 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining ISO 26000: 6.3.10, 6.4.1 to 6.4.2, 6.4.3, development, approval, and updating of the organization’s guiding agreements 6.4.4, 6.4.5, 6.8.5, 7.8 principles and business models UNGC: Principle 6 G4-43 Capacity building for the highest governance body’s collective 118 139 G4-12 Organisation’s supply chain 64 115 ISO 26000: 6.3.10, 6.4.1 to 6.4.2, 6.4.3, knowledge on economic, environmental and social topics. G4-13 Significant changes during the reporting period 64 115 6.4.4, 6.4.5, 6.8.5, 7.8 G4-44 Evaluation of the highest governance body’s performance on the 118 139 G4-14 Addressing the precautionary approach 32 33 governance of economic, environmental and social topics. G4-15 Voluntary endorsement of policies/ charters 220 223 G4-45 The highest governance body’s role in the identification and 32 33 G4-16 Membership associations and affiliations management of economic, environmental and social impacts, risks, and opportunities. IDENTIFIED MATERIAL ASPECTS AND BOUNDARIES G4-46 Role of the highest governance body in reviewing the 118 139 G4-17 Entities excluded from the organization’s reporting boundary 3 ISO 26000: 5.2, 7.3.2, 7.3.3, 7.3.4 effectiveness of the organization’s risk management processes G4-18 Process for defining the report content and the Aspect Boundaries 3 / 32 33 G4-47 Frequency of the highest governance body’s review of economic, 118 139 G4-19 Material Aspects 32 33 environmental and social impacts, risks, and opportunities. G4-20 Aspect Boundary within the organization 64 115 G4-48 The highest position for formal review and approval of the Managing & G4-21 Aspect Boundary outside the organization 64 115 organization’s sustainability disclosures Finance Director G4-22 Effect of any restatements of information 12 19 G4-49 The process for communicating critical concerns to the highest 118 139 G4-23 Significant changes from previous reporting periods 64 115 governance body. STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT G4-50 Addressing and resolving the critical concerns communicated to 118 139 the highest governance body G4-24 Stakeholder groups engaged 26 29 ISO 26000: 5.3 G4-51 Remuneration policies for the highest governance body and senior 118 139 G4-25 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom 26 29 executives to engage G4-52 Process for determining remuneration. 118 139 G4-26 Organization’s approach 26 29 G4-27 Key topics and concerns raised through stakeholder engagement 26 29 ETHICS AND INTEGRITY G4-56 The organization’s values, principles, standards and norms of 58 63 / 123 ISO 26000: 4.4, 6.6.3 REPORT PROFILE behaviour such as codes of conduct and codes of ethics. G4-28 Reporting period 1st April 2014 ISO 26000: 7.5.3, 7.6.2 to 31st March G4-57 The internal and external mechanisms for seeking advice 39 43 2015 on ethical and lawful behaviour, and matters related to organizational integrity, such as helplines or advice lines. G4-29 Date of most recent previous report 31st March 2014 G4-58 The internal and external mechanisms for reporting concerns 34 38 G4-30 Reporting cycle Annual about unethical or unlawful behaviour, and matters related to organizational integrity, such as escalation through line G4-31 Contact point for questions about the report 249-250 management, whistleblowing mechanisms or hotlines. G4-32 The ‘in accordance’ option chosen Core G4-33 Organization’s policy and current practice on seeking external Not Assured assurance for the report 224 Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2014 2015 225 GRI Index SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES Standard Disclosure Requirements Omissions Page Number Linkage to ISO 26000:2010 clauses, External Disclosure (or Link) UN Global Compact (UNGC), and Assurance Note: Women’s Empowerment Principles (WEP) Selection of material aspects was discussed in the Sustainability Strategy section of this Annual Report with more emphasis given in the respective Sector ASPECT: WATER Reviews. Information related to Standard Disclosures required by the ‘in accordance’ Core option are presented in this report as well as selected reports posted G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach None 32 33 ISO 26000: 6, 7.3.1, 7.4.3, 7.7.3, 7.7.5 on our website. Page numbers accompanied by sector icons indicate the location in the annual report where information can be found and the specific sectors for which certain performance indicators are material. Page numbers are presented without sector icons for aspects which are material to all Group Companies. In G4-EN8 Total volume of water withdrawn None 64 79 ISO 26000: 6.5.4 addition to the material aspects we have also included several indicators as requested by key stakeholders. 80 89 UNGC: Principle 8 90 105 Certain details required for performance indicators are included in other reports prepared by the organization which are available on the Company website 106 115 G4-EN9 Total number of water sources significantly None None affected by withdrawal www.aitkenspence.com/sustainability/ G4-EN10 Total volume of water recycled and reused by the None 311,954m3 organization. Icons: Tourism sector : Cargo Logistics sector : Strategic Investments sector : Services sector : ASPECT: BIODIVERSITY G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach None 32 33 ISO 26000: 6, 7.3.1, 7.4.3, 7.7.3, 7.7.5 Company website: G4-EN11 Operational site owned, leased, managed in, or None ISO 26000: 6.5.6 64 79 adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high 90 105 UNGC: Principle 8 Standard Disclosure Requirements Omissions Page Number Linkage to ISO 26000:2010 clauses, External biodiversity value outside protected areas. Disclosure (or Link) UN Global Compact (UNGC), and Assurance Women’s Empowerment Principles (WEP) G4-EN12 Nature of significant direct and indirect impacts on None 64 79 biodiversity 90 105 CATEGORY: ECONOMIC G4-EN13 Size and location of all habitat protected areas or None 64 79 ASPECT: ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE restored areas 90 105 G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach None 58 63 ISO 26000: 6, 7.3.1, 7.4.3, 7.7.3, 7.7.5 ASPECT: EMISSIONS G4-EC1 The direct economic value generated and None 64 79 ISO 26000: 6.8.1 to 6.8.2, 6.8.7, 6.8.9 G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach None 64 115 ISO 26000: 6, 7.3.1, 7.4.3, 7.7.3, 7.7.5 distributed (Socio Economic Value Generated and 80 89 Distributed) 90 105 G4-EN15 Gross direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions in metric Reported 64 79 ISO 26000: 6.5.5 106 115 tons of CO2 equivalent only for 80 89 UNGC: Principles 7 & 8 CO2 90 105 G4-EC3 Liabilities that are met by the organization’s None 159 / 143-216 ISO 26000: 6.8.7 emissions 106 115 general resources, the percentage of salary contributed by employee or employer G4-EN16 Energy Indirect (Scope 2) GHG Emissions in metric None tons of CO2 equivalent ASPECT: MARKET PRESENCE G4-EN19 The amount of GHG emissions reductions achieved None ISO 26000: 6.5.5 G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach None 58 63 ISO 26000: 6, 7.3.1, 7.4.3, 7.7.3, 7.7.5 UNGC: Principles 8 & 9 G4-EC6 The percentage of senior management at None 64 79 ISO 26000: 6.4.3, 6.8.1, 6.8.2, 6.8.5, 6.8.7 significant locations of operation that are hired ASPECT: EFFLUENTS AND WASTE UNGC: Principle 6 from the local community. G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach None 64 115 ISO 26000: 6, 7.3.1, 7.4.3, 7.7.3, 7.7.5 ASPECT: INDIRECT ECONOMIC IMPACTS G4-EN23 Total weight of hazardous and non-hazardous None 64 79 ISO 26000: 6.5.3, 6.5.4 waste, by disposal methods 80 89 UNGC: Principle 8 G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach None 58 63 ISO 26000: 6, 7.3.1, 7.4.3, 7.7.3, 7.7.5 G4-EN24 Total number and total volume of recorded None 90 105 ISO 26000: 6.5.3 G4-EC7 Significant infrastructure investments and services None 64 79 ISO 26000: 6.4.3, Community involvement 106 115 supported. 90 105 and development significant spills. UNGC: Principle 8 ASPECT: PROCUREMENT PRACTICES G4-EN26 Water bodies and related habitats that are None ISO 26000: 6.5.3, 6.5.4, 6.5.6 prevented from being affected by water discharges UNGC: Principle 8 G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach None 64 79, 90 109 ISO 26000: 6, 7.3.1, 7.4.3, 7.7.3, 7.7.5 of the organisation G4-EC9 Percentage of the procurement budget used on None 64 79 ISO 26000: 6.4.3, 6.6.6, 6.8.1, 6.8.2, 6.8.7 suppliers local to that operation 90 105 ASPECT: COMPLIANCE G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach None 64 115 ISO 26000: 6, 7.3.1, 7.4.3, 7.7.3, 7.7.5 CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL G4-EN29 Significant fines and non-monetary sanctions for None None ISO 26000: 4.6 ASPECT: ENERGY non-compliance with laws or regulations UNGC: Principle 8 G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach None 32 33 ISO 26000: 6, 7.3.1, 7.4.3, 7.7.3, 7.7.5 ASPECT: OVERALL G4-EN3 Total fuel consumption from non-renewable None 64 79 ISO 26000: 6.5.4 sources G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach None 32 33 ISO 26000: 6, 7.3.1, 7.4.3, 7.7.3, 7.7.5 80 89 UNGC: Principles 7 & 8 90 105 G4-EN31 Total environmental protection expenditures None Rs. 115 million ISO 26000: 6.5.1 & 6.5.2 G4-EN6 Amount of reductions in energy consumption None ISO 26000: 6.5.4, 6.5.5 106 115 UNGC: Principles 7,8 & 9 UNGC: Principles 8 & 9 226 Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2014 2015 227 GRI Index Standard Disclosure Requirements Omissions Page Number Linkage to ISO 26000:2010 clauses, External Standard Disclosure Requirements Omissions Page Number Linkage to ISO 26000:2010 clauses, External Disclosure (or Link) UN Global Compact (UNGC), and Assurance Disclosure (or Link) UN Global Compact (UNGC), and Assurance Women’s Empowerment Principles (WEP) Women’s Empowerment Principles (WEP) CATEGORY: SOCIAL SUB-CATEGORY: HUMAN RIGHTS SUB-CATEGORY: LABOUR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK ASPECT: INVESTMENT ASPECT: EMPLOYMENT G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach None 64 115 ISO 26000: 6, 7.3.1, 7.4.3, 7.7.3, 7.7.5 G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach None 34 38 ISO 26000: 6, 7.3.1, 7.4.3, 7.7.3, 7.7.5 G4-HR2 Total number of hours in the reporting period None 220 221 ISO 26000: 6.3.5 devoted to training on human rights policies or UNGC: Principle 1 G4-LA1 Turnover during the reporting period None 37 ISO 26000: 6.4.3 procedures concerning aspects of human rights UNGC: Principle 6 that are relevant to operations and the percentage WEP: Principle 2 of employees trained G4-LA2 Benefits which are standard for full-time None Bonus/ salary ISO 26000: 6.4.4 ASPECT: NON DISCRIMINATION employees of the organization: increments on G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach None 220 221 ISO 26000: 6, 7.3.1, 7.4.3, 7.7.3, 7.7.5 performance basis; G4-HR3 Total number of incidents of discrimination and None None ISO 26000: 6.3.6, 6.3.7, 6.3.10, 6.4.3 Festival advance; corrective action taken UNGC: Principle 6 Medical benefits; Retirement benefits/ WEP: Principle 3 obligations ASPECT: SECURITY PRACTICES ASPECT: LABOUR/MANAGEMENT RELATIONS UNGC G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach None 220 221 ISO 26000: 6, 7.3.1, 7.4.3, 7.7.3, 7.7.5 G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach None 34 38 ISO 26000: 6, 7.3.1, 7.4.3, 7.7.3, 7.7.5 G4-HR7 Percentage of security personnel who have None 220 221 ISO 26000: 6.3.4, 6.3.5, 6.6.6 G4-LA4 Minimum notice period None 1 month ISO 26000: 6.4.3, 6.4.5 received formal training in the organization’s UNGC: Principle 1 UNGC: Principle 3 human rights policies ASPECT: OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY SUB-CATEGORY: SOCIETY G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach None 64 115 ISO 26000: 6, 7.3.1, 7.4.3, 7.7.3, 7.7.5 ASPECT: LOCAL COMMUNITIES G4-LA5 Level at which each subsidiary’s OHS None 64 115 ISO 26000: 6.4.6 G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach None 64 115 ISO 26000: 6, 7.3.1, 7.4.3, 7.7.3, 7.7.5 representative/committee operates within the G4-SO1 Local community engagement, impact None ISO 26000: 6.3.9, 6.5.1, 6.5.2, 6.5.3, 6.8 64 79 organization assessments, and development programs 80 89 UNGC: Principle 1 ASPECT: TRAINING AND EDUCATION 90 105 WEP: Principle 6 G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach None 34 38 ISO 26000: 6, 7.3.1, 7.4.3, 7.7.3, 7.7.5 106 115 G4-LA9 Average hours of training provided to employees None 34 38 ISO 26000: 6.4.7 ASPECT: ANTI-CORRUPTION UNGC during the reporting period UNGC: Principle 6 G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach None 220 221 ISO 26000: 6, 7.3.1, 7.4.3, 7.7.3, 7.7.5 WEP: Principle 4 G4-SO3 Total number and percentage of operations None 100% ISO 26000: 6.6.1, 6.6.2, 6.6.3 assessed for risks related to corruption UNGC: Principle 10 G4-LA10 Type and scope of programs implemented and None 34 38 ISO 26000: 6.4.7, 6.8.5 assistance provided to upgrade employee skills. G4-SO4 Total number and percentage of governance body None 100% ISO 26000: 6.6.1, 6.6.2, 6.6.3, Promoting G4-LA11 Percentage of total employees by gender and Only 100% executive ISO 26000: 6.4.7 members, employees, business partners that social responsibility in the value chain by employee category who received a regular reported staff the organization’s anti-corruption policies and UNGC: Principle 10 UNGC: Principle 6 performance and career development review for procedures have been communicated to WEP: Principle 4 executive G4-SO5 Total number and nature of confirmed incidents of None None ISO 26000: 6.6.1, 6.6.2, 6.6.3 cadre corruption UNGC: Principle 10 ASPECT: EQUAL REMUNERATION FOR WOMEN AND MEN ASPECT: COMPLIANCE G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach None 34 38 ISO 26000: 6, 7.3.1, 7.4.3, 7.7.3, 7.7.5 G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach None 64 115 ISO 26000: 6, 7.3.1, 7.4.3, 7.7.3, 7.7.5 G4-LA13B Ratio of the basic salary and remuneration of None 1:1 ISO 26000: 6.3.7, 6.3.10, 6.4.3, 6.4.4 G4-SO8 Significant fines and non-monetary sanctions for None None ISO 26000: 4.6 women to men UNGC: Principle 6 non -compliance with laws or regulations WEP: Principle 2 SUB-CATEGORY: PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY ASPECT: LABOUR PRACTICES GRIEVANCE MECHANISMS ASPECT: CUSTOMER HEALTH AND SAFETY G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach None 34 38 ISO 26000: 6, 7.3.1, 7.4.3, 7.7.3, 7.7.5 G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach None 64 115 ISO 26000: 6, 7.3.1, 7.4.3, 7.7.3, 7.7.5 G4-LA16 Total number of grievances about labour practices None 3 grievances ISO 26000: 6.3.6 G4-PR1 Percentage of significant product and service None 64 79 ISO 26000: 6.7.1, 6.7.2, 6.7.4, 6.7.5, 6.8.8 filed through formal grievance mechanisms during categories for which health and safety impacts are 80 89 the reporting period. assessed for improvement 90 105 106 115 228 Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2014 2015 229 GRI Index Investor Information Standard Disclosure Requirements Omissions Page Number Linkage to ISO 26000:2010 clauses, External Stock Exchange Listing Disclosure (or Link) UN Global Compact (UNGC), and Assurance Aitken Spence PLC., is a public quoted company, the issued ordinary shares of which are listed on the Colombo Stock Exchange. The Stock exchange code for Women’s Empowerment Principles (WEP) Aitken Spence PLC share is “SPEN”. G4-PR2 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with None None ISO 26000: 4.6, 6.7.1, 6.7.2, 6.7.4, 6.7.5, Market Sector : Diversified Holdings regulations and voluntary codes concerning the 6.8.8 health and safety impacts of products and services Analysis of Shareholder Base during their life cycle, by type of product Distribution of shares ASPECT: PRODUCT AND SERVICE LABELING Shareholder Category 31st March 2015 31st March 2014 G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach None 64 115 ISO 26000: 6, 7.3.1, 7.4.3, 7.7.3, 7.7.5 G4-PR5 Results or key conclusions of customer satisfaction None ISO 26000: 6.7.1, 6.7.2, 6.7.6 No. of shareholders No. of shares % No. of shareholders No. of shares % 64 79 surveys 80 89 1 1,000 2,473 793,843 0.20 2,519 788,838 0.19 90 105 1,001 10,000 1,361 4,922,139 1.21 1,218 4,130,911 1.02 106 115 10,001 100,000 370 11,421,633 2.81 342 10,659,558 2.63 ASPECT: MARKETING COMMUNICATIONS G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach None 64 115 ISO 26000: 6, 7.3.1, 7.4.3, 7.7.3, 7.7.5 100,001 1,000,000 92 27,402,490 6.75 76 21,252,946 5.23 G4-PR7 The total number of incidents of non-compliance None None ISO 26000: 4.6, 6.7.1, 6.7.2, 6.7.3 1,000,001 and above 28 361,455,940 89.03 30 369,163,792 90.93 with regulations and voluntary codes concerning Total 4,324 405,996,045 100.00 4,185 405,996,045 100.00 marketing communications ASPECT: CUSTOMER PRIVACY There were 4,324 voting registered shareholders as at 31st March 2015 (31st March 2014 4,185). G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach None 64 115 ISO 26000: 6, 7.3.1, 7.4.3, 7.7.3, 7.7.5 G4-PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints received None None ISO 26000: 6.7.1, 6.7.2, 6.7.7 Individuals / Institutions Nationals / Non-Nationals concerning breaches of customer privacy 31st March 2015 31st March 2014 31st March 2015 31st March 2014 ASPECT: COMPLIANCE No. of Shares % No. of Shares % No. of Shares % No. of Shares % G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach None 64 115 ISO 26000: 6, 7.3.1, 7.4.3, 7.7.3, 7.7.5 Institutions 366,246,184 90.21 368,115,685 90.67 Nationals 242,379,045 59.70 234,350,357 57.72 G4-PR9 The total monetary value of significant fines None None ISO 26000: 4.6, 6.7.1, 6.7.2, 6.7.6 for non-compliance with laws and regulations Individuals 39,749,861 9.79 37,880,360 9.33 Non-Nationals 163,617,000 40.30 171,645,688 42.28 concerning the provision and use of products and 405,996,045 100.00 405,996,045 100.00 405,996,045 100.00 405,996,045 100.00 services The percentage of public holding as at 31st March 2015 was 38.65% with reference to the rule No. 7.6 (iv) of Colombo Stock Exchange. Individuals / Institutions Nationals / Non-Nationals as at 31st March as at 31st March                   )NSTITUTIONS )NDIVIDUALS .ATIONALS .ON .ATIONALS Ordinary Shares Share Trading Information 2014/2015 2013/2014 2012/2013 Number of transactions 7,868 3,755 3,256 Number of shares traded during the year 26,691,694 35,111,754 137,137,807 Value of shares traded during the year (Rs. Million) 2,771 3,965 15,429 Percentage of total value transacted (%) 0.78 2.03 8.13 230 Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2014 2015 231 Investor Information No. of Shares Traded Market Capitalisation Share Price vs ASI for the year ended 31st March as at 31st March 10 Y Year Trend (1st ear Tren Aprill 2005 to 331st st Apr March st Ma h 220155)) Index Rs. 2SÏ-N Level Ï   9000 250 8000    7000 200 6000    5000 150 4000      100     3000 2000 50 1000    0 0 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 3HAREÏ0RICE !3) Market Capitalisation 31st March 2015 31st March 2014 31st March 2013 Twenty Largest Shareholders as at 31st March 2015 Market capitalisation (Rs. Million) 40,397 39,747 48,557 Name No. of Shares % Percentage of total market capitalisation (%) 1.40 1.59 2.20 1 Melstacorp Limited 167,376,598 41.23 Market Value Market Value Per Share 2 Rubicond Enterprises Limited 65,990,145 16.25 for the year ended 31st March 3 HSBC International Nominees Limited BPSS Lux Aberdeen Global Asian Smaller Companies Fund 32,671,142 8.05 2014/2015 2013/2014 2012/2013  4 HSBC Intl Nom Ltd BP2S London Aberdeen Asia Pacific Equity Fund 17,192,300 4.24 Highest (Rs.) 120.50 140.00 136.30  5 Mr. G.C. Wickremasinghe 7,308,240 1.80 Lowest (Rs.) 95.50 95.00 100.00   6 Employees’ Provident Fund 7,047,833 1.74 Closing (Rs.) 99.50 97.90 119.60  7 HSBC Intl Nom Ltd BP2S Luxembourg Aberdeen Global Frontier Markets Equity Fund 6,780,000 1.67  The market value of the ordinary share as at 26th May 2015 was Rs. 100.00    8 HSBC International Nominees Ltd SSBT Aberdeen Institutional Commingled Funds, LLC 5,795,500 1.43 9 Placidrange Holdings Limited 5,521,500 1.36    10 HSBC Intl Nominees Ltd BP2S London Aberdeen New Dawn Investment Trust XCC6 4,503,555 1.11 (IGHESTÏ2S ,OWESTÏ2S #LOSINGÏ2S 11 Milford Exports (Ceylon) (Pvt) Limited 4,321,500 1.06 12 HSBC Intl Nominees Ltd BP2S London Aberdeen Asia Smaller Companies Investment Trust 3,400,000 0.84 13 Stassen Exports Limited 3,244,500 0.80 Share Price vs Indices 2014 / 2015 14 Ms. A. T. Wickremasinghe 3,211,975 0.79 12 Mont Month Trend T end !3) 30Ï3, $IVERSIlEDÏHOLDINGSÏSECTOR 3HAREÏ0RICE Rs. 15 Ms. K. Fernando 3,135,070 0.77 Index Level 160.00 16 Mellon Bank N.A. Florida Retirement System 3,100,000 0.76 9,000 8,000 140.00 17 Mr. G. Wickremasinghe 3,019,090 0.74 7,000 120.00 18 Employees’ Trust Fund Board 2,621,870 0.65 6,000 100.00 19 National Savings Bank 2,593,516 0.64 5,000 80.00 4,000 60.00 20 Bank of Ceylon No. 1 Account 1,905,885 0.47 3,000 40.00 Total 350,740,219 86.40 2,000 20.00 1, 000 0 0.00 Apr-14 May-14 Jun-14 Jul-14 Aug-14 Sep-14 Oct-14 Nov-14 Dec-14 Jan-15 Feb-15 Mar-15 232 Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2014 2015 233 Investor Information Shareholding of Directors Earnings Shareholding of Directors together with their spouses in Aitken Spence PLC 2014/2015 2013/2014 2012/2013 Earnings Per Share Basic/Diluted (Rs.) 8.82 9.04 8.10 31st March 2015 31st March 2014 Price Earnings Ratio (P/E) (Times) 11.29 10.82 14.77 Mr. J.M.S. Brito 304,495 304,495 Mr. G.C. Wickremasinghe 7,308,240 7,308,240 Mr. R.N. Asirwatham 1,000 1,000 Earnings Per Share Price Earnings Ratio for the year ended 31st March as at 31st March Ms. D.S.T. Jayawardena 27,839 27,839 2S 4IMES Indirect holding by Directors   31st March 2015 31st March 2014   Mr. G.C. Wickremasinghe Manohari Enterprises Ltd 298,830 298,830     Deshamanya D.H.S. Jayawardena Melstacorp Limited 167,376,598 166,826,598 Stassen Exports Ltd 3,244,500 3,244,500   Milford Exports (Ceylon) (Private) Ltd 4,321,500 4,321,500   Distilleries Company of Sri Lanka PLC 186,500 186,500 Periceyl (Pvt) Ltd 21,200 21,200 Shareholding in Group companies Net Assets per share 31st March 2015 31st March 2014 31st March 2015 31st March 2014 31st March 2013 Aitken Spence Hotel Holdings PLC Mr. J.M.S. Brito 106,596 106,596 The Group (Rs.) 86.26 79.46 69.10 Mr. G.C. Wickremasinghe 2,082,241 2,082,241 The Company (Rs.) 31.35 31.85 32.35 Mr. R.N. Asirwatham 1,000 1,000 Ms. D.S.T. Jayawardena 16,000 16,000 Net Assets Per Share Return on Equity as at 31st March for the year ended 31st March Hethersett Hotels Limited Mr. G.C. Wickremasinghe 1,041,500 1,041,500 2S  Dividends     An ordinary dividend of Rs. 2.00 per share (2013/2014 Rs. 2.00 per share) has been recommended to the shareholders for approval at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.     History of dividend per share and dividend cover for the past 10 years Year Dividend per share (Rs.) Dividend cover (Times)     2005/2006* 0.43 6.90 Dividend Per Share and Dividend Cover for the year ended 31st March 2006/2007* 0.43 8.30 2007/2008* 0.47 9.72   2008/2009* 0.63 7.93 2009/2010* 0.67 7.61    2010/2011 1.00 6.25  2011/2012 1.40 6.14 2012/2013 1.50 5.40 2013/2014 2.00 4.52    $IVIDENDÏ0ERÏ3HAREÏ2S $IVIDENDÏ#OVERÏ4IMES 2014/2015 2.00 4.41 * The Above figures are restated taking into consideration the subdivision of shares. 234 Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2014 2015 235 Group Companies and Directorate Aitken Spence Hotel Services Private Limited Crest Star (B.V.I.) Limited M.P.S. Hotels (Private) Limited ** Local marketing company of hotels in India. The holding company and managing agents of Jetan Owns and operates Hotel Hilltop Kandy. Travel Services Company Private Limited. Directors: Directors: R.S. Rajaratne, Directors: S.M. Hapugoda, M.P. Wijesekara. J.M.S. Brito (Chairman), C.M.S. Jayawickrama, S.M. Hapugoda, R.E.V. Casie Chetty. Aitken Spence Hotels International (Private) C.M.S. Jayawickrama. Limited ** Neptune Ayurvedic Village (Private) Limited ** Holding company of resort companies in the Maldives Crest Star Limited Leases company owned land and buildings to Aitken TOURISM MARITIME & LOGISTICS STRATEGIC INVESTMENTS SERVICES and provides international marketing services to Spence Hotels Limited. Directors: overseas resorts. S.M. Hapugoda, Directors: • Hotels • Maritime Services • Power Generation • Inward Money Transfer Directors: C.M.S. Jayawickrama, S.M. Hapugoda, • Inbound & Outbound Travel • Integrated Logistics • Printing & Packaging • Information Technology R.E.V. Casie Chetty, R.E.V. Casie Chetty. C.M.S. Jayawickrama, • Airline GSA • Freight Forwarding • Garment Manufacture • Elevator Agency S.M. Hapugoda, R.E.V. Casie Chetty. C.M.S. Jayawickrama, Golden Sun Resorts (Private) Limited ** • Courier Services • Plantation • Insurance V.M. Gunatilleka (Appointed w.e.f. 01.04.2014). Owns and operates the resort ‘The Sands by Aitken Nilaveli Holidays (Private) Limited ** • Holding Company • Property Management Spence Hotels’. To operate a future hotel project. Aitken Spence Hotels Limited ** Directors: Directors: Owns and operates Heritance Ayurveda Maha Gedara. S.M. Hapugoda, S.M. Hapugoda, Holding Company of Kandalama Hotels (Private) C.M.S. Jayawickrama, C.M.S. Jayawickrama, Limited and Heritance (Private) Limited. R.E.V. Casie Chetty. R.E.V. Casie Chetty. TOURISM SECTOR Directors: S.M. Hapugoda, Heritance (Private) Limited ** Nilaveli Resorts (Private) Limited ** C.M.S. Jayawickrama, Owns a land for a proposed hotel project. To operate a future hotel project. OUTBOUND TRAVEL N.A.N. Jayasundera (Resigned w.e.f. 19.03.2015), G.P.J. Goonewardena, N. Ratwatte. Directors: Directors: S.T.B. Ellepola (Resigned w.e.f. 19.03.2015). R.N. Asirwatham, Aitken Spence Aviation (Private) Limited S.M. Hapugoda, S.M. Hapugoda, C.H. Gomez, Aitken Spence Resorts (Private) Limited ** General Sales Agents for Singapore Airlines and HOTELS C.M.S. Jayawickrama, C.M.S. Jayawickrama, N.J. de Silva Deva Aditya. In the process of constructing a 90 room resort Singapore Airlines Cargo. property in Kalutara. R.E.V. Casie Chetty. R.E.V. Casie Chetty. Directors: Ace Resort Private Limited Aitken Spence Hotel Managements (Private) Directors: Hethersett Hotels Limited ** J.M.S. Brito (Chairman), Proposed to construct and develop a resort in the Limited ** Perumbalam Resorts Private Limited S.M. Hapugoda, Owns and operates Heritance Tea Factory. A fully owned subsidiary of PR Holiday S.K.R.B. Jayaweera (Managing Director). Maldives. Manages resorts in Sri Lanka. C.M.S. Jayawickrama, Homes Private Limited w.e.f. 05.11.2013. Directors: Directors: Directors: R.E.V. Casie Chetty. Ace Aviation Services Maldives J.M.S. Brito, S.M. Hapugoda, Directors: S.M. Hapugoda, Private Limited ** C.M.S. Jayawickrama, M.R. Narayanan, C.M.S. Jayawickrama, C.M.S. Jayawickrama (Managing Director), Aitken Spence Resources (Private) Limited ** General Sales Agent for Sri Lankan Airlines in the R.E.V. Casie Chetty. K.K.M. Rawther, T.D.U.D. Peiris, R.E.V. Casie Chetty. Human resource management, foreign employment Maldives. S.M. Hapugoda, A.K.M.P. Wijesekara. and recruitment company. Directors: Jetan Travel Services Company C.M.S. Jayawickrama, Aitken Spence Hotel Managements (South India) Directors: S.T.B. Ellepola (Chairman), A.D.S. Resorts Private Limited ** Private Limited ** Private Limited R. Narayanan, S.M. Hapugoda, Owns and operates Adaaran Club Rannalhi Maldives. M. Firaq, Owns and operates Adaaran Select Hudhuranfushi Owns a 143 room hotel property “Turyaa” in Chennai L. Ekanayake. C.M.S. Jayawickrama, N.A.N. Jayasundera, Maldives. and would commence operations in 2015/2016. Directors: G.P.J. Goonewardena. PR Holiday Homes Private Limited K.R.T. Peiris, Directors: Directors: S.M. Hapugoda, D.L. Warawita. S.M. Hapugoda (Managing Director), C.M.S. Jayawickrama, Owns a land in Cochin – India for a future hotel project. J.M.S. Brito (Chairman), Cowrie Investment Private Limited ** C.M.S. Jayawickrama, S.M. Hapugoda (Managing Director), Owns and operates Adaaran Select Meedhupparu H. Mohamed, Directors: Aitken Spence Moscow (Private) Limited ** Maldives. M. Mahdy. S.M. Hapugoda, M. Mahdy. C.M.S. Jayawickrama, General Sales Agent for Transaero Airlines. C.M.S. Jayawickrama, K.A.A.C. Perera. Directors: Directors: Aitken Spence Hotel Holdings PLC ** Kandalama Hotels (Private) Limited ** J.M.S. Brito (Chairman/Managing Director), K.K.M. Rawther, Dr. J.W.A. Perera (Managing Director), The holding company of the group’s hotel interests. Aitken Spence Hotel Managements Asia Owns and operates Heritance Kandalama. S.M. Hapugoda, M. Narayanan, S.T.B. Ellepola. Owns and operates the Heritance Ahungalla Hotel. (Private) Limited ** Directors: K.A.A.C. Perera. I.M. Didi, Directors: Manages resorts in Oman and in the Maldives. S.M. Hapugoda, M. Salih, Royal Spence Aviation (Private) Limited Deshamanya D.H.S. Jayawardena (Chairman), Directors: C.M.S. Jayawickrama, C.M.S. Jayawickrama. General Sales Agent for Turkish Airlines (w.e.f J.M.S. Brito (Managing Director), Deshamanya D.H.S. Jayawardena, R.E.V. Casie Chetty. 01.04.2015). Ms. D.S.T Jayawardena (Appointed w.e.f. 01.07.2014), Dr. R.M. Fernando, Directors: R.E.V. Casie Chetty, Ms. N. Sivapragasam, J.M.S. Brito (Chairman) (Appointed w.e.f. 19.03.2015), S.M. Hapugoda, G.P.J. Goonewardena. S.K.R.B. Jayaweera (Appointed w.e.f. 19.03.2015), C.M.S. Jayawickrama, ** The Companies’ financial statements are audited by KPMG. ** The Companies’ financial statements are audited by KPMG. 236 Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2014 2015 237 Group Companies and Directorate The Galle Heritage (Private) Limited Triton (Private) Limited Unique Resorts Private Limited ** Aitken Spence Shipping Limited ** Port Management Container Services (Private) Spence Logistics (Private) Limited ** Proposed for constructing and operating a heritage The holding company of Aitken Spence Aviation Owns and operates Adaaran Prestige Vaadhoo Liner, Cruise and Casual caller agency representation, Limited ** NVOCC freight forwarding operator. hotel within the Fort of Galle. (Private) Limited. Maldives. NVOCC and an international freight forwarder. Port management services which include operations Directors: and productivity enhancement management in ports. Directors: Directors: Directors: Directors: Dr. P. Dissanayake, S.M. Hapugoda, S.M. Hapugoda, S.M. Hapugoda (Managing Director), Dr. P. Dissanayake (Chairman), Directors: A.M.M. Amir, C.M.S. Jayawickrama, R.E.V. Casie Chetty, C.M.S. Jayawickrama, A. Jayasekera, Dr. P. Dissanayake (Managing Director), I.S. Cuttilan, R.E.V. Casie Chetty. C.M.S. Jayawickrama. M.S. Hassan, I.S. Cuttilan, I.S. Cuttilan, A. Jayasekera. T.D.U.D. Peiris. Ms. T.D.M.N. Anthony. W.L.P. Wijewardena. SpenceMac Bangladesh (Private) Limited Aitken Spence Shipping Services Limited ** Fiji Ports Terminal Limited Handles shipping operations in Bangladesh. Shipping agency activities. A joint venture with Fiji Ports Corporation Limited, to Directors: MARITIME & LOGISTICS SECTOR Directors: operate, manage, maintain and develop the two major Dr. P. Dissanayake, ports of Suva and Lautoka in Fiji. Dr. P. Dissanayake, M. Rashid, Directors: FREIGHT FORWARDING AND COURIER Spence Maldives Private Limited Ace Distriparks (Private) Limited ** I.S. Cuttilan, C.M.L. Kamal. A. Jayasekera. H. Patel (Chairman), Provides cargo General Sales Agent, international Provides total integrated logistics services for which it N. Cook, Ace Aviation Services (Private) Limited air express, domestic express and freight forwarding encompasses warehouse management, distribution, Tandem Global Logistics Colombo (Private) Operates as General Sales Agents for airline cargo. Clark Spence and Company (Private) Limited ** V. Chand, Limited services in the Maldives. project cargo logistics and mobile storage solution. Also agents for leading Liquid Cargo Operators. Shipping and bunkering agents in the ports of J.M.S. Brito, Providing international freight forwarding services. Directors: Directors: Colombo, Galle and Trincomalee and an international Dr. P. Dissanayake, Dr. P. Dissanayake (Deputy Chairman), Directors: Directors: K.R.T. Peiris (Managing Director), freight forwarder. Ms. N. Sivapragasam, K.R.T. Peiris, Dr. P. Dissanayake, Dr. P. Dissanayake (Deputy Chairman), Dr. P. Dissanayake, Directors: I.S. Cuttilan. Ms. T.D.M.N. Anthony, J.E. Brohier. M. Firaq, A.M.M. Amir, Dr. P. Dissanayake (Managing Director), I.S. Cuttilan. J.E. Brohier, A. Jayasekera, Shipping and Cargo Logistics (Private) Limited ** Ace Cargo (Private) Limited I.S. Cuttilan, A. Ghiyas. N.P. Wakwella. Liner agency representation. Provides international freight forwarding services. R.E.V. Casie Chetty. Vauxhall Cargo Logistics (Private) Limited ** Directors: Holding company of certain maritime sector Directors: INTEGRATED LOGISTICS Ace Freight Management (Private) Limited Hapag-Lloyd Lanka (Private) Limited ** Undertakes clearing, forwarding and operates an V.M. Fernando (Chairman), companies. Dr. P. Dissanayake (Chairman), Liner agency representation. Ace Containers (Private) Limited ** inland container terminal. J.M.S. Brito (Managing Director), Directors: K.R.T. Peiris, Operates an inland container terminal, container Directors: Dr. P. Dissanayake, Dr. P. Dissanayake, J.E. Brohier. Directors: freight station and haulage management. J. Schlotfeldt (Chairman) (Appointed w.e.f. 02.08.2014), K.M.A.T.B. Tittawella, Ms. N. Sivapragasam, Dr. P. Dissanayake (Deputy Chairman), Ace International Express (Private) Limited F.R. Coutinho (Appointed w.e.f. 02.08.2014), I.S. Cuttilan, R.E.V. Casie Chetty. Directors: A.M.M. Amir, Provides international air express, domestic delivery, J.M.S. Brito, K.M. Fernando. Dr. P. Dissanayake (Deputy Chairman), A. Jayasekera, international mailing, supply chain solutions and record Dr. P. Dissanayake. A.M.M. Amir, N.P. Wakwella. management. I.S. Cuttilan, Directors: A. Jayasekera, Logilink (Private) Limited ** K.R.T. Peiris (Managing Director), Provides container freight station services and N.P. Wakwella. deconsolidation of imports, storing, distribution and STRATEGIC INVESTMENTS SECTOR Dr. P. Dissanayake, J.E. Brohier. Ace Container Repair (Private) Limited ** consolidation for exports. Undertakes container repairs, conversions for Directors: PRINTING AND PACKAGING Aitken Spence Printing and Packaging (Private) Aitken Spence (Garments) Limited Aitken Spence Cargo (Private) Limited Garments on Hangers and other purpose built Dr. P. Dissanayake (Deputy Chairman), Limited ** Manufacturer and exporter of high quality men’s, boys’, International freight forwarding and General Sales solutions. Ace Exports (Private) Limited ** Provides printing and packaging services to the local ladies’ and girls’ shirts and blouses to prestigious K.R.T. Peiris, Agents for airline cargo. Directors: Provides printing and packaging services to the direct market. departmental stores and apparel importers in USA A.M.M. Amir, and indirect export markets. and EU. Directors: Dr. P. Dissanayake (Deputy Chairman), A. Jayasekera, Directors: Dr. P. Dissanayake (Deputy Chairman), A.M.M. Amir, N.P. Wakwella. Directors: P. Karunatilake (Managing Director), Directors: K.R.T. Peiris (Managing Director), A. Jayasekera, P. Karunatilake (Managing Director), Ms. N. Sivapragasam. R.E.V. Casie Chetty, J.E. Brohier. N.P. Wakwella. MARITIME SERVICES Ms. N. Sivapragasam. R.G. Pandithakorralage, GARMENT MANUFACTURING J.S.A. Fernando. Spence International (Private) Limited Ace Container Terminals (Private) Limited ** Aitken Spence Maritime Limited ** Ace Printing and Packaging (Private) Limited ** Regional operating headquarters to manage operation Provides container storage, customs, brokerage and Holding company of Hapag-Lloyd Lanka (Private) Provides printing and packaging services to the local Ace Apparels (Private) Limited Aitken Spence Apparels (Private) Limited overseas. warehousing services. Limited and Port Management Container Services market. To carry out the business to manufacture apparels for Manufacturer and exporter of high quality men’s, (Private) Limited. Directors: export. boys’ ladies and girls’ shirts and blouses to prestigious Directors: Directors: K.R.T. Peiris, Dr. P. Dissanayake (Deputy Chairman), Directors: P. Karunatilake (Managing Director), Directors: departmental stores and apparel importers in USA Dr. P. Dissanayake, Ms. N. Sivapragasam. and EU. Dr. P. Dissanayake, A.M.M. Amir, R.E.V. Casie Chetty, J.E. Brohier. A. Jayasekera, I.S. Cuttilan. J.S.A. Fernando. Directors: N.P. Wakwella. R.E.V. Casie Chetty, J.S.A. Fernando. ** The Companies’ financial statements are audited by KPMG. ** The Companies’ financial statements are audited by KPMG. 238 Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2014 2015 239 Group Companies and Directorate POWER GENERATION Directors: Directors: Interlifts International Private Limited ** FINANCIAL SERVICES PLANTATIONS J.M.S. Brito (Chairman) (Appointed w.e.f. 20.06.2014), Ms. N. Sivapragasam (Managing Director), Provides technical support, servicing, installation, Ace Power Embilipitiya (Private) Limited L. Wickremarachchi (Managing Director), R.E.V. Casie Chetty, repairing and maintaining of elevators, escalators, MMBL Money Transfer (Private) Limited ** Aitken Spence Tawoos Agriculture (Private) Owns and operates a 100MW thermal power plant in travolators, dumbwaiters and chairlifts. Principal agent for Western Union money transfer Limited Ms. N. Sivapragasam, Ms. N.W. de A. Guneratne, Embilipitiya to supply power to the national grid. services in Sri Lanka. To cultivate and farm fruits and vegetable for the S.R.S.L. Karunanayake, R.G. Pandithakorralage, Directors: export market. Directors: Ms. N.W. de A. Guneratne. V.M. Gunatilleka. R.E.V. Casie Chetty, Directors: J.M.S. Brito (Chairman), R.G. Salgado (Managing Director), J.M.S. Brito (Chairman), Directors: L. Wickremarachchi, Branford Hydropower (Private) Limited Aitken Spence Group Limited ** M.P. Wijesekera, D.S. Mendis (Managing Director), J.M.S. Brito, Ms. N. Sivapragasam, Owns a 2.5MW hydro power plant in Matale to supply Overall management of the Aitken Spence Group of M.M. Ahamed. M.D.D. Peiris, Dr. R.M. Fernando. Ms. M. Spoelgen, electricity to the national grid. companies. Ms. Y.N. Perera, Ms. A.M. Fernando. Directors: Directors: INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY SERVICES K. Balasundaram, OTHER SERVICES L. Wickremarachchi, Dr. R.M. Fernando, Ms. N. Sivapragasam, Ace Wind Power (Private) Limited Aitken Spence Technologies (Pvt) Ltd ** Aitken Spence Exports (Private) Limited ** Ms. N. Sivapragasam. R.E.V. Casie Chetty, J.V.A. Corera, Owns and operates a 3MW wind power plant in Provision of IT enabled services. Bottles and markets “Hethersett bottle water”. K.R.T. Peiris, M.R.P. Balendra (Alternate Director to Ms. Y.N. Perera Ambewela to supply electricity to the national grid. CORPORATE ADVISORY Directors: & M.D.D. Peiris) Directors: Ms. N. Sivapragasam, Directors: Dr. P. Dissanayake, Dr. R.M. Fernando, Dr. R.M. Fernando (Alternate Director to J.M.S. Brito), S.M. Hapugoda, L. Wickremarachchi, Aitken Spence Corporate Finance R.G. Pandithakorralage (Alternate Director to D.S. C.M.S. Jayawickrama, S.M. Hapugoda, V.M. Gunatilleka (Managing Director), (Private) Limited ** Mendis). R.E.V. Casie Chetty, Ms. N. Sivapragasam. Ms. N.W. de A. Guneratne, D.S. Mendis, Provides corporate services including that of corporate C.D.D Perera. finance, treasury, legal, secretarial, human resource C.M.S. Jayawickrama, Ms. N. Sivapragasam, Western Power Company (Private) Limited R.G. Pandithakorralage. development, information technology, financial shared R.G. Pandithakorralage, Set up to construct, commission and operate a 10MW service and security services to the group companies. D.S. Mendis, Waste to Energy Power Project, to supply electricity to the national grid. V.M. Gunatilleka, P. Karunatilake. EQUITY ACCOUNTED INVESTEES TOURISM SECTOR Aitken Spence Overseas Travel Services Negombo Beach Resorts (Private) Limited ** (Private) Limited ** In the process of constructing a 143 room resort in SERVICES SECTOR Ahungalla Resorts Limited ** Was an IATA-accredited travel agent and General Negombo. A joint venture company with RIUSA NED BV and in Sales Agent for Tradewinds and Rail Europe. Organises the process of constructing a 501 room resort property Directors: PROPERTY MANAGEMENT INSURANCE BROKERING outbound tours and holiday packages, the company did Vauxhall Property Developments (Private) in Ahungalla. Deshamanya D.H.S. Jayawardena (Chairman), not carry out operations during the year. Limited ** S.M. Hapugoda, Aitken Spence Developments Aitken Spence Insurance Brokers Directors: Directors: Owns and operates the multi-storied office complex; C.M.S. Jayawickrama. (Private) Limited ** “Aitken Spence Tower I”. (Private) Limited ** S.M. Hapugoda, N.A.N. Jayasundera, Property development company. Placement of life insurance and general insurance C.M.S. Jayawickrama, S.T.B. Ellepola, Directors: Paradise Resort Pasikudah (Private) Limited business with insurance companies in Sri Lanka. R.E.V. Casie Chetty, Directors: Ms. N. Sivapragasam, H.P.N. Rodrigo. Owning Company of Amethyst Resort, Pasikudah. Dr. P. Dissanayake (Deputy Chairman), Directors: L. Riu Guell, R.G. Pandithakorralage. Directors: A.M.M. Amir, Ms. N.W. de A. Guneratne, C.L.M. Riu Guell. Amethyst Leisure Limited Ms. D.S.T. Jayawardena (Appointed w.e.f. 01.11.2014), A. Jayasekera. INSURANCE SURVEY AND CLAIM SETTLING A.N. Seneviratne, Holding Company of Paradise Resort Pasikudah Aitken Spence Travels (Private) Limited ** (Private) Limited. V.J. Senaratne (Appointed w.e.f. 01.11.2014), AGENCY R.G. Pandithakorralage. Aitken Spence Property Developments Leading destination management company in B.H.R. Sariffodeen (Appointed w.e.f. 01.11.2014), Directors: (Private) Limited ** Aitken Spence Insurance (Private) Limited ** ELEVATOR AGENCY Sri Lanka. A joint venture with TUI one of the largest M.Z.H. Hashim (Appointed w.e.f. 01.11.2014), Ms. D.S.T. Jayawardena (Appointed w.e.f. 01.11.2014), Owns and operates the multi-storied office complex; Survey and claim settling agents for several reputed tourism companies in the world. A. Mahir (Appointed w.e.f. 01.11.2014). V.J. Senaratne (Appointed w.e.f. 01.11.2014), “Aitken Spence Tower II” which serves as the Group’s insurance companies and organisations worldwide Elevators (Private) Limited ** Directors: including Lloyd’s CESAM PICC and Tokio Marine and B.H.R. Sariffodeen (Appointed w.e.f. 01.11.2014), MARITIME & LOGISTICS SECTOR corporate office at Vauxhall Street in Colombo. Exclusive agents and distributors in Sri Lanka and in J.M.S. Brito (Chairman), Fire Insurance Company Limited Oriental Insurance the Maldives for marketing, installing, commissioning M.Z.H. Hashim (Appointed w.e.f. 01.11.2014), Directors: N.A.N. Jayasundera (Managing Director), A. Mahir (Appointed w.e.f. 01.11.2014). Ace Bangladesh Limited Company of India. Superintendents for UN World Food and maintaining OTIS elevators, escalators and other Dr. R.M. Fernando, Programme in Sri Lanka and the Maldives. D.C. Schelp, Provides international freight forwarding services in equipment’s the world leader in elevators, escalators, Ms. N. Sivapragasam, moving walkways and dumb waiters. P.A. Mitchell, Browns Beach Hotels PLC ** Bangladesh. Directors: R.G. Salgado. S.T.B. Ellepola (Alternate Director to Mr. J.M.S. Brito), Owns the property leased out to Negombo Beach Ms. N.W. de A. Guneratne (Managing Director), Directors: Directors: J.C. Munar (Alternate Director to Mr. D.C. Schelp). Resorts (Private) Limited. Vauxhall Investments (Private) Limited A.N. Seneviratne, J.M.S. Brito (Chairman), A. Mannan (Chairman), Directors: R. Rahman (Managing Director), Owns buildings and land in Bloemendhal Street. R.G. Pandithakorralage. R.E.V. Casie Chetty, Ace Travels and Conventions (Private) Limited ** R.G. Salgado (Managing Director), Deshamanya D.H.S. Jayawardena (Chairman), J.M.S. Brito, Directors: Professional conference exhibition and event organiser. Ms. T.L. Cordes-Frei (Resigned w.e.f. 19.09.2014), J.M.S. Brito, Ms. F.R. Ahmed, Also offers destination management services. P. Karunatilake (Managing Director), M.V. Theagarajah, G. Pandya (Appointed w.e.f. 19.09.2014). K.R.T. Peiris, Ms. N. Sivapragasam. Directors: S.M. Hapugoda, A. Rahman. N.A.N. Jayasundera, T.D.U.D. Peiris, S.T.B. Ellepola, A.L. Gooneratne. P.L. Perera. ** The Companies’ financial statements are audited by KPMG. ** The Companies’ financial statements are audited by KPMG. 240 Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2014 2015 241 Group Companies and Directorate Glossary of Terms Colombo International Nautical and Engineering Merrill J. Fernando, SERVICES SECTOR Assets Held for Sale Collateral Dividends per Share (DPS) College (Private) Limited Malik J. Fernando, The carrying amount of the asset value which will Monetary or non monetary asset pledged or Dividends paid and proposed, divided by the Sri Lanka’s largest private maritime and higher D.A. de S. Wickremanayake, Ecocorp Asia (Private) Limited be recovered through a sale transaction rather received as security in lieu of a loan or credit number of issued shares, which ranked for those education campus. D.C. Fernando (Alternate Director to Merrill J. Formulates specialised surface coating systems than through continuing use. terms obtained or provided. dividends. Fernando), and applications on different surfaces utilizing Directors: nanotechnology; while introducing diverse innovative Capt. P.A.P. Peiris, A.L.W. Goonewardena, Asset Turnover Collective Impairment provision Earnings per Share (EPS) solutions for industries. C.L. Wikramanayake, Ms. M.D.A. Perera (Alternate Director to Mr. Malik J. Total revenue divided by average total assets. Impairment provision is measured on a collective Net profit for the period attributable to ordinary Fernando), Directors: basis for homogeneous groups of debtors that are shareholders divided by the weighted average H.K. Jayanetti, R.E.V. Casie Chetty, C.V.J.P. Fraser, not considered individually significant. number of ordinary shares in issue during the Dr. P. Dissanayake, Available-for-Sale L.N. de S. Wijeyerathne. K.M. Fernando, period. J.M.S. Brito, Any non-derivative financial assets designated V.M. Fernando, on initial recognition as available for sale or any Contract Ms. N. Sivapragasam, Elpitiya Plantations PLC Dr. R.M. Fernando (Appointed w.e.f. 29.10.2014), Ms. N.W. de A. Guneratne, other instruments that are not classified as loans An agreement between two or more parties that EBITDA Owns 15 tea and rubber estates in the Pundaluoya, Ms. D.S.T. Jayawardena (Appointed w.e.f. 29.10.2014), R.G. Pandithakorralage, and receivables, held-to-maturity investments or has clear economic consequences that the parties Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and Pussellawa and Galle regions with a total land extent Ms. N. Sivapragasam (Appointed w.e.f. 10.12.2014). S.A.R.S. Karunanayake, financial assets at fair value through profit or loss. have little, if any discretion to avoid usually amortization. of 8851 hectares. D. Malais, because the agreement is enforceable by law. Directors: Aitken Spence C & T Investments H.D.J.B. Ranchigoda, (Private) Limited ** AWDR Effective Rate of Dividend J.M.S. Brito (Chairman), E.T. Komrowski, To construct and operate a luxury villa community in The Average Weighted Deposit Rate is calculated Credit Risk Rate of dividend per share paid on the number of Dr. R.M. Fernando (Managing Director), by the Central Bank monthly and half yearly Risk that the counterparty to a transaction fails to shares ranking for dividend at the time of each E.P. Komrowski (Alternate Director to E.T. Komrowski), Negombo. Merrill J. Fernando, based on the weighted average of all outstanding meet its contractual obligations in accordance to payment. B. Sprotte (Alternate Director to D. Malais). Directors: Malik J. Fernando, interest bearing deposits of commercial banks and the agreed terms and conditions. Dr. S. Anura B. Ekanayake, A.Y. Atapattu (Chairman), STRATEGIC INVESTMENTS SECTOR the corresponding interest rates. Effective Rate of Interest D.C. Fernando (Alternate Director to Merrill J. J.M.S. Brito, Current Ratio Total long-term and short-term interest divided by Aitken Spence Plantation Managements PLC ** Fernando), S. Chandramohan, AWPLR Current assets divided by current liabilities. average long-term and short-term liabilities at the Managing agents for Elpitiya Plantations PLC. Ms. M.D.A. Perera (Alternate Director to Mr. Malik J. Dr. R.M. Fernando, The Average Weighted Prime Lending Rate is beginning and end of the year. Fernando), D.S. Mendis, Directors: calculated by the Central Bank weekly, monthly Currency SWAP S.C. Ratwatte, S.G. Atapattu. J.M.S. Brito (Chairman), and half yearly based on commercial bank’s An agreement between two parties to exchange Emissions A .L.W. Goonewardena, Dr. R.M. Fernando (Managing Director), lending rates offered to their prime customers. two currencies at a certain exchange rate at a The release of greenhouse gases and/or their E.N.W.M.R.R.K. Nugapitiya. certain time in the future. precursors into the atmosphere over a specified Basis Point area and period of time. One basis point is equal to 1/100th of 1%. Debenture A long-term debt instrument issued by a Employee Turnover BAU corporate. Number of employees who leave an organization Business As Usual, the normal execution of over a year expressed as a percentage of total operations within an organisation. Debt/Equity Ratio workforce. Non-current interest bearing borrowing divided by Business Model the total equity and minority interest. It shows the Equity Instruments The process adopted by a company to generate extent to which the firm is financed by debt. A contract that evidences a residual interest in revenue and make a profit from operations. the assets of an entity after deducting all of its Derivatives liabilities. Capital Expenditure Financial contracts whose values are derived from The total of additions to property, plant & the values of underlying assets. Fair Value equipment, intangible assets, investment property The amount at which an asset is exchanged or and the purchase of outside investments. Dividend Cover a liability settled, between knowledgeable and Net profit attributable to the ordinary shareholders willing parties in an arm’s length transaction. Capital Reserves divided by the total dividend. Reserves identified for specific purposes and Fair Value Through Profit or Loss (FVPL) considered not available for distribution. Dividend – Payout Ratio Financial instruments that are held for trading Dividends per share divided by earnings per share. and are designated as at fair value through profit Carrying Amount This indicates the percentage of the Company’s and loss. The amount at which as asset is recognised in the earning that is paid out to shareholders in cash. statement of financial position. Financial Asset Dividend Yield Any asset that is cash or an equity instrument of Dividend per share divided by the market value of another entity or a contractual right to receive a share. cash or another financial asset from another 242 Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2014 2015 243 Glossary of Terms entity or a contractual right to exchange financial receivables, for which there is a positive intention rates, exchange rates, credit spreads and other Sovereign Bond Treasury Bond Weighted Average Cost of Capital (WACC) instruments with another entity under conditions and ability to hold to maturity. asset prices. A debt security issued by a government Medium to long term debt instrument of 2 to The rate that a company is expected to pay on that are potentially favourable. denominated in a foreign currency. 20 years issued by the Government of Sri Lanka average to all its equity and debt holders. Impairment Net Assets per Share which carries a coupon (interest) paid on semiFinancial Instruments Occurs when recoverable amount of an asset is Total assets less total liabilities including minority Total Equity annual basis. Working Capital Any contract that gives rise to financial assets less than its carrying amount. interest divided by the number of shares in issue Total of share capital, reserves, retained earnings Current assets less current liabilities. of one entity and financial liability or equity as at 31st March. and non-controlling interest. Unquoted Shares instrument of another entity. Intangible Assets Shares which are not listed in the Stock Exchange. An identifiable non-monetary asset without Net Profit Margin Total Shareholder Return (TSR) Financial Leverage physical substance held for use in the production Net profit for the period divided by the revenue. Yield to Maturity Change in market price of the share between end Total average assets divided by total average or supply of goods or services for rental to others The discount rate that equals present value of all and beginning of the financial year, plus dividend equity. or for administrative purposes. Non-controlling Interest expected interest payment and the repayment of for the year, divided by the market price of the Part of the net results of operations and of net principal. share at the beginning of the financial year. Financial Liability Interest Cover assets of a subsidiary attributable to interest A contractual obligation to deliver cash or another Operating profit before interest divided by the net which are not owned, directly or indirectly through Young Managers Treasury Bill financial asset to another entity or exchange interest. subsidiaries, by the parent. Executives in managerial positions (Assistant Short term debt instrument of 3,6 or 12 months financial instruments with another entity under Manager and above), and under 35 years of age. issued by the Government of Sri Lanka. conditions that are potentially unfavourable. Interest Rate Swap Operating Profit Margin (EBIT Margin) An arrangement whereby two parties swap Earnings before interest and tax divided by Forward Exchange Contract interest rate commitments with each other to revenue. Agreement between two parties to exchange one reduce interest rate risks on fixed or floating rate currency for another at a future date at a rate loans. Price Earnings Ratio (PER) agreed upon today. Market value per share divided by the earnings Investment Property per share. GHG Investments in land and buildings that are held to Greenhouse gases. earn rentals or for capital appreciation or for both. Price to Book Value Ratio (PBV) Direct GHG emissions Market price per share divided by net assets per Emissions from sources that are owned or Internal Rate of Return (IRR) share. controlled by the reporting entity. Rate of return used in capital budgeting to measure and compare the profitability of Quantitative Easing Indirect GHG emissions investments. A type of monetary policy used by Central Banks Emissions resulting from the activities of the to stimulate the economy when the standard reporting entity but occur at sources owned or LIBOR monetary policy has become ineffective. controlled by a different entity. The London Inter Bank Offer Rate is an interest rate at which banks can borrow funds, in Quick Asset Ratio Goodwill on Consolidation marketable size, from other banks in the London Total current assets less inventories divided by The excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair interbank market. total current liabilities. value of the share of net assets acquired when purchasing an interest in a company. Liquidity Risk Related Parties The risk of an entity having constrains to settle its Parties who could control or significantly influence Gross Treasury Bill Rate financial liabilities. the financial and operating decisions of the Weighted average treasury bill rate gross of business. withholding tax published by Central Bank of Sri Loans and receivables Lanka at the auction immediately preceding an A financial asset with fixed and determinable Return on Equity interest determination date. payments that are not quoted in an active market Profit attributable to equity holders of the and do not qualify as trading assets. company divided by average equity less nonGuarantees controlling interest at the beginning and end of A contractual obligation made by a third party Market Capitalisation the year. (Guarantor), who is not a party to a contract The number of ordinary shares in issue multiplied between two others, that the guarantor will by the market price per share. Revaluation Surplus be liable if the guarantee fails to fulfill the contractual obligations under that said contract. Surplus amount due to revaluing assets in Market Risk accordance with its fair value. Possibility of loss arising from changes in the Held-to-Maturity value of a financial instrument as a result of Revenue Reserves A financial asset with fixed and determinable changes in market variables such as interest Reserves set aside for future distributions and payments and fixed maturity, other than loan and investments. 244 Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2014 2015 245 Notice of Meeting Form of Proxy Notice is hereby given that the Sixty Third Annual General Meeting of Aitken Spence PLC will be held at the Institute of the Chartered I/We ......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... of Accountants of Sri Lanka, 30 A, Malalasekara Mawatha, Colombo 7, at 10.00 a.m. on Tuesday, 30th June 2015, for the following purposes :............................................................................................................................................................................................................................ being a member/members • To receive and consider the Annual Report of the Board of Directors together with the Financial Statements of the Company and the Report of the Auditors thereon for the year ended 31st March 2015. of Aitken Spence PLC hereby appoint ..................................................................................................... of.......................................................................... (whom failing) • To declare a dividend as recommended by the Directors. • To re-elect Dr. R.M. Fernando who retires in terms of Article 84 of the Articles of Association, as a Director. Don Harold Stassen Jayawardena of Colombo (whom failing) • To re-elect Mr. V.M. Fernando who retires in terms of Article 84 of the Articles of Association, as a Director. Joseph Michael Suresh Brito of Colombo (whom failing) • To re-elect Mr. G.C. Wickremasinghe who is over 70 years, as a Director by passing the following resolution: Rohan Marshall Fernando of Colombo (whom failing) “That the age limit stipulated in Section 210 of the Companies Act No. 7 of 2007 shall not apply to Mr. G.C. Wickremasinghe who has Mahinda Parakrama Dissanayake (whom failing) attained the age of 81 and that he be re-elected a Director of the Company” Don Stasshani Therese Jayawardena of Colombo (whom failing) • To re-elect Deshamanya D.H.S. Jayawardena who is over 70 years, as a Director by passing the following resolution: “That the age limit stipulated in Section 210 of the Companies Act No. 7 of 2007 shall not apply to Deshamanya D.H.S. Jayawardena who Gaurin Chandraka Wickremasinghe of Colombo (whom failing) has attained the age of 72 and that he be re-elected a Director of the Company” Charles Humbert Gomez of Gibraltar (whom failing) • To re-elect Mr R.N. Asirwatham who is over 70 years, as a Director by passing the following resolution: Niranjan Joseph de Silva Deva Aditya of United Kingdom (whom failing) “That the age limit stipulated in Section 210 of the Companies Act No. 7 of 2007 shall not apply to Mr. R.N. Asirwatham who has attained the age of 72 and that he be re-elected a Director of the Company” Vernon Manilal Fernando of Colombo (whom failing) • To authorise the Directors to determine contributions to charities. Rajanayagam Nalliah Asirwatham of Colombo • To re-appoint the retiring Auditors, Messrs. KPMG, Chartered Accountants and authorise the Directors to determine their remuneration. as my/our Proxy to represent me/us, to speak and to vote on my/our behalf at the Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held on the 30th day of June 2015, and at any adjournment thereof and at every poll which may be taken in consequence thereof. • To consider any other business of which due notice has been given. BY ORDER OF THE BOARD Signed this ..................................................................................... day of June Two Thousand Fifteen. R.E.V. Casie Chetty F.C.A, F.C.M.A, M.C.M.I. J Dip. M.A. .................................................................... Company Secretary Signature Colombo 25th May, 2015 Notes : 1. A member entitled to attend and vote at the meeting is entitled to appoint a Proxy to attend, speak and vote in his/her stead and a Form of Proxy is enclosed for this purpose. A Proxy need not be a member of the Company. 2. The completed Form of Proxy must be deposited at the Registered Office of the Company at No. 315, Vauxhall Street, Colombo 2, not less than forty-eight hours before the time fixed for the meeting. Note : Instructions as to completion are noted on the reverse hereof. 3. It is proposed to post the dividend warrants on 10th July 2015 provided the dividend recommended is approved. In accordance with the rules of the Colombo Stock Exchange, the shares of the Company will be quoted exdividend with effect from 2nd July 2015. 246 Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2014 2015 247 Aitken Spence PLC | Shareholder Feedback Form INSTRUCTIONS AS TO COMPLETION Name (Optional) : ......................................................................................................................................................................................................... Kindly perfect the form of proxy by filling in legibly your full name and address, signing in the space provided and filling in the date of Address (Optional) : ......................................................................................................................................................................................................... signature. ......................................................................................................................................................................................................... If the proxy form is signed by an Attorney, the relative power of attorney should also accompany the proxy form for registration, if such power of attorney has not already been registered with the Company. Telephone No. (Optional) : ......................................................................................................................................................................................................... In the case of a Company/Corporation, the proxy must be under its Common Seal (if required), which should be affixed and attested in the manner prescribed by its Articles of Association. Number of shares held (Optional) : ......................................................................................................................................................................................................... The completed form of proxy should be deposited at the Registered Office of the Company at No. 315 Vauxhall Street, Colombo 2 before 10.00 a.m. on June 28, 2015, being 48 hours before commencement of the meeting. 1. Please rate the following areas on a scale of 1 (lowest) to 5 (highest); Lowest Highest 1 2 3 4 5 a) Interaction with the Company personnel ¨ ¨ ¨ ¨ ¨ b) Overall ambience of the Company ¨ ¨ ¨ ¨ ¨ c) Speed of response to comments/ queries/ clarifications ¨ ¨ ¨ ¨ ¨ d) Efficiency of remedial action and follow up measures ¨ ¨ ¨ ¨ ¨ e) Overall efficiency of service of the Company personnel ¨ ¨ ¨ ¨ ¨ f) Hospitality of Company personnel ¨ ¨ ¨ ¨ ¨ g) Usefulness of the information in the interim financial statements ¨ ¨ ¨ ¨ ¨ h) Quality and presentation of the Annual Report ¨ ¨ ¨ ¨ ¨ i) Contents of the Annual Report ¨ ¨ ¨ ¨ ¨ j) Usefulness of the information in the Annual Report ¨ ¨ ¨ ¨ ¨ k) Usefulness of the environmental information in the Annual Report ¨ ¨ ¨ ¨ ¨ l) Usefulness of the Social information in the Annual Report ¨ ¨ ¨ ¨ ¨ m) Quality and content of the Corporate website ¨ ¨ ¨ ¨ ¨ n) User – friendliness of the Corporate website ¨ ¨ ¨ ¨ ¨ o) Usefulness of the information in the Company’s social media sites ¨ ¨ ¨ ¨ ¨ p) Quality of the health and safety measures adopted by the Company ¨ ¨ ¨ ¨ ¨ q) Adequacy of risk management strategies ¨ ¨ ¨ ¨ ¨ r) Compliance with corporate, statutory and regulatory standards ¨ ¨ ¨ ¨ ¨ s) Comprehensiveness of the shareholder feedback form ¨ ¨ ¨ ¨ ¨ Please tick more than one where applicable: 2. How do you generally obtain information/ news about the Company: ¨ News articles ¨ Social media ¨ Advertisements ¨ Internet/Company website ¨ Annual Report ¨ Others 248 Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2014 2015 249 Notes 3. The majority of the stocks you own are: ¨ Less than 6 months ¨ Between 6 months to 1 year ¨ More than 1 year 4. W  ill the information from the Company regarding its economic, social and environmental management approach and performance help your investment making decision? ¨ Yes ¨ No ¨ Not relevant 5. What type of communication would you like from the Company? ........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... ............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ ............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ ............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ ............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ ............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ ............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ ............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ ............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ ............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ 6. Suggestions / Recommendations ........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... ............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ ............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ ............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ ............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ ............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ ............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ ............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ ............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ ... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... ............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ ............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ ............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ ............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ ............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ ............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ ............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ ............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ The completed Feedback Form could be handed over to a Company representative at the end of the Annual General Meeting or mailed or hand delivered to the Company Secretary at the Registered Office of the Company at No. 315, Vauxhall Street, Colombo 02, Sri Lanka. 250 Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2014 2015 251 252 Aitken Spence PLC Corporate Information Name Audit Committee Aitken Spence PLC R.N. Asirwatham Chairman G.C. Wickremasinghe Legal Form C.H. Gomez A Public quoted Company with limited liability, N.J. de S. Deva Aditya / A.L. Gooneratne (Alternate Director to N.J. de S. Deva Aditya) incorporated in Sri Lanka in 1952. Company Registration Number Remuneration Committee PQ 120 G.C. Wickremasinghe Chairman V.M. Fernando Registered Office R.N. Asirwatham No. 315 Vauxhall Street Colombo 2 Nomination Committee Sri Lanka G.C. Wickremasinghe Chairman D.H.S. Jayawardena Directors J.M.S. Brito V.M. Fernando D.H.S. Jayawardena Chairman R.N. Asirwatham J.M.S. Brito Managing & Finance Director LLB, FCA, MBA Company Secretary R.M. Fernando Ph.D., MBA, FCIM (UK) R.E.V. Casie Chetty M.P. Dissanayake FCA, FCMA, M.C.M.I., J.Dip.M.A. MBA, Ph.D., Postgraduate.Dip Marketing FCIM, FICS, FCILT (UK), (GLE) Harvard Business School Ms. D.S.T. Jayawardena Auditors G.C. Wickremasinghe KPMG C.H. Gomez Chartered Accountants N.J. de S. Deva Aditya DL, FRSA, MEP Contact Details V.M. Fernando Attorney-at-Law No. 315 Vauxhall Street R.N. Asirwatham FCA Colombo 2, Sri Lanka Alternate Director T: +94 (11) 230 8308 A.L. Gooneratne FCA F: +94 (11) 244 5406 (Alternate Director to N.J.de S. Deva Aditya) www.aitkenspence.com Designed & produced by Digital Plates & Printing by Aitken Spence Printing & Packaging (Pvt) Ltd AITKEN SPENCE PLC 315 Vauxhall Street, Colombo 2, Sri Lanka T : + (94) 11 230 8308, F : + (94) 11 244 5406 www.aitkenspence.com
