Global Compact 2014 United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2014 Dear readers, Aurubis AG has participated in the United Nations This Communication on Progress documents the meaGlobal Compact since the end of 2014 and supports sures and activities we have in place to fulfill the requireits visions and objectives. We act responsibly in our ments of responsible business activity and the ways that business – in our economic sector, in our approach to we want to promote sustainable progress in the areas of the environment and resources and with our employees labor standards, human rights, environmental protection and society. This is reflected in our participation in the and anti-corruption. United Nations Global Compact. In addition to our extensive sustainability reporting, We are part of society and accept the challenges that which has been oriented to the internationally reccome along with this. Aurubis makes a decisive contribuognized reporting standards of the Global Reporting tion to a demand-oriented copper supply in Europe. The Initiative for several years, we will now annually report production and use of non-ferrous metals are conditions on our measures and activities that support the implefor technical progress and a higher standard of living. As mentation of the Ten Principles of the United Nations a component of innovative technological developments, Global Compact. our copper contributes significantly to renewable energies and to improving the CO2 balance. The energy shift We invite you to join in the dialogue with us, to gather wouldn’t be possible without copper. information online at any time at www.aurubis.com/ responsibility and to approach us if you have any quesResource efficiency is and remains an important topic tions or comments. for Aurubis. We want to utilize what we already have more strongly. For example, this means drawing even Best regards, more from our increasingly complex raw materials. Our multi-metal recycling ensures that the material cycle for copper and other metals is closed. It is important for products to be recycled again and again after they are used. This allows valuable raw materials to be utilized, Dr. Bernd Drouven and Dr. Frank Schneider conserves resources and minimizes environmental polluHamburg, April 2015 tion. In the interest of continuously increasing resource efficiency, we have also set a corresponding target in our Sustainability Strategy. Aurubis · United Nations Global Compact · Communication on Progress 2014 2 About Aurubis corporate and administrative headquarters in Hamburg, where key production facilities are also concentrated. About 6,500 employees worked for the Aurubis Group worldwide as of September 30, 2014. Of this number, 57 % worked at the German plants and 43 % worked in other countries. Thanks to our wide range of services, we rank among the global leaders in our industry. Our core business is the production of marketable copper cathodes from copper concentrates, copper scrap and other recycling raw materials. They are processed within the Group into continuous cast wire rod, shapes, rolled products and strip as well as specialty wire and profiles made of copper and copper alloys. Precious metals, other metals and a number of other products, such as sulfuric acid and iron silicate, round off our product portfolio. Aurubis is the leading integrated copper Customers of Aurubis include companies in the copper group and the world’s largest copper semis industry, the electrical engineering, electronics and chemical industries as well as suppliers of the rerecycler. We produce more than 1.1 million t newable energies, construction and automotive sectors. of copper cathodes each year and from Aurubis is oriented towards sustainable growth and them a variety of copper products. increasing value: the main focuses of the corporate Production expertise is our strength. strategy are on expanding our leading market position as an integrated copper producer, utilizing growth opportunities and acting responsibly towards people, resources The Aurubis Group and the environment. Aurubis is one of the world’s leading integrated copper groups with key expertise in copper production, metal Aurubis AG was founded in Hamburg in 1866 under the recycling and copper product fabrication. The producname Norddeutsche Affinerie AG. Following various tion of precious metals and specialty products completes changes in the ownership structure, an IPO was carried our range of services. Aurubis is therefore represented in out in 1998. The company was renamed Aurubis as a the main segments of the copper value chain. result of a resolution passed at the company’s Annual General Meeting on February 26, 2009. Aurubis shares Aurubis has production sites in Europe and the US as are part of the Prime Standard Segment of the Deutsche well as an extensive service and sales system for copper Börse and are listed on the MDAX and the Global Chalproducts in Europe, Asia and North America. The largest lenges Index (GCX). production centers are in Germany, Belgium and Bulgaria. The Aurubis Group is managed centrally from the Aurubis · United Nations Global Compact · Communication on Progress 2014 3 United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress This is our Communication on Progress in implementing the principles of the United Nations Clobal Compact. We welcome feedback on its contents. Aurubis has participated in the United The following tables show policies, management systems and measures that Aurubis has installed and carries out Nations Global Compact since December to implement the principles. Furthermore, it outlines the 2014. The UN Global Compact is based concrete activities and progress for 2014. on ten principles regarding the aspects You can find additional detailed information in our of human rights, labor standards, Sustainability Reports, Environmental Statements, Environmental Reports and Annual Reports (all of which are environmental protection and efforts available at www.aurubis.com). We regularly inform our against corruption. employees and external stakeholders about the implementation of the UN Global Compact principles – for example at a number of events, on the internet and in the employee magazine “CU”. Aurubis · United Nations Global Compact · Communication on Progress 2014 4 Human Rights Principle 01: Commitments, policies and management systems Businesses should support and » Commitment to ILO Core Labor Standards respect the protection of interna» Aurubis requires business partners, especially in raw material tionally proclaimed human rights. procurement, to observe UN conventions related to human rights Principle 02: » Sustainability Strategy Businesses should make sure they » Development and expansion of supplier screening as a target of the are not complicit in human rights Sustainability Strategy abuses. » Group-wide Code of Conduct » Compliance management » PRIMA* corporate values » Group-wide policy on avoiding raw materials for gold production from conflict regions » “Good Delivery” status from the London Bullion Market Association (LBMA) Measures » Inclusion of a clause about adhering to UN sanctions or trade restrictions as well as UN conventions related to human rights, environmental protection and safety in all new supply contracts if the supplier doesn’t have its own declaration on this issue » Carrying out compliance training » Business Partner Screening (in development) Activities in 2014 and assessment of results » Training (for security personnel) on human rights topics » Expansion of stakeholder dialogue on social issues Downloads S ustainability Report 2013 Aurubis Code of Conduct PRIMA corporate values *Our corporate values (PRIMA) are Performance, Responsibility, Integrity, Mutability and AppreciaAdditional information tion. PRIMA, which means “great” www.aurubis.com/responsibility in German, is derived from the first Strategy & Sustainability Corporate Governance letter of each value. Supply Chain Gold Aurubis · United Nations Global Compact · Communication on Progress 2014 5 Labor Principle 03: Commitments, policies and management systems Businesses should uphold the » PRIMA corporate values freedom of association and the » Group-wide Code of Conduct effective recognition of the right » Compliance management to collective bargaining. » Taking steps to increase interest among girls and women for technical Principle 04: apprenticeships and vocations as a target of the Sustainability Strategy Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced Measures and compulsory labor. » Carrying out compliance training Principle 05: » Whistleblower hotline Businesses should uphold the » Measures in the area of diversity effective abolition of child labor. Principle 06: Activities in 2014 and assessment of results Businesses should uphold the » Carrying out training on the Code of Conduct. In 2014 about 150 employelimination of discrimination ees took part in five workshops at various sites. in respect of employment and » Expansion of stakeholder dialogue on social issues occupation. » Signing of the Equality Charter by Aurubis and Edeltraud Glänzer, Deputy Chairwoman of the Mining, Chemical and Energy Industrial Union in Germany Downloads S ustainability Report 2013 Aurubis Code of Conduct PRIMA corporate values Additional information www.aurubis.com/responsibility Strategy & Sustainability Corporate Governance Compliance Employees www.mintpink.de www.igbce.de/aktive/frauen/charta-gleichstellung/ Aurubis · United Nations Global Compact · Communication on Progress 2014 6 Environment Principle 07: Commitments, policies and management systems Businesses should support a pre» Company Environmental Protection Guidelines cautionary approach to environ» Corporate Environmental Protection Policy mental challenges. » Strategic environmental targets Principle 08: » Commitment to external guidelines such as Responsible Care Businesses should undertake » Memberships and active involvement in the main economic, industry and initiatives to promote greater specialist associations environmental responsibility. » Systematic environmental, energy and quality management Principle 09: » Voluntary standard for processing precious metal-bearing WEEE fractions such as printed circuit boards (WEEE = Waste of Electrical and Electronic Businesses should encourage Equipment Directive) the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly tech» Stakeholder dialogue with NGOs and environmental associations nologies. » Hamburg Masterplan » Aurubis does intensive research and development work to optimize products and procedures continuously and to expand its technological edge with new processes. Consideration of current and future environmental standards, the efficient use of resources and continuous emission reductions are key criteria in the process. Measures » Group-wide environmental targets (mid-term and long-term) including monitoring of target achievement » Site-specific environmental targets (short-term and mid-term) including monitoring of target achievement » Involvement in the EU project on the ecological balance of organizations and products: “Organizational Environmental Footprint” and “Product Environmental Footprint” » Internal and external audits to analyze the effectiveness of environmental, energy and quality management systems Activities in 2014 and assessment of results » Investments of € 34.4 million in environmental protection for copper production in 2014 and a total of € 513 million since 2000 » Investments of € 10 million in R&D in fiscal year 2013/14 » (Re-)certification of environmental, energy and quality management systems at all production sites » Various measures at all sites to improve environmental performance Aurubis · United Nations Global Compact · Communication on Progress 2014 7 Climate Air Selected examples protection » Optimal processing of precious metal-bearing anode slimes by installing a new facility in Hamburg. The anode slimes are now dried in a process Noise Water that saves up to 35 % of the energy and reduces CO2 emissions by 460 t per year. Waste Soil » Start-up of a turbine to produce electricity from waste heat at the Hamburg site with the goal of reducing CO2 emissions by about 5,000 t » Commissioning of a rainwater retention facility at the Lünen site to optimize wastewater streams Group environmental protection » Construction of a water treatment plant at the Pirdop site to enhance targets until 2015 water quality » Improvement in collecting and cleaning fugitive emissions at the Pirdop Climate protection » Target: Continued reduction in CO2 emissions site as part of the “Aurubis Bulgaria 2014” investment project » Example: Constructing turbines to use waste » Further implementation of the voluntary agreement with the city of heat in Hamburg (DE) and Lünen (DE) » Example: Optimizing suction equipment at Hamburg to continue reducing emissions Schwermetall Halbzeugwerk (DE) » Events for employees to increase environmental awareness at various Air sites (Green Month Bulgaria, Energy Day in Hamburg) » Target: Reducing emissions to air » Expansion of stakeholder dialogue on environmental issues » Examples: Reducing SO2 emissions in primary » Resource efficiency and recycling event with political and civil society copper production by over 80 % compared to 2000 (2014: 87 % reduction achieved) representatives (October 2014) » Reducing dust emissions in copper production by over 90 % compared to 2000 (2013: 96 % reduction achieved) Water » Target: Reducing metal emissions to water in copper production by about 70 % compared to 2000 (2013: 76 % reduction achieved) » Example: Operating new water treatment plants in Pirdop (BG) and Lünen (DE) Soil Downloads » Target: Reducing the discharge of harmful substances into the soil Aurubis Environmental Report 2014 » Example: Paving large parts of the plant premAurubis Environmental Statement 2014 ises in Lünen (DE) and collecting rainwater Aurubis Sustainability Report 2013 Waste Table of certifications by site » Target: Increasing recycling rates » Examples: Reducing SO2 emissions in primary T wo-page document of facts and figures about environmental protection copper production by over 80 % compared to since 2000 2000 (2014: 87 % reduction achieved) » Reducing dust emissions in copper production by over 90 % compared to 2000 (2013: 96 % Additional information reduction achieved) www.aurubis.com/responsibility Noise » Target: Reducing noise emissions Strategy & Sustainability Economic Responsibility: Product Quality » Example: Erecting a noise barrier in Olen (BE) & Safety Dialogue & Cooperation Environment & Energy Aurubis · United Nations Global Compact · Communication on Progress 2014 8 Anti-corruption Principle 10: Commitments, policies and management systems Businesses should work against » Commitment to German Corporate Governance Code corruption in all its forms, includ» Compliance management ing extortion and bribery. » Risk management Measures » Carrying out compliance training » Risk assessment » Whistleblower hotline Activities in 2014 and assessment of results » Training topics in 2014: anti-corruption and anti-trust law » About 150 employees were trained on the topic of anti-corruption and about 100 employees were trained in anti-trust law » All business entities were analyzed for their corruption risk during the institutionalized and routine risk assessment Downloads Aurubis Sustainability Report 2013 Additional information www.aurubis.com/responsibility Compliance Corporate Governance Risk Management Aurubis Code of Conduct Aurubis · United Nations Global Compact · Communication on Progress 2014 9 Global Compact 2014 Your contact for this report: Aurubis AG Hovestrasse 50 D-20539 Hamburg Phone +49 40 7883-0 Fax +49 40 7883-2255 info@aurubis.com Kirsten Kück Sustainability Manager Phone +49 40 7883-3270 k.kueck@aurubis.com Aurubis · United Nations Global Compact · Communication on Progress 2014 10 Global Compact 2014 aurubis.com Our Copper for your Life Aurubis AG Hovestrasse 50 D-20539 Hamburg Phone +49 40 7883-0 Fax +49 40 7883-2255 info@aurubis.com
