Rahbord Tose’ e Paydar Int’l Group (SDS International Group ) From April 2014 to April 2015 1 Statement of continued support by the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) 4 April 2015 Our Stake holders “I am pleased to confirm that the Association of Rahbord Tose’ e Paydar Int’l Group (SDS) reaffirms its support of the 10(Ten) Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this our annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to integrate the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We are also committed to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication.” Yours sincerely, Ali Javadi Pouya Chief Executive Officer 2 1: Human Rights principles Principle 1: Principle 2: Businesses Should support and respect make sure that They are not complicit in The protection of internationally Proclaimed Human rights abuses Assessment, Policy and human rights; Goals A) Policy: Reaffirming the importance of the International Bill of Human Rights consists of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, and the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights and its two Optional Protocols as basic elements of international efforts to promote universal respect for and observance of human rights and fundamental freedoms Acknowledging the important role of international cooperation for, and the valuable work of individuals, groups and associations in contributing to, the effective elimination of all violations of human rights and fundamental freedoms of peoples and individuals SDS , Stressing our interested Parties that all shall fulfill, jointly and separately, their solemn obligation to promote and encourage respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms for all without distinction of any kind, including distinctions based on race, color, sex, language, religion, political or other opinion, national or social origin, property, birth or other status. SDS promotes and implements all human rights and fundamental freedoms in a fair and equitable manner, without prejudice to the implementation of each of those rights and freedoms, 3 B) Implementation For several decades now, the responsibilities of companies for complying with human rights versus the responsibility of governments in that respect has been hotly debated. Companies that place corporate social responsibility high on the agenda have already accepted a certain responsibility for human rights. According to our commitment to Human right Considration, we have an internationally standardized framework to base their social responsibility activities on ISO26000:2010 Social Responsibility Guide lines and also The UN Guiding Principles on Human Rights and Business (UNGP-2011 )(also known as the “Ruggie Principles”) have also become an our authoritative global reference point for business and human rights. The guidelines have been drawn upon by ISO (26000), GRI and the OECD in the development of their own guideline. Issue 1: Due diligence Issue 2: Human rights risk situations Issue 3: Avoidance of complicity Human Rights Issue 4: Resolving grievances In ISO 26000 Issue 5: Discrimination and vulnerable groups Issue 6: Civil and political rights Issue 7: Economic, social and cultural rights Issue 8: Fundamental principles and rights at work Three pillars of the Ruggie Framework are: 1Government: Duty to Protect 2Companies: Responsibility to respect 3Victims: Access to remedy Guide line for Companies: “The corporate responsibility to respect consists of five foundational and eight operational principles. The UNGP’s five Foundation Principles explain what the ‘responsibility to respect’ means, the scope of the responsibility and the policies and management processes a company should have in place.” 4  SDS Human Right Activities Employee Partners Customers Community 1HSE 1NonDiscrimination 1ISO10001:2007 1-disclusing SDS implementation Code of conduct human right goals 2Ergonomic 2speech and mind in public seminars Requirements freedom 2-ISO10002:2004 implementation 2-Participation on 3NonCustomer Satisfaction charities for Discrimination in protection of employment defenseless people 4speech and mind freedom 5equal behavior 6International law department Training Courses about Human rights generations ISO 26000:2010 C) Measurement By adhering to the ISO 26000 guide, we minimize reputational risks and increase transparency to potential investors, customers and sponsors concerned with issues on social responsibility and sustainable development and have the tools to analyze itself and its own risks. We have to mention that immunity which is built by ISO26000 Requirement s (whistle Blower System )give the appropriate protection to all employees in company to report any contravention of human rights. All contraventions are documented by CEO office manager and responsible party would put under probation to resolve the issue. 5 2Labor Principles Principle 3: Principle 4: Businessesshould uphold the freedom of the elimination of all forms of forced and association and the effective recognition of compulsory labour; the right tocollective bargaining; Principle 6: Principle 5: the effective abolition of child the elimination of discrimination in respect of labour; Employment and occupation A) Policy With respect to the ILO Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work is an expression of commitment by governments, employers' and workers' organizations to uphold basic human values values that are vital to our social and economic lives. The Declaration covers four fundamental principles and rights at work  Freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining  Elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor  Effective abolition of child labor  Elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation SDS policies require that its business be conducted with honesty and integrity, and in Full compliance with Local Labor applicable laws. All company associates are required to obey the law and comply with specific standards relating to legal obligations, ethics, and business conduct about Local Labor law. SDS supports and upholds the elimination of discriminatory practices with respect to Employment, and promotes and embraces diversity in all aspects of its business operations. SDS further supports the elimination of all forms of forced bonded or compulsory labor and the freedom of association and the right to choose a collective bargaining representative, if desired. SDS will also provide a safe and healthy working 6 Environment for its entire Department. B) Implementation SDS Main Activities in Labor Rights are: Nondiscrimination in Employment Healthy and safe work place by implementing HSE and ohsas18001 Implementation of 5 S Companies Commitment to prepare new technology for improving employees knowledge level Application of Local Labor Law Application of insurance requirements according Local Law Establishment of encouragement Systems ReTraining System C) Measurement “We have a 100 % compliance on approved working payment and we had no claim about labor compensation in recent year and also all employee has insurance and their insurance independent share is totally paid by SDS. We have a no injuries in work place since foundation. We have an employee satisfaction survey annually. 7 3Environment Principles Principle 7: Principle 8: Businesses should support precautionary Undertake initiatives to promote greater approach to environmental environmental responsibility; challenges; Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Assessment, Policy and Goals A) Policy Base on The principals of the United Nations Conference on the Human Environment was held in Stockholm, Sweden in June 1972 as following: 1. Human rights must be asserted, apartheid and colonialism condemned 2. Natural resources must be safeguarded 3. The Earth’s capacity to produce renewable resources must be maintained 4. Wildlife must be safeguarded 5. Non-renewable resources must be shared and not exhausted 6. Pollution must not exceed the environment’s capacity to clean itself 7. Damaging oceanic pollution must be prevented 8. Development is needed to improve the environment 9. Developing countries therefore need assistance 10. Developing countries need reasonable prices for exports to carry out environmental management 11. Environment policy must not hamper development 12. Developing countries need money to develop environmental safeguards 13. Integrated development planning is needed 14. Rational planning should resolve conflicts between environment and development 15. Human settlements must be planned to eliminate environmental problems 16. Governments should plan their own appropriate population policies 17. National institutions must plan development of states’ natural resources 18. Science and technology must be used to improve the environment 19. Environmental education is essential 20. Environmental research must be promoted, particularly in developing countries 21. States may exploit their resources as they wish but must not endanger others 22. Compensation is due to states thus endangered 23. Each nation must establish its own standards 8 24. There must be cooperation on international issues 25. International organizations should help to improve the environment 26. Weapons of mass destruction must be eliminate SDS is committed to leading Services in minimizing the impact of its activities on the environment. The key points of its Policy to achieve this are:  Minimize waste by evaluating operations and ensuring they are as efficient as possible.  Minimize toxic emissions through the selection and use of its fleet and the source of its power requirement.  Actively promote recycling both internally and amongst its customers and suppliers..  Meet or exceed all the environmental legislation that relates to the Company including ISO14001.  Use an accredited program to offset the greenhouse gas emissions generated by our activities. B) Implantation Implementation of ISO14001:2004 reduce waste materials (e.g. recycling) and consumption of resources (energy, fossil fuels, water, electricity, paper, packaging, etc.) by training employees improving the energy efficiency by light management Developing environment friendly technologies in work place Application PAS 2020 Requirements in seminars and conferences Allocating environment global challenge including climate change, water and environmental issues. renewable energy in SDS annual conference kharazmi forum 2015-12 march 9 C) Measurement SDS is committed to minimizing any divers effect on the environmental which may result from its activity, as a result of our effort we are ISO14001 certifies since 2012 4anti corruption principals Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery A) Policy Based on Preventive Measures (Chapter II, Articles 5–14) of United Nations Convention against Corruption (UNCAC) Preventive measures are directed at both the public and private sectors. Chapter II includes preventive policies, such as the establishment of anti-corruption bodies and enhanced transparency in the financing of election campaigns and political parties. Transparency and accountability in the management of public finances must also be promoted, and specific requirements are established for the prevention of corruption in the particularly critical areas of the public sector, such as the judiciary and public procurement. Preventing corruption also requires an effort from all members of society at large. For these reasons, UNCAC calls on countries to promote actively the involvement of civil society, and to raise public awareness of corruption and what can be done about it. The requirements made for the public sector also apply to the private sector – it too is expected to adopt transparent procedures and codes of conduct. SDS is firmly opposed to corruption in all forms and is committed to doing business in accordance with the highest ethical standards. For SDS, anti-corruption is not only a legal obligation and an ethical standpoint. Corruption is a threat to business and society in all countries. It undermines legitimate business activities and distorts competition. It ruins reputation and exposes individuals to risks. At SDS we are all responsible for understanding the important legal and ethical issues that affect our business and for acting with integrity at all times. Integrity means complying with both the spirit and the letter of the laws and regulations that govern our industry. SDS’s zero tolerance on corruption and ethical standards are set out in our Code of Conduct. 10 SDS’s management is committed to sending clear, unambiguous and regular messages to all staff and business partners that corruption and bribery is unacceptable. B) Implementation SDS’s policies require that its business be conducted with honesty and integrity, and in Full compliance with all applicable laws. Company policies establish clear ethical standards And guidelines for how we do business and establish accountability. All company associates Are required to obey the law and comply with specific standards relating to legal obligations, Ethics and business conduct. Training Employee s about ethical Business and anticorruption missions Addressed stake holders about anticorruption commitment and SDS ethical code of conduct C) Measurement Whistleblower 1system: In this system employees who become aware of illegal activities including corruption taking place in a business either through witnessing the behavior or being told about it , are encouraged to report suspected violation to manager . Whistleblowers are protected in SDS from programs created by the ISO26000:2010. 1 A whistleblower (whistle-blower or whistle blower) is a person who exposes misconduct, alleged dishonest or illegal activity occurring in an organization. The alleged misconduct may be classified in many ways; for example, a violation of a law, rule, regulation and/or a direct threat to public interest, such as fraud, health and safety violations, and corruption. 11 12
