www.it-profiler.com Profiler & UNGC We became a signatory to the UNGC in. This Communication on Progress is our first report after becoming a member. Profiler is a leading provider of expertise. We empower businesses by offering expert knowledge through Consulting & Staffing Solutions. Through our extensive pool of experts, ranging from permanent employees to freelancers, we are able to support renowned companies from various industries, to implement their projects quickly and effectively. We form the link between experts and companies, with our focus lying in the IT-, communication design and aerospace sectors. We offer expertise through all project phases: from the identification of the required skills to resource management, project monitoring and controlling. We offer our services across all sectors, both private and public sectors. Transparency, Professionalism, Integrity, are all values which are part of Profiler. We believe doing good business is not just about making money but about being conscious of the impact our decisions have on all stakeholders, and taking responsibility for these decisions and outcomes. Having this philosophy we are able to build long-term relations with some of our clients in the form of framework agreements. We do not only want to be an attractive and reliable partner and employer, but also embrace our social responsibility. Being part of the UNGC allows us to contribute in helping to make business and globalization more social and environment friendly. www.it-profiler.com Profiler & UNGC The profit of a business cannot only be measured in their turnovers and earnings, but also in being profitable in the long way while being ecological and social. Therefore sustainable, fair and successful economy stands in accordance to the acceptance and execution of the UNGC 10 Principles. This has to be pursued consequently and this is why we, in our first year of being a participant in the global compact, focused on measuring our practices and optimizing our strategies and outcomes to ensure that we are generally in line with the UNGC. For the near future we plan to look at possibilities of promoting each principle actively within our company by educating and creating awareness amongst our employees. We would like to not only influence the associates and environment in our company but, in the long-run, our partners and suppliers as well. www.it-profiler.com Statement of continued support I believe that a company‘s success should, officially not only be measured by its profitability but also by its social and corporate responsibility. I came across the UNGC in December 2013 by chance and knew immediately that there was no question; every company should be a member. I founded the company to provide a service and make a living from providing this service; however it has always been important to me to do business in a fair, honest and transparent way. When a company is starting up, it is easy to introduce certain ethics and policies. As the company and the team of people working to build it grow, everyone is ties up in making the business run and tend to lose sight of important issues which are not directly connected to the commercial aspects of the business. For Profiler becoming a member of the UNGC helps us keep sight of these issues in our daily business. It formalizes what we stand for, and gives us an opportunity to convey these ethics and policies to our employees. It pushes us as a company to set up a structure and guidelines assisting profiler and its employees to be compliant with the UNGC principles in our day to day business and handling. I am pleased to confirm that Profiler reaffirms its support of the UNGC and the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. Fathima Khan, Founder and Managing Director of Profiler www.it-profiler.com Human Rights & Labour • Principle 1: Business should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and • Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. • Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; • Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; • Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and • Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. We respect and support the International Human Rights, stated in the Universal Declaration of the Human Rights. It is in our very interest, that everybody related to the company behaves in a responsible and law-abiding manner with regard to this issue. The most important rule in Profiler is that every person in the company is expected to treat another with the same respect and integrity one expects for themselves, regardless of the position held within the company. Profiler is a multicultural, diverse and open company and does not tolerate any form of discrimination. Our employees come from various ethnic backgrounds – 14 nationalities, 12 languages, different cultures and religions. However everyone at Profiler is equal and gets the same opportunities. Promotions and pay raises are only a matter of performance and achievement. Furthermore the wages are in conformity with the market and according to labour laws. The workforce is very balanced; with a proportion of females working at Profiler of 41% represented at all levels. www.it-profiler.com Human Rights & Labour Being as diverse as we are, there are multiple challenges to tackle for doing good business while having everyone’s best interests in mind. With everyone coming from different family and personal backgrounds, we made sure that office times are flexible for our employees. Starting times vary from 8 am to 9:30 am, breaks, which the employees are free to take whenever they feel the need to, are set for 1 hour a day. Furthermore, we employ a number of students. Their working schedules are replanned and adjusted every semester according to their university schedule. They are also granted extra time off during exam periods. We want to support a “Work-Life-Balance” for all our employees and are always willing to listen to their suggestions. There are weekly Profiler meetings where we take the time to talk about everything important that has happened or is on people’s mind, to make sure that if there are any problems, differences or questions, they are sorted out quickly. If there are things that are not want to be said in public, there is always the option to talk to the Human Resources Manager or Profiler’s Founder & Managing Director herself. This way we ensure that all of the employees’ voices are heard and problems are solved quickly and when needed discretely. Furthermore, employees are being integrated in decision-making processes and constantly informed about changes and employee rights. In addition regular Teambuilding sessions are held to, on one hand, build the good atmosphere, team spirit and focus, but on the other hand to let go of stress and pressure. Moreover in 2014 we introduced a monthly newsletter to keep every employee updated on latest information, as well as raise awareness in the context of the United Nations Global Compact by presenting different subjects of the 10 Principles. Profiler has since December 2014 introduced a knowledge base of general information and rights which is online accessible to the employees. This knowledge base gets updated with information when a specific topic becomes relevant. www.it-profiler.com Environment • Principle 7: Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; • Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and • Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Our possibilities as a service provider to set environment-sparing processes seem rather limited; however we always try to improve our current processes and will keep doing so in the following years. Our goal is to steadily reduce the impact of our environmental footprint. Profiler main office is close to both Darmstadt Central Station and tram station. Therefore our associates and visitors can easily come by taking public transportation. Every employee is encouraged to turn off her/his electrical devices when leaving the office. We have set evening tours through the office, to make sure that all of the devices are turned off properly, heating is turned down and windows are closed. Furthermore we encourage our employees to only print if necessary. In case it should be, we try to always keep it double-paged. We also try to keep the communication with consultants and associates electronic, and moreover constantly try to communicate with partners and customers via email as well. This way we can minimize paper usage. Additionally we have established digital archiving, which saves huge amounts of paper. Our big office windows allow us to use natural light whenever it is possible, instead of switching on the light. Also we try to use air conditioning to a minimum. Moreover we make sure that most beverages in the office come in glass bottles instead of plastic ones. www.it-profiler.com Anti-Corruption • Principle 10: Business should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Profiler prohibits any form of corruption, extortion or bribery. We make sure all of our employees and consultants are aware of the illegality of such behaviour. Doubtful offerings are not being considered in any way. We are very careful in choosing not only our employees and consultants but also our clients and partners. All of the offers are being sifted by the management. Also, even though it is common practice in our business line, we avoid working with third parties on a commission basis. Our contracts are always negotiated and closed directly with end clients and consultants, so as to ensure that the working and commercial conditions are transparent to us at all times and are according to the expected standard. Profiler has never been involved in a lawsuit or similar regarding these matters. Every employee has to sign a strict Data Protection Statement, which binds them to follow the data security rules of Profiler. It is important for us to not only keep our clients’ data and information safe, but also information on our contractors, freelancers, employees and company. www.it-profiler.com Final Statement & Goals In order to keep track of the Profiler processes, conformity with the Global Compact and improvements , we plan to have a yearly review within the scope of the COP. We have set following goals for us for 2015: 1) Educating and creating awareness/active participation amongst employees regarding the UNGC and its principles and eventually encouraging them to adopt similar philosophy outside Profiler in their private time – We plan to achieve this by holding regular internal workshops (at least once every quarter) offering employees the opportunity to select a specific topic, which will then be analysed and discussed, so as to encourage new Ideas on improving our compliance with the UNGC. 2) Supporting other projects in antidiscrimination outside of Profiler 3) Supporting the education and schooling of students with immigration background 4) Set up an in-house training workshop informing employees about what could be interpreted as corruptive business handling and how to properly report or react in these situations. 5) Goals for an environment friendly handling in 2015 are switching all of the bottles to glass bottles, encouraging the cleaning company to using gentle detergents and also replacing regular tube lightning with LED lamps. Additionally it is planned to optimize our electricity consumption, therefore we are going to analyze and document the status quo, so that we can effectively implement changes where necessary. 6) For the coming year it is planned to introduce a company code of conduct/company policy including the 10 principles, with special regard to Human Rights & Labour. www.it-profiler.com
