20 14 The best choice for value in infrastructure INTEGRATED REPORT OF ACTIVITIES Los Patios Dow Chemical y Diésel Limpio Madero City, Tamaulipas 3 CONTENTS G4-5 DIRECTORY Headquarters Empresas ICA, S.A.B. de C.V. Blvd. Manuel Ávila Camacho 36, 15th Floor Col. Lomas de Chapultepec, C.P. 11000, Mexico City Phone: +52 55 5272-9991 Fax: +52 55 5227-5046 ICA Fluor 1.0 INTEGRATED REPORT OF ACTIVITIES 2014 4 Dakota 95 Col. Nápoles, C.P. 03810 Mexico City MESSAGE FROM THE CHAIRMAN OF 7 Phone: + 52 55 5061-7000 THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS ICA in Panama Torre de las Américas MESSAGE FROM THE CEO 8 Tower A 9th floor Office 902 Panama City, Panamá Phone: +507 216-9028 ICA in Colombia Torre Zimma 2.0 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 18 Carretera 15 No. 88-64 Oficina 703 Bogotá, Colombia Phone: +57 1744-1719 3.0 SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY 50 ICA in Peru Los Portales José Granda 167, San Isidro, Lima, Peru 4.0 CONSTRUCTION, PROMOTION, 68 Phone: +51 1353-8102 ext. 4281 STRUCTURING AND FINANCE San Martín Av. Pedro Miotta 103, San Juan de Miraflores Lima, Peru 5.0 ASSET PORTFOLIO 100 Phone: +51 1 450-1999 ICA in Costa Rica 6.0 RESEARCH AND CULTURAL ACTIVITIES 106 Oficentro La Virgen Edificio Torre Prisma 4th floor Pavas San José, Costa Rica 7.0 GRI G4 INDEX 110 Phone: +506 2296-4575 Rodio Kronsa in Spain Calle Velázquez 50 7th floor C.P.28001 Madrid, Spain Phone: +34 91 425-2890 Facchina Construction Group In the United States 102 Centennial St, Suite 201 La Plata, MD 20646 Phone: +240 776-7000 G4-31 Comments or questions about this report are welcome. E-mail: relacion.inversionistas@ica.mx sustentabilidad@ica.mx Design: 4 5 1.0 STRATEGY INTEGRATED REPORT ABOUT THIS REPORT 1 ion Risks and opportunities Ris ks and o 2 OF ACTIVITIES 2014 G4-3 This is the fifth report by Empresas ICA, S.A.B. de Val ue G4-18 C.V. In 2009 we embarked on a sustainability straGen era ies tegy following a materiality assessment by KPMG t INTEGRATED rtu nit International and our decision to become a Socially REPORT ppo G4-35 Responsible Enterprise (sre). Nine committees and a Future Resource sustainability policy were created to prepare the prospects distribution and optimization first sustainability report in 2011, and in the same Performance year we adopted the best practices of the Global Compact, and we were incorporated into the Mexican FINANCIAL INFORMATION Sustainable development NON-FINANCIAL Stock Exchange’s Sustainable IPC index. We estaINFORMATION 3 blished six different committees: Health and Safety; Environment; Social Environment Management; Management Quality and Systems; and Research, Development and Innovation. We also set up independent areas in charge of: Risks; Internal Audit; Legal Affairs; Human Resources; Collective BargaiPERIOD ning Agreements and Contracts; and Procurement, This report provides information on ICA’s economic, environmental and social G4-28 Subcontracting and Machinery. results from January 1, 2014 to December 31, 2014, unless otherwise stated. G4-29 For the financial information, we have included the data contained in our quarterly G4-30 G4-2 That structure is the basis for the report presented reports and the 2014 Annual Report (Form 20-F). Detailed information on our in this document. In 2013, we included a set of key company, its operating and financial performance, as well as annual reports sustainability issues to our strategic planning. for the years 2011, 2011, 2012 and 2013 are available online at www.ica.com.mx. With this, we aim to increase economic value steadily and sustainably, to be an industry benchmark for sustainability and to apply the best sustaiMETHODOLOGY nability practices in all our processes. In the same For the second year in a row, this report is based on the criteria and indicators G4-18 year we were added to the Dow Jones Sustainability provided by the Global Reporting Initiative (gri) G4 guidelines. We conducted a G4-22 Index and in 2014 we incorporated sustainability study of management practices, company performance and current context G4-23 aspects into our business model, which was the of sustainability in infrastructure development, as well as key issues for our basis for our first integrated activity report. With this stakeholders: shareholders, investors, financial markets, clients, users, emploIntegrated Report of Activities 2014, we increased yees, government and regulators, communities, unions, suppliers, chambers G4-24 • Infrastructure for development our capacity for integrated thought and value of industry, institutions and universities, partners, competitors and opinion • A vision of shared social value generation based on the following lines of action: leaders. • Project structuring and joint ventures strategy, corporate governance, risk and compliance; • Construction and operations management environmental management optimization; sustaiWe focus on the capitals and guidance provided by the International Integrated G4-18 • International expansion nability philosophy; vision of shared social value, Reporting Council (iirc) and the Envision methodology for evaluating sustainable • Sustainability strategy and a positive ICA experience. infrastructure developed by Harvard University and the Zofnass Program for • Procurement and strategic partners Sustainable Infrastructure. * For the purposes of this report we will refer to the company simply as ICA. Emisor Oriente Tunnel Mexico City | State of Mexico 6 7 G4-20 strategy We have also taken into account the feedback and evaluation of Bloomberg (esg), Robeco SAM Corporate Sustainability Assessment (the Dow Jones SusCorporate Governance tainability Index) and Empowering Responsible Investment (eiris) (Sustainable IPC Index). With all of this, we have prepared a report based on regular reporting yield and prospects on the company’s generation of value in the short, medium and long term based on clear lines of communication regarding strategy, corporate goverinvestments nance, yields and prospects, investments, social and environmental actions. G4-17 social and environmental This report covers all of ICA’s operations, including those of Mexican and foreign subsidiaries that we control or over which we exert a significant actions influence, unless otherwise indicated. Information for Grupo Aeroportuario del MESSAGE FROM THE CHAIRMAN G4-1 Centro Norte, S.A.B. de C.V. (OMA) is included in the financial figures and numOF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS ber of employees only, because OMA is a publicly-traded company and as G4-22 such prepares its own sustainability report. In 2014 no announcements were G4-23 made that had any impact on the stock structure. There were no significant changes in the coverage, scope or valuation methods included in this report To our stakeholders: compared to the 2013 report, unless otherwise stated. This past year, ICA commemorated 68 years with unmatched technical capacity In 2014, we forged a business plan aimed at and solid business foundations. In this integrated report, we bring together strengthening our constantly-evolving financial Verification our 2014 results of value generation for the company for the company over position while continuing to pursue our strategic G4-32 This report successfully completed the Materiality Disclosures Service. We opted time, our strategy, corporate governance, returns and prospects, our investsustainability goals. Our commitment is based on for the G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines provided by the Global Reporting ments, social and environmental programs. inclusive growth, which involves resource optimiInitiative (gri g4). The report has not been additionally reviewed by an indezation while supporting the development of infraspendent third party. In 2013 we began an internal opinion-gathering process We have consolidated this annual information with our eyes set on the future, tructure within a framework of the rule of law. through the company’s Audit Department, in which we identified aspects to aware that both the market and our own commitment to the development of take into account in the information reported, the traceability of the information, Mexico, society and the environment, have placed us on solid footing in a world Our results at the close of the year give us the certain the performance, impacts and risks, as well as remediation plans. of growing global competition. We reaffirm the traditional values that have conviction of our scope, our prospects and future defined our company since its founding in 1947: quality, integrity, efficiency, success. The backlog of the Civil and Industrial service, and innovation, for our clients and our stakeholders. In preparing this Construction divisions is at record levels, and the Value circle + Business Model HOW TO READ THIS REPORT fifth consecutive report, we placed special emphasis on our strategy of unifying evolution of the operating model that aligns our In order to link our business model with our Value circle, the different stages of processes and aligning strategies with the business model and the company’s business units will undoubtedly bring improvethe life cycle of ICA’s projects are refer to the 6 capitals of iirc integrated thinvalue circle. ments in our efficiency and efficacy with clients. C 01-05 -2% king. Thus, we represent both key elements in the activities developed and We are committed to making these effects sustaipublished here. In our continual pursuit of innovation, we have developed comprehensive nable, and increasing them over time, and we will processes and solutions by applying best practices. We created alternative continue to develop creative, visionary solutions Capitals Stage financing and contract schemes and innovative construction procedures. Our to fortify our ties to all our stakeholders, as we vision of client service is our distinguishing feature, supporting our long-standing rise to the future challenges of infrastructure reputation for preserving our clients’ interests and delivering the highest quality. around the world. We are presenting this Integrated Report of Activities 2014 to demonstrate the factors that sustain this organization’s capacity to create long-term value. We have instituted an ethical, responsible and effective corporate governance. We are an institutionally strong company that builds trust and experience every day, in many markets and fields of specialization. ING. BERNARDO QUINTANA * For more information about the relationship between ICA subsidiaries, operations and joint businesses, see CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS our 2014 annual report, Form 20-F (pp. 160-164) http://ri.ica.mx EMPRESAS ICA, S.A.B. DE C.V. 8 9 1.1 INFRASTRUCTURE FOR DEVELOPMENT G4-1 G4-2 Challenges, opportunities and strategic industries Through infrastructure we can glimpse the history of evolution. Infrastructure promotes social and economic development by building and upgrading public services while caring for the environment, helping people to reach their potential. Years go by, we have changed the way we relate to and understand infrastructure. Countries and their equipment are transformed by a combination of actions and wills of governments, companies and societies. G4-1 MESSAGE FROM THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER In 2014, we faced various global challenges relating to economic, geopolitical, buttress economic growth, investment and income, social and environmental situations. Infrastructure has far-reaching repercusreduce unemployment and improve the distribution sions and is closely linked to the United Nations’ Millennium Development of wealth, the government announced a National To our shareholders: Goals, the global sustainability trends of un Habitat, the Principles of the Global Infrastructure Plan for 2014-2018 (743 programs Compact and the G20 Global Infrastructure Initiative for financing new and projects with an investment of 7.7 trillion pesos), I am pleased to share with you our Integrated Report of Activities 2014. We are ICA has built solid foundations in recent years, projects in emerging markets. This last initiative, agreed upon at the end of which promotes ties between six strategic sectors grateful for your trust and support, which have been crucial for ICA’s solid and we are braced for the challenges we see ahead 2014, makes infrastructure a priority for the growth of developing countries of the economy: performance this year, the second best in contracts and profitability in the for 2015. With 68 years of history behind us, we (15 billion dollars in incentives for banks, pension funds and private investors). company's history, after 2012. Construction, Infrastructure and Airports all have been through many situations that have contributed to higher revenues and profits. We won major projects in Mexico only made us stronger. I am confident that our In this context, and as participants in the industry, ICA has identified 10 emerging STRATEGIC ECONOMIC SECTORS and overseas, increasing our backlog. ICA reported a 40 % increase in operating shared success year after year is the best option trends for 2020 in the area of infrastructure (based on KPMG International’s 2% 50% income and a 57 % rise in its equity in the earnings of Associates and Joint for our clients. With our technical capacity and the Foresight 2015), including project startup, financial scheme challenges, techVentures, primarily because of the volume of work at ICA Fluor. Through transactions on capital markets we improved our debt maturity profile, and we quality of our project execution, we are able to rise to the most complex infrastructure challenges nical capacities to resolve major challenges, the risks of new public policy and market volatility, and optimization of the environmental management and 24% 17% continued our international expansion with the acquisition of Facchina Consthrough strategic alliances and innovative, profishared social vision: 6% truction Group. table and sustainable proposals. 1% 2014 was also a year of daunting challenges. Early in the year, Mexico City's authorities, decided to partially shut down Line 12 of the Metro mass transit •Energy 50 % system, sparking a prolonged and public legal dispute. In the second half of G4-18 EMERGING TRENDS FOR 2020: •Urban development and housing 24 % the year, a steep drop in oil prices radically changed the market’s expectations •Communications and transportation 17 % 01 Government actions to develop and complete projects on economic growth. In Mexico and around the world, currency depreciation 02 Risk of public policies and regulatory frameworks •Water 6% affected results. Despite this, our operations exceeded our projections for the 03 Financial market reforms and fluctuations •Tourism 2% 04 Performance of banks, mutual funds and multilateral institutions year. Total consolidated revenues grew 24 %, and the Concessions segment 05 Major technical challenges in the development of large projects •Health 1% reported a 21 % increase. This is a big step forward in building our comprehensive 06 Balance between needs and opportunities for social benefit 07 Higher returns on operations and asset portfolios model of sustainable infrastructure at every phase of our project lifecycle: 08 Resource optimization and environmental compensation to promote investment (National Infrastructure Plan for 2014-2018) promotion and bidding, structuring and finance, construction, operation and 09 Global vision of infrastructure players 10 Urban mobility projects to support the orderly growth of cities growth, and management of our asset portfolio, which includes the monetization of long-term assets and capital recycling transactions. To incorporate these challenges into the regional framework with a focus on Toward the end of last year, the federal government For the second year in a row, we are the only Latin American construction firm Latin America, we relied on the guidelines of the Community of Latin American and also announced three Special Economic Zones (the included in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index, further proof of our leadership in Caribbean States (eclac) Mesoamerica Project for supporting regional infrasport region of Lázaro Cárdenas, Michoacán; the the industry. For this report, we used the criteria of the Global Reporting Initiative tructure initiatives through new projects and experiences, together with the Inter-Oceanic Industrial Corridor in the Isthmus of and the guidelines of the International Integrated Reporting Council to link our Pacific Alliance, to pursue combined economic and social development. Tehuantepec, and the Port of Chiapas) in order to business model with the company’s value circle. With this, we ensure longboost investment in infrastructure, support estaterm projects through sustainable equity investment for the company and for In 2014, Mexico undertook significant constitutional reforms in energy, blished industries and articulate a comprehensive Ing. Alonso Quintana all our stakeholders. CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER telecommunications, public finance, education, private finance, economic public policy. Empresas ICA, S.A.B. de C.V. competition, labor, politics and elections, and transparency. Meanwhile, to 10 11 G4-1 In the World Economic Forum (wef) Global Competitiveness Index for 2014THE CHALLENGES TO INFRASTRUCTURE G4-5 We are a limited liability corporation with variable equity, OUR MISSION Solving the most complex infrastructure G4-3 G4-2 2015, Mexico dropped 6 notches from the 2013-2014 listing, from 55th to IN MEXICO: G4-7 incorporated as Empresas ICA, S.A.B. de C.V. Our headquarters problems through innovative, profitable and sustainable 61st place, primarily because of its underperformance in labor market are located at Blvd. Manuel Ávila Camacho 36, Col. Lomas de proposals, thus creating value for our people, our shareefficiency, institutional quality, primary and higher education, corruption, and Long-term planning Chapultepec, Miguel Hidalgo, 11000, in Mexico City. holders and the communities where we are present. inefficiency in the goods market. At ICA, we understand value creation as a series of values, OUR VISION To be a global company that through Budgeting processes and opaque Good governance in public works is essential for development, enabling countries investor information policies and practices that improve our competitiveness, while its business model builds and operates a solid, profitable to build necessary high-quality infrastructure and distribute resources efficreating economic and social conditions that benefit the comand diversified portfolio of projects for the infrastructure ciently (World Bank). With this in mind, and based on the best practices of munities where we work. development and social well-being. the United Nations Global Compact and corporate commitment guidelines, we Cutting down on unnecessary regulation have identified our development priorities (inclusive growth, social equality, environmental protection) and long-term objectives (revenue growth, resource Greater transparency in productivity and risk management) to contribute effectively to sustainability. the project lifecycle QUALITY SERVICE (Post 2015 Architecture of Business Commitment). • We work on time and according to plan. • We strive to provide service that adds value. Increasing the involvement • We meet the needs of our clients and exceed their expectations. • We empathize with the needs and requests of of civil society With these great challenges ahead, and the lessons learned in the past, at ICA • We do our best to provide the ICA experience. our coworkers and clients. we work for sustained and sustainable growth of this company by investing • We strive to be in example of dedication and excellence. • We see challenges as opportunities in infrastructure for social and economic development wherever we operate. Limiting authorities' discretionary powers to provide solutions. We address the most complex challenges of infrastructure and create shared value. INTEGRITY • We respond promptly to the requests we Broadening the scope and capacity • We conduct ourselves professionally, in accordance with our receive, to ensure the desired impact. of physical and financial audits values and good practices. • We make decisions objectively. (México Evalúa. Centro de Análisis de Políticas Públicas). • We adhere to transparency standards in our processes. INNOVATION • We treat our coworkers, clients and the community with respect. • We adapt to change with cutting-edge solutions. • We anticipate demands in our business. EFFICIENCY • We propose creative solutions to problems. • We make the most of the resources we have at hand. • We take advantage of needs to propose • We work as a team and address the challenges we encounter safely. new goals. • We focus our efforts on meeting our goals. • We work to multiply talent at ICA. 1.2 Shared Value G4-18 In this context, the foundations of our integrated report and the GRI methodology allow us to focus FINANCIAL CAPITAL A set of funds and resources: Available for use in producing goods. Together we are building the foundations of tomorrow directly on the value creation process, improving INDUSTRIAL Obtained through financing (debt, equity or contributions). Physical objects created: the quality and clarity of the available information CAPITAL Buildings, equipment and infrastructure. G4-7 We are a Mexican company with Throughout our history we have joined forces with outstanding companies to G4-6 while ensuring accountability and an eye to the Intangibles based on the organization’s know-how: INTELLECTUAL more than 68 years of experience acquire technology, specific know-how or volumes of work. This extensive nebig picture when taking decisions and actions. CAPITAL Intellectual Property. in providing comprehensive solutions twork of relationships has helped us to reassert our central role in society. ToProductivity and innovation are two key factors in Organizational Capital. to complex infrastructure challenges. gether with our partners, we have created and consolidated strategic allianthis process. According to these principles, we have HUMAN Competencies, skills and experiences of our people and CAPITAL the motivation to innovate. ces as well as successful companies like OMA, ICA Fluor, Los Portales, San defined our own values circle based on 6 capitals: Institutions and relations within and between communities, ICA was founded in 1947 as Martín, Proactiva, Actica, Grupo Rodio Kronsa and Facchina Construction Group. SOCIAL AND stakeholders and other networks. RELATIONAL Ingenieros Civiles Asociados, CAPITAL Capacity to share information to improve individual and S.A. de C.V., to supply construction By 2014, we were present in 13 countries and 7 industries, with more than 90 G4-6 collective welfare. services in infrastructure projects ongoing projects and a workforce of 31,302 employees. Renewable and nonrenewable environmental resources and NATURAL processes used in our goods and services: for Mexican public works. CAPITAL Air, water, earth, minerals and forests. 12 13 G4-1 G4-2 At ICA, we are convinced that creating value for our people, shareholders and the communities where we work must be an integral part of our business model and the objectives of every one of our areas, the basis for all our strategic decisions. 1.3 OUR BUSINESS MODEL ICA has two main, complementary businesses: construction and operation of a portfolio of We are aware that recruiting, retaining and developing talent through ICA’s institutional philosophy and value is crucial for We manage comprehensive infrastructure projects long-term infrastructure and other investments. the pursuit of our business goals. Our business model responds to the interests of our stakeholders in its various phases: CONSTRUCTION Clients 01 PROMOTION: We identify and evaluate potential Employees projects together with our strategic allies, encouraging Suppliers expansion into new areas of business and to other counPUBLIC SECTOR Community GROWTH AND OPERATION tries; we design civil engineering and industrial works T BUILD T L D TRUS R U ST with innovative technologies; we develop sustainable proUI TB Clients S BU Strategic alliances posals that satisfy clients while creating safe workplaces. RU IL T D STRUCTURING Governments and D T L Better Better AND FINANCE regulators 02 STRUCTURING AND FINANCE: We have extensive strategy decisions RU ITY Opinion leaders PO experience in financing long-term projects and in interT R U ST B U I ST L Financial markets LD T ITIC national financial markets, which reduces costs and guaU ST B U I L D T R U ST e re ICA xperience Clients TIL Sha Strategic partners rantees the timely availability of resources for project RU S Information Business execution. CAPITALS: D TR CONTEXT connectivity model ST LA 03 CONSTRUCTION: We have proven experience in BU FINANCIAL BU RISK INCREASE INDUSTRIAL Wellbeing executing projects even in extreme conditions: with a VO BUIL ECONOMIC I and shared INTELLECTUAL permanent focus on innovation, we use techniques and VALUE ILD HUMAN social value materials that improve quality and reduce costs, taking INDUSTRY Stakeholder SUSTAINABLY Financial SOCIAL RELATIONAL BU ILD the measures necessary to reduce environmental and relations information NATURAL social impacts. ENVIRONMENT ST Valu e p r o p o sa l RU 04 GROWTH AND OPERATION: In operating infrasY UN IT CE tructure assets, we seek absolute client satisfaction EX DT RT PL Employee Non financial AIN through better processes, new technologies and a reduced COM IL TR BU commitment information TY use of energy and other inputs. U ST T US BU DT ILD 05 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT: Once a project has PORTFOLIO R ST B U I L D T R U ST B UIL TRU PROMOTION MANAGEMENT matured, it becomes more valuable, and by managing our portfolio – refinancing, divesting of all or part of these PRIVA TE ENTERPRISE Clients Shareholders holdings – we monetize the value created and release Strategic partners Financial markets Investors resources for new projects. Through our best sustainability practices, we offer attractive yields and • Process unification: improved 174 processes in excellent service to investors, clients and users: our internal information systems to guarantee reliable, traceable data to facilitate decision-making Public and private works and large-scale infrastructure (dams and hydroelectric power G4-4 • Business service center: we optimize resources, costs and expenses for by our employees. Incorporation of processes in centrals; highways, tunnels and bridges; drainage systems, aqueducts and wastewater treatment G4-8 optimum efficiency, generating direct and indirect savings for the company. the Finance and Administration, Project Management, CIVIL plants; stadiums, hospitals, airports; underground railway transport systems). Our specialized • Financial structure for international expansion: strategic alliances, acquisiResource Management, Infrastructure Operation, construction subsidiaries give us additional experience in geo-technology, subsoil engineering and the manufacture of prefabricated components. tions and joint ventures to diversify our markets, clients and activities and to Strategic Planning and Business Development CONSTRUCTION position ourselves strategically in the world. and Transversal Services areas into the Systems, Through ICA Fluor (a joint venture between ICA and Fluor Corporation), we are involved in engineering, procurement, construction, commissioning and startup (epc) of complex industrial • Financing schemes: project development with financing of more than Applications and Product (sap) platform. INDUSTRIAL facilities, including oil and gas plants, natural liquid petroleum gas plants, steel mills, mining 53,779 billion pesos through local and foreign debt issues, commercial banks, • Corporate governance, risk and compliance: facilities and other manufacturing plants. We have the largest group of design engineers in development banks, private and public equity funds, Retirement Funds Admistrengthening policy drafting and implementation Mexico, made up of more than a thousand specialists. nistrators and export agencies. capacity, delegation of authority, business architecICA develops and operates long-term concessions and service provision projects (pps)for • Asset management: management of the portfolio of ongoing projects, ture, risk management and internal control systems. highways, water, ports and public services. We administer more than 900 km of highways strategic partnerships to create permanent resource transfer mechanisms. • Sustainable performance: prioritizing actions to CONCESSIONS and, at the close of 2014, we had a portfolio of 17 concessions: 10 of them already operating INFRASTRUCTURE manage the social environmental climate; for the and the rest under construction. OPERATION AND In 2014, we were involved in 17 project concessions: 10 highways, third year in a row, we were included in the Mexican Through our publicly traded subsidiary OMA, we operate 13 airports. These include Monterrey, OTHER INVESTMENTS four water projects, two social infrastructure works and one port. Ten of Stock Exchange’s Sustainable IPC Index, and for Mexico’s industrial capital, and key cities in northern and central Mexico. We also operate a AIRPORTS these are currently in operation and another seven are being built. the second year in a row in the Dow Jones Sustaihotel at the Mexico City International Airport Terminal number 2, provide other commercial nability Index. services, and develop land within and outside of our airports. 14 15 1.4 STRATEGY We generate sustainable economic value Our full-year results were affected by a drop in our stock prices in 4T14 (3.47 pesos per share). Note that Comprehensive Financing 10% G4-2 As leaders of Mexican industry, we at ICA work to remain forefront technical and FINANCIAL Cost is a non-cash line. 14% sustainable solutions, positioning ourselves as a benchmark in construction Productivity Sustainable Global 29% 33% economic growth EBITDA and integrated infrastructure operation. Our business strategy responds to Interest expense rose 42 % over 2013 due to the advance amor38% value two financial mandates: productivity and growth. We try to continually improve tization of capitalized expenses from the placement of a prepaid REVENUES our financial results by expanding our presence in international markets, bond as well as the net effect of calculating the net present CLIENTS contributing integrated solutions through our strategic alliances and becoming One-stop shop value of the tax deconsolidation liability reported in 2013. 76% GOVERNMENT, a preferred partner for our partners. PRIVATE ENTERPRISE AND THE GENERAL PUBLIC Partner of choice ICA Experience The following chart shows the breakdown of revenues and ebitda Our strategy map centers around sustainably increasing the company’s in the three divisions. Construction accounted for 76 % of total PROCESSES 2013 2014 Var % economic value by optimizing our resources. To this end, we group our prorevenues, but its contribution to ebitda was only 33 %. In contrast, cesses into four strategic areas: Operating efficiency Expansion and Concessions made up 14 % of our revenues but 38 % of its ebitda • Construction 21,744 26,967 24 diversified growth 01. Operating efficiency; 02. Excellence in solutions; 03. Expansion and Excellence – more than the construction division. • Concessions 3,965 4,816 21 in solutions Sustainable focus growth; and 04. Operation with a sustainable focus. In all of this, we apply the • Airports 3,420 3,770 10 talent and human philosophy shared by all the members of our work teams, a Our real estate operations, which include affordable entry-level • Corporative and others 426 1,205 183 LEARNING AND GROWTH state-of-the-art technological platform, reliable information systems and Talent recruitment and development housing, as well as our corporate operations, are included in the Total revenues 29,556 36,757 24 values that are aligned throughout every level of the organization. Reliable information and technological Corporate and Others segment. All three segments saw growth *Figures in millions of pesos platform upgrade last year: construction reported a 24 % increase in revenues and Alignment of philosophy, 31 % in ebitda, driven by strong performance in work assigned in Revenues in the Concessions segment grew 21 % and ebitda 11 %, values and strategy Mexico and the incorporation of Facchina Construction Group fueled by a high volume of traffic and for the startup of different (fcg) starting in the second quarter of 2014. projects. The Airport segment continues to turn in solid results, the result of a substantial increase in passenger traffic. Revenues 1.5 were up 10 % and ebitda increased 28 % during the year. CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL RESULTS We optimize our revenues and profits G4-9 2014 6,138 2012 2013 2014 CIVIL AND INDUSTRIAL DEC2013 DEC2014 % Change 2013 4,735 EBITDA 2012 3,740 ebitda margin 9.81 % 16 % 16.7 % CONSTRUCTION Construction 30,658 36,957 16 Earnings per share (mxn) 1.58 0.7 (4.96) We expect more good results from the consBacklog 5,700 5,108 -10 2014 -2,086 truction division in 2015, based on the current Associates and Joint Ventures (ICA share) 5,433 21,230* 291 2013 1,422 Consolidated Net debt/ebitda 10.7x 7.0x 7.6x backlog, which is equivalent to 18 months of sales. 2012 1,529 net profit (loss) *Figures in millions of pesos ICA Backlog 41,791 61,883 48 *Figures in millions of pesos 2014 409 Equity in the earnings The table above shows the solid expansion of 2013 350 of associates our backlog, a growth of 48 % in the aggregate. EC1 2012 549 and joint ventures This comes from a 21% increase in the cons2014 2013 2012 2014 36,757 truction backlog, and a 297 % growth in contracts Direct Economic Value Generated 100 % 39,423 100 % 36,204 100 % 39,375 2013 29,556 Total revenues awarded to affiliates and joint ventures over 2012 38,122 the close of the previous year, 43,921 million a. Revenues 100 % 39,423 100 % 36,204 100 % 39,375 pesos. Our part of this backlog amounts to Economic Value Distributed 98 % 38,563 69 % 25,046 84 % 32,933 In 2014, ICA reported revenue growth of 24 %, ebitda growth of 30 % and backlog Our positive operating results were offset in part 21,230 million pesos. The backlog of ICA Fluor b. Operating expenses 64 % 25,223 43 % 15,537 63 % 24,770 growth of 48 % (including associates and joint ventures), all better than our by Comprehensive Financing Cost, resulting from totals 37,971 million pesos, equivalent to 86% c. Wages and benefits 18 % 7,137 15 % 5,303 11 % 4,452 original projections. Consolidated ebitda came to 6,138 billion pesos, with a margin the depreciation of the Mexican peso against the of the total for associates and joint ventures. d. Supplier payments 14 % 5,576 10 % 3,616 8 % 3,221 of 16.7 %. All three segments – construction, airports and concessions – reported US dollar, which affected our net result and leverage e. Payments to government 2% 607 2 % 571 1 % 476 revenue growth, of 24 %, 10 % and 21 %, respectively. The ebitda margin contilevels. The margin of net debt to ebitda deteriorated, f. Investment in communities 0% 20 0 % 19 0 % 15 nued to grow. and the price of our shares sank to a loss of 4.96 Retained Economic Value 2% 860 31 % 11,158 16 % 6,442 pesos per share (USD 1.35 per ads). * ebitda: Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization 16 17 El Boleo Mine Santa Rosalía, Baja California Sur 18 19 2.0 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE We are an institutional, orderly and transparent company One of ICA’s fundamental qualities is its solid Corporate Governance, which ensures that the company can face the challenges it encounters. Our Corporate Governance practices conform the highest standards of compliance. This ensures that we remain an institutionally strong, orderly and transparent company, grounded in integrity and the highest standards of ethics and value generation for all of our stakeholders, and at the same time, managed on a sustainable basis. With vision, experience and leadership, we answer to the most complex infrastructure challenges. We develop and understand projects as a long-term investment in society, our clients, shareholders and employees. The Board of Directors and its members are appointed by the Shareholders’ Meeting based on their experience and capacities. Once approved by the Shareholders' meeting, Independent Board Members sign a statement of independence. Any related transaction must be authorized by the Chief Executive Officer and the Corporate Practices Committee and/or the Board of Directors, depending G4-40 on its amount. These transactions are also reported annually to the Shareholders’ G4-41 Meeting. The company’s General Counsel is responsible for overseeing all matters relating to Corporate Governance and also acts as Secretary of the Board of Directors. INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTH, ETHICS AND TRANSPARENCY Today, our Board of Directors has 12 members, 7 of which were independent, conforming to the Securities Market Law. Independent members account for 54 % of the board including the Chairman. The Board of Directors has the G4-38 support of 3 special committees, which are described below, in carrying out its duties. • Institutional company • Human capital F Financial 01-05 • Safety and health • Management systems • Operating improvement Panama Canal expansion project PAC-4 Panama City, Panama 20 21 CHAIRMAN Bernardo Quintana Isaac BOARD OF DIRECTORS SENIOR MANAGEMENT SECRETARY G4-34 BOARD MEMBER Alonso Quintana Kawage Civil Engineer (AGE 74) P Rodrigo Antonio Quintana Kawage Attorney at Law This is the Governance Body responsible for establishing general Bernardo Quintana Isaac. Chairman of the Fernando Flores y Pérez. Chairman of the Corporate Practices G4-38 strategies for ICA and for the Board of Directors of ICA since 1978. Member of Committee, Chairman of the Finance, Planning and Sustainability G4-38 Civil Engineer (AGE 36) the Board of Directors of Cementos Mexicanos, Committee; member of the Audit Committee, founding partner companies it controls. P Grupo Financiero Banamex; Culver Educational of EFE Consultores, S.C.; member of the Board of Directors of (AGE 42) Foundation; The Mexican Business Council; Grupo Aeroportuario del Centro Norte, S.A.B. de C.V. (OMA) (1/2) ea rs as a board member The Company’s bylaws, in keeping the Mexican College of Civil Engineers; Fundación er 38 y with the Securities Market Law, Javier Barros Sierra; National College of Elsa Beatriz García Bojorges. Chairwoman of the Audit Committee, mb me stipulate that the Board of Directors Professional Technical Education, and others.* researcher and member of the Mexican Council for Financial rd boa s a be supported by one or more Information Standards (cinif); member of the Board of Directors sa Alonso Quintana Kawage. CEO of ICA since July 1, of Grupo Aeroportuario del Centro Norte, S.A.B. de C.V. (OMA) ye ar BOARD MEMBER committees made up of independent board members. 2012; Head of the Executive Committee, Member (1/2/3) Bernardo Sepúlveda Amor 8 of the Board of Directors of ICA and Board Member bo Attorney at Law of Grupo Aeroportuario del Centro Norte, S.A. de Salvador Alva Gómez. Member of the Corporate Practices ard me BOARD MEMBER I m (AGE 74) C.V. (OMA) Committee; member of the Finance, Planning and Sustainable be Diego Quintana Kawage r Development Committee; President of Sistema Tecnológico de Diego Quintana Kawage. Executive Vice Chairman, Monterrey since 2011; Board Member of Enova Endeavor and P Economist rs a 3y sa Member of the Board of Directors of ICA, Chairman Tecnológico de Monterrey. (1/2) s as ear (AGE 45) 9 yea BOARD MEMBER of the Board of Directors of Grupo Aeroportuario del Centro Norte, S.A.B. de C.V. (OMA)** Margarita Hugues Vélez. Member of the Corporate Practices r rd membe Carlos Guzmán Bofill SENIOR EXECUTIVE Committee and member of the Audit Committee; and until 2013, board memb a boa Chemical Engineer Eduardo Revilla Martínez. Partner in the law President for Legal and Administrative Affairs and Secretary of I er BOARD OF I (AGE 66) INDEPENDENT BOARD MEMBER firm Revilla y Álvarez Alcalá, S.C., member of the the Board of Directors of Grupo Modelo, S.A.B. de C.V. (1/2) International Fiscal Federation and independent BOARD MEMBER DIRECTORS P RELATED BOARD MEMBER member of the Steering Committee of the Mexican Ricardo Gutiérrez Muñoz. Member of the Finance, Planning and 3 years as a Eduardo Revilla Martínez a boa 2015 Federal Consumer Protection Agency. Sustainable Development Committee; Chairman of the Executive P Attorney at Law rd memb Committee of Mexichem, S.A.B. de C.V. (1/2) er (AGE 54) Board of Directors and José Luis Guerrero Álvarez. Board Member of COMMITTEE MEETING Dates ICA since 1990 and former Chairman from 2007 Carlos Guzmán Bofill. Member of the Corporate Practices e BOARD MEMBER to 2012, independent member of the Board of Committee; member of the Finance, Planning and Sustainable 26 y ear Ricardo Gutiérrez Muñoz % ATTENDANCE Directors of Mexican Stock Exchange, S.A.B. de Development Committee; from 2000 to 2012, CEO of HP Mexico; s as ars as a 3y Public Accountant (AGE 73) I BOARD OF DIRECTORS January 20 March 19 100 % 85 % C.V. and Chairman of the Supervisory Committee; Board Member of Enova Endeavor.*** and until 2012 CEO of Pro Mexico (1/2) BOARD MEMBER be r bo Bernardo Supúlveda Amor. Member of the International Court m ar May 5 100 % of Justice since 2006 and Vice President since 2012; and José Luis Guerrero Álvarez me dm August 4 100 % ard em previously Secretary of foreign affairs and ambassador of bo be November 3 100 % Mechanical Engineer r Mexico to the United States and to the United Kingdom; member See Annual Report Form 20-F for full information on P 8 ye a (AGE 72) ar sa s s a CORPORATE PRACTICES COMMITTEE relevant positions on the Board of Directors. of the Corporate Practices Committee. (1/2)**** ar sa bo 6 ye BOARD MEMBER January 13 100 % ard er Margarita Hugues Vélez February 19 100 % (1) Independent board members according to the definition contained in Rule 10A-3 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 me mb March 13 100 % mb me I er ard Attorney at Law and its modifications BOARD MEMBER 7 yea as a bo August 4 100 % (2) Independent board members according to definitions of the Mexican Securities Market Law rs as a board member 6 years (AGE 50) November 3 100 % Fernando Flores y Pérez December 4 100 % (3) Financial expert of the Audit Committee, as defined in Section 407 of the Sarbanes-Oxley act of 2002 BOARD MEMBER I Attorney at Law (AGE 69) Salvador Alva López FINANCE, PLANNING AND SUSTAINABILITY COMMITTEE *Board member whose term expires on April 30th, 2018. Bernardo Quintana Isaac, who is Chairman of the Board, is not an executive officer of the company. Chemical Engineer ** Board member whose term expires on April 30th, 2017 G4-39 January 13 100 % BOARD MEMBER I (AGE 65) March 19 100 % *** Board member whose term expires on April 30th, 2016 Elsa Beatriz July 21 100 % **** Board member to April 23th, 2015. Previously, he served as board member for seven years from 1998 to 2014. García Bojorges October 6 100 % Accountant (AGE 49) I Structure of the board on April 27, 2015. AUDIT COMMITTEE February 24 100 % March 13 100 % April 22 80 % July 21 100 % October 20 100 % G4-34 CHAIRMAN: December 16 100 % Vice President, Vice President, Fernando Flores y Pérez Concessions Civil Construction CHAIRMAN: Carlos Méndez Bueno Luis Horcasitas Manjarrez Elsa Beatriz García Bojorges MEMBERS: Margarita Hugues Vélez CORPORATE MEMBERS: Salvador Alva Gómez PRACTICES AUDIT Margarita Hugues Vélez Bernardo Sepúlveda Amor COMMITTEE COMMITTEE Fernando Flores y Pérez Vice President, EXECUTIVE This committee is in charge, among other matters, Airports and COMMITTEE General Counsel Strategic Alliances Alonso Quintana Kawage Rodrigo Quintana Kawage of nominations and compensation for members This Committee is responsible for of the Board of Directors, proposing policies, issuing EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE Diego Quintana Kawage Chief Executive Officer opinions on transactions with related parties and FINANCE, the duties established in section II, article 42 and other provisions of the The duties of this Committee are supervising the ethical principles on PLANNING AND Securities Market Law; among them, to oversee and supervise the conduct and which the Company operates. SUSTAINABILITY reviewing and evaluating execution of the Company's businesses Strategic Planning, Vice President, COMMITTEE the independent auditor and reporting to the Board of Directors on internal and those of the companies it controls, in keeping with the policies and guidelines Business Finance audits of the company, and the quality included in the Company's general Development and Víctor Bravo Martín or deficiency of its internal business plan approved by International control measures. the Board of Directors. Rubén López Barrera CHAIRMAN: MEMBERS: Among the functions of this committee are proposing general guidelines for creating and G4-45 Fernando Flores y Pérez Salvador Alva Gómez supervising execution of our strategic plan, issuing an opinion on investment and financing Ricardo Gutiérrez Muñoz Carlos Guzmán Bofill policies, issuing opinions on the basic assumptions of our annual budget and overseeing its application and our control system. It is also in charge of evaluating the risk factors that affect Our sustainable management is grounded in the principles of ethics and integrity. us and our mechanisms for controlling them. 22 23 BOARD’S MANAGEMENT OF RISKS G4-46 At ICA, we encourage an awareness and management of risks starting with the promotion and structuring of our projects. All significant risks identified by the organization are reported to the Board of Directors, through the Finance, G4-47 Planning and Sustainability Committee. This Committee assesses the main risks faced by the organization on a quarterly basis and reviews the strategy for mitigating them, actions that are followed up on by the members of that Committee. These reviews and proposals are submitted for the consideration of the Board of Directors for its definitive approval. G4-45 Having introduced a framework for Governance, ECONOMIC, SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL TRAINING AND AWARENESS OF THE BOARD UPDATING OUR STRATEGY Risk and Compliance (grc) in the company’s straPERFORMANCE OF DIRECTORS AND SENIOR MANAGEMENT AND CONTROL FRAMEWORK tegies and operations in Mexico and Latin America, In our organization, there are various positions that are directly responsible G4-35 G4-43 Throughout the year, and at various levels of the organization, including the In 2014, we continued to work on updating and G4-42 the Board of Directors is kept abreast of the manafor social, environmental and economic aspects and for ensuring our company's Board of Directors, programs and initiatives are introduced in order to report following up on the directives established by the gement and results of the identified risks. This compliance with its obligations in this respect. The people who hold these on the company’s progress and the challenges it has faced in the area of sustaimanagement team in 2013, through comprehensive process takes place through the following practices: positions are ranked highly enough in the organization so that they have the nability, and to develop the skills and knowledge required in social, environmental, reflection in all areas of the company. The result authority and mechanisms at hand for making decisions, reporting directly or economic and occupational safety areas. Some of these initiatives are: was an update of our mission and vision, and the • Formal risk reviews and response actions by indirectly to the company’s highest governance body. ICA strategy map, the main goal of which is profithe Board of Directors and its supporting Sustainability Committee table and sustained short, medium and long-term committees Corporate Sustainability Director. Reports directly to the highest governance G4-36 This committee meets regularly, led by the sustainability department, and is growth of the company. In order to provide a value • Creation of the Risk Department, in charge of body, through the Chief Executive Officer, on the organizations non financial made up of various corporate directors and business unit heads. The meetings response linked to our business model, we strive coordinating improvement actions under results, best practices, risks and industry trends. are used as a forum for reviewing strategies, programs and activities in this for outstanding performance in critical processes; the grc framework. area, as well as the results of their implementation. ensuring operating efficiency; developing solutions • Adoption of international standards like Project Directors and Managers. Responsible for the results of each of their with excellence; applying processes that lead to oceg-grc Capability Model; ISO 31000:2009; projects, and for ensuring they are in compliance with social, environmental Annual Meeting the expansion and growth of the business; and coso – Enterprise Risk Management and safety provisions. An event held for shareholders, executives and employees of ICA, which come ensuring the sustainability of all our processes. Integrated Framework. together once a year to discuss the company’s results, the status of its projects • Updating the Risk Breakdown Structure (rbs), Managers of Quality Assurance, Safety and the Environment In the Buand key issues for the organization, including those relating to social, environwhich specifies the requirements, concerns siness Units. Responsible for taking strategic actions related to sustainability, mental and economic areas. EVALUATION OF THE BOARD and experiences of ICA’s various stakeholders, and for creating concrete initiatives in the areas of safety, environment and OF DIRECTORS to apply them in the corresponding quality in the various projects of our Business Units. Update Week In 2014 we identified the need to improve the G4-44 risk evaluations. A program that provides ongoing information on a variety issues for employees Board of Directors’ self-evaluation process, so in • Continuous learning from the record of For compiling non-financial information, the Sustainability Department relies G4-48 of ICA’s various organizational levels. Topics like sustainability, social, environ2015 members will work on updating it. Based on materialized risks and lessons learned. on the support of the company’s functional areas and the committees created mental and safety management feature prominently on the agenda of courses this evaluation and in accordance with our internal • Systematic evaluation of risks to construction to follow-up on the organization’s environmental and social performance. For key and workshops. Members of the highest governance body are invited to partiregulations, the compensation of company officers and infrastructure projects financial information it relies on the Investor Relations Department. This inforcipate and update their knowledge of these topics. depends on their performance. Compensation for mation is combined to draft the Integrated Report of Activities. This report is members of the Board of Directors is approved by reviewed by the functional areas and committees, which sign off on the inforReview of Business Unit results the Shareholders' Meeting in accordance with the mation, and once the feedback process is completed, they share it with the Quarterly meetings in which the heads of the various Business Units present proposals analyzed by the Corporate Practices Legal Affairs Department, which is responsible for approving the content of the results to members of the Executive Committee. Social, environmental, Committee and the Board of Directors. the report. The results are reviewed quarterly by the Boarded Directors. economic and safety lessons, along with the results, are a permanent topic on the agenda for these meetings. 24 25 G4-51 The compensation policy applicable to ICA’s highest governance body and executive directors is deter2.1 AN INSTITUTIONAL COMPANY The training includes a review of these codes’ content and discussion of alternatives for emploTraditionally, given the nature of our activities, we engage in close and intense HR8 mined annually by the organization, based on the We ensure a positive ICA experience yees and officers who might be faced with certain dialogue with communities neighboring our operations. Various activities opinion of the Corporate Practices Committee and situations, and stresses our “open doors” policy, carried out to benefit the communities (which can be looked up in the shared approval of the Board of Directors. There is also a As a publicly traded company listed on the Mexican Stock which is another way that employees can resolve Social Value section) enable us to anticipate any type of action that might performance-based bonus plan for senior manaExchange (BMV) and the New York Stuck Exchange (NYSE), their questions and concerns about ethical behavior violate the rights of those communities and, as active members of the Global gement, which is linked to the company’s results. Empresas ICA, S.A.B. de C.V. is bound by the highest and fair operating practices, to prevent and mitiCompact, we adhere to best practices in this regard. Accordingly, we received Our policy on calculating performance bonuses is standards of corporate governance, ethics and transparency. gate any type of inappropriate or illegal conduct. no complaints of any incidents regarding violations of the human rights of based on Return on Equity (roe), as follows: Our Code of Ethics and Business Conduct is aligned with the Employees are urged to contact their immediate indigenous groups in 2014. OECD Corporate Governance Principles, the guidelines of the superior initially, without fear of reprisals. If that • In years in which total revenues amount to 4 % Sarbanes-Oxley Act (SOX) and the Mexican Stock Exchange; superior is believed to be involved in the matter, or less than net assets, no bonus will be paid. it is also consistent with the Code of Business Integrity and then they are encouraged to escalate it by any of REPORTS OF ALLEGED CORRUPTION SO5 • In years when total revenues are more than 4 % of Ethics of the Business Coordinating Council (CCE). the above-mentioned channels. No complaints were received regarding any incidents of alleged corruption at net assets, a bonus of up to 20 % of the amount of all in 2014. The trend in these complaints has been moving sharply downward of revenues over 4 % of the net assets may be paid. Our Code of Ethics applies to all the personnel of Empresas ICA and its subsiG4-56 To provide information on the various mechanisms since 2012, as the following table shows. diaries, is shared with our partners and clients, and is available to all our for advice and reporting, both internally and exter2012 2013 2014 G4-52 In order to ensure that the compensation package, stakeholders on our website. Since 2013, in keeping with best international nally, the company uses a number of informative Cases of corruption 46 17 pension plan and benefits are competitive according practices, we promote strict compliance throughout our value chainwith our means. Within its facilities, and with ICA personEC4 to policies applied across the organization, every Code of Ethics and Rules of Conduct for Suppliers, Subcontractors and Business nel, it uses posters and information mailings; for In 2014, the company received no economic assistance from the Government. year ICA conducts market studies on compensation Partners, at the time the contract is signed and through our website. All emploour partners, clients and other stakeholders it has with leading consulting firms. Those studies, which yees and members of the Board of Directors must read and sign the Code of created an online link with the number of the are conducted independently and confidentially Ethics and Business Conduct. Both codes can be viewed and downloaded at: hotline on our website: https://www.ica.com.mx/ FINANCIAL AND IN-KIND CONTRIBUTIONS G4-26 by those firms, cover more than 300 companies https://www.ica.com.mx/en_US/ethic-codes. es_ES/report-line. TO POLITICAL PARTIES SO6 from all areas of business. Both shareholders and Mexico's Electoral Law prohibits this type of practice, and no contributions of employees of the company have various mechaThe General Counsel is in charge of overseeing compliance with both these G4-58 The effectiveness of our channels for promoting cash or goods were made to political parties in any of the countries where we nisms for communicating their opinions, questions codes, and depending on the type of matter in question, is supported by the ethical conduct enables us to follow up promptly are present. or concerns to the Board of Directors: Internal Audit and Human Capital areas and various external firms in following on any departures from the code. Furthermore, in up and resolving matters relating to it. Employees and board members must order to promote good ethical practices throughout • Shareholders: (I) Shareholders’ Meeting; be familiar with and sign the Code of Ethics and Business Conduct, and they the value chain we had taken a number of actions LEGAL ACTIONS FOR ANTI-COMPETITIVE PRACTICES SO7 (II) Investor Relations office; (III) conferences; also have the right to report any departure from that code. The office of the HR1 to spread this ethical culture to employees, partners In 2014 there were no reports of violation of the rules of free and open compe(IV) meetings with financial analysts, General Counsel has set up an email address (abogadogral@ica.mx) to receiand suppliers. All contracts signed between ICA tition. Our commercial practices are governed by the highest ethical standards shareholders, investors, banks, rating ve any complaint or report of violations by employees, officers or any stakeand its suppliers and subcontractors include an and as a result, we participate openly and transparently in all public tenders agencies and other participants in holder with which the company has a relationship. anti-corruption clause, which refers to compliance and calls for bids on projects. the financial markets. with the Code of Ethics for suppliers and subcon• Employees: (I) informative actions by the Another mechanism we have adopted to handle violations of our Codes of tractors. It also stipulates the human rights guidebusiness unit and/or area; (II) whistleblowers’ Ethics is our whistleblowers’ hotline. It is open 24 hours a day, 365 days a lines with which they must comply. SIGNIFICANT SANCTIONS AND FINES SO8 hotline; (III) direct access to the office of the year, and has been implemented not only in Mexico but in South American HR3 Given the above, in 2014 ICA was not subject to any significant time for violaGeneral Council through email; (IV) escalation countries where ICA is present and, recently, in the United States. The line is In 2014, we received three complaints classified tion of these laws. of concerns through hierarchical superiors. staffed by an independent party in order to maintain confidentiality and anonas “discrimination” by the company managing the ymity for anyone who reports an improper act by some officer or employee of Hotline. Two of the three complaints were not adthe company, and to guarantee that the report is given the proper attention. mitted, and the remaining complaint was handled directly by the Vice President of the Business Unit To inform employees and officers of the company regarding their rights and G4-57 in question, with the pertinent corrective actions obligations with regard to the Code of Ethics and Business Conduct, and to taken. This is the first year we have recorded any learn about channels of communication in the event they detect any departure incidents of this kind. from that code, every year a training is held on the electronic platform AcadémICA. This training is mandatory, and is also offered as part of the orientation program every employee undergoes when they are hired. Hotline: 001-877-495-3315. 26 27 2.2 HUMAN CAPITAL Consistent with his vision, we focus our efforts on achieving strategic objectives linked with human capital: Our human capital strategy is based on three pillars: 01. To live ICA's culture and values: attitudes and behaviors that establish a system of limits to ensure consistency between what we think, say and do. We work to be the best employer through an institutional philosophy of efficiency, performance Our administration and support for our Human 1. OPPORTUNITIES and opportunity. We have designed a differentiated value proposal for employees, identifying elements that distinguish us as a Capital reflects best practices, programs and We encourage the development of the professional and institutional careers, LA10 company, based on our experience, integrity, development opportunities and competitive compensation. initiatives favoring effective talent management and support the talent of our personnel by designing career maps and defiby paying attention to employee planning and ning competency models. We have succession plans appropriate to the entire training. Our goal is to recruit, develop and retain organizational framework, with work goals aligned with the business strategy, the talent the company requires. Our activity in the so that we can offer our employees a comprehensive process of planning and Workforce G4-LA12 AGE 2007 22,423 infrastructure and construction industry in 2014 professional growth. G4-9 RANGE LEVEL MEN % WOMEN % TOTAL 2008 25,701 enabled us to maintain a workforce consistent with 2009 30,259 the company's operating needs. We are convinced 2. PERFORMANCE TOTAL 2,758 65 % 1,516 35 % 4,274 2010 35,385 that ICA's success depends on the abilities, skills Within this company, leaders play a key role in pursuing and achieving the Employees 2,753 99.80 % 1,507 99 % 4,260 2011 40,003 BELOW 2012 34,363 and knowledge required of our people, because objectives of our work teams, because they can influence the commitment of Managers 5 0.20 % 9 1% 14 30 2013 31,982 only with talented personnel aligned with our busithe people reporting to them. For this reason, our human capital strategy Senior management 0 0% 0 0% 0 2014 31,302 ness strategy can we meet the goals we have set includes the development of technical and management competencies to Board 0 0% 0 0% 0 *Figures are approximate. for ourselves as an organization. build a high-performance organization with a high level of attraction, retention, TOTAL 5,096 73 % 1,889 27 % 6,985 commitment and productivity, which ultimately makes us a more profitable Employees 4,761 93.40 % 1,832 97.00 % 6,593 G4-35 Through the Executive Committee of our Board of company. WORKFORCE G4-36 Directors, the highest governance body of ICA, have 30-50 Managers 274 5.40 % 53 2.80 % 327 3. EFFICIENCY 31,302 strengthened mechanisms aimed at bolstering Senior management 58 1.10 % 2 0.10 % 60 our compliance with our economic, environmental, We promote and support implementation of processes to standardize, autoBoard 3 0.10 % 2 0.10 % 5 technical and social and safety commitments. We redefined a mate and make our way of working more flexible, while generating savings for TOTAL 1,486 89 % 189 11 % 1,675 administrative employees series of positions, roles and responsibilities in the company and remaining a cutting-edge organization. Employees 1,289 86.70 % 176 93.10 % 1,465 in Mexico and abroad order to ensure that we conduct ourselves as is OVER 50 Managers 158 10.60 % 12 6.30 % 170 expected of us. We also strengthened commitLearning and Personnel Senior management 32 2.20 % 1 0.50 % 33 tees that deal with priority issues for the company Development Planning Board 7 0.50 % 0 0.50 % 7 (Corporate Practices Committee, Audit, Finance, Planning and Sustainability) so that we can review GRAND TOTAL 9,340 72 % 3,594 28 % 12,934 and follow up on the various strategic aspects relating to these issues and recommend the actions necessary to continue pursuing ICA's economic, G4-10 Temporary: 8,966 TEMPORARY PERMANENT environmental, social and safety philosophy. Rewards HUMAN Recruitment and Hiring Permanent: 3,968 MEN % WOMEN % MEN % WOMEN % RESOURCES 2014 6,481 50 % 2,485 19 % 2,859 22 % 1,109 9% 2013 3,334 25 % 1,270 10 % 6,370 49 % 2,122 16 % Career Talent Management Planning Unionized employees: 2013* 2014 2013* 2014 G4-11 Performance Tech-Admin. Union Tech-Admin. Union Tech-Admin. Union Tech-Admin. Union Management BELOW 30 4,104 0 4,274 6,573 OVER 50 1,696 0 1,675 2,407 H Human 01-05 Men 2,645 2,758 6,199 Men 1,528 1,486 2,334 In 2014 we focused on recruiting and retaining the best talent, offering good Women 1,459 1,516 374 Women 168 189 73 opportunities for growth, developing technical, professional and personal capacities, and promoting a favorable working environment. We formalized BETWEEN 30 AND 50 7,295 0 6,985 9,371 the vision of the Human Capital area: to be a strategic ally in creating business Men 5,434 5,096 8,792 Total 13,095 19,920 12,934 18,351 value, which develops organizational capacities and an institutional culture. Women 1,861 1,889 579 33,015 31,285 28 29 HUMAN CAPITAL HUMAN CAPITAL “Pulso UNOxUNO” ICA, the best option for working for Mexico LA2 02. Attracting developing and retaining talent: for ICA identifying, MONITORING SURVEY attracting, recruiting, hiring, developing and retaining key talent is funG4-26 Following up on our 2013 “UNOxUNO” survey, in NEW HIRES damental. All employees hired by ICA nationwide, regardless of whether August of 2014 we applied the PULSO UNOxUNO they are full-time, part-time or temporary, enjoy employee benefits such Annual rate of new hires survey at 12 projects of the different business LA1 as year-end bonus, vacation bonus, Social Security and life insurance. units and 3 functional areas of the company, giving 2014 2013 us a first intermediate sampling of results between AGE RANGE MEN WOMEN MEN WOMEN G4-27 We have taken initiatives and actions in three areas: the 2013 and 2015 surveys. With this we were BELOW 30 16 % 9% 10 % 5% The SERCH! shared service center: Our Service Delivery Model continued able to identify and validate progress both in com30-50 8% 4% 14 % 4% to standardize processes and automate functions, with the firm support municating the results of the previous year's survey ABOVE 50 1% 0% 4% 0% of the Center for Shared Human Capital Services, which completed two ended implementing plans of actions resulting years of operation on the premise of stable, efficient and low-cost Total 25 % 13 % 27 % 10 % from it. All in all, 637 employees reported a commitprocesses (a 35% reduction from the previous operation), handling a total ment level of 87%. of 27,698 calls and 12,976 requests relating to various human capital Average annual employee turnover programs and processes in 2014. G4-27 The survey covered aspects such as responsibility 2014 2013 and performance, competitiveness and client focus, empowerment and decision-making, commitment, AGE RANGE MEN WOMEN MEN WOMEN 2014 BELOW 30 16 % 8% 7% 4% ISSUE TICKETS PERCENTAGE public relations and integrity, leadership; organizational change; wages and benefits; quality and 30-50 11 % 5% 9% 4% Personnel administration 10,042 77 % COMPREHENSIVE HUMAN CAPITAL efficiency; retention; safety; supervision; training ABOVE 50 3% 0% 2% 0% Training 791 6% MANAGEMENT SYSTEM and career development. Total 29 % 14 % 18 % 8% Attraction, recruitment and hiring 746 6% Last year for the first time, we combined the comLA11 WIPI 455 4% prehensive human capital management system (ICA Personnel Information Network, or WIPI) and MED Public tenders 306 2% performance review process with the process for Campaigns* 268 2% Personnel evaluated 2014 LA11 calculating annual bonuses, and carried out an Business Human Capital Managers 228 2% online execution of the annual salary review for LEVEL WOMEN MEN TOTAL Reports and metrics 63 0.49 % approximately 5000 technical-administrative emSenior management 4 64 68 IT 37 0.29 % ployees of the company. Also, as part of our brand Managers 32 208 240 LA 11 Percentage of people reviewed HRIS 25 0.19 % strategy, we updated the corporate image in our Employees 514 1,625 2,139 2013-37 % Corporate communications 9 0.07 % systems and introduced new learning and online GRAND TOTAL 550 1,897 2,447 course modules. Compensation and benefits 6 0.05 % Women 21 % Men 79 % Breakdown of percentage by level and gender GRAND TOTAL 12,976 100 % For 2015, the system will offer metrics and analytics, *The campaigns line includes the MVD Performance program, the Uno x Uno Survey, the ICA Pride LEVEL WOMEN MEN TOTAL Award and the Athletic Tournament, among others. including real-time information on various business Senior management 6% 94 % 100 % indicators relating to human capital processes Managers 13 % 87 % 100 % (workforce by business unit, personnel movements 2014-52 % LA1 Through human capital processes, we filled 368 vacancies following the and indicators on recruitment, performance Employees 24 % 76 % 100 % full procedure, meaning assembling a slate of quality candidates for the management and training). Women 41 % GRAND TOTAL 22 % 78 % 100 % internal client and 611 vacancies in which psychometric testing and Men 56 % validation interviews were conducted of candidates proposed by the business. We also conducted more than 1,000 transfers, 1,500 hires Percentage of evaluated personnel versus total workforce and 2,200 dismissals; programmed 100 % of the training actions contained LEVEL WOMEN MEN TOTAL in the Job Training Plans (gtps), and managed 221 sessions corresponding Senior management 100 % 97 % 97 % LA2 to 37 training actions. In 2014, we took over internal operation of the new Savings Fund for ICA employees and supported the Public Tender area by Managers 97 % 97 % 97 % integrating more than 260 resumes and professional certificates for the Employees 40 % 52 % 48 % various public tenders in which ICA participated in 2014. GRAND TOTAL 41 % 56 % 52 % 30 31 HUMAN CAPITAL LA10 Finally, we improved efficiency by developing metrics that are generated In carrying out these tasks, we joined forces with G4-52 EC5 In keeping with our compensation policies, the average starting salary at every month and delivered to various stakeholders in order to increase the independent consulting firms that specialize in ICA in all the sites where we have projects is higher than the current visibility of matters like talent management, understanding our investment in compensation, like Mercer, Towers Watson and AON, minimum wage. Starting salary is the same for all employees regardless people, monitoring and the impact of Human Capital initiatives. endured with evaluating our salary competitiveof gender, and for all employees nationwide, whether full-time, part-time ness, define the annual salary strategy and ensure or temporary. LA12 03. Performance and opportunities: compensation and benefits: in-line with that organizational positions were consistent twith the ICA compensation strategy, we used the med evaluation for the first time for these consultants' methodologies. assigning salary raises in 2014, so we could give higher raises to top-performing LA3 Percentage of employees returning to work employees. We continued monitoring market practices in order to ensure that after maternity or paternity leave our salaries were competitive for attracting and retaining the talent ICA needs, *The highest salary is equivalent to G4-54 227 maternity/paternity leaves supported by benefit programs that ensure the welfare of our employees. 19 times the average 214 returned to work Starting salaries are the same for all employees regardless of gender and all for all employees. 193 kept their jobs for at least 12 months locations where we operate, the average starting salary is well above the minimum wage. 2013 Percent returning to work: 94 % Increased 4.5% in the year Women: 93 % 2014 G4-55 Men: 100 % Increased 4% COMPENSATION BENEFITS Retention index: 90 % ONLINE COURSES Women: 87 % Base salary and guaranteed compensation Health and welfare Annual incentives Savings, retirement Salaries for women versus men In 2014, we expanded our training with a sustaiLA10 Long-term incentives (stocks) Life insurance (%) by category Men: 100 % nable focus, raising awareness about issues like Free time and vacations CATEGORY WOMEN MEN sustainability, workplace safety, health on the job, Senior management 87 % 100 % human rights and environmental management. In the third quarter of the year, in cooperation with the Managers 94 % 100 % FORMAL TOTAL COMPENSATION STRATEGY LA11 04. Talent and leadership: through the Talent and Development Managers' Engineering area, we forged an alliance with the Middle management 83 % 100 % Office, we established performance objectives based on value trees Technological Training Institute to review and validate Support 69 % 100 % TRAINING WORKPLACE constructed on the basis of business metrics. We used these metrics as the 30 multimedia engineering capsules. Through AND DEVELOPMENT ENVIRONMENT the basis for year-end performance reviews for more than 2,300 emploour online training platform (AcadémICA) we suPerformance management Leadership Career plans Culture Main locations by level yees, who had the opportunity to receive feedback about their individual pported the training and professional growth of Competencies Line of sight performance from their immediate superiors. our employees. The system covers the entire Learning and entertainment Engagement MEXICO CITY WOMEN MEN LA13 Talent planning and succession plans Work/personal Life Balance company (all business units) and currently offers Diversity Senior management 87 % 100 % In the first quarter of 2014, we established goals and metrics for evaluating more than 45 online courses, including internal Managers 95 % 100 % performance as a measure of employees’ contribution and commitment developments, joint ventures and earning licenses. Middle management 85 % 100 % to the business strategy. In July and August, we held a series of Talent This resulted in cost savings on in person programs, Support 71 % 100 % talks designed to establish levels of competency or mastery, follow up travel, per diem and other expenses, improved the on development needs for 2015, establish our employees' potential and courses’ accessibility and flexibility so that users We develop outreach and development programs, one of the most important OAXACA WOMEN MEN identify successors as a fundamental pillar for attaining ICA’s objectives. could obtain training without neglecting their daily of which is the Talent Wanted program, for advertising internal vacancies Managers 89 % 100 % duties and organize their time without having to and encouraging a healthy mobility and advancement of the company's current Middle management 90 % 100 % In 2014 we were once again active in recruitment forums and fairs, and travel to take classes. It also contributed to the employees. We also have a new savings plan for workers called Mi Ahorro Seguro Support 64 % 100 % in various talent programs where we invited young people and promoted appropriate management of knowledge through (My Secure Savings), launched in August 2014. The response has been very job opportunities in social networks like LinkedIn and our website. courses developed by ICA experts, which have favorable, and after only 5 months of operations more than 1,000 employees MEXICO STATE WOMEN MEN enabled us to generate a network of learning and had signed up, with monthly savings of approximately $1.8 million pesos via Middle management 81 % 100 % EC6 Over time we have established highly important international operations expand our supply of training, and finally, extensive payroll deduction which, at the close of December, accounted for almost $10 Support 82 % 100 % that contribute significantly to our company's results. Some examples attention and coverage to more employees, without million pesos in savings. With this amount, the fund was able to extend loans are our mining and housing operations in Peru, through San Martín and geographic limitations. In the second half of 2015 totaling more than $3.0 million pesos, benefiting more than 200 employees GUANAJUATO WOMEN MEN Los Portales, respectively. In these two cases, senior executive and we will launch ICA University, and additional step with an interest rate well below other alternatives, confirming that this initiative Middle management 81 % 100 % management positions are occupied almost entirely by Peruvian employees toward the dissemination of knowledge and strengis an extraordinary savings and loan vehicle for personnel and all of our Busiwho direct and supervise the activities of both companies. There are a thening of our intellectual capital. Support 63 % 100 % ness Units. total of 35 senior executives and mentors in this country, 32 of which are Peruvian, represents more than 91% of top management from local sources. 32 33 HUMAN CAPITAL EC6 In 2014, ICA ventured into the United States with its acquisition We have prepared 125 Position Competency Plans (pcps) covering LA10 HR2 Total hours of training 2014 ANNUAL of the Facchina Group. All in all, we have 5 senior executives and more than 60 % of our technical-administrative personnel, enabling WOMEN MEN INFORMATION MEETING 57 managers in those operations, all of them of local origin, who each employee to know their specific training plan. In 2014, Employees 314 365 On December 18 and 19 we held the Annual InforG4-26 are responsible for directing this operation and ensuring that more than 339 training actions were given, including courses, mation Meeting for 2014, to communicate the achieManagers 492 609 the policies and values of our company are assimilated into the diplomas, master's degree programs, seminars, workshops, vements and lessons learned in the year, as well as Senior management 164 616 workplace. Another of our largest overseas projects is our operation certifications, forums and others. We gave 124,986 total hours the challenges for 2015. of the North and South Corridors in Panama, where all five project of training (tht) online, 45,787 of which were internal training Total 1,282 1,967 managers are local. In the other Latin American countries where and 79,199 were external training. The breakdown of training by With the slogan One single ICA, the meeting was we have significant operations, like Colombia, Chile and Costa gender was 87,509.5 tht for male employees and 37,476.5 tht for In the category of in-person training, and 2014 we gave 27,888.5 tht organized and carried out by markets and specialties Rica, senior executives and managers are the Mexican employees female employees. ICA has invested a total of 9,065,295 in external (19,881.5 tht for male employees and 8,007 tht to female employees) to with workgroups to reinforce our vision of shared living in that country, because of the short duration of the project training, 8,031,312 corresponded to in-person training and 3,712 employees (79 % of our Work Force, stressing the following training value and client service. We presented the lifetime in question. ICA contributes specialized talent in constructive 1,033,983 2 online training. In 2014 we developed four internal topics related to the issue of human rights: achievement awards to outstanding employees techniques while partners contribute the tremendous added value training programs, the most important of which, given the legal and a special homage to Bernardo Quintana Isaac that comes from being local talent at all levels, including managers implications for ICA and its stakeholders, were two institutional • Code of Ethics and Business Conduct for his 20 years as Chairman of the Board of and senior executives. We incorporate local operating personnel programs launched between August and September: training on • Law on the Protection of Personal Data Held by Private Parties Empresas ICA. in all of our companies projects, with an average of 80 % emplothe Federal Law for the Protection of Personal Data Held by Private • Legal Safety and Hygiene Requirements yability of the communities where we participate. Parties, and the Code of Ethics and Business Conduct. The tht • Specialty Course on Environmental Impact were distributed across all the business areas in units of the • Project Safety 05. Training and development: in 2014 we carried out 339 diffecompany, based on their specific specialties and needs: • Overhead Safety rent training activities, including courses, diplomas, master's • World Safety and Occupational Health Day degree programs, seminars, workshops, certifications, forums AREA tht • Civil Protection Brigades and others. In this more than 4200 technical-administrative Management 4,030 • Noise and Its Damage to Health employees benefited. • Environmental Impact in Management Knowledge management 90 • Welding Safety Audit 320 • Comprehensive Safety LA9 Total hours of training Quality, safety, health and environment 18,509 • Five Organization and Cleanliness Rules General knowledge 21,482 • Sustainability Forum 2011 439,282 Finance 5,538 • Safety and Electrical Facilities 2012 426,466 2013 195,958 Project management 4,250 • Introduction to Workplace Hygiene 2014 238,889 Contract management 7,654 • Safe Handling of Sharp Objects and Prevention of Hand Injuries UNION • Holistic Science Languages 2,186 • Heart-Savers' Course: First Aid, CPR and defibrillator use 2011 311,754 General industry information 244 2012 334,017 • Air Traffic Control Devices in Work Areas 2013 318,064 Engineering 948 • NOM-017-STPS-2008 Personal Protection Equipment: selection, 2014 310,986 Legal 2,920 use and handling at work centers TECHNICAL-ADMINISTRATIVE Leadership and development 17,872 • NOM-030-STPS-2009 Preventive safety and health services on the job 2011 751,036 Maintenance and services 280 – functions and activities 2012 760,483 Construction processes 7,684 • Subcontractor Development Program: ICA Safety Foundations ICA PRIDE AWARD 2013 514,022 • Subcontractor Development Program: Safety Regulations 1 In December, the ICA Pride Award was given to emploG4-26 2014 549,875 Human resources 594 TOTAL • NOM009-STPS-2011 Safety Conditions for Overhead Work yees who throughout the year made an exceptional Basic software 3,242 • NOM-019-STPS-2011 Creation, Composition, Organization and contribution to the company with their daily work Specialized software 26,995 Function of Safety and Hygiene Commissions and also set an example for others in the adoption, Sales and marketing 152 • NOM-025-STPS-2008 Workplace Lighting Conditions expression and transmission of our corporate values. Total 124,986 • NOM-001-STPS-2008 Buildings, commercial venues, installations Out of 189 nominees who qualified, 10 were presented and areas of the workplace – security conditions with awards at the company's Annual Meeting. 34 35 INTELLECTUAL CAPITAL FINANCIAL CAPITAL Through our Corporate Security Department, we have 325 people in charge of HR7 LA8 In order to guarantee the right to health and safety to our workers, in 2014 security in the company, administered by specialized outside firms. The majority their collective-bargaining contracts incorporated a formal commitment of these personnel (73 %) are trained in areas of Human Rights, Code of Ethics to the following aspects: and Business Conduct and Orientation, and are later assigned to various projects. Security staff also receives further training in the following areas: • Social Security for all employees • Creation and functioning of mixed training, preparation and • Private security and occupational ethics productivity committees • Principles of conduct, operation of radio communication equipment • Safety and Hygiene committees pursuant to the Federal Labor Law. and service quality • Training and preparation in matters provided for in the • Operating techniques, development of communication skills and report writing Federal Labor Law. • Physical condition, personal defense and handling of protection equipment • Control of emergency situations, negotiation and handling of conflicts and LA7 In addition, in order to take concrete actions to prevent workplace risk preservation of accident sites for employees who provide highway maintenance and operation services, • Human rights and rational use of force in January 2014, in partnership with the National Syndicate of Irrigation, • Civil protection (first aid, firefighting) Construction and Federal, State and Municipal Concessions Workers and • Weapons, target shooting and use of PR 24 police baton Related Activities in Mexico, we signed a cooperation agreement on • Ethics and human relations workplace health and safety. We worked to detect the needs of personnel NEW BRAND ARCHITECTURE • Regulatory framework for police actions and provide services in highway maintenance and operation, and delivered G4-27 Following a two-year program to diagnose and • Techniques and tactics of security operations special protection equipment designed with specific characteristics to ICA Day 2014 study the ICA Brand with our stakeholders, we • Risk analysis and project vulnerability mitigate the risks detected. This benefited a total of 2,270 workers, On November 10, 2014, ICA Day was held, an annual G4-27 redefined the company's brand strategy to support • Corporate safety regulations promoting workplace health and safety by taking concrete preventive event in which the company communicates with the business strategy. We updated our logo and • Duties and standing orders for security personnel actions. investors, bankers and financial analysts on key defined various systems to standardize our brand • Access control management issues and prospects for the company, such as its identity on the company's 68th anniversary. LA4 Because of the nature of the projects in which we are engaged, most of backlog, current strategy for international diversiIn 2015, we continue to focus on our initiatives for Differentiated Value Proposition our work contracts are temporary, so we do not provide a minimum notice fication and entry into the energy market, new The new brand architecture was designed by for Employees. In the implementation phase, this program will increase the period prior to operational changes. technologies and process unification processes, INTERBRAND, and was completed with the formal value of our brand as employer of choice; strengthen management capacities efforts to reduce leverage, construction and operation launch of the ICA brand and the new website. The new in order to provide better leaders for the organization, and support the new HR4 In 2014 there were no conflicts with company employees regarding areas, and success stories from our partners. identity was applied to institutional formats in all the organizational structure and international platform, which will help provide the violations of the right to freedom of association or collective bargaining. corresponding areas, an updated online identity, structure and skills to support our business objectives. All this will be accomIn order to guarantee freedom of association, we eliminated the exclusion and changes in the design of access badges and panied by stronger corporate communications from the employees' perspective, clause formerly contained in the form used for signing collective-bargaicomputer equipment controls. In the preliminary in order promote the institutional philosophy of a single ICA. In 2015, we will launch ning contracts, which had previously obligated workers to join the union phase of the study we analyzed the reputation the ICA Experience , a new design of Value Proposition for the Employee (vpe) to responsible for the collective-bargaining contract. and perception of our brand, which served as the promote their incorporation, development and retention at ICA. basis for its correct implementation and standarHR5 ICA has a rigorous policy of hiring only workers who are of legal age to dization, including corporate signage, vehicle labeling, work in Mexico (18 years). To guarantee compliance with this policy, in workplace signage, employee manuals and the COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS AND UNIONS all the collective-bargaining agreements we signed in 2014, being of legal comprehensive BrandCenter platform for downFor all the work in which we took part in 2014, we signed collective bargaining G4-11 age was made one of the requirements for hiring. During the year there loading information. This contributes substantially agreements with some union organization. 100 % of the unionized workers were no incidents of violations of this policy and therefore no case of to ICA's positioning as a leader in the market and who provide services for the company were employed under collective bargaichild labor. There were also no incidents relating to violation of indigenous reflects the focus of our new business model with ning contracts. rights during the year. clients and investors. HR6 At ICA, we have implemented internal guidelines and policies to promote decent work. In 2014 this policy was complied with and no episodes of forced or compulsory labor. 36 37 HUMAN CAPITAL 2.3 OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH & SAFETY We take care of our personnel 1996 3.7 Health and safety have always been a priority for ICA. According to data from LA6 LA6 Safety indicators 2013 2014 1997 2.8 the Mexican Social Security Institute (imss), the Building and Civil Engineering Workforce (wf) 45,661* 39,549* industry has the third highest labor risk in Mexico. Accordingly, we place special Total Hours Worked (thw) 126,928,297 126,271,669 1998 2.2 emphasis on offering our employees a workplace that prioritizes safety, health, 1999 1.7 imss accidents 416 586 prevention and shared commitment. The imss reports a total of 1,383,523 HEALTH AND SAFETY FREQUENCY INDEX 2000 0.9 Accidents Attended by Internal Medical insured construction workers affiliated with that Institute, 37 % of total number 69 72 2001 0.5 Service (ims) of workers in the industry. Because we consider our people to be our most 2002 0.6 important asset and recognizing that our activities entail a high level of risk, Fatalities 16 13 2003 0.8 ICA has a policy of hiring and insuring all of its workers with the imss. In the last Days Lost from Accident 9,947 12,554 2004 0.9 5 years, we have updated and standardized workplace safety and health reguFrequency Index (fi) 0.79 1.06 lations in workshops and awareness-raising sessions, and prepared indicators Frequency Index (fi) Target 1.30 1.0 2005 0.7 to measure and assess the company's performance based on the Corporate osha Severity Index (si) 2006 1.2 15.67 19.90 Health and Safety Policy. or lost work days rate (lwdr) 2007 1.1 Loss Index (li) 12.37 21.18 2008 1.1 In 2010, a Health and Safety Commission was created. This internal organization 2009 0.8 has representatives from all of ICA's business units, and a policy was also *ICA personnel and subcontractors COWBOY BOOK OF SAFETY 2010 1.5 established for workers and subcontractors. By standardizing indicators and At ICA we have made an effort to diversify our G4-27 2011 1.95 establishing policies, we began a process of institutionalization geared communications tools, to make sure our message toward occupational health and safety. We have stepped up specific training reaches everyone. We have published three copies 2012 1.27 campaigns in these issues for our field personnel and technical-administrative of the Cowboy Book of ICA Safety with various 2013 0.79 staff. Starting in 2010, we have been compiling and reorganizing an accident strategic allies, like the Mexican Chamber of the 2014 index, which formerly counted only those who received medical attention Construction Industry, the Secretary of Labor and 1.06 from the imss, and now includes whoever receives treatment from on-site Social Planning, the Confederation of Mexican Workers medical services (which involve the loss of work time) plus work-related and Cemex. In 2014 we also published health and fatalities and illness. In 2014, the accident frequency index was expanded safety brochures containing safety tips, informa*Note: The Frequency Index or to include ICA's project in Panama and Peru. tional cards for accident prevention and a Guide Total Incident Rate (ir) as defined by osha is the number of accidents, for Preventing Risk in Office Work. occupational illness and fatalities related to a common base of Starting in 2012, our health and safety management efforts were extended to our CRE6 exposure of 100 full-time workers. international projects, and 100 % of our activities were certified with OSHA 18000 The common base of exposure permits precise inter-industry standard. We also included health and safety standards in the supply chain, comparisons and analysis over through training and work tables with strategic suppliers, subcontractors and time or comparison between businesses, regardless of unions with which we have signed collective bargaining agreements. their size. Over the past 2 years, we increased the number of man-hours of training and G4-27 communications and distribution channels to promote our philosophy of ZerO accidents in order to reduce the accident frequency index, extend the philosophy of sustainability to the entire organization and define methods and best practices for preparing a uniform, standardized report on the issue. LEADERSHIP AND TRAINING WORKSHOPS In 2015, we intend to engage in a closer and more intense dialogue with most LA8 In 2014 we began planning a series of workshops in each of our busiof our projects on managing health and safety in construction processes ness units, selecting projects that are by nature incubators of certain through leadership workshops and on-site training. Our most important goal ideas, initiatives and proposals in the areas of health and safety. In October is to extend this organizational strategy to every level of the company, down 2014, we scheduled workshops with superintendents, project leaders, to its application in the field, reducing the accident frequency index and improchief engineers, site managers and foremen. In February 2015 we held ving the capacities of our specialized human capital in this area. the first session at four of our projects, and extended them to another three in the same year, according to the characteristics of each project. 38 39 LA6 Occupational Health VACCINES MEDICAL CHECKUPS OTHER HEALTH ACTIONS MAN-HOURS OF TRAINING EDUCATION AND HEALTH PROGRAMS LA9 (Doses administered) Entry exam 39,582 (Medical tests) for employees IN HEALTH ISSUES total 65 TD (toxic diphtheria) 7,748 and their families Alcoholism 3,876 *existing in the project, including community Regular checkup 2,520 Hepatitis B 1,863 Spirometry 850 Drug addition 1,075 Special checkup 8,217 Seasonal flu 9,604 Hearing exams 1,031 STD 2,394 ENDEMIC ILLNESSES total 50,319 MR (Measles Rubella) 1,039 Eye exams 9,130 Diet and health 4,389 Dengue 40 Pneumococcus 683 Diabetes 3,487 Chronic degenerative diseases 3,225 total 40 total 20,937 High blood pressure 42,374 Oral health 1,313 MEDICAL VISITS Cervical-uterine cancer 153 Family violence 233 Men 31,605 Breast cancer 44 Others 39,766 Women 31,605 total 57,069 total 56,271 total 35,934 STATEMENT BY THE HEALTH AND SAFETY COMMITTEE We are aware that ICA has not yet reached its main goal in the area of health and safety: achieving zero accidents on the job. Although our efforts have been reflected in a significant reduction in accident frequency in the workplace, we deeply regret the accidents and fatalities we suffered over the past year. We are redoubling our efforts for our health and safety actions to reflect our unwavering commitment to the more than 32,000 families that depend on our company. It is to these families that the Board of Directors, the Office of the Chief Executive Officer, Vice Presidents and Directors of ICA pledge to continue working to ensure a safe and healthy workplace for all our employees. Situations that jeopardize the life and safety of our workers will not be tolerated at any project in which ICA participates. At all of our projects and offices we comply fully with operating and safety procedures and protocols. ICA will never rest in its effort to achieve ZerO fatal accidents. Occupational safety LA9 SAFETY MONTH LA5 SAFETY AND TOTAL HOURS OF TRAINING DRILLS HELD As part of our awareness raising and publicity actions in the area of health OTHER FORMAL HYGIENE and safety, in November 2014 we held Safety Month at the Specialized ConOHS COMMITTEES Courses lasting more COMMITTEES 5 minute talks Fire Evacuation Rescue than 30 minutes tainer Terminal II at Lázaro Cárdenas, Michoacán. With the slogan Safety is in 137 207 519,153 1,038,953 110 111 100 your hands, and with the participation of various employees from ICA, APM Terminals, Cemex and other suppliers and subcontractors with the project, we CRE6 AUDITS OSHAS CERTIFICATES reinforced our commitment to the ZerO Accidents campaign. RECOGNITIONS SECURITY CAMPAIGNS External Internal In total, between our Business Units and affiliates, 210 155 104 473 we currently have 10 OSHAS certifications 40 41 HUMAN CAPITAL 2.4 OPERATING MANAGEMENT AND IMPROVEMENT SYSTEMS This alignment is also encouraged by our recent G4-26 update to the Risk Breakdown Structure (rbs), which contains the requirements, concerns and G4-46 We anticipate risks and improve our processes Based on a unique risk management methodology, G4-45 As the result of an initial request in 2007 and the implementation and creation experience of ICA’s various stakeholders, by enaand with the support of the “ICA Risk” tool, which of a Risk Management area in the Civil Construction Department in 2008, five bling us to apply these elements to the respective incorporates the foundations and rules of the Project years ago ICA formally created a Risk Committee. Made up of vice presidents risk evaluations. Management Institute (pmi) as well as the necessary and CEOs, as well as representatives of each of the company’s divisions, its internal controls, we identified more than purpose is to establish the guidelines for comprehensive management and 1,000 different risks in more than 50 projects and awareness of risks for ICA and all its subsidiaries. In 2012 a functional risk RISK IDENTIFICATION public tenders. This tool includes Risk Breakdown structure was created, made up of a corporate director of administration, Since 2012, we have put more work into defining G4-50 Structures divided into technical, financial, social and finance and risks, a corporate risk director, a risk manager and risk coordinators the risk structure, optimizing processes and controls, environmental categories, useful in measuring their in each business unit. Starting in 2014, the Risk Management area answers defining risk software needs and comprehensively impact on scope, timeframes and costs and for directly to the Vice President of Administration and Risk. managing risk. We identified and updated the determining appropriate strategies and responses main business risks and existing control measures: to risk events. One of the main directives of the area and the committee is having every proposed and operative project incorporate a risk analysis. As of 2014, more G4-49 In order to fortify our capacities for corporate governance, risk and comthan 400 public tenders, developments and active projects have been eva+ pliance, in 2014 we formulated risk management policies based on an luated using the Probable Nonfailure Point (pnp) risk analysis methodology. high 1 internal control system for aligning processes to changes in planning, 2 regulation and obligations to outside parties; expedite decision-making; RISK AWARENESS 5 4 improve resource optimization and growth planning efficiency; managing To better integrate and coordinate areas that have G4-16 GOVERNANCE, RISK AND COMPLIANCE (grc) 7 risk to ensure financial capacity, and improving control and inspection expertise in various categories of risk (occupational In 2011 we conducted a diagnosis of ICA’s grc practices to determine its level 69 procedures. safety, environmental management, legal, informa3 8 IMPACT of maturity and identify the actions needed to ensure optimum management. tion technology, and others) according to a standard The grc-Risk Transformation Plan prepared by Ernest & Young, helped promote a SO3 Every year, the Internal Audit department examines all the business set of methodologies and processes, we created wider awareness of risk control and management in the company, in three units, and every project conducts a risk analysis using automated tools so work groups and training and awareness-raising phases of action: planning, understanding the current situation (investigation) that one universal methodology can be applied across the organization. sessions with the support of the Engineering & and design of the future desired state. We could then adopt international stanThis makes it easier to compare, control and follow up on negative or Construction Risk Institute (ecri). The ecri promotes dards like the OCEG-GRC Capability Model, ISO 31000:2009 and COSO-Enterprise low positive events that may impact ICA’s projects. an exchange of ideas between professionals on Risk Management Integrated Framework, among others. issues relating ot risk management. The head of risk remote high probability + G4-49 PROBABILITY To ensure comprehensive management, risks are evaluated from a management at ICA, acts as the regional represenBy design, the grc model facilitates the alignment of management systems multi-disciplinary approach, drawing on the technical experience of the tative to that organization’s Board of Director. STRATEGIC (processes and procedures) with corporate policies, and it also insures that 01 Sociopolitical factors that affect public tenders Promotion, Public Tenders, Engineering, Quality Assurance, Security and corporate policies meet the relevant legislative and regulatory requirements, and projects. Environment (acsma), Legal and Sustainability departments. ICA employs three risk management experts who 02 Specific risk analysis for international contractual obligations and voluntary standards. operations (country risk, culture, legislation). have obtained the highest certifications offered 03 Effectiveness of process for approving To verify correct management of risk, the acsma and Internal Audit departby that institute (employee training for pmi ecri unplanned work ments provide guidance and regular reviews of: procedure and Project Management Institute Risk OPERATION Management Professional certification). 04 Integrity of financial, operating and • Organizational structure grcInitiative. administrative information Strengthen Corporate Governance, Risk and 05 Reliability of cost information in the public • Identification and evaluation G4-14 Compliance capacities tender process • Response and monitoring 06 Compliance with partner obligations that affect ICA’s reputation and costs • Risk tolerance and analysis Aligning processes to changes in planning, Formulation of policy regulation and obligations to outside parties. 07 Meeting requirements to bid on major projects • Alignment and coordination 08 Hiring and retaining qualified personnel. • Coverage and scope Delegation of Expedites decision-making at various levels COMPLIANCE • Capacities and resources OBJECTIVES authority of the organization. 09 Complying with anticorruption laws. • Methods, planning and focus Business Improves resource optimization and growth FINANCIAL architecture planning efficiency. 10 Interest rate and currency volatility. 11 Price volatility in our strategic materials. Risk management Manages risk to ensure financial capacity. 12 Availability of capital and financing to bid on projects. Internal control Improves control and inspection procedures. system 42 43 G4-45 ICA’s Board of Directors, with the assistance of its CLIMATE CHANGE QUALITY AND INSPECTION support committees, increased its involvement in In ICA’s global strategy, it is paramount we are able to identify environmental, EC2 PR1 At ICA we are continually improving the way we work through the process of identifying, evaluating and dealing social and corporate governance risks so that we can meet the expectations better processes and new tools. We generate value in all of our with key risks faced by the company and its subof our stakeholders, from shareholders to commercial partners and investors. management and inspection systems through tools that help sidiaries. At least every six months, the agenda for the At ICA, we work to identify, prevent, plan and evaluate risk in every phase of us concentrate processes common to different business units Board of Directors meeting includes the following each of our projects, in order to operate safely and meet our strategic objectives. and areas of the company. points: material risks to ICA (including follow-up actions); new identified risks; materialized risks ICA participated voluntarily in the Carbon Disclosure Project (cdp) 2013 Climate In 2014 we unified the functions of Quality Assurance, Safety (incidents and lessons learned) and emerging risks. Change questionnaire. The results show that we are progressively creating and Environment in ICA’s Construction area; improved the project value by identifying climate change risks and opportunities in all our businesses, execution (standardization) plan; simplified and standardized SO3 Each year, every Business Unit conducts a risk analysis specifically through emission reduction initiatives and measures to adapt to management processes and systems; linked quality and sususing automated tools so that one universal methodology and mitigate climate change through shared commitment with the various tainability strategies with suppliers and subcontractors; can be applied across the organization. This makes it components of its value chain. consolidated a new system for machinery procurement and easier to compare, control and follow up on negative procedures; created a shared service center to reduce costs; or positive events that may impact them. ICA’s Internal ICA began participating in the cdp in 2013, establishing a baseline for the company’s certified employees and incorporated testing labs into projects Audit area conducts comprehensive process audits carbon emissions. While responding to the cdp questionnaire, we identified that meet operating standards. ICA has 11 procedures for labeling products and services: PR3 by account and in specific areas, producing recomrisks relating to new climate change regulations. mendations for more effectively managing the risks to In the design and development of ICA projects, we identify and Coordination, evaluation, review, design, which our company is exposed. It also conducts audits Potencial impact: oversee application of federal, state and municipal technical, engineering, procurement, construction, of compliance and adherence to internal and external Increase in operating costs and higher demand for services environmental, safety and health laws, as well as the design assembly, installation, startup, and delivery. regulations, integrity and accuracy of information, • In 2014 Mexico passed the General law on Climate Change, which orders specifications and international standards required by our and each year evaluates the Internal Control System. the creation of a National Emissions Registry in which various industries clients. We conform to Official Mexican Standards (nom) and According to the respective certifications, the types of product will be obligated to regularly report their emissions. Mexican Standards (nmx) in technical areas, as well as international and service information required by ICA labeling procedures for The Internal Audit area uses the “Team-Mate” system, • Both, the National Climate Change Strategy of 2013 and the Mexican standards as required by our clients. 100 % of our business units significant product and services, and the percentage covered an internationally recognized tool for efficiently and energy reform, will increase the weight of renewable energy sources in have the ISO 9001 management quality certification, ISO 14001:2004 by those requirements, were as follows: productively managing the audit process. The system the overall mix of electrical energy generation in the country. environmental management certification and ohsas 18001:2007 involves risk evaluation, planning, execution, review, G4-15 health and safety certification. In 2014 we earned the Socially reporting, documentation and observation follow up, in Potential impact: Responsible Company (src) certification from the Mexican Center for Contractual requirements 100 % PR3 permanent interaction with the audited subjects. In order Operations Philanthropy for the seventh year in a row. This distinction is given Legal quality framework 90 % to better identify the risk of fraud we introduced a • The increase in average temperatures raises the evaporation level of the to companies that meet corporate social responsibility requireInspection and Testing Plan and Process Control Plan 80 % medium-term plan for training in the use of technolohumidity in concrete. A higher rate of evaporation could reduce the quality ments (information on environmental and social management is Plans and programs for processes during planning, 80 % gical tools. of the concrete. included in the chapters on ICA’s sustainability strategy). execution, measurement and improvement • Prospects of a rise in the number of torrential rains, or a dramatic change Approval of basic materials and equipment, procedure in precipitation patterns, could cause mudslides that jeopardize our PR1 Our products and services are also subject to nom, nmx and interexecution methods, labor skills, operating condition of machinery and equipment, calibration of inspection, infrastructure and operations. national standards, which are applied 100 % with the methods measurement and testing equipment, quality control of and frequency defined in the projects’ Inspection and Testing Plan. 80 % materials (lab), process measurement, environmental Potential impact: conditions, startup, conclusion of work, release and Reputation and lower demand for goods and services ICA has four quality and inspection processes. It conducts an delivery-receipt by client, delivery of quality • Risks related to other socio-climatic changes inspection when receiving products at a project which incorporates documentation dossier and administrative quitclaim. • Communication, dialogue and engagement with stakeholders. the verification, review, inspection, and testing of all materials, Key Performance Indicators (kpis) 80 % equipment, parts and components, as indicated in the Inspection Supply chain 80 % and Testing Plan, Subcontractor purchase orders and supply Customer satisfaction surveys 70 % agreements, according to their specialty. Innovation and technology management model 60 % • Development • Consolidation • Execution • Project control 44 45 INTELLECTUAL CAPITAL social-relational Capital PROJECT MANAGEMENT PROJECT MANAGEMENT Real-time cost visualization by work front and activity Real-time cost visualization by work front and activity Better control of changes Better control of changes OENE Monitoring OENE Monitoring PROJECT PROJECT RESOURCE MANAGEMENT MANAGEMENT RESOURCE MANAGEMENT MANAGEMENT Control and visibility of materials and equipment Control and visibility of materials and equipment Uniform catalog of materials and services Uniform catalog of materials and services Integration between planning, acquisition and distribution processes Integration between planning, acquisition and distribution processes CROSS-DIVISIONAL SERVICES CROSS-DIVISIONAL SERVICES FINANCE AND RESOURCE FINANCE AND RESOURCE Definition of roles and responsibilities Information control and integrity ADMINISTRATION MANAGEMENT Definition of roles and responsibilities ADMINISTRATION MANAGEMENT Information control and integrity Internal control and audit automation Internal control and audit automation STRATEGIC BUSINESS PLANNING STRATEGIC BUSINESS PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT AND DEVELOPMENT Material information for our bids Material information for our bids Shared market and business intelligence INFRASTRUCTURE CROSSShared market and business intelligence INFRASTRUCTURE CROSSIdentification and cooperation on opportunities OPERATION DIVISIONAL Identification and cooperation on opportunities OPERATION DIVISIONAL FINANCE AND ADMINISTRATION SERVICES SERVICES FINANCE AND ADMINISTRATION Integrity of financial information STRATEGIC Integrity of financial information STRATEGIC Timely information for decision-making PLANNING Timely information for decision-making PLANNING Comprehensive control of resources and assets AND BUSINESS Comprehensive control of resources and assets THE CLIENT SPEAKS AND BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT One ofDEVELOPMENT the channels we have for clients to commuPR5 INFRASTRUCTURE OPERATION INFRASTRUCTURE OPERATION Integration of investment plans Integration of investment plans nicate their opinion to us is a program at ICA Fluor Service level indicators Service level indicators called “The Client Speaks,” which involves written Information on operating income and costs Information on operating income and costs surveys and interviews. In these, clients identified some of ICA’s strengths: loyalty and honesty, quality procurement; functional construction tools; technical capacity; and safety. The overall grade was 8.65 unifica PROJECT For 2015, our challenges will be to go from controlling projects to putting them PR5 ICA conducts a customer satisfaction survey out of 10. After a two-year process of design and planning, in in commission; obtain aci and aws personnel certification; cooperate to reduce to find out how clients perceive the know-how, 2014 we launched the UNIFICA product, an inteaccounts receivable; proper document control to support collections; improve experience and technical capacity of our personnel, grating business model backed by the data subcontractors’ performance; follow up on procurement and supply chain our management and compliance with laws and processing Systems, Applications and Products programs and evaluations; establish performance evaluation methodologies; regulations relating to the project, the honesty and (sap) methodology that unites best practices in and update the Quality Plan for our projects. commitment of the personnel assigned to the project, the construction industry. sap was implemented our handling and speed of response to changes at one of ICA’s companies–Ingenieros Civiles y None of ICA’s business units were subject to any significant fines relating to PR2 in scope, our focus on quality, and our attitude to Asociados S.A. de C.V.. It was also introduced to the products and services supplied, nor with regard to the privacy or theft of PR8 client service. the Barranca-Larga Ventanilla project, on both the clients’ personal data. All our contracts include confidentiality clauses. In cases construction and concession sides, with transacwhere we are obligated to protect data pursuant to the Federal Law on the G4-27 The survey revealed some areas of opportunity to tional modules relating to project management, Protection of Data held by Private Parties, we distributed the appropriate improve communication in project supervision; such as purchases, machinery, planning, etc. The privacy notice informing our counterparties of ways we protect their data under reconciliation of estimates; keeping up with the unifica system will continue to bring new projects the terms of that law. For our technical-administrative personnel, we have deveproject plan; specialized training for personnel and companies into the sap platform in coming years, loped a preventive system which includes a courses and a signed commitment working on the project; and improving communications in order to further strengthen our business model by them. The courses include a course on the federal data protection law as with project authorities. The results of this evaluation based on a unified, innovative and sustainable ICA. well as a course on anti-money laundering laws and the Code of Ethics. In 2014 PR9 had an 83.33 % overall grade, 82.55% for services and we received no fines in connection with violations of the regulations on the 80.98 % for project execution. provision and use of products and services. 46 47 B CUATITLÁN CIUDAD AZTECA ICA AND LINE 12 EL ROSARIO 5 POLITÉCNICO 3 INDIOS VERDES 6 7 4 MARTÍN CARRERA Starting in the 1960s, ICA has been involved in developing Mexico City’s Master 6 CUATRO CAMINOS Plan for the Electric Transport System, which includes the city’s metro system. For ICA, the challenges of modernizing the city in response to growing demand has required a process of long-term planning of mass transit, an aspect in which the company has proven its long-term business and social commitment. 2 GUERRERO ICA has built almost all of Mexico City's metro lines. The efficiency of this system, BUENA VISTA B 8 recognized by experts, shows an understanding of the concept of sustainability that inspires the company and has earned it recognition as a leading builder of public works in Mexico and other countries. With this vision it has helped PANTITLÁN improve the quality of life and mobility of millions of people. Metro Line 12 5 A 9 1 OBSERVATORIO This experience was enriched by its work on Line 12, a public works project that made transport faster and safer for residents of the southern and eastern PATRIOTISMO 9 parts of Mexico City and also had considerable environmental impacts. This is 1 the fourth busiest line in the Metro system, with the capacity to carry more 4 than 400,000 users each day, and it also the longest: 24 kilometers. 12 CONSTITUCIÓN DE 1917 However, after almost a year and a half of uninterrupted service, there was a 7 MIXCOAC BARRANCA DEL MUERTO problem on this line caused by the track system interface with the selected LA PAZ train cars. Once the Mexico City authorities made the decision to stop operations of the street-level and elevated portions of Line 12, the situation became a 3 UNIVERSIDAD 2 TASQUEÑA 8 A complex mix of social, political and budget difficulties. ICA decided to take the Metro Line 12 lead in proposing solutions and communicating with authorities, offerings its experience for resolving the situation as quickly as possible. To do so, we assembled a work group of specialists in various fields to seek out proposals to support the city government with appropriate technical solutions. TLÁHUAC To determine the root of the problem with Line 12, Mexico City's government hired systra, a French company specializing in railway and underground metro XOCHIMILCO 12 systems. After several months of study, systra concluded that the origin of the problem was that wrong train cars were chosen to travel Line 12. It recommended reinforcing the track system and making some modification to the cars, since the cost of replacing them –down to the bogies–would have been excessive. Work for track reinforcement has already begun, and Line 12 is Metro Line 7, 1982 expected to be fully operational by November 2015. ICA has willingly joined Metro Line 8 , 1988 Metro Line 2, 1970 the efforts at every phase of the process where its involvement could be useful, to get this line operating again as soon as possible for the people of Mexico City. ICA has built more than 200 kilometers of Mexico City’s Metro, equivalent to 75 % of the 12 lines that make up that system. Metro Line 1, 1967 Metro Line 7, 1982 48 49 Mexico City-Tuxpan Nuevo Necaxa-Tihuatlán Highway Puebla | Veracruz 50 51 3.0 We are building the foundations of tomorrow today We have been planning strategic sustainability G4-2 since 2009, with the committed support of ICA’s SUSTAINABILITY G4-15 For the second year in a row, ICA has been the only company in the Latin Board and senior management. Our first initiative American construction industry to be included in the Dow Jones Sustainability to incorporate sustainability issues involved a Index, reaffirming our industry leadership in sustainability issues. We know materiality study and comparison with other our activities impact both the environment and the lives of communities where companies in the engineering and construction STRATEGY we work. So with the same conviction of over 68 years of experience, in 2014 industry, so we could define the company’s we bolstered our strategic planning to increase social engagement and envipriorities. ronmental initiatives in order to ensure a positive ICA experience. We are a sustainability industry benchmark In 2009 and 2010 we held introductory and We renewed our sustainability commitment as a signatory of the Global Compact awareness-raising sessions about corporate and member of the Mexico Network Council, as voluntary reporter of emissustainability to create functional structures with sions according to the guidelines of the Carbon Disclosure Project (cdp) and, for institutional guidelines. In 2010 we created the the seventh year in a row, as a recipient of the Socially Responsible Enterprise Sustainability Department and eight committees: (esr)– distinction. We also lead the Mexican Stock Exchange's Sustainability Quality; Communication; Internal Development; Index Board, in which we work with other industrial firms on social, environResearch; Development and Innovation; Environment; mental, and occupational health and safety programs; and we are members of Procurement; Subcontracting and Machinery; Social; the Infrastructure Committee and the Commission for Private Sector and Engagement. With this we were able to begin Studies for Sustainable Development (cespedes), both of the Business Coordicompiling information for the first Mexican Stock nating Council. Exchange questionnaire. In 2011, ICA became a national sustainability leader when it joined the ipc Over the past year, we forged stronger ties with our stakeholders, promoting Sustainable Index for the first time; issued its first inter-institutional relations, training and transmission of best practices. As Sustainability Report; signed the Global Compact; members of the Network for Emerging Market Sustainability of the German provided training for the Board of Directors on Society for Development Cooperation (giz), we were selected to share our social Sustainability issues (Deloitte); conducted camprograms in a study by the Center for Development Research (cidac).And for paigns, forums and talks for managers and directors; the fourth year in a row, we prepared our Integrated Report of Activities based distributed and communicated the company’s on the criteria of the Global Reporting Initiative (gri) G4 guidelines and the Policies and code of Ethics; and publicized and International Integrated Reporting Council (iirc). strengthened projects to strengthen our capacity for reporting non-financial results. STRATEGIC SUSTAINABILITY PLANNING In 2012 we defined three priority areas of sustaiG4-27 G4-2 nability for ICA: Health and Safety, Environment Integrate governance, Encourage, promote and risk and compliance develop innovative ideas and Social Planning. Having served their purpose, policies and processes the committees were dissolved and efforts channeled to the corresponding corporate areas as Provide the Strengthen a they grew more independent–Risks and Internal ICA Experience Sustainability Audit; Legal Affairs; Human Capital; Procurement, philosophy Subcontracting and Machinery; Internal CommuTO BE A nications; and Quality. I Intellectual 03-05 SUSTAINABILITY INDUSTRY BENCHMARK Now that sustainability has been formally incorG4-2 porated as a strategic objective, “sustainable and Transmit a vision Optimize • Materiality and engagement with stakeholders of shared environmental sustained increase of economic value,” the Sustai• ICA Presence social value management nability Department is responsible for two specific • Markets and specialties goals: “to be a sustainability industry benchmark” • International expansion/integrating acquisitions Develop Strengthen and “to promote best sustainability practices in • Infrastructure for development the supplychain organizational culture our processes.” Mexico City-Tuxpan Highway Ing Gilberto Borja Navarrete Bridge Puebla | Veracruz 52 53 Sustainably increase a In 2013 we held our first sustainability planning meeting, defining eight economic value capacities or priority issues ICA must work on attain those objectives: 1 4 5 8. Strengthen volunteer actions In Receive, catalog and donate books Structure and disseminate volunteer G4-2 and forge a culture of social progress to encourage reading programs responsibility within the company b 01. Sustainable focus and approach to strategy Organize forums, discussion tables and 02. Strategy for stakeholder dialogue and engagement 9. Engage with public and private f In Establish a work plan for developing documents for publishing sustainable organizations and institutions progress sustainable infrastructure 03. Managerial leadership and corporate governance 5 SUSTAINABILITY 1 3 5 issues related to our industry MANAGEMENT 04. Commitment and social planning 6 9 13 25 Document and communicate best 10. Publicize and promote best corporate social responsibility practices 05. Innovation and environmental management practices based on ICA experience New at ICA with the Center for Development e c 06. Supply chain and customer service in Mexico and other countries Research (cidac) and the German Society for Development Cooperation (giz) 07 Health and safety d 5 6 08 Organizational culture 10 5 7 8 11 12 Encourage, promote and develop innovative ideas 13 14 15 16 17 5 2 Promote a philosophy of innovation at ICA as critical to our competitiveness and tangible value 18 19 20 21 22 G4-2 Based on these capacities, and as members of the Dow Jones Sustainability 23 24 25 26 27 11. Introduce effective In “Your Idea” inbox Strengthen “Your Idea” inbox R&D&I programs progress index (djsi), we designed our management process based on best practices in 28 a. Analyze materiality Research: strengthen ties with the field. Sustainability is an integral part of our day-to-day operations, as we b. Plan strategy key institutions identify the value added by our activities in each phase of their execution. c. Implement strategy In Diagnose and restructure in three areas: Development: maintain, update and d. Monitor and measure 12. Update innovation model progress research, development and innovation strengthen tools, systems and e. Communicate results methodologies f. Dialogue and develop improvements Innovation: offer solutions to project challenges INITIATIVES/PROJECTS STATUS 2014 ACTUAL 2015 EXPECTED Strengthen sustainability culture G4-2 PROGRESS PROGRESS Spread a sustainability culture to the entire organization Integrate Governance, Risk and Compliance (grc) processes 13. Expand training and awareness In Develop materials on sustainability issues Integrate best environmental, social and governance practices within the organization’s processes and systems, and measure programs within the organization for orientation courses and talks to new Use materials in orientation courses the performance of key indicators aligned with the strategy. progress to sharpen sustainability focus managers and project foremen 1. Design the company’s In Diagnose the current status of the Design the comprehensive sustainability 14. Increase the scope of our Diagnose current status of sustainability sustainability process progress sustainability process (as is) process under the GRC framework (to be) sustainability processes to include New practices in international subsidiaries and Design guides to facilitate the consolidation international subsidiaries begin joint reporting process 2. Establish a system for In and traceability of non-financial Introduce guides for the company’s Involve managers and project directors non-financial information progress information on all GRI indicators environmental and labor indicators 15. Align the ICA Prize with best In Include envision methodology, gri G4 and to raise their awareness of best international sustainability practices progress djsi in project evaluation criteria sustainability practices 3. Standardize management systems In Unify management systems Develop environmental and social under sustainability standards progress management systems Distribute occupational health and safety 16. Strengthen the company's In materials to all levels of the organization Implement commitment activities and 4. Update methodology New Develop and implement methodology health and safety spirit progress (Cowboy Book of Safety, stoplights, workshops in 100 % of ICA projects for analyzing materiality for analyzing materiality policies and protocols) Distribute policy, report indicators Provide the ICA experience 17. Update company’s occupational In Update policy and indicators and by project and reduce company’s OHSAS health and safety model progress improve safety indicators index to 1.0 Be partners and allies of our strategic stakeholders and create an optimum reputation for the company Develop and implement a strategy 5. Strengthen engagement and In Create a department of institutional of engagement and dialogue with Optimize environmental management dialogue with our stakeholders progress relations and stakeholder engagement our stakeholders Manage ICA’s environmental operations with a focus on contractual compliance, risk mitigation and prevention and project profitability Sharpen the focus of our environmental, 6. Expand and improve channels Renew our brand and update our website, 18. Optimize energy consumption In Find ways to make machinery operation Introduce and monitor actions for economic and social reports according to of external and internal In develop integrated reports and and reduce ghg emissions progress more efficient reducing energy consumption our different channels: integrated report communication to ensure open, progress audiovisual documentation by project and case studies, project visits and Introduce recycling program at the Strengthen recycling program with transparent and inclusive dialogue and engagement with specialized media In handling of e-content 19. Manage waste progress corporate level, with the support an workshops and courses. Reduce waste outside company at project sites and corporate offices Transmit a vision of shared social value 20. Preserve biodiversity In Fortify biodiversity protection and Build, install and operate a progress conservation programs forestry nursery Strengthen our relationship with society to positively impact its development Measure and monitor strategic materials 7. Strengthen social responsibility 21. Natural resource management In Improve productivity in materials use and generate optimization and recycling In Prepare a manual for social responsibility Implement the manual at every one (eco-efficiencies) progress programs executed within the progress actions in the company of the organization’s projects initiatives company’s projects 54 55 INTELLECTUAL CAPITAL SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT G4-2 MATURITY MODEL Develop the supply chain Strengthen the supply chain through actions and initiatives that ensure sustainability and guarantee a competitive advantage We strengthened our maturity model Introduce a comprehensive supplier and subcontractor development program Strengthen the comprehensive supplier to improve processes and performance 22. Promote the development In to strengthen and make them more and subcontractor development program 06 of strategic suppliers progress competitive through competencies by creating alliances with organizations and subcontractors training; ensure compliance with ICA’s that specialize in small and mid-sized INTEGRATED enterprise development A part of the day-to-day life internal policies of the company Set up use and application of Vendor Risk No longer discussed or questioned 05 management (vrm) tool, which measures 23. Identify and measure possible In companies’ conduct and performance Install Vendor Risk Management tool. COMMITTED risks in the supply chain progress with respect to its guidelines, rules and Fundamental element of the strategy GOAL 2020 policies Aligned initiatives Clear processes Optimize structural steel waste and rebar 24. Sustainable management of 04 (scrap) for Mexican steel mills, the re-use of structural steel New guaranteeing their reuse and INVOLVED and rebar (scrap) incorporation into new products CURRENT Considered critical LEVEL 2014 Highly involved executives 25. Replace conventional materials 03 with more innovative, sustainable New Create CPSCR value workshops materials INVESTMENT Asset to be administered OFFSITE SUSTAINABILITY CONFERENCE Strengthen Organizational Culture Basic processes To obtain feedback we could use to improve strategic G4-24 Formal initiatives emerge Promote an organizational culture grounded in values that bring us closer to our goals as an organization sustainability planning, on October 30 and 21, 2014, G4-26 02 INTERESTED In Develop a brand study and design an Implement the Employee we organized a series of conferences and workshops 26. ICA Philosophy and values progress Employee Value Proposition Value Proposition Awareness No goals with the active involvement of 80 employees from Introduce the Employee Value COMPLETED Develop and introduce metrics for Random programs various parts of the company (Human Capital, 27. Recruit, develop and In quantifying investment and monitoring Proposition, conclude development and LEVELS No budget retain talent progress the impact of human capital initiatives facilitate WIPI access to analytics Administration, Risks, Finance, Legal, Strategic and metrics for generating real-time 01 for making decisions about Talent information Planning, Procurement), sustainability committees NONEXISTENT (Social, Environmental, Health and Safety, Innovation Structure and open architecture with Unimportant PCP-based training and development Uncontrolled and Quality) and representatives from construction 28. Promote the organizational In Design Position Capacity Plans (pcps), options supported by the SERCH-WIPI Lack of awareness competencies the company launch new in-person and on-line projects and from ICA Fluor, Los Portales and San progress training module, online AcadémICA l requires (AcadémICA) training actions earning platform and ICA University Martín (via remote link). The meetings were held (under development) G4-47 Based on the goals and initiatives for each of the capacities identified, in the La Cantera facilities of Club Pumas, and the G4-49 and as a result of feedback from our Offsite Sustainability Conference, we work agenda focused on reviewing the results outlined strategies for 2015 in order to continue moving forward in this obtained by the Dow Jones Sustainability Index. maturity model: We updated our development, goals and the scope of G4-18 This new conception of sustainability led us to focus on eight strategic capacities, Through various initiatives within our value chain, • Sustainability issues must be addressed from the time of the public each of the sustainability issues that are priorities each aligned with our business objectives, which in turn break down into 28 we have encouraged a greater awareness, tender and linked to project responsibilities for tracking, monitoring for ICA: corporate governance, management systems, initiatives that contain specific activities to be executed in the short, medium understanding and inclusion of the sustainable and implementation. social commitment, environment, health and safety, and long term. These are explained throughout this report. Another noteworthy focus in the company’s operations. Today we are • Issues dealt with by the committees must be part of the company’s organizational culture, stakeholders, and innovation. area, which was the result of our materiality analysis, is the issue of stakeholder at the start of phase 04 of the maturity model sustainability strategy. At the conclusion of the conference, participants engagement, and on this issue we continue to participate actively in forums, we proposed in 2012, and our aim with the new • Concessionaires and builders must work as a single front on projects discussed challenges, areas of opportunity, progress dialogues and work tables, and in creating strategic alliances with various organizational structure is to complete the last that connect them. and future actions. public and private sector organizations. With this, we have made strong phase of level 04 in 2015, or even begin phase 05 • Refocus the Assurance, Quality, Safety and Environment (aqse) progress toward our goals while creating value from the various activities in (committed level) which is targeted for completion structure for projects in order to strengthen response capacity which are involved. by 2020. to sustainability challenges. • Service areas must facilitate processes in projects, simplifying formats, reducing excessive red tape and streamlining reporting requirements • Sustainability must be considered part of the company’s strategy for engagement and relationship to its stakeholders. 56 57 3.1 MATERIALITY AND ENGAGEMENT WITH STAKEHOLDERS S·R Social and Relational 01-05 For ICA, acting sustainably means building our business day to day with a long-term vision, valuing our relations with stakeholders and working tirelessly to meet our obligations to them. G4-25 We value and nourish our relationship We define stakeholders as those individuals or groups that may be impacted positively or negatiwith stakeholders vely by the financial, environmental, health, safety and social aspects of our operations, as well as those that are interested in or can influence our activities. On this basis, we have nine priority G4-25 Through a materiality analysis of the social, environmental 1 Economic and tangible impact on the market G4-19 stakeholder groups. and ethical aspects that are key to our vision and strategy as Strive for sound financial performance, taking into account factors like the national and global need for infrastructure, a company, we identified the main stakeholders with which growth, and efficiency and quality in building systems. 1. SHAREHOLDERS/FINANCIAL MARKETS: 7. COMMUNITIES: G4-24 we interact directly and who have a greater impact. 2 Strategy and analysis Regulators, banks, mutual funds, lenders, etc. A group or set of local individuals who share a common identity. Appropriate strategic planning, risk management 2. CLIENTS: Farming cooperative leaders, union leaders, local civil organizations. To relate to these stakeholders, we created a map of players by area and business and management systems. Public (domestic and foreign) a. Urban 3 Transparency and legal compliance unit so that we could maintain constant, effective communication. We consider Guarantee ethical business practices through good corporate Private (internal and external) b. Rural it a priority to provide each stakeholder group with transparent, responsible, governance, with accountability that includes transparency 3. SUPPLIERS: 8. COMPETITION/PARTNERS: issues, money laundering prevention and anti-corruption. prompt and appropriate information. This also enables us to obtain feedback Any organization whose activities involve the provision of some Any company capable of complementing ICA’s capacities to that we can use to identify monitor and address issues of vital importance. 4 Occupational health and safety good or service to ICA in order to meet some specific need. execute a project. Develop a safety system that fosters each employees’ commitment to safety leadership, and programs that continually 4. EMPLOYEES: 9. OPINION LEADERS: In 2014 we continued our strategy based on the results of the materiality improve our safety performance. Administrative-technical, unions and subcontractors Persons or organizations who have the capacity to influence the study (updated in 2013). With the UNIFICA project under way, we began working 5 5. AUTHORITIES: attitudes or conduct of other individuals, backed by their reputation Union relations, freedom of association in a standardized and integrated way with a focus on processes, in order to and collective bargaining Government agencies that define the policies and regulations with the public. optimize and improve operations and fully meet our business objectives. Unions today have been transformed, and now involve social, under which the company must operate. a. Entrepreneurs economic and governability issues for the country at large, so the company has had to modify past paradigms and Municipal, state and federal. b. Journalists practices regarding labor and haulage. 6. CHAMBERS AND INSTITUTIONS: c. Social media leaders 6 Job generation Business, trade and academic organizations, universities, instid. Researchers 2 Linked with project generation: as new projects begin, tutes and research centers. they generate jobs and support employability goals, 7 3 5 1 generating a virtuous circle of mutual benefit. 9 4 7 Local communities By strengthening various paths of communication, forums, events and conference calls with our stakeholders, we remain permanently Monitor positive and negative impacts, both real and potential, 6 8 from our operations; create economic opportunities and aware of their concerns and interests in order to address them with the appropriate frequency and level of attention. improve quality of life for communities by hiring local personnel and suppliers. COMMUNICATION EXPECTATIONS ACTIONS FREQUENCY G4-24 8 Training, education and development Stockholders/Financial Markets G4-26 + Human capital programs for our employees and corporate Stockholders’ Meeting social responsibility programs for neighboring communities Annual Report STAKEHOLDER and society, creating alliances with local schools, government Reports to bmv and nyse and higher educational institutions. Quarterly reports Financial and non-financial IMPACT Maximize economic value Ongoing ir webpage results 9 Environmental remediation and biodiversity Investor relations office 01 ECONOMIC AND TANGIBLE IMPACT ON THE MARKET + 02 STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS Identify and respect biodiversity; develop actions to favor Meetings with analysts, shareholders, investors, the environment; protect and restore habitats that support bondholders and banks BUSINESS IMPACT 03 TRANSPARENCY AND LEGAL COMPLIANCE endangered species in areas where we operate. 04 OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY Clients 05 UNION RELATIONS, FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION Supply chain management Service request AND COLLECTIVE BARGAINING Relations with suppliers; environmental sustainability in the Competitive bidding and offers 06 JOB GENERATION Responsible management supply chain; sustainable materials; human rights in the suDirect meetings Integral solutions Ongoing 07 LOCAL COMMUNITIES and ethics pply chain. Satisfaction surveys 08 TRAINING, EDUCATION AND DEVELOPMENT Whistleblowers’ hotline 09 ENVIRONMENTAL REMEDIATION AND BIODIVERSITY Dialogue with stakeholders 10 SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT Government and Authorities Build strong relations with our stakeholders based on mutual 11 DIALOGUE WITH STAKEHOLDERS trust and respect. Attending key government events for the industry 12 INNOVATION Regular contact with government officials Legal compliance and Legal compliance Ongoing Innovation Liaison meetings technological innovation In addition to the twelve aspects mentioned above, in this report we will discuss other issues that are Manage innovation. Whistle-blowers’ hotline not material for all our stakeholders, but do represent a significant interest for some groups in particular. Chambers and Institutions Institutional dialogue Share and encourage adoption Active participation in industry chambers Best industry practices Ongoing of best practices Presentations on sustainability and industry topics 2014 58 59 Suppliers Caisse de dépôt et placement du Québec (CDPQ) International Chamber of Commerce (ICC) Service request Caterpillar Museo Experimental el Eco Fluor Corporation Museo Universitario de Arte G4-26 Direct meetings Development programs Development and empowerment Win-win situations Alliances by type Fomento de Construcciones y Contratas, S.A. (FCC) Contemporáneo (MUAC) G4-24 Evaluations and feedback of suppliers and subcontractors Permanent of capital Garciavelez Arquitectos Patronato de la Fundación para G4-16 Internet sub-site Grupo AYESA Advanced Technology las Letras Mexicanas Whistleblowers’ hotline Financial Grupo Carso Sociedad Mexicana de Ingeniería Geotécnica Communities Aeropuertos y Servicios Auxiliares (ASA) Grupo Raffo The Anderson Graduate School of Management Aeropuerto Internacional de la Ciudad de México Herrenknecht at UCLA Sustainability office webpage Banamex ICA Foundation Efficient social management Distributed local value Impulsora del Desarrollo y el Empleo The Culver Educational Foundation Periodical Banco Interamericano de Desarrollo (BID) en América Latina (IDEAL) Universidad Anáhuac Whistleblowers’ hotline and optimum use of resources and engagement On-site meetings Banco Nacional de Obras y Servicios Públicos Linden Comansa Universidad Autónoma Metropolitana-Xochimilco Banorte Universidad Iberoamericana Employees Bolsa Mexicana de Valores (BMV) Soilmec Soletanche Bachy Universidad Nacional Autónoma de México (UNAM) Internal e-newsletter Cementos Mexicanos (CEMEX) VEOLIA Universidad Nacional Autónoma de MéxicoPrinted newsletter Confederación Patronal de la República Technological platform VINCI San Antonio, Texas Mexicana (COPARMEX) Zofnass Program for Sustainable Infrastructure Office of the general counsel Reviews and feedback Talent and organizational culture Talent development Permanent Comisión Federal de Electricidad (CFE) INTELLECTUAL Intranet and compensation Comisión Nacional de Vivienda (CONAVI) Academia de Música del Palacio de Minería NATURAL Assemblies and meetings with directors Comisión Nacional del Agua (CONAGUA) Agencia de Gestión Urbana de la Amigos de Sian Ka'an A.C Annual reports Consejo Coordinador Empresarial (CCE) Ciudad de México BioPappel Whistleblowers’ hotline Deutsche Bank Agencia Francesa de Desarrollo (AFD) Capítulo Mexicano del Consejo Empresarial Partners and Competition HSBC Alianza FIIDEM para el Desarrollo Sostenible (CESPEDES) INBURSA American Society of Quality Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) Annual report Instituto del Fondo Nacional de la Vivienda Quarterly reports Asociación Geotérmica Mexicana, A.C. Centro Mario Molina Office of the general counsel Free competition and para los Trabajadores (Infonavit) Asociación Mexicana de Asfalto, A.C. Comisión Nacional de Áreas Naturales Protegidas Mutual development Periodical Instituto de Seguridad y Servicios Sociales de Asociación Mexicana de Directivos de la Comisión Nacional Forestal (CONAFOR) Investor relations office best practices Sustainability office los Trabajadores del Estado (ISSSTE) Investigación Aplicada y el Desarrollo Comisión Nacional para el Conocimiento Whistleblowers hotline Morgan Stanley Tecnológico (ADIAT) y Uso de la Biodiversidad (CONABIO) Opinion leaders New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) Asociación Mexicana de Hidráulica Comisión para la Cooperación Ambiental Partnering Against Corruption Initiative (PACI) Asociación Mexicana de Higiene de América del Norte Direct meetings del Foro Económico Mundial Timely and transparent Participation in various y Seguridad (AMHSAC) Consejo Consultivo del Agua Success stories Permanent Petróleos Mexicanos (PEMEX) information forums and media Asociación Mexicana de Ingeniería de Fideicomiso para el Ahorro Press releases Santander Vías Terrestres de Energía Eléctrica (FIDE) Scotiabank Cámara Internacional de Comercio (ICC) Fideicomiso Probosque Chapultepec Secretaría de Comunicaciones y Transportes (SCT) Cámara Mexicana de la Industria Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Secretaría de Defensa Nacional (SEDENA) de la Construcción (CMIC) Índice ipc Sustentable de la Bolsa G4-27 MAIN ISSUES On this basis, we updated our materiality study in 2015 and we also encouraged G4-19 Secretaría de Desarrollo Agrario, Territorial Centro de Competitividad de México (CCMX) Mexicana de Valores Solution a more fluid dialogue with our priority stakeholders regarding their influence y Urbano (SEDATU) Centro de Innovación Aplicada en Tecnologías Pacto Mundial de las Naciones Unidas** Offers to sell/rent land over the business strategy. The results of the new materiality study will help Secretaría de Energía (SENER) Competitivas (CIATEC, A.C.) Pronatura México Forwarded to the corresponding business unit or area Secretaría de Gobernación (SEGOB) Centro de Investigación para el Desarrollo (CIDAC) RobecoSAM Dow Jones Sustainability Index us identify, prevent and/or mitigate significant environmental, social and Offers to rent/service machinery Secretaría de Hacienda y Crédito Público (SHCP) Centro de Investigación y Docencia Sistemas Estratégicos para la Gestión Forwarded to Machinery area financial risks to the company’s operations. They will also help us to keep our Secretaría de Medio Ambiente y Recursos Económica (CIDE) Ambiental (SEGA) Offers of services for employee training business strategy up to date in order to remain at the forefront of market Naturales (SEMARNAT) Colegio de Ingenieros Civiles de México, A.C. Tecnológico de Estudios Superiores Forwarded to Human Capital area Secretaría de Salud (SALUD) de Valle de Bravo Provision of multiple services trends in our field and optimize our competitive advantages. Finally, they will Consejo Nacional de Ciencia y Tecnología (Conacyt) Secretaría de Trabajo y Previsión Social (STPS) Colegio Nacional de Educación Profesional Tecnológico de Monterrey Forwarded to corresponding area help strengthen our commitment to transparency, because the results of this Sistema de Transporte Colectivo Metro Job requests Técnica (CONALEP) World Business Council for Sustainable Forwarded to Human Capital area analysis will be the cornerstone for 100 % adoption of the integrated reporting Shell Canada Energy Cooperación Alemana al Desarrollo (GIZ) Development (WBCSD) Complaints framework in the medium term, so we can assess the impact of our actions The World Bank El Colegio de México (COLMEX) Depending on type and classification of the and omissions on the organization and the world around it. Engineering & Construction Risk Institute (ECRI) SOCIAL AND RELATIONAL complaint, forwarded to the Legal Area or directly Centro Cultural de España to the General Counsel HUMAN ENVISION (Institute for Sustainable Infrastructure) AON Escuela Bancaria y Comercial Centro Mexicano para la Filantropía, A.C. (CEMEFI) Anonymous complaint As a first initiative, we identified our main allies, Design Center™ Escuela Nacional de Biblioteconomía Consejo Mexicano de Hombres de Negocios Resolved through independent third party, following up with the General Counsel and Inetrnal Audit Director partners and strategic alliances, based on the types Executive Strategy Manager y Archivonomía Club de Industriales Instituto Tecnológico Autónomo de México (ITAM) Club Universidad Nacional, A.C. Request for information of capital mentioned by the international Integrated Extrategia Fundación Javier Barros Sierra Difusión Cultural unam Depending on type of request, resolved through the Endeavor Investor Relations or Sustainability area Reporting Council. Group & Team Coaching Fundación ICA EcoValores Questions from university students regarding INTERBRAND Fundación unam Empowering Responsible Investment (EIRIS) sustainability Mercer Graham Foundation for Advanced Studies Empresa Socialmente Responsable (ESR) Immediate response through Sustainability area in the Fine Arts Expok PwC Tower Watson Harvard Graduate School of Design Fundación Hogares Instituto de Geología de la unam Instituto Nacional para la Educación Instituto de Ingeniería de la unam de los Adultos (INEA) INDUSTRIAL Instituto Mexicano de Mejores Prácticas International Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC) Aeroinvest Corporativas (IMMPC) ResponSable Aéroports de Paris Management Instituto Tecnológico de la Construcción (ITC) unesco BAUER Maschinen GmbH Instituto Politécnico Nacional (IPN) G4-21 *Includes competitive bids, contracts, projects and agreements in 2014. For the purpose of the report the list does not include coverage of material aspects outside the organization, as there are no operating performance indicators unless when the specific value proposition of the alliance is indicated **ICA is a member of the Mexico Global Compact Committee, made up of Toks, Asur, Xcaret, IPADE, Expok, KPMG, Telefónica and Aeropuertos del Sureste. 60 61 3.2 ica PRESENCE 34 35 36 CONCESSIONS Acueducto El Realito Autopista Barranca Larga-Ventanilla Autopista Mitla Tehuantepec 37 Autopista Palmillas Apaseo El Grande 38 Acueducto Monterrey VI 39 Lázaro Cárdenas Terminal de Contenedores TEC II 40 Autopista MAYAB CIVIL WORKS G4-4 1 Paquete Carretero Sonora Norte RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENTS G4-6 2 Protección Marina Atasta 41 Aak-Bal 3 Presa Santa María 42 Marina Nacional G4-8 United States 4 Ampliación Autopista México-Pachuca Fase II 43 Espacio Condesa 29 5 Avenida Domingo Díaz 44 Campus ICA 67 6 PAC-IV Ampliación del Canal de Panamá 45 Reserva Escondida 7 Corredor Norte Fase II Spain Portugal industrial 8 Grupo Los Portales 9·33 9 San Martín Contratistas Generales 33 46 Chicontepec II 10 Carretera Caqueta Huila 47 Madero Gasolinas Limpias 11 Hospital Materno Infantil Ciudad del Carmen 48 Minatitlán Gasolinas Limpias 12 Hospital General Dr. Miguel Silva 49 Salina Cruz Gasolinas Limpias 13 Complejo Deportivo Zona Poniente Oaxaca 50 Terminal Dos Bocas II 14 Hospital General Tuxtla Gutiérrez 51 Plataforma PP Ayatsil C 15 Hospital General de León Morocco 52 Rehabilitación Reynosa Fase 2 16 Casaflex 33 53 Residuales Refinería Tula 17 Laboratorio Túnel del Viento 54 Sistema de Compresión Dos Bocas 18 Centro de Tecnología para Aguas Profundas Boca del Río 55 Recuperación Etano Ciudad Pemex Fase 2 19 Ampliación Autopista Urbana Sur México-Acapulco 56 DUBA Madero FEL 3 20 Túnel Gran Canal 57 DUBA Minatitlán PMC 21 Túnel Emisor Oriente 58 Tula Coquizadora 22 Plan Emergente Acapulco 59 Residuales Refinería Salamanca Fase 1 23 Entubamiento Canal de la Compañía 60 AHMSA Fase 2 24 Túnel Interceptor Norte Río Medellín 61 El Boleo 25 Cotrisa 62 Braskem IDESA 26 Túnel Churubusco Xochiaca 63 Planta ESDE III Cananea Fase 2 27 Tren Interurbano México Toluca 64 DuPont Altamira L2 28 Ampliación Terminal Portuaria del Atlántico 65 Reconfiguración Planta PVC 29 Facchina Construction Group 66 Gasoducto Los Ramones Sur 30 Mantenimiento Oleoducto Zona Sur Colombia 67 Módulos Tuberías Freeport 31 Túnel Acapulco II Costa Rica 68 Energía Pánuco 32 Línea 3 Tramo 3 Metro Santiago Chile 28 69 Laguna Verde 3 y 4 Estudio de Factibilidad Baja California 33 Rodio Kronsa 95·96·97 Sonora AIRPORTS 1 70 Aeropuerto de Ciudad Juárez 63 Chihuahua Panama 71 Aeropuerto de Chihuahua Colombia 72 Aeropuerto de Torreón 64 5·6·7 70·71 10·24·30 73 Hotel Hilton Garden Inn Monterrey Baja California Sur 74 Aeropuerto de Durango 60 Coahuila 75 Aeropuerto de Acapulco 72 76 Aeropuerto de Zihuatanejo Nuevo León 77 Aeropuerto de Monterrey Gulf of Mexico Peru 38 78 Aeropuerto de San Luis Potosí Sinaloa 66 51 8·9 79 Aeropuerto de Culiacán 3 73·77 79·80 Durango 94 Querétaro 80 Aeropuerto de Mazatlán 81 Aeropuerto de Reynosa 74 Tamaulipas 37 82 Aeropuerto de Tampico Zacatecas 38 Hidalgo 91·92 83 Aeropuerto de Zacatecas 83 47·52·56 4·16 84 Hotel NH Terminal 2 Aeropuerto de la Ciudad de México 59·61 81·82 Veracruz 53·55·58 Chile San Luis Potosí 18 98 HOUSING PROJECTS 32 Aguascalientes 34·38 38 85 Paseos de Santa Mónica 85·86 78 46·48·50 86 Paseos de San Antonio Guanajuato 53·57·62·65 87 Natura Ciudad del Carmen 15 98·101·102 88 Ciudad Natura Cancún Jalisco 93 89 Foresta Santa Anita 88·90 Mexico City Quintana Roo 90 Paseos del Valle Michoacán 17·19·20·21·25·26 Campeche 40 91 La Vista Residencial 12 42·43·44 87·88 39 2·11 92 Paseos del Pedregal 84 41 93 Paseos de Las Torres Guerrero 94 Ciudad Natura Apodaca 22·31 Oaxaca 95 Paseos del Vergel Mexico State 75·76 13 Chiapas 96 Paseos de Santa María 23·25·27 35·36 97 Hábitat Piedras Blancas 49 14 45 98 Ciudad Natura Tizayuca 69 99 Bosques 99·100 100 Paseos San Martín 101 Arboleda San Miguel 62 63 3.3 MARKETS AND SPECIALTIES 3.4 INTERNATIONAL EXPANSION We share experience and applied engineering by work and project type We expanded and fortified our strategic alliances G4-6 Through our alliances we have been able to extend our effective, sustainable In 2014, we met our goal of increasing revenues G4-2 and responsible business model to the rest of the world. For ICA, 2014 was a from international operations. Despite the progress year of great opportunities, challenges and achievements. Consolidated revenues already achieved to date, this is a long-term goal for G4-8 RESOURCE MANAGEMENT from offshore operations accounted for 28 % of our total revenues. us, which involves increasing offshore operations 01 HIGHWAYS AND ROADS by 2018. 02 PORTS Sales from unconsolidated operations, Grupo Los Portales and Rodio Kronsa, 03 AIRPORTS 04 WATER among other operations, totaled USD169 million, based on our equity in those We have attained our expansion goals in international 05 ENERGY companies. (Rodio Kronsa has 31 projects now operating, in Morocco, Spain, markets; we began operations in the United States; 06 UNDERGROUND WORKS 07 MASS TRANSIT G4-13 Portugal, Malaysia, Mexico and Central America). These results were made strengthened our presence in countries where we 08 SOCIAL FACILITIES possible by various actions during the year, including the purchase of 100 % of were already active; and bolstered relationships 09 OIL AND GAS 10 MINING the US company Facchina Construction Group. This fits in well with our strategy with clients and partners. In 2015 we will introduce 11 INDUSTRY of international expansion: Facchina has more than 25 years of experience various private initiatives and joint ventures for 12 REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT and is one of the largest building companies in the Washington D.C. metropolitan structuring and promoting new projects, with the 13 PREFABRICATION 14 INDUSTRIAL AUTOMATION area and southern Florida. The company develops civil construction projects, clear goal of becoming a global enterprise. ENGINEERING FINANCIAL STRATEGIC CONSTRUCTION OPERATION EQUITY retail and industrial projects, real-estate developments, among other projects. DESIGN STRUCTURING ALLIANCES INVESTMENT The regions and areas in which it participates are expected to continue growing in coming years as the US economy recovers. Between April and December 2014, Facchina brought in revenues of USD185 million, equivalent G4-8 At ICA, we create value throughout the infrastructure life cycle, providing a 01 Roads: Highways, bridges, tunnels and urban roads to 23 % of our offshore sales. wide range of services and investments in productive assets. From transportation 02 Ports: Ports and marine works 03 Airports: Integrated airports, runways, terminal and water infrastructure to power plants and hospitals, we have extensive buildings, systems, logistical and commercial spaces In 2014, our Peruvian operations billed USD275 million, or 35 % of our international experience in design an engineering, financial structuring and partnerships, 04 Water: Aqueducts, canals, deep drainage, wastewater revenues. This does not include our operations with the leading real-estate comtreatment plants, freshwater and sewage systems, construction, operation and administration of equity investment. reservoirs pany in Peru, Grupo Los Portales. San Martín has another 20 projects operating, 05 Energy: Hydroelectric, combined-cycle and alternative seven in the construction unit and 13 in the mining unit. Los Portales generated energy: wind, geothermal, and mini-hydro plants We have the experience needed to efficiently supply comprehensive civil 06 Underground works: Tunnels (urban, highway, revenues of USD112 million for us in 2014, which is about 50 % of our sales in and industrial construction solutions. We use the latest technology to create drainage), foundations and specialized soil treatments that country. 07 Mass transit: Metros, light trains, metro-buses developments that resolve our client’s needs and meet all the necessary 08 Social facilities: Hospitals, penitentiaries, schools and regulations. universities, stadiums and other public buildings In Central America, we have operations in Panama and Costa Rica, which in 09 Oil and gas: Refineries, chemical and petrochemical 2014 made up 36 % of our offshore revenues, generated by the construction of plants, natural gas processing facilities, marine platforms, We are experts in organizing long-term projects and ensuring the availability gas and oil pipelines and oil field services emblematic projects like the expansion of the Panama Canal and North Corridor, of financial resources for future developments. Our strategic alliances bring in 10 Mining: Construction services for mining and mining as well as the recently completed construction of Avenida Domingo Díaz in facilities new skills to add to the portfolio of capacities and technologies we can use for 11 Industry: Steel and cement industry plants, industrial Panama City. The expansion of the Panama Canal is 83 % complete, and is expected 2012 10 % complex projects. They also help reduce risks, social and environmental impact, and municipal waste handling, and other municipal plants to be finished by August 2015. The expansion of the Panama Atlantic Port 2013 27 % 12 Real-estate development: Hotels and tourist resorts, and capital needs. industrial parks, affordable entry-level and residential Terminal is 66 % along and the detail engineering of the electro-mechanical 2014 34 % housing, mixed-use developments, offices and parking work is almost complete. In Costa Rica, we built the expansion of the oil port for facilities * The increase in the percentage of revenues from foreign operations In 2014 we redoubled our commitment to good governance, risk and com13 Prefabrication: Structural elements, coatings, facades; the state-owned enterprise recope. In Colombia we are involved in highways, between 2013 and 2014 was due primarily to the acquisition of Facchina pliance practices in Mexico and Latin America by diversifying our portfolio. prefabricated homes and housing elements water and oil pipelines, and we pre-qualified for four highway projects that are Construction Group in the United States, and an increase in the income The value of the equity invested grows as projects mature, and we monetize 14 Industrial automation: Safety control systems, part of the Fourth Generation of Concessions (4G) of the National Infrastructure from projects in Costa Rica and Panama. other automation and control systems, project modeling this value through portfolio management to free up resources for new and control. Plan, which we expect to bid on in 2015 together with local private companies. projects. In infrastructure operation, we build client satisfaction through The Río Medellín Interceptor Norte Tunnel was 83 % complete as of the end of efficient management tools and systems that have been checked against 2014, with a total of 7,208 meters excavated so far–86 % of the full length of ongoing improvement processes according to the markets and specialties of the tunnel. each project. 64 65 EC7 3.5 ICA: MORE THAN 68 YEARS GENERATING VALUE ROADS: HIGHWAYS, BRIDGES, TUNNELS AND 1949 1957 1961 1974 1981 1988 1992 1993 1994 URBAN ROADS Puente Sifón Puente Belisario Domínguez Ferrocarril Puente El Incienso, (GUA) Puente Coatzacoalcos Puente Tampico Carreteras concesionadas Puente Mezcala Puente El Zacatal Barranca Honda Crossing bridge with a span Chihuahua-Pacífico Span of more than 200m Cable-stayed bridge, traffic of Communicates Tamaulipas Land communication between 160m over the Balsas River Communication between the Atasta Communicating Uruapan and of 88 meters 63 km of track through 18,000 vehicles a day and Veracruz 9 Mexican cities Peninsula and Isla del Carmen Apatzingán the Western Sierra Madre (CALICA) 1994 Autopista Guadalajara-Tepic 1999 Corredor Sur Panamá, (PAN) 2002 Puente de Chiapas 2012 Autopista Urbana Río de 2014 Autopista Nuevo NecaxaCorredor Norte Libramiento de Tepic Ampliación de la Autopista Avenida Domingo Díaz Autopista Mitla-Tehuantepec First ecological highway in Mexico 3,200 direct jobs Reduced travel time between Tuxtla los Remedios – Ecatepec Tihuatlán Under construction (PAN) Under construction del Mayab Mérida-Cancún Under construction (PAN) Under construction Gutiérrez and Mexico City by 5 hours 13,000 vehicles per day benefiting Benefits 12 million users 10.2 km of 4-lane highway Pacific Region competitiveness Communicates tourist zone of Benefits 600,000 inhabitants Communication between Salina Cruz, 8 million people Mayan Riviera Oaxaca and neighboring regions 2014 Under construction PORTS: PORTS AND 2014 Centro de Tecnología para Aguas Profundas Boca del Río Paquete Carretero Five labs and other buildings over 20.89 hectares Sonora Norte MARINE WORKS 1995 797 km of highway connecting Hermosillo, Nogales and Puerto Peñasco Autopista Barranca-Larga Autopista Palmillas-Apaseo Internacional de Contenedores Ampliación del Canal de Ampliación Portuaria Petrolera Terminal de Contenedores Ventanilla El Grande, Under construction Asociados de Veracruz (ICAVE) Panamá PAC-4 del Atlántico RECOPE TEC II Lázaro Cárdenas Under construction Communicates Mexico City, Bajío Handles 80% of containers at Under construction (PAN) Under construction (CRC) Under construction Reduces travel time between Oaxaca and northern region of Mexico Port of Veracruz 2.8 km of access canal Automated unloading of oil, gasoline To increase annual yield by 1.2 teus and Puerto Escondido by 2 hours and diesel AIRPORTS: INTEGRATED AIRPORTS, 2015 Aeropuerto de Culiacán 2015 Aeropuerto de Mazatlán WATER: AQUEDUCTS, CANALS, DEEP DRAINAGE, Average annual growth of 9.5 % Expansion and remodeling WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANTS, RUNWAYS, TERMINAL in passengers of 4,800 m² 2006 2010 1962 1978 1979 BUILDINGS, SYSTEMS, FRESHWATER AND SEWAGE SYSTEMS, LOGISTICAL AND RESERVOIRS COMMERCIAL SPACES Terminal 2 del Aeropuerto Terminal B del Aeropuerto Presa La Soledad Acueducto Río ColoradoDrenaje Profundo Internacional de la Ciudad Internacional de Monterrey First dam with a vaulted arch Tijuana Network of more than 80 km de México 2 million passengers a year concrete curtain First water supply for the city of tunnels Doubled air traffic capacity at Mexico City 2013 Planta de Tratamiento de Aguas 2015 Acueducto El Realito 2014 Túnel Gran Canal 2015 Túnel Churubusco–Xochiaca 2015 Presa Santa María 2014 Acueducto Monterrey VI Residuales Agua Prieta Supply of fresh water to more 7.9 km long, prevents flooding 13 km long, prevents flooding 24,250 hectares for developing 3896 km long, between San Luis 15,300 liters per second than 800,000 inhabitants of in the MCMA in the MCMA southern region of Sinaloa Potosí, Veracruz, Tamaulipas 2011 San Luis Potosí and Nuevo León Acueducto II Planta de Tratamiento de Túnel Interceptor Norte Túnel Emisor Oriente 47 million m³ a year of water Aguas Residuales Atotonilco Río Medellín Under construction. Under construction Under construction (COL) The largest project of its type (62 km Treatment Plant Capacity: 11 to 58% Part of the Medellin River long), benefiting 20 million people Remediation Program ENERGY: HYDROELECTRIC, COMBINED-CYCLE AND 1964 1974 1980 1986 1989 1994 1994 1995 1995 ALTERNATIVE ENERGY: WIND, GEOTHERMAL, AND MINI-HYDRO PLANTS Hidroeléctrica El Infiernillo Central Hidroeléctrica Presa Hidroeléctrica Presa Hidroeléctrica Planta Nucleoeléctrica de Central Termoeléctrica Central Hidroeléctrica Proyecto Hidroeléctrico Huites Planta Hidroeléctrica de Capacity for 710 million m³ Alto Anchicayá (COL) Chicoasén (GUA) San Carlos (COL) Laguna Verde Adolfo López Mateos, Tuxpan Aguamilpa 4.57 billion m³ of water Temascal 140m high, 300m long curtain Fourth most productive Storage capacity of 72,000 m³ First and only plant built in Mexico Largest generator of energy from Storage capacity of 6.95 billion m³ Dam on an 8 million m³ lake hydroelectric plant in the world renewable resource of water UNDERGROUND WORKS: MASS TRANSIT: TUNNELS (URBAN, HIGHWAY, DRAINAGE), METROS, FOUNDATIONS AND SPECIALIZED SOIL TREATMENTS LIGHT TRAINS, 1998 2006 2007 2012 1983 1996 1969 METRO-BUSES Planta de Ciclo Combinado, Hidroeléctrica Caruachi (VEN) Central Hidroeléctrica Planta Hidroeléctrica la Yesca Alcantarillado de la Ciudad Maxitúnel, Acapulco Metro de la Ciudad de México Samalayuca II Serves 12 % of country’s El Cajón Second largest hydroelectric power de Mérida Longest highway tunnel in Mexico 60,000 passengers per hour 700MW Combined Cycle electricity demand Benefits 20,000 inhabitants plant in the world Wastewater treatment for in each direction Power Plant from 40 communities 3,500 hectares 66 67 2014 Tren Interurbano México-Toluca Longest tunnel in the country at 4.63km SOCIAL FACILITIES: HOSPITALS, 2014 Túnel Acapulco II PENITENTIARIES, 1994 2012 1952 1955 1961 1962 1964 SCHOOLS AND UNIVERSITIES, 3.3km long, benefiting more than 50,000 inhabitants 2014 STADIUMS AND OTHER Metro de Monterrey Línea 12 del Metro de Línea 3 Tramo 3 del Metro de Santiago de Chile Ciudad Universitaria PUBLIC BUILDINGS Estadio Olímpico Universitario Hotel María Isabel Unidad Independencia Conjunto Urbano Nonoalco400,000 users a day la Ciudad de México 22 new stations on the mass transit system Designed unesco Heritage Home of the 1968 Olympic 77m high Designated Artistic Monument by Tlatelolco 430,000 passengers a day of Humanity Games in Mexico Mexican Arts Institute inba 11,916 homes 1966 Estadio Azteca 1966 Torre de la Secretaría de 1968 Palacio de los Deportes 1968 Torre de Telecomunicaciones Villa Olímpica Libertador 1976 Basílica de Guadalupe 1989 Biblioteca México 1993 Papalote Museo del Niño 2002 Estadio Pachuca 2003 Coliseo de Puerto Rico (PR) Seats 105,000 spectators Relaciones Exteriores Geodesic dome with 17 levels of de la Secretaría de Miguel Hidalgo 20 million visitors a year Restoration of an 18th century 40 million visitors since its opening Capacity for 25,000 spectators Capacity for 18,000 spectators 24 floors, 120 meters high seating, 100m high Comunicaciones y Transportes 23 towers and 904 residence units building First satellite service station OIL AND GAS: REFINERIES, CHEMICAL AND PETROCHEMICAL PLANTS, NATURAL GAS PROCESSING FACILITIES, 2006 2007 2010 1979 1983 2000 2011 2012 MARINE PLATFORMS, GAS AND OIL PIPELINES AND OIL FIELD SERVICES Hospital General Dr Enrique Museo Universitario de Arte Estadio Omnilife Sistema Nacional Troncal Gasoducto Santa FePlanta de Nitrógeno de Refinería Lázaro Cárdenas Planta Criogénica 1 Poza Rica Cabrera Contemporáneo Capacity for 45,500 spectators de Gas Buenos Aires (ARG) Cantarell Minatitlán 200 million ft³ of sweet wet gas Benefits 850,000 inhabitants 400,000 visitors a year Connecting oil fields in Veracruz, Largest industrial corridor Largest nitrogen plant in the world Third largest refinery in Mexico Tabasco and Chiapas in Argentina 2013 Residuales Refinería de Tula Storage of up to 8.5 million barrels of 2013 DuPont Altamira L2 New production line at Altamira, Tamaulipas MINING: CONSTRUCTION INDUSTRY: STEEL AND CEMENT gasoline and diesel 2014 2014 SERVICES FOR MINING INDUSTRY PLANTS, 2012 2014 1983 AND MINING FACILITIES iNDUSTRIAL AND MUNICIPAL Planta Coquizadora Tula Gasoducto Los Ramones Sur Recovery of waste with capacity of 86,000 bbd 291.7 km long, capacity of 1.42 billion ft³ per day WASTE HANDLING, Pemex Gasolinas Limpias, Complejo Etileno XXI San Martín, (PER) El Boleo AND OTHER Planta de Hule Sintético Under construction Terracerías, Under construction Strategic alliance for mining Construction of a MUNICIPAL PLANTS Negromex Increase in production of One million metric tons of operation and quarry copper-cobalt-zinc mine Pioneer in industrial low-sulfur gasoline ethylene and polyethylene exploitation services petrochemicals REAL-ESTATE DEVELOPMENT: HOTELS AND TOURIST RESORTS, INDUSTRIAL PARKS, AFFORDABLE ENTRY-LEVEL AND RESIDENTIAL HOUSING, 1986 1949 1956 1965 1969 1976 1978 MIXED-USE DEVELOPMENTS, OFFICES AND PARKING FACILITIES Calizas Industriales Proyecto Fénix de AHMSA, Centro Urbano Presidente Ciudad Satélite Parque Industrial Querétaro Plaza Universidad Heroico Colegio Militar Corporativo IBM del Carmen Under construction Alemán First model of de-centralized First industrial park in Mexico, First shopping mall in Mexico First urban-military complex 8,500 m² of office space Export of limestone from 5 million metric tons of steel First multi-family public housing urban development with 347 hectares Quintana Roo to United States a year development in Mexico Under construction Residencial Reserva Escondida Incorporation of eco-technologies Under construction 1979 1979 1979 1979 1987 1989 1993 2003 2012 Aak-Bal Campeche Recovery of mangroves Centro Operativo Bancomer Torre Citibank Centro de Convenciones y Hotel Sheraton Cancún Hotel Nikko Hotel Radisson Perisur Hotel Westin Los Cabos Torre Mayor Centro Internacional de Under construction 100,000 m² of surface area 86m high Turismo de Panamá (PAN) Creation of a new tourist 44 floors, 143m high 250 rooms on 10 floors 243 rooms Highest tower in Mexico City: 225m Convenciones de Los Cabos Campus ICA build for office space Capacity for 3,000 visitors destination Largest green wall in the world: Integration and renovation of 2,700 m² a new sustainable space PREFABRICATION: STRUCTURAL ELEMENTS, INDUSTRIAL AUTOMATION: SAFETY CONTROL SYSTEMS, 2015 Hospital Materno Infantil Ciudad del Carmen Expansion with technological and data resources COATINGS, FACADES; OTHER AUTOMATION AND CONTROL SYSTEMS, 2015 Laboratorio Túnel del Viento 2012 2013 1997 2011 PREFABRICATED HOMES PROJECT MODELING AND CONTROL First Center for Training and Innovation at unam AND HOUSING ELEMENTS Reforma 27 Ciudad Natura Conjunto Calakmul Hospital General 1,700 m² of botanical diversity 2,000 housings Intelligent, automated building Dr. Manuel Gea González Automation and conversion of smog into non-toxic salts 68 69 We build and operate the full infrastructure cycle G4-8 Our Civil Construction segment specializes in infrastructure projects in Mexico, building roads, highways, underground transport, bridges, ports, hydroelectric plants, penitentiaries, tunnels, canals and airports. It also builds, develops and remodels residential, office and retail space in urban zones. Other activities include demolition, clearing, excavation, drainage, pumping, landfill, concrete structure building, concrete and asphalt paving, mining services and tunnels. This segment is the third phase of our business model, after promotion and financial structuring, when we develop the technical proposal and sustainability 4.0 CONSTRUCTION criteria. We have latest-generation technology, specialized machinery, innovative techniques and multi-disciplinary teams, so we can provide the best quality and resource optimization. 01. G4-9 Our construction division had a backlog of 36,957 million pesos of work at the close of 2014, 16 % more than in 2013, and equivalent to 18 months of sales at the 2014 pace of execution. New additions and updates to the backlog during the year totaled 22,437 million pesos, primarily relating to the Technology Center contract in Veracruz and the Santa María dam. Projects overseas accounted for 11 % of our backlog. In 2014, we began some transcendental projects that embody our commitment to equity investment in infrastructure based on our leadership in 02. highway projects. We completed the National Oncology Tower at the National Oncology Institute of Mexico City, with highly specialized clinics and hospital facilities designed and created to serve patients suffering from cancer. EC7 Projects opened in 2014 LOCATION KM/CAPACITY BENEFIT 01. Mexico-Tuxpan Highway, Necaxa-Avila Camacho segment PROMOTION, STRUCTURING AND FINANCE Puebla 37km 7,500 vehicles a day 02. El Mayab highway, Tintal-Playa del Carmen segment Quintana Roo 61km 2,400 vehicles a day 03. 03. National Oncology Institute, Hospital Tower Mexico City 61 beds 5.8 % increase in service 04. Widening of Avenida Domingo Díaz Panama City 12.1km 70,000 vehicles a day • Supplier and subcontractor relations and development • Shared social value F Financial 01-05 • Environmental management • Innovation 04. Mitla Tehuantepec, Puente Lachiguiri Highway Oaxaca, Oaxaca 70 71 PROJECTS UNDER CONSTRUCTION Approximately 11 % of our civil construction backlog EC7 In 2014 we started the operation of some major works while picking up the We create infrastructure is in foreign currency. This increase in international pace of work and improving performance in our projects under construction. that transforms and endures projects is concentrated mainly in the United States, The Palmillas-Apaseo El Grande Highway is one of the most important of these, a after our purchase of Facchina Construction Group. four-lane, 86.5km long highway that runs between the states of Querétaro Facchina's current projects in the United States are and Guanajuato. As of today, we have active fronts along the 44km available One of our most representative works is the Emisor Le Parc, Apollo Residences at Town Center, the Grove for construction in this project, with a general status of 20 % complete. The MitOriente Tunnel, 62m long, 7m in diameter, with 35 at Grand Bay and the MD4 Forestville Road. la-Tehuantepec Interchange highway, which will run for 169km across the metric tons of weight per ring, and vent shafts state of Oaxaca, is 43 % complete. The project will improve and modernize the between 55 and 150 meters deep. This project, EC7 Among the new project contracts we added in road connection between the industrial port of Salina Cruz and central Oaxaca. the largest infrastructure work of its type in the 2014 was the Canal General Tunnel, 7.8km long, the Also in the Isthmus of Tehuantepec region, the Barranca Larga-Ventanilla highway, world, is 65% complete, and the first segment is Churubusco-Xochiaca tunnel, 13km long, the Mexico 104km long, will provide a closer connection between Puerto Escondido y Bahías 100 % complete. City-Toluca Railway Tunnel, 4.6km long, the Montede Huatulco with the state capital of Oaxaca. rrey VI Aqueduct, 372km long, and the Deepwater In 2014 we completed work on the Atotonilco Exploration Lab, with engineering, procurement As of 2014, 23 million m³ of earth had been moved between laying the roadbed and Wastewater Treatment Plant, the largest in Latin and construction of five laboratories and compleforming the embankments, out of a total of 33 million m³. We have completed America, with a workforce of more than 1,700. The mentary works. Furthermore, in the last quarter of the placement of 362 drainage works to be built, equivalent to 80 % of the total project is being built by a consortium involving the year, we were awarded a major contract, in to be executed. Another major project now under way is the Scenic Bypass in ICA, carso and dycusa, and will be complete in early recognition of our dam building experiences: under Acapulco, which is being built in partnership with carso. The project involves 2015. The imss General Hospital in León, Guanajuato, a unit-price fixed-term contract, ICA won the public building a 3.3km tunnel wide enough for three lanes of traffic, and a 4.7km a 250-bed facility with an 8,000 metric tons steel tender to build the Santa María Reservoir, with a road including four interchanges in the city itself. At the close of 2014, the structure, is also well under way, at 73% complete. storage capacity of 980 million m³ of water. work was 35 % complete. 72 73 4.1 SUPPLIER AND SUBCONTRACTOR RELATIONS AND DEVELOPMENT S·R Social and Relational 03-05 We value and promote the development of our strategic partners Global trends in supply chain management for the infrastructure industry focus G4-12 on managing risks and creating programs that promote supplier development. EC8 In this spirit, and to strengthen relations with our suppliers and subcontractors by complying with codes of ethics and conduct, our 2014 strategy focused on transparency and respect of human and labor rights, anti-corruption practices and sustainable development in project efficiency and operation based on the following initiatives: SUPPLIER DEVELOPMENT: Comprehensive development process focused on improving companies’ competitiveness (in 2014 we worked with small and mid-sized enterprises and followed up on the Management Systems Training ECONOMIES OF SCALE: Program of 2013). Savings of up to 3 % in operation of purchasing and subcontracts by applying the strategic supply methodology. PROCUREMENT STRATEGY ICA Fluor G4-8 Since 1993, this joint venture between ICA and Fluor Corporation PROFESSIONALIZATION: CENTRALIZATION OF FUNCTIONS: Academic program for developing our people’s Process standardization to improve purchasing has been working on Engineering, Procurement and Construction skills in order to create career plans based on and subcontracting procedures, (epc) projects in Mexico, Central America and the Caribbean, for their performance and experience. increasing business-oriented productivity and customer service (aligned with the UNIFICA clients in the automotive, chemical and petrochemical, manuproject and Business Service Center in order to promote effectiveness in facturing and electronics, mining and metals, oil and gas, energy all purchasing and generation, pipeline and telecommunications industries. ICA Fluor subcontracting processes). has executed more than 150 comprehensive epc projects over its 22-year history. Sales by ICA Fluor have doubled every five years, and return on investment for the parent companies has been more than 2000 %. In 2014, ICA Fluor completed some major projects, such as the El Boleo mining company in Baja California The four defined pillars of our procurement strategy are aligned We resized suppliers and subcontractors as Sur, the environmental remediation of Tinajas at the Cananea with one of ICA’s strategic capacities to reach the planned level a Strategic Sector in 2014 mine in Sonora; the gas compression system at the Dos Bocas on the Sustainability Maturity Model and taking into account the Marine Terminal in Tabasco; and the Tizimin and Ayatsil platforms phases of our supply chain. Based on the results of Governance, 2013 293 at Los Patios, Veracruz. In 2015 work will be completed on the Risk and Compliance (grc) enhancement measures of 2013 to 2014 327 Etileno XXI, Dupont, Los Patios Dow Chemical, and Madero Clean increase the number of suppliers and subcontractors, this year Diesel projects; and work will begin on contracts awarded in 2014: we developed initiatives and took action to promote their sustainable Our evaluation was based on the following criteria: the coking plant at the Miguel Hidalgo Refinery in Tula; the development, ongoing improvement and risk management. We • Companies with performance score of more than 80 points manufacturing and procurement services of 13 crude oil extracresized suppliers and subcontractors as a Strategic Sector in • Current documentation in the suppliers pool, quality and tion platforms at the El Empalme plant in Tampico, Tamaulipas 2014, increasing their number from 293 in 2013 to 327 in 2014. service rendered to projects (in cooperation with Shell Canada Energy), the Ramones II Sur • Approval of purchasing and subcontracting managers. Gas pipeline; and the PMC Supervision of the Clean Gasolines • Feedback from employees who work directly with the companies plant in Minatitlán. on the projects. 74 75 02 04 social-Relational Capital G4-12 07 01 03 05 06 SUPPLY CHAIN 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 A package of documents, plans, Planning the requirements for Defining the scope of the client’s Process of selecting the companies Signing the purchase order or Ensures adherence to Full completion of all standards, permits, etc. that ICA materials and services that will needs, such as manufacturing that will strengthen the supply service contract based on administrative and financial the processes involved in obtains upon winning a be used during project execution; and supply programs, chain and who will share the risks the plan, assembling processes based on the supply chain. competitive bidding or project this plan is subject to update compliance and specifications; to ensure compliance with internal the documents, supports and agreements established in assignment. Planning begins during the project's the technical team, suppliers policies on meeting clients authorizations required, in the purchase order or service based on this information. development. and specialists participate in needs, and taking maximum addition to the payment plan contract itself. defining in detail the materials advantage of their capacities or financial scheme. and services to be requested. and strengths. 2014 MEETING OF ICA SUPPLIERS AND CONTRACTORS On September 18, 2014, we held a meeting with 189 G4-12 companies (88 suppliers and 101 subcontractors) that in 2013 accounted for 73% of the total amount of ICA’s purchasing and subcontracting expense. The event focused on compliance with ICA policies, After identifying these strategic suppliers, we mapped the purchase and EN32 processes and procedures; risk mitigation actions; subcontracting processes, the result of which was the planning and creation of LA14 and signing the Code of Ethics by commercial a Vendor Risk Management (vrm) tool to administer the commercial relationship HR10 partners. The commitments acquired were: technical based on indicators that measure these companies’ performance against ICA SO9 support and advice for companies, joint participation guidelines, rules and policies. This tool will be applied in 2015, and will be used in competitive bidding and public tenders, meetings to create an ICA Supplier Profile (goods or services) according to the size of its on the issues of sustainability, innovation, processes operations, its risks and historic performance, organized into five categories and product development; administrative improof partner: strategic, principal, technical, basic project and generic. Thus, we vement and streamlining for drafting and processing can determine their critical level and measure their financial capacities for contracts, and setting up a past account payment operation and logistics, their use of management systems (quality, safety program. and environment), anti-corruption practices and compliance with the Federal Law on Preventing and Identifying Transactions with Illegal Resources, Corporate ENDEAVOR MEXICO ALLIANCE Social Responsibility and value-added services that benefit users. To strengthen ICA’s Comprehensive Supplier and EN32 528 subcontractors reviewed in 2014 SUPPLIERS REVIEWED UNDER ENVIRONMENTAL CRITERIA EC9 SUBCONTRACTS MANAGED 5.01 BILLION PESOS Subcontractor Development Program, developed together with the Mexican Center for Competitiveness, in October we began an alliance with Endeavor The evaluation criteria for suppliers is determined by project, identifying EN32 In total contracts Jan-Dec 2014 Mexico for the economic and sustainable development 38 new suppliers and subcontractors reviewed in 2014 suppliers that according to the size of purchasing in a given quarter have been the main suppliers of the period (also includes direct requests by the Project Manager). Evaluations are managed through the ICActiva website. 173 MILLION PESOS Total amount managed in 2014 of companies. The ICA Endeavor Partner Project, which begins in March 2015, will identify 18 of the company’s strategic partners, seven of which will undergo an intensive 12-month program to strengthen 556 suppliers reviewed in 2014 EC9 Summary of subcontractor management Proportion of expenses paid to local suppliers in sites with significant operations the capacities of dynamic, innovative and talented entrepreneurs. *During the meeting, performance certificates were given to 15 companies as ICA Strategic Partners: Transportes y Grúas Especializadas PHEVAC; MXN1.32 BN 26.37 % Concretos Lanzados Construcciones; BiiA Biología Integral en Impacto Ambiental; Fraccionadora Alga; Constructora Industrial Metálica; Concreto Especializado Industrial; Alfher Porcewol; Doka México; Constructora Baspec; Estructuras Franyo; Movimientos de Asfalto; Mitsubishi Electric de México; Sanirent de México; Servicios de Ingeniería y Confort Ambiental and Unispan de México. 76 77 EN1 MATERIALS USED BY WEIGHT AND VOLUME 4.2 SHARED SOCIAL VALUE PRODUCT UNIT HISTORIC HISTORIC VOLUME VALUE We are committed to progress and to management of the social environment 2012 2013 2014 2014 Steel ton 121,461 43,627 28,769.91 $ 269,037,547.33 In Mexico, the concept of Corporate Social Responsibility has evolved over the Concrete m³ 1,147.784 407,892 425,290.81 $ 695,079,468.44 last 10 years, from a matter of simple philanthropy to one of value creation within the business strategy. According to Michael E. Porter’s theory of shared Fuel lts 51,631,278 57,606,710 64,986,469.69 $ 736,023,875.64 S·R Social and Relational 03-05 value, the challenge for companies is to create economic value in such away Asphalt ton 98,647 35,418 1,498,816.19 $ 378,058,167.84 that value is also created for society, by meetings its needs and challenges. Lumber m³ 9,971 4,617 12,997.92 $ 134,071,475.78 So companies must connect their success in business with social progress. Tires pzas 8,179 6,756 7,995.00 $ 54,914,331.62 At ICA, we understand that managing the social environment requires constant First, there are our Social Engagement programs, TOTAL AMOUNT $ 2,267,184,866.65 engagement with the community and shared social value. consisting in turn of two initiatives to provide clear and timely information on the project’s impliMillions of Pesos TOTAL SO1 We know that our operations affect society and the environment in the places cations for the community. EC9 2014 TOTAL AMOUNT SUBCONTRACTED 5,014 5,172 where we work. As a leader in sustainable infrastructure, we introduce efficient, ongoing programs for the short, medium and long terms, measuring their impact and generating shared value for the company and the communities to TOTAL AMOUNT PURCHASED 2,267 2,282 which we contribute our experience. Aware of the benefits ICA’s activities can 7,281 7,454 have for the sustainable development of countries and regions where we work, we designed a strategy of social management and responsibility to EN1 encourage cooperation and mutual benefit for communities as part of our Additional Materials value proposal. Managing the social environment is a commitment all of this PRODUCT UNIT 2014 VOLUME 2014 VALUE company’s employees assume, and the various initiatives of our social Landfill, paving materials m³ 198,086.00 $51.540,026.50 programs are organized into two areas. Chemicals lts 2,944.00 $32,533,785.06 Agglutinants ton 36,482.59 $54,966,574.09 Explosives ton 2,879 $4,187,382.20 1. HELLO NEIGHBOR In the starting phase, presentations are organized HELLO to describe the nature and scope of the project to NEIGHBOR MANAGING THE SOCIAL neighboring communities ENVIRONMENT ENGAGEMENT PROGRAMS SOCIAL PROJECT RESPONSIBILITY INFORMATION PROGRAMS Fuel Breakdown: Diesel Fuel Breakdown: Unleaded Gasoline EN3 MXN 644,711,016.36 MXN 98,381,466.87 EDUCATION Adopt a School National Institute for 2. PROJECT INFORMATION In the construction and operation phase, each project LITERS 56,608,481.89 LITERS 8,896,610.41 Adult Education ( INEA) ICA HELP has an information module that is open for the Bring a School Closer Upgrading EMPLOYABILITY public spaces duration of the project. The module provides orienHiring local Volunteer corps In-office training ICA Health tation and accurate information on the project Employment of vulnerable groups Civil Protection status. ICA Environment 78 79 social-RELATIONAL Capital social-RELATIONAL Capital Working together on a common front of dialogue and cooperation The second major area of involvement for our social programs are social responsibility initiatives, which break down into three essential categories: employability, education, and ICA HELP. These initiatives support local economic development, strengthen commitment to the company and its objectives among personnel, and ensure a diverse workplace. SO1 3. ICA HELP Depending on each specific community’s needs and requests, we have the following programs: Upgrading public spaces; Volunteer corps; ICA Health, Civil Protection; and ICA Environment. These initiatives are aimed at improving the quality of life in communities, sharing best practices, ALLIANCE WITH INEA creating jobs and involving communities in our projects. They also build OMA SO1 In 2014, ICA renewed its alliance with the National stronger ties with neighbors and communities, extend the useful life of In recognition of its social initiatives, OMA was SO1 Institute for Adult Education (inea) as a sign of its materials and furniture in vacant offices, involve employees in ICA’s social included on the list of “Great Places to Work” and ongoing commitment to education and training commitment, generating a sense of belonging, and take advantage of was also designated a Drug-Free Workplace for for its employees, their families and the commu1. EMPLOYABILITY projects’ ability to further our social license to operate. ICA Fluor came out the fourth year in a row, and a Socially Responsible nities where we work. Educational and technical This strategic area includes the following initiatives: hiring local personnel, in support of the victims of hurricane Odile in Baja California by organizing company for the seventh year in a row by the development for employees has been part of this specific in-office training for employees and community members, and serving a food supply collection program that gathered half a metric ton of goods. Mexican Center for Philanthropy. The Zacatecas company’s philosophy since its founding. as en employment option for differently-abled people. airport obtained the Inclusive Company distinction ICA’s volunteer corps is one of the most popular channels for social partifrom the Ministry of Labor and Social Planning; In September 2009, ICA formalized this vision cipation by its employees, one of its most successful programs is the and the Reynosa, Ciudad Juárez and Torreón through an educational agreement with inea, which book collection to promote reading and education in Mexico. In 2014, we airports all obtained Family-Responsible Company has benefited more than 2,900 employees to date. donated more than 12,000 books to various schools and communities certifications. With the signing of this agreement, ICA pledges to surrounding ICA projects, and to strategic alliances throughout the country. promote free and voluntary participation by its With these activities, we are continually strengthening and improving employees in the program, and to provide spaces our social management. for adult education at its project sites. inea in turn INTERNATIONAL is responsible for providing conditions in each state BOOK DONATED ICA extended its social responsibility initiatives to SO1 for appropriate continuing educational services. RECOLLECTION BOOKS BENEFICIARIES its offshore operations in 2014, and among the first With this alliance, ICA and inea reaffirm their com2010 4,000 Libraries of Mexico City and the Gustavo A. of these, in partnership with our associated firm mitment to educating young people and adults, Madero Delegation Los Portales, was development of the third PlayPark helping to expand workers’ possibilities for advan2011 8,259 Ministry of Public Safety in Peru. Its purpose is to revive public spaces by cement and promoting Mexico’s competitiveness 2. EDUCATION 2012 15,718 conalep, through the Mexican Senate contributing infrastructure, training neighbors to through education. This strategic area includes the following programs: Adopt a school, which Fundación Hogares maintain them, and encourage volunteer work. involves conducting a study of the needs of schools near our projects to find 2013 19,575 Mitla Tehuantepec and Barranca Larga projects, Our challenge in 2015 will be to continue these ways to make the greatest and most lasting impact; our alliance with the Oaxaca BioPappel (used textbooks, magazines, etc.) efforts and promote activities relating to our manual National Institute for Adult Education (inea), which helps close Mexico’s educational 2014 12,088 Ejutla-Oaxaca Project for creating social value in all our international gap, and Bring a School Closer, which involves organizing visits to projects by projects. students enrolled in related fields. These measures help form human capital for the future, based on improving the educational infrastructure fro communities and training future engineers and infrastructure specialists. It also inspires trust in the surrounding community, ensures a better-prepared workforce and the talent needed to guarantee the company’s success and endurance. 80 81 social-RELATIONAL Capital INTELLECTUAL CAPITAL ALLIANCE WITH German We raise awareness and create incentives Corporation for International for our employees through shared Cooperation (giz) social value programs G4-15 As members of the Emerging Market Multinationals G4-24 Network for Sustainability and the German Institute SO1 In 2014 we strengthened our alliance with Club Universidad Nacional, for Development Cooperation (giz) which have more A.C. to link educational actions with employee activities and thus help than 90 member companies from around the world, motivate and encourage volunteer programs. We also introduced comICA was selected to share best social environment pany-wide initiatives to promote family togetherness and values through management practices in the infrastructure free visits to museums (583 people in 2014, including employees and industry. We created a strategic alliance with giz and family members) and bike rides (150 people). In the first half of 2015 we the Research Development Center (cidac) to docuwill launch a program called “Sponsor a Child” (program to support children ment our programs and activities. The study will from homes and orphanages linked to the National System for Comprebe published in June 2015 as a guide for other hensive Family Development (dif). companies in the industry. Managing the social environment Number of social MANUAL FOR IMPLEMENTING program projects 241 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY ACTIONS Total investment Based on our strategic objectives, in 2014 we updated and strengthened the SO2 in social programs $6,644,874.53 NUEVO NECAXA-TIHUATLÁN guidelines of our manual on implementing social responsibility programs, Bring a School closer $433,017.23 SEGMENT, MEXICO CITY-TUXPAN which contains practical information on setting up and executing initiatives Adopt a School $12,500.00 HIGHWAY with communities and stakeholders, forging strategic alliances to achieve a Running for 85 km between Nuevo Necaxa and EC7 ICA Help $6,089,574.30 vision of shared value. Tihautlán, this highway crosses the Western Sierra SO1 ICA Environment $33,366.00 Madre, through the states of Puebla and Veracruz, Amount invested per social program ICA Health $6,770.00 and is part of the 283 km-long Mexico City-Tuxpan ICA Volunteer corps $53,477.00 highway, the main road connecting the nation’s National Institute for $16,170.00 capital with the Gulf of Mexico. The highway shortens Adult Education inea travel times from 4 hours to 2 hours and 40 minutes, $6,644,874.53 and was opened on September 17, 2014. Given the Number of work hours scale of this project, and aware of the tremendous devoted to program 408 horas social challenge of this area , ICA developed a set execution WHAT WHO HOW of initiatives in 2014 that exemplify its commitAll ICA projects must Social responsibility Social responsibility Bring a School closer 150 ment to the community. In the area of education, implement the engagement activities must be carried activities must be part of program and at least out by ICA personnel. the Starting and Execution Adopt a School 48 environmental education programs were provided two social responsibility External personnel, Plan for the projects, and ICA Help 148 in 13 municipalities of Puebla and Veracruz; more programs, from the starting consultants or companies must be incorporated into VIVE ICA phase through closing. cannot be hired for this the budget, because the Number of work hours ICA Environment 86 than 150 visits for 10,000 undergraduate and S01 Vive ICA , our housing development subsidiary, purpose. expenses will be charged to per program Master’s degree students were coordinated, and Social responsibility the project itself. ICA Health 86 focused its efforts on community education in order programs will be chosen Each project must have a cooperation and research agreement were signed ICA Volunteer corps 14 to support their advancement and raise awareness, according to the type of Social Committee, led by All social responsibility with the Instituto Tecnológico Superior de Huachiproject, the social impact, the project manager. actions must be aligned National Institute for 26 mostly at the Ciudad Natura project. Through the relations with stakeholders The committee will review with ICA’s strategy and the Adult Education inea nango, Puebla. Service roads and streets were paved “Adopt a School” program, training and talks were and the established scope. the results of social objectives of the Social in various Puebla communities, such as San Agustín, responsibility programs Committee, have a clear Number of beneficiaries 1,315,157 given to schoolchildren about crime, drug addiction Cuaxicala, Tepapaclaxco, Teteloloya, Hula and Plan every quarter. objective, be transparent Bring a School closer 320 and bullying, and for parents and communities, and viable, contribute value de Ayala, among others. Road signs and emergency civil protection and health care. A total of 12 talks for the company, and obtain Adopt a School 4,145 meeting points were set up in San Agustín and measurable results. were given in 2014 in schools located near the ICA Help 1,272.114 Teteloloya, and 300 meters of electrical cable project, and 17 inea certificates were given out to Number of beneficiaries ICA Environment 24,973 were donated to the Cuaxicala Health Center in primary and secondary schools. per program ICA Health 3,941 Puebla. Streets and Plazas were cleaned in Xicotepec ICA Volunteer corps 9,470 and San Agustín. National Institute for 194 Adult Education inea 82 83 social-RELATIONAL Capital S02 KANTUNIL-CANCUN HIGHWAY The Kantunil-Cancun highway, opened on November 4.3 ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT 26, 2014, faced many social and environmental challenges, making this project unique. In cooperaWe promote sustainable operating efficiency N Natural 03-05 tion with the non-profit organization Amigos de Sian Ka’an and Universidad del Caribe, we conducted At ICA, we have adapted to the challenges of climate change and trends that an economic and social diagnosis of communities are transforming the infrastructure industry. Because of climate change and in the municipality of Lázaro Cárdenas, where the its implications for the availability of the natural resources we need to operate, ENERGY INTENSITY Tintal-Playa del Carmen branch road was built. To together with the growth of the population and definition of public policies and Energy intensity is reflected in the organization’s support education in the region, we provided basic collective actions to mitigate and reverse the negative effects of climate change, energy consumption based on its energy efficiency. education to workers in an alliance with the inea; we had to think “out of the box” and come up with innovative solutions. Recently We have decided that the denominator will be adopted two schools in the Xuch community, and approved reforms and laws, together with related legislation like the Regulations work force. The data used for Workforce were provided created the Bernardo Quintana Exhibit Center, a on the General Law on Climate change for the National Emissions Registry, are by the organization’s occupational health and safety space on the service island where craftsmen from signs of this increasing environmental regulation in Mexico. commission, and are reported each month to the the municipalities of Valladolid and Temozón can authorities, making this an ideal figure for using display and sell their wares. The volunteer corps Although the energy and tax reforms approved in 2013 will stimulate the OPTIMIZATION OF ENERGY CONSUMPTION as the denominator for our energy intensity inteorganized a PET bottle collection at various locations economy in the long run, they are accompanied by secondary laws and reguAND REDUCTION OF GHG EMISSIONS grator through 2016. along the works to donate to the village of Leona lations that affect our operations. We make it a policy to act in advance of legal Vicario, which exchanged them for school furniture requirements and adhere to international best practices. Today we are At ICA we are continually working to improve our processes, adapt to climate Workforce EN5 as part of the “ECOCE” program; collected used tires for donation to the municipality of Solidaridad, for conversion into soles for shoes made by needy working on improving processes that affect the environment and our value chain in order to make our operations more efficient, prevent and mitigate risk, reduce costs, and maximize added value throughout all our projects and change strategies, and pursue our vision of obtaining the same goods and services with the same efficiency, but expending less energy. 31,302 people under the “Llantatón” program organized by corporate offices. In 2014 we focused considerable effort on one of our strategic Our energy consumption depends heavily–almost 80 %–on fossil fuels, priEnergy Intensity the state ministry of Ecology and Urban Development; donated 942 trees; and painted the Alborada Center in Mérida. objectives, which is to optimize our environmental management. This objective in turn contains various initiatives with performance indicators that contribute information on the improvements identified and implemented in our projects. marily from non-renewable sources. There is no optimum balance between energy expenditure and final product, bearing in mind the following: • Total energy sales in the world account for almost 3 % of global gdp. 260.64 GJ/FT • Energy consumption in transportation accounts for around 20 % ENERGY SAVINGS DUE of total consumption. TO CONSERVATION, EFFICIENCY • Less than 10 % of the world’s energy sources are renewable. IMPROVEMENTS AND • Today, the construction industry consumes around 37 % of the energy INITIATIVES FOR REDUCING generated. INDIRECT CONSUMPTION ICA places a priority on mitigating energy conEN6 To prepare our report on energy consumption, we used fuel consumption logs sumption inside the organization, and maintaining BIODIVERSITY for each project, obtained from erp and invoices (mainly electrical energy cona level consistent with our policies on reducing (Flora and fauna) ENVIRONMENTAL sumption). To calculate the density and caloric power of fuels, we used the use. One of these is the “Turn off or Pay” campaign, RESPONSABILITY Guidelines to Defra/decc’s ghg Conversion Factors for Company Reporting. Upon which has been met with a particularly positive (Legal and volunteer) calculating our internal energy consumption broken down by primary sources, response by our employees. To construct the we found that our main fuels are diesel, LP gas, gasoline, oil and bio-diesel, baseline for consumption and demand, we invested WASTE AND meaning most of our energy is from non-renewable sources. Our consumption in the eneris Management System for monitoring CONSUMPTION ENVIRONMENTAL of fossil energy in 2014 was 14% higher than in 2013, mainly because of projects and controlling consumption and thus to reduce MANAGEMENT that have more active work fronts, which means primarily greater consumption our energy use by balancing and breaking up cargo, Water Raw of diesel, as well as gasoline for travel to the work fronts. and above all, through greater efficiency in air handling materials handling conditioning systems. From July 2013 to July 2014, STRATEGY EN3 Fuel consumption we saved 19.6 % in energy compared to 2012. This 8,030,486.21 GJ CLIMATE meant a 562 metric ton reduction in CO² emissions, CHANGE equivalent to 588,253 liters of fuel. EcoEMISIONS efficiency Energy REPORTS 84 85 DESCRIPTION BACKGROUND/JUSTIFICATION TYPE OF % LOCATION OF IMPROVEMENT FOR IMPROVEMENT BASELINE ENERGY UNITS REDUCTION EN6 • The intensity of Scope 2 greenhouse gas emissions MATERIALS EN1 Headquarters, • The intensity of greenhouse gas emissions (gasoline, diesel, biodiesel and concessionaire Install the Turn off or Pay LP gas) 279.96 Mton (CO² eq/people). Energy offices and campaign in every office or For expense savings Electrical kWh 0.91% *The metric used to calculate energy intensity is the number of unionized personnel, subcontractors and admisavings 22% operating tollbooth and measure monthly nistrative personnel. Includes emissions of CO², CH4 and NO². projects There was a substantial reduction in this indicator in the current year, because 24% Operating Log of vehicle use Fuel Fuel savings Fuel Liters 0.02% the Workforce used in the previous calculation did not include the total average projects for fuel savings savings personnel for the year in all the business units. This year, as with the calculation Support for environment and of energy intensity, we used data from the Health and Safety Committee, Rio Verde, Solar light fixtures, 21% 26% reduced use of hydrocarbons Energy La Piedad bypass, LED lighting and raising Electrical kWh 7.00% which is responsible for keeping data on the workforce up to date (30,811 and fossil fuels in energy savings TUCA I personnel awareness people/year 2014). production Energy crisis in the country, Electronic e-mail bulletins because electrical energy comes from hydroelectric EN18 11.87 Mton CO2 eq / WF Emission intensity 4% raising awareness about plants that depend on rainfall, Energy Medellín Tunnel turning off electronic Electrical kWh 7.00% which had lessened, raising savings equipment during the day awareness among personnel EN20 In order to develop initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, taking into •Asphalt mix 22 % when not in use in the cp, cu, pret and pam account the reduction in the energy requirements of our products, in 2014 •Sand 26 % business units we decided to measure the performance of major machinery. Once we have •Cement 4% measured that performance, we can decide on measures to reduce their emis•Concrete 21 % sions. Our machinery inventory is renovated every four years, and we now have •Gravel 24 % a priority of investing in equipment that offer high operating yield and fuel •Asphalt efficiency. Of the 1,582 major generators we currently have in operation, 43 % •Asphalt Cement have latest-generation motors. In 2014 we consumed no substances that are •Electrodes/soldering rods REDUCTION OF ENERGY REQUIREMENTS destructive to the ozone layer. •Oxygen EN7 FOR PRODUCTS AND SERVICES •Other materials We translated the reduction in the energy needed to make our products and services into an analysis of the percentage of major •Bond paper machinery supplied in projects, on the energy consumption and use line. Of the 90 power generators in operation, 47 % are able to EN21 NOX, SOX AND OTHER SIGNIFICANT EMISSIONS •Paint optimize consumption by up to 60 %. Generators are supplied for specific operations: feeding the tower cranes, tractors and mobile Emissions of nitrogen oxide, sulfur oxide and carbon monoxide are reported •Plastic offices, and tunnel lighting, to name just a few. Like power plants, our major power generators are latest-generation, and also are below. •Steel also efficient in terms of consumption and productivity. MTon CO MTon NOx MTon Sox •Acetylene •Wood 1,357.23 1,094.13 183.88 •Lubricants •Include other materials that DIRECT EMISSIONS OF INDIRECT EMISSIONS OF are part of the 20/80 ratio EN15 GREENHOUSE GASES (SCOPE 1) GREENHOUSE GASES (SCOPE 2) EN16 •Waterproofing In 2013 we reported on the findings of our Carbon Disclosure In 2014 we achieved a reduction of emissions through our Turn EN1 MANAGEMENT OF MATERIALS AND HUMAN RESOURCES Project (cdp) report, which reflected the impact of zoning changes. off or Pay campaign, as well as a reduction in the number of In 2014 we analyzed the trend in materials to identify our 80/20 ratio in In 2014 we did not incorporate the impact of zoning changes, and projects under construction. consumption of raw materials, auxiliary materials and others, so we could this resulted in an increase of approximately 47,000 metric tons compare this against the 2013 numbers. We decided to report earthmoving of CO², equivalent to those emitted solely from the use of fossil 2013 2014 activities in m³. For consumption of raw materials and auxiliary materials, as The materials that make up 80 % of our total confuels and electrical energy. The increase in emissions is directly Mtons CO2 eq. 25,492.00 21,211.63 well as for other materials consumed in metric tons, we decided to use metric sumption are, in order of proportion, sand, gravel, related to the starting of more work fronts as well as the need to tons (Mton) as a unit of measure. concrete and asphalt mix. We also performed an travel longer distances to execute projects, which affects the EN18 arithmetic calculation for materials not counted in internal energy consumption indicator. Regarding the intensity of our ghg emissions, last year we As regards landfill, the amounts change very little from year to year. In 2013 2013 in order to identify those that could make up 2013 2014 reported on: we moved a total volume of 9,988,138.00m³, and in 2014, 9,882,596.05m³; the remaining 20 % in 2015. Note that in three years Mtons CO2 eq. 297,536.69 344,425.58 • The intensity of Scope 1 greenhouse gas emissions of the 2014 amount, we reused a total of 3,348,634.24m³, which was not we will be able to see the performance and thus • The intensity of greenhouse gas emissions (gasoline, diethe case in 2013, meaning we reduced the number of sites and impact of our identify the components of the 80 % that will be sel, biodiesel and LP gas)*279.96 Mton (CO² eq/Workforce). earthmoving operations. analyzed in greater detail. *Company that has answered the Brazilian edition of *The metric used to calculate energy intensity is the number of unionized personnel, subthe 2014 Climate Change questionnaire contractors and administrative personnel. Includes emissions of CO², CH4 and NO². 86 87 We implement processes and operations based on sustainable cycles EN8 We are reporting a significant reduction in water consumption from 2013 There were nine availability zones in 2013, which to 2014. We built fewer projects during the year, so demand is lower and the were reduced to four in 2015. The change was due consumption phase is much shorter. primarily to a new calculation methodology for consumption. Starting on January 1, 2014, the WATER CONSUMPTION 2013-2014 (m3) amount payable must be calculated depending on accessibility of the water for extraction and the volume, expressed in quarterly cubic meters. The aquifers in zone 1 will be the most expensive, 30% 27% and surface water in availability zone 4 would be 43% 40% the cheapest in terms of cost per cubic meter of use for our projects. The project locations were determined based on the Agreement published in 25% 1% 24% the Official Gazette of the Federation on March 27, 7% 2014. For the purposes of this report, we only 1% counted projects in Mexico, which break down 1% 1% as follows: useful life and disposal of waste from our projects. Our manageWASTEWATER DISCHARGE ment of waste aims to extend the useful life of materials through 2013 (m³) % 2014 (m³) % BREAKDOWN OF PROJECTS recycling and reuse. We manage waste comprehensively, to •Wastewater (third parties) 2,699,135 43% 34,347.00 1% BY AVAILABILITY ZONE 2014 ensure the correct disposal of those that require special handling, EN8 being especially careful not to drian our water resources. For this •Surface water bodies 30% 24% 89% 1,882,103 590,404.33 (rivers, lakes, lagoons, oceans) reason, we place a priority on using only the water that is needed •Surface 89 % •Tanker trucks 1,563,397 25% 16,364.92 1% ZONE 4 ZONE 1 and anticipate it through recycling measures and treatment •Subcontracted 1% •Municipal network 55,624 1% 651,589.32 27% plant technology. •Filtration 3% •Wells 34,221 969,220.79 40% 31% •Municipal Network 6% 1% 46% EN22 In 2014, we recycled 1.22 % of the water we used. With the new •Reuse •Rainwater 61,988 1% 178,311.70 7% system for water fees in Mexico, we are analyzing a financial GRAND TOTAL 6,296,468.00 2,440,238.06 model in which we could discharge less water than the standard 16% indicates, increase our temporary construction infrastructure 1% EN9 In 2014 the most affected sources were wells and rivers. Rivers and lakes, which are surface water bodies, were among most affected in both 2013 and 7% and the use of treated water, in order to reduce costs and extract less fresh water from surface bodies and aquifers. 6% 3% 1% 2014, but well water rose sharply, from less than 1% in 2013 to 30 % in 2014. ZONE 3 The main reason for this new breakdown is that the proportion of work executed ZONE 2 We believe it is important to balance water discharge with the declined in 2014, and so, consequently, did water requirements. For this indicator, sources of water use, so we decided to analyze this using the the reporting form changed substantially due to a modification in the Federal Additionally, rainwater capture increased by EN10 following categories. As this breakdown shows, most of our disOur wastewater discharges maintained a similar proportion to Law on Water Rights. The changes in that Law were as follows: 178,311.70 m³. We captured the water by means charges are concentrated in surface water bodies. consumption as the previous year. In international projects we of an artificial lagoon, which also saved energy on captured water using artificial lagoons that function as dikes. extracting water for our projects. Our water capture Old available zones EN23 did not have any significant impact on other water By discharge point (m³) In 2014 we redoubled our comprehensive management of ZD $ Water fees bodies. The percentage of water recycled in hazardous and non-hazardous waste. We generated a larger Filtration 11,657.00 ZD1 $20,5042 2014 was 1.22 %, and we will work to increase this volume of hazardous waste because they relate to maintenance, ZD2 $16,4028 Municipal network 27,299.58 percentage because of the new scheme of water which means they keep pace with the volume of work in progress New available zones ZD3 $13,6689 usage fees. Surface water 376,750.69 and the increased in earth moved, which requires increased SURFACE UNDERGROUND ZD4 $11,2770 Service provider 3,254.20 AZ maintenance of machinery. The hazardous waste we generate WATER WATER ZD5 $8,8845 Waste management is another of our commitTotal m³ 418,961.47 is turned over to companies specialized in treating it. Machinery ZD1 $13,8162 $18,6169 ZD6 $8,0297 ments to the environment. We are closely involved maintenance is also handled by subcontractors. ZD2 $6,3606 $7,2062 ZD7 $6,0437 in the lifecycle of materials, the extraction of ZD3 $2,0855 $2,5091 ZD8 $2,1472 commodities and the energy involved in the transZD4 $1,5948 $1,8239 ZD9 $1,6092 formation process. We are responsible for the 88 89 EN23 BY TYPE OF WASTE: As part of our effort to continue reusing material from our projects whenever possible, this year we EN2 introduced an asphalt paving reuse plan for the multi-annual highway conservation contract we have in Sonora State. We use reclaimed asphalt pavement (rap) in producing the asphalt base and new 920.567.90 asphalt paving. The percentage of recycled material used in each of these is 10 % and 15 %, respectively. This gives us an average of 12.5 % recycled material used in the project. In addition, 20 % of the •HAZARDOUS 28,000 metric tons of steel we purchased and used in various projects (5,754 metric tons) came 920.567.90 791,650.77 •NON HAZARDOUS from recycled scrap. Corrugated rebar for concrete reinforcement has a 20 % recycled (post-consumer) scrap content (recycled steel), about 98 % of which is obtained from external suppliers, and the rest was generated within our operations. Once we have the final product, the corrugated rebar can be used or recycled 100 % as scrap for making steel. •Special Handling •Solid Urban Waste * Tons. Number and volume Purchases 4,525.91 4,525.91 of waste spills: Recycled scrap in purchased rebar EN24 Out of 28,000 Mtons purchased in 2014, 128,917.13 Total number of spills in the period 34 5,754 Mtons were recycled scrap Total volume spilled (m³) 20.26 28,769.91 5,753.98 Main materials spilled Hydraulic oil METRIC TONS RECYCLED Type of treatment following spill Handled as HW Corrugated rebar for concrete reinforcement has a 20 % recycled (post-consumer) scrap content (recycled steel), about 98 % of which is obtained from external suppliers, and the rest was generated within our operations. The iron ore was extracted at the Las Truchas mines in Lázaro Cárdenas, Michoacán. EN23 TREATMENT OF SUW (SOLID URBAN WASTE) SPECIAL NON HAZARDOUS SOLID URBAN HANDLING WASTE WASTE 791,650.77 920,567.90 128,917.13 5% 907,820.41 21% 91% 3% 1% SHW SUW 74% 21% PROTECTION AND CONSERVATION OF BIODIVERSITY Mexico is the world’s fourth most mega-diverse country, which At ICA, we work to conserve biodiversity through environmentally gives all of us a unique responsibility to protect our natural heritage. sustainable, socially acceptable responses. We promote a balance EN11 Together with our infrastructure works throughout the country, between society and the environment that ultimately means a we make an effort to know the flora and fauna present in each better quality of life for communities and a healthier evolution 128,747.49 •SPECIAL HANDLING WASTE •SOLID URBAN WASTE place and have projects focused on creating the spaces necessary of the environment and its resources. Specifically for flora and to avoid damage to human and natural ecosystems in our country fauna–two environmental aspects that can be most heavily •Reused 91 % •Untreated •Sanitary landfill 74 % and elsewhere in the world. The construction industry by nature affected by infrastructure development–we apply the special •Delivered to client 5% •Treated •Recycled 21 % has a large impact or dependence on biodiversity and ecosystemic measures mentioned in the Official Mexican Standard for Protection •Authorized dump 3% •Reused 5% services–the use of oil, gas, electricity and others. of the Environment and Native Species of Mexico. •Sanitary landfill 1% 90 91 Ecosystem fragmentation, interruption Permanent These measures include identifying, rescuing, relocating and are those that have been identified as having ecological value but Direct negative Reversible of natural migration routes (barrier effect) (general communication paths) protecting the species mentioned in the standard, either because with no legal framework for application), we identify the modified Mortality of fauna during dismantling works Direct negative Temporary Reversible they are at risk or simply because they are endemic to the region. areas occupied according to the regional environmental system, as established in article 13 of the Regulation on the General Law Mortality of fauna by traffic accident Direct negative Permanent Reversible We apply Environmental Management Systems that have been on Environmental Impact and Risk regarding Environmental (construction and operation of communication paths) certified with the ISO 14001:2004 standard. We identify the species Impact Studies. We also prepare a list of non-formal areas that Impact of atmospheric emissions Direct negative Temporary Reversible of flora and fauna listed and carry out rescue work, when necesare modified by project construction and operating activities, (gas, noise, particulate dust) sary, before beginning any type of project. We also carry out primarily to evaluate the technical aspects of the projects with reforestation, monitoring, protection and waste management the federal authorities. Based on the impact statement we present programs to avoid destroying landscapes and biodiversity in the to the competent authorities, we develop specific actions and regions where we work. With regard to the surface areas modified proposals for mitigating the negative impacts identified. in non-formal areas with biodiversity values (non-formal areas MITIGATION MEASURES The total area restored or preserved is around 1,986,724 km², where we have applied mitigation measures and programs to conserve EN12 and protect spaces with significant biodiversity, primarily in protected areas, as established in the environmental impact and EN27 List of surfaces modified in non-formal areas according to gri, zoning change authorizations. by biodiversity value SURFACE AREA IN KM2 PERCENTAGE DIRECTLY MITIGATION MEASURE DESCRIPTION OF THE MEASURE TOTAL SURFACE EN12 TYPE OF AREA OCCUPIED, MODIFIED, AREA OR INDIRECTLYINVOLVED Reforestation and maintenance of rights of OR AFFECTED IN PROJECT Compensation measures aimed at generating biomass from earth moved in project construction; way, which also forms corridors for fauna Priority land regions 45.83 28,728.00 0.160 % attracting water; preventing erosion; capturing greenhouse gases; and generating a space for by uniting conserved segments, reducing species located within the project’s area of influence Priority water regions 4.30 57,511.51 0.007 % landscape fragmentation as well Priority marine regions 0.00 0.00 0.00 % Rescue of flora and fauna; relocation Relocation of flora and fauna to minimize impact on populations of species important to of species, germplasm, restoration in Areas important for conservation 52.20 14,235.60 0.367 % the habitat modified by project construction neighboring areas of avian species After construction is complete, roads compacted by heavy machinery Areas with protected species 5.96 7,301.70 0.082 % Soil remediation, flora and fauna rescue are de-compacted TotaL 108.29 107,776.82 0.62 % Spaces for species within the zone of influence of project construction. Installation of animal Construction of corridors for fauna crossing signage Equipment maintenance and irrigation Activities constantly watered in construction phase, and maintenance of machinery, List of surfaces in formal areas modified by construction and operation activities (identified by national decree or international convention) programs to avoid scattering dust especially those used in landfills SURFACE AREA IN KM2 PERCENTAGE DIRECTLY Construction of gabion walls Stabilizes material and avoids slippage of land toward water bodies TOTAL EN13 TYPE OF AREA OCCUPIED, MODIFIED, OR INDIRECTLYINVOLVED SURFACE AREA OR AFFECTED IN PROJECT Federal Natural Protected Areas 16.86 14,603.24 0.115 % RAMSAR sites/wetlands 0.53 7,061.51 0.008 % Measures to restore and protect habitats include preventing erosion (resurfacing to EN14 Total 17.39 21,664.75 0.12 % contain and stabilize certain elements avoiding landslides); soil remediation (desilting ditches, reshaping borders, replacing living barriers and raising curtain heights in the case of dams); reforestation of neighboring areas or others than those temporarily occupied; reforestation of areas used temporarily; tailings dams, temporary installations EN11 Most significant impacts on biodiversity (reforestation with native species); payments to the Mexican Forestry Fund; recovery EN12 REVERSIBLE/ of green areas (established in the contract or deed of concession). We base these ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT DIRECT/INDIRECT TEMPORARY/PERMANENT IRREVERSIBLE measures on the list included in Official Mexican Standard NOM-086-SEMARNAT-2010, Permanent Ecosystem fragmentation NEGATIVE/POSITIVE Reversible Environmental Protection of Mexican Native Species of Flora and Fauna Wildlife, in the (general communication paths) categories of Risk and Specifications for inclusion, exclusion or change List of endangered Loss of forest communities due to change in zoning Direct negative Temporary Reversible species. The four categories established by law and defined in that standard are: a) Removal of protected species Direct negative Temporary Reversible endangered; b) threatened; c) subject to special protection; and d) probably extinct in Soil compacting due to machinery traffic or Temporary (removal the wild. Direct negative Reversible temporary facilities (access roads) of vegetation and habitat for fauna) Permanent Alteration of habitat Direct negative Irreversible (general communication paths) 92 93 NATURAL CAPITAL EN14 CATEGORY TOTAL INDIVIDUALS MEXICO CITY-TUXPAN NUEVO MEXICO CITY'S Threatened (T) 3,227 NECAXA-TIHUATLÁN HIGHWAY NEW INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT Endangered (E) 871 EN14 This was Mexico’s first “green highway,” and in building it we geo-synthetic As part of the preliminary studies for construction of Subject to special protection (Sp) 541 materials for containment walls, moved 16.5 million cubic meters of earth and a new international airport for Mexico City, in the Total individuals (T)+(P)+(Sp) 4,639 rescued 30 % of the excavated material to build embankments. We recovered second half of 2014, ICA conducted a study of the flora more than 300 ivy plants, 16,500 examples of flora (403 of them in danger of and fauna present in the project zone, taking into extinction), 1,475 examples of fauna, and reforested 1,400 hectares. We created account the lacustrine features of the area in the EN29 We also rescued 35,824 individuals of various species which were important an Environmental Management Unit regulated by the Ministry of the EnvironRegional Environmental Impact Statement. This was for their ecological function in the modified ecosystem and were therefore ment and Natural Resources, where 40,035 species are currently preserved. the basis for our development of a flora and fauna identified for conservation and relocation (flora and fauna). In 2014 there rescue and relocation program for five taxonomic were no reports of significant impact on water bodies nor were we subject to categories of birds, flora, fauna, reptiles and any significant environmental fines. MITLA-TEHUANTEPEC HIGHWAY amphibians. EN14 Between November 2012 and December 2014, a total of 44,941 plant organisms In 2014 we made a number of investments in the environment, with mitigation were rescued, classified into 39 species, as well as 904 individual animals RECYCLING CAMPAIGN actions, environmental impact resolution, environmental management and classified into 77 species. As part of the construction work, due to changes in In 2014 we began a recycling campaign at our other human resource-relate expenses, quality assurance, safety and the enzoning, tailings dams, dump sites, additional works and access roads, we corporate headquarters. In collaboration with the vironment, and costs associated with environmental reporting and budgeting. reforested 600 hectares. recycling company Biopappel, we collected the waste paper generated in our offices, which is used as EN31 INVESTMENT TOTAL a raw material, and for every 5 metric tons collected Mitigation and resolution of environmental impact $63,102,027 we receive 10 boxes of white bond paper. Environmental management $19,707,925 Others $22,248,501 GRAND TOTAL $ 105,058,453 PARQUE DE LOS CIERVOS EN33 In 2014, we received 33 inspection visits by environmental authorities to 21 The Reserva Escondida real-estate development has leed environmental certification and was designed to projects. For each project, we addressed the authorities’ concerns, and no sigpromote the responsible use of natural resources and reduced environmental impact, because of its nificant fines were issued. In all these cases we introduced environmental valuable location with the Parque de los Ciervos region of Mexico State. initiatives in return for commutation of minor fines. ICA updated its Environmental management Plan in 2014 and held environmental awareness and fire prevention talks, soil remediation and reforestation activities. In 2015, our efforts will focus on optimizing environmental management primarily in the area of wastewater treatment and waste management in project operations. This results in tax benefits as well as a reduction in environmental notifications from the authorities. Our sustainability strategy will also involve actions to strengthen compliance with authorizations, environmental impact statements and mitigation actions. Finally, we will work to promote a culture of environmental risk management at our projects, through planning, contract management and cost controls. REFORESTATION 2014 In August, we held our annual reforestation activity, involving 800 employees and KANTUNIL-CANCUN HIGHWAY their families. The reforestation effort covered 25.4 hectares in the community of This highway is unique in terms of biodiversity conservation in Mexico, as part EN14 San Miguel Topilejo, in the Tlalpan delegation of Mexico City, and continued the 2013 of the Mesoamerican Biological Corridor, a multilateral initiative to preserve reforestation activity with pruning and maintenance of existing trees, creating the wealth of Central American ecosystems. Because this is the first highway protective berms and planting 10,000 sweetgum and pine trees. These efforts are in the country to apply connectivity strategies like the location of overhead part of a 2011 agreement between ICA and the National Forestry Commission, and ground-level paths for flora and fauna, we used geo-satellite technology which created a Concurrent Fund to facilitate local environmental service payments to monitor large cats in danger of extinction, like the jaguar and the puma. All in on 220 hectares of community-owned land in San Miguel and Santo Tomás Ajusco. all, 33,842 species of flora were rescued and 1,071 individual animals; 50 At our corporate headquarters, we also gave out plant pots with radish, carrot and overhead and ground-level paths were created, and 294 hectares were reforested. cilantro seeds, to start urban family vegetable gardens. 94 95 Intellectual Capital INTELLECTUAL CAPITAL ICA FOUNDATION ICA BIM In 2014, ICA Foundation’s Geomatics area used a G4-4 G4-4 ICA BIM was created in 2009 with the aim of introsystem of coordinates as the basis for its work ducting innovative technologies and systems to company projects to improve process efficiency +10,000 km of highways and roads and studies on geo-referencing, which is used to define the location of an object in space (repreoptimize resources and provide the best solutions to our clients. In 2014, ICA BIM became more closely +300 km of urban roads and tunnels sented by a point, vector, area or volume). Using the ICA Foundation Aerial Photography Archive 43 ports 4.4 involved in company projects, improving planning and new technologies obtained for analysis, the EC7 and risk reduction processes by using virtual area has a technical-scientific definition applied construction techniques, primarily precise 3D elein Mexico and overseas, marine platforms, to the existence of things in a physical space, by vations using 3D Scanners and drones, and developing I Industrial 03-05 oversea roads, aqueducts and gas pipelines establishing relations between images or vectors INNOVATION prefabrication technologies. Together with pret, ICA BIM developed a model for automating the process of preparing prefabricated elements for assembly. At ICA, we seek out complex challenges. We find innovative solutions for finance, 16 airports in Mexico and 3 in other countries on a geographic projection or system of coordinates. With this, geo-referencing becomes a central tool for data modeling by Geographic Information SysICA BIM was involved in every phase: planning, with the modeling of all the components; preconsengineering, construction, water works, geotechnics, soil mechanics, electromagnetics and others. The start of every project brings infrastructure, social 13 concessioned airports tems (gis). truction, with reports on interferences, inconsistencies and shortfalls, shop plans and production and natural challenges. We have realized ambitious plans like the largest wastewater treatment plant in Latin America (PTAR Atotonilco), the largest deep 160 km of aqueducts The result is a series of areal photograph that can be manipulated in the GIS and be represented in parts lists, and 3d elevations (scatter diagrams); and construction, with shop plans and construction drainage tunnel of its type in the world (Emisor Oriente Tunnel) and the second highest bridge pile (Mexico-Tuxpan highway, Gilberto Borja Navarrete bridge). 100 km of deep drainage map for the special analysis of various projects. Their uses in 2014 included inter-institutional coodetails, traceability and quality control for molds and components. From 2012 to 2014 this technology +60 bridges peration between the Parque de los Ciervos preserve and the Reserva Escondida project; sustainability has been used in projects like the International Convention Center at Los Cabos, the Urbana Sur 66 dams diagnosis for Mexico City's New International Airport; preliminary development of the Mayab Project/ highway, the surveying work for the Colonia Escandón project; Campus ICA, and the Tula refinery, Economic, 27 hydroelectric power plants Mayab Integral Biodiversity Station in the Mexican southeast; and study of the Términos tidal lagoon +230 km geopolitical, social EFFICIENCY in cooperation with ICA Fluor. and environmental that lies between the state of Tabasco and Puerto INTEGRITY QUALITY SERVICE challenges Morelos (Cancun) in Quintana Roo State, through of metro lines in Mexico, Chile and the United States a cooperation agreement with the National Com+1,800 Millennium Development Goals, UN Habitat, Global Compact, mission for Knowledge and Use of Biodiversity. Global Infrastructure Initiative buildings +40,000 homes 96 97 NATURAL CAPITAL VIVEICA We promote innovative ideas and initiatives, especially those that are replicable, G4-4 Based on VIVEICA’s strategy for maximizing housing developed together with our stakeholders and generate value for the company functionality, improving urban design by linking and society. We have two mechanisms for identifying inter-entrepreneurs and public space and project location, we work to manage innovations that can create added value for society. organic and non-organic waste by incorporating wastewater treatment plants, heat-insulating 01. “Your Idea” Inbox. This is an electronic channel by which anyone in G4-26 materials, electricity savings through compact the company can submit their ideas for innovation, these are reviewed by the fluorescent lights, and water-saving devices in innovation committee, a collegiate body of experts within ICA. faucets, showers and toilets. In cooperation with the Federal Mortgage Society (shf) we conducted 02. ICA Prize. An annual competition that looks for top-performing projects G4-26 an evaluation of homes built with eco-technologies, in different categories, one of which is innovation. Selection of these best as part of the Green Housing Evaluation System. projects is done by an independent jury of experts from outside of ICA who are The program promotes the construction of homes recognized for their experience and specialization in a variety of fields. In 2014, with a smaller environmental footprint, in partnership 41 projects were entered in the Innovation category. with the German Society for Development Cooperation and the British Embassy in Mexico. Through these two mechanisms, we have encouraged research, development G4-27 and innovation initiatives in various projects that begun, where developed EN7 Three projects were presented: Ciudad Natura and/or completed in 2014: Cancun, Ciudad Natura Apodaca and Ciudad Natura • More than 11 innovation projects were introduced to the 13 airports Playa del Carmen, with five different prototypes administered by OMA, including water saving through climate condensation. that improved heat insulation to provide greater The water captured is used for sinks and toilets, because it is clean water comfort within the home. The projects were given and is added to the water storage tank for the terminal building. a satisfactory rating, with estimated energy • A research paper entitled “Chemical compounds for improving the properties savings of 25 % and CO2 reduction of 40 %. of rock aggregates contaminated with clay for use in hydraulic concrete” helped make inroads into the generation of sustainable concrete in highways under construction. • In 2014 we opened two highways (Rio Verde-Ciudad Valles and Kantunil-Cancun) with tollbooths that operate using solar cells. • Three real-estate development projects, two still under construction, using sustainable building methods certified by the Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (leed): the Regional General Hospital, Reserva Escondida and Campus CIA. Environmental impact factors were taken into MEXICO CITY'S NEW INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT account in the design and construction of these projects: freshwater Based on a study entitled “Anáhuac Airport” prepared by ICA in cooperation efficiency; rainwater and wastewater management; energy savings; with Ciudad Futuro between 2012 and 2013, and with reference to an Urban energy performance; renewable energy systems; preferred environmental Development Plan for the New Western Mexico State, we developed the materials; internal climate quality; and reduction of pollution sources. preliminary bases and diagnosis for a possible calls for bids on construction • We organized a colloquium on the Panama Canal to commemorate its of a new international airport at Mexico City. One of the goals of the National 100th anniversary and discuss the challenges of expanding it; a forum Infrastructure Plan is to build a logistical platform with multi-modal transportation entitled “Muro Dren: quick and low-cost excavations, preconsolidation infrastructure that can generate competitive costs and added value. To this end, and soil liquefaction;” and the Fourth Mexican Congress of Tunnel and we assembled a work team to evaluate the efficiency and technical, hydraulic Underground Works Engineering 2014. On November 21, in cooperation and environmental feasibility of a new airport, taking into account in the location with ICA BIM and ICA Fluor, on November 21 the fourth in a series of and water context of Texcoco Lake. With the support of Geographic Information Technological Innovation Colloquiums was organized, entitled “Mobile Systems, the Engineering, Construction and Geomatics areas of ICA Foundation applications for engineering, procurement, construction and operation.” carried out the initial research, grounding, environmental and social planning. This airport will be one of the three largest airport infrastructure works in the world today. When complete it will have six runways and the capacity to handle close to 120 million passengers a year, four times the current airport’s capacity. 98 99 Atotonilco Wastewater Treatment Plant Tula, Hidalgo 100 101 G4-8 At ICA, we develop and operate long-term concessions and service provision projects (called pps) for highways, water supply, ports and public services. We operate and expand our portfolio of assets through assertive management, including monetization of longterm assets and capital recycling. In this business segment, our ASSET PORTFOLIO strategy of operating and serving is fundamental for providing a DIVERSIFICATION high-quality experience to our users. HIGHWAYS 3 7 10 G4-9 2014 was a particularly key year for ICA’s transformation as a WATER 4 comprehensive infrastructure developer (builder and operator) PORTS 1 of a substantial number of long-term concessions: highways, SOCIAL INFRASTRUCTURE 2 tunnels, urban equipment and water projects. Revenues from ENERGY 1 the concession segment grew 21% and ebitdaincreased 11% due AVAILABILITY AND SERVICES USERS to the high volume of traffic and the startup of projects like auneti, lipsa and icasal. Key indicators ANNUALIZED (aar) DEC 2013 33,390 ASSET MANAGEMENT AND DEC 2014 42,634 VALUE GENERATION % CHGE. 28 % In just two years we went from operating three assets to eleven. This makes us one of Latin America’s largest infrastructure ROE operators. The total number of projects went from 16 in 2012 to 17 in 2014. POSITION F E PRO OR U VA TS WTH L COMPREHENSIVE INFRASTRUCTURE IEN GRO CL MANAGEMENT DIVERSIFIED EBITDA As part of our infrastructure management strategy, we have PORTFOLIO built a complete portfolio of assets diversified across various types of operation and revenue sources. 5.0 2012 2013 3 9 16 9 16 18 ASSET PORTFOLIO 2014 8 10 18 OPERATION CONSTRUCTION INITIAL PHASE OPERATION AND GROWTH MTY VI ANESA Today we have 17 projects in five sectors: Highways, Water, REYNOSA AUNETI Ports, Social Infrastructure and Energy. As for our revenue sources, ICASAL CONSTRUCTION LIPSA more than half come from PPS, which are high-profit, low-risk MITLA ventures because payments come from the government. The rest TUCAIII PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT PALMILLAS MAYAB of our revenues come from user payments, like tolls, and these TEC II SARRE • Equity investments depend on the demand for use of our highways. DIPESA PAPAGOS F Financial 01-05 • Airports TUCA TESTING SAQSA RENOVA AQUOS HIGHWAYS, AIRPORTS, WATER, PENITENTIARIES, PORTS and WIND FARMS El Realito Aqueduct San Luis Potosí, San Luis Potosí 102 103 CONCESSION LIFE 5.2 AIRPORTS G4-4 We have a young portfolio of assets, with an average life of 24 years. G4-8 OMA is a leading Mexican airport operator focused on increasing the air conyear OMA completed important plans with airlines nectivity of the destinations where it operates, attracting more passenger traffic to develop connectivity through the group’s airports, OPERATING HIGHWAYS START END OF CONCESSION and developing a world-class operating infrastructure that meets national and which translated into 46 net route openings (63 TUCA Acapulco Tunnel Highway 1995 2033 MAYAB Mayab Consortium Highway 2008 2050 international standards. The company’s strategic partners are ICA and Aéroports openings and 17 closures). This was the result of ANESA* Río de los Remedios Highway 2011 N/A de Paris, which within the stock structure operate through Servicios de Tecnología the ongoing development of the Monterrey hub, LIPSA La Piedad Bypass Highway 2012 2054 Aeroportuaria, S.A. de C.V. (seta). OMA operates and administers a portfolio of and sub-bases of operation at other airports. AUNETI Nueva Necaxa-Tihuatlán Highway 2014 2037 ICASAL Río Verde-Ciudad Valles Highway 2013 2047 13 airports in nine states of central-northern Mexico, all of them with national and internationals standards of quality, safety and environmental protection. OMA successfully applied its commercial and G4-9 HIGHWAYS UNDER CONSTRUCTION MITLA Mitla-Tehuantepec Highway 2015 2030 Our portfolio includes operation of the NH Hotel at Mexico City International diversification strategy in 2014, as evident in the DIPESA Barranca Larga-Ventanilla Highway 2015 2039 Airport Terminal 2, the bonded warehouses of OMA Carga, and the airports at 11.7 % rise in non-aeronautical revenues. The success TUCA 2 Scenic Bypass Highway 2015 2043 PALMILLAS Palmillas-Apaseo El Grande Highway 2016 2042 Monterrey, Mazatlán, Zihuatanejo, Acapulco, Ciudad Juárez, Reynosa, Chihuahua, of OMA’s operating and financial strategies is Culiacán, Durango, Torreón, Zacatecas, San Luis Potosí and Tampico. In 2014, reflected in its profitability indicators and stock OTHER OPERATING PROJECTS SAQSA Aqueduct 2 Querétaro Aqueduct 2007 2027 OMA’s airports handled 14.7 million domestic and international passengers, value, which rose 54 % in 2014. PÁPAGOS CPS Sonora Social 2012 2032 10.6 % more than in 2013, and its busiest airport, with more than 7 million pasSARRE CPS Jalisco Social 2012 2032 sengers a year, was the General Mariano Escobedo Airport at Monterrey. (For OTHER PROJECTS UNDER CONSTRUCTION more information and sustainability reports, go to www.oma.aero). COMMERCIAL OPERATIONS ACQUOS El Realito Aqueduct 2015 2034 The ongoing improvement in retail and service RENOVA Agua Prieta WWTP 2015 2029 MITYVI Monterrey VI Aqueduct 2017 2045 OMA’s strategy is to have a diversified and well-positioned portfolio of airports offerings in our airports and the development of TEC II Lázaro Cárdenas Port 2015 2042 to take advantage of global growth but also to strengthen trade ties and a new commercial strategy materialized in 33 * partially operating develop diversification projects to avoid the negative impact of fluctuating commercial initiatives in various segments, like economic cycles. passenger service, hotel promotion modules, local advertising, restaurants, a VIP lounge and The strategy for increasing traffic is to capitalize on positive trends in the shops. Occupancy levels in OMA’s commercial industry at large and increasing the profitability per passenger. During the past areas closed the year at 96.1%. 14.2 14.1 14.13 13.3 G4-9 01. Maximize revenues 12.6 In operating our assets, we strengthen capacities at the operating 11.8 11.5 11.6 11.8 3,216 level to manage the portfolio in such a way as to maximize 10.6 3,065 revenues, which translates into higher returns for our investors. 9.7 2,820 8.6 8.9 2,459 02. Long-term financing 26 % 2,144 1,988 By refinancing short-term debt into longer-tem instruments, 26 % we maximize our operating income. At ICA we are known as 1,897 1,896 24 % 1,687 24 % pioneers in Mexico for the way we have structured our market 1,480 19 % 23 % issuance, which together with our reputation for construction 1,204 1,334 18 % 19 % excellence, provides more certainty to the markets and enables 1,137 19 % 19 % us to obtain financing under optimum conditions. 16 % 19 % 14 % 03. Monetize capital / Recycle capital Having established the efficiency of our projects’ operation, we can recycle the capital to build new projects. With this in 86 % 84 % 81 % 81 % 81 % 82 % 81 % 81 % 77 % 76 % 76 % 74 % 74 % 5.1 mind, we are in the process of developing a specialized 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 UDM2 EQUITY platform to handle projects in operation, maximizing the return on each of them. By 2015, this platform will concentrate Adjusted INVESTMENTS all our assets and optimize asset sale or monetization processes, EBITDA 39 % 42 % 47 % 50 % 54 % 56 % 53 % 51 % 44 % 51 % 54 % 55 % 54 % and provide a source of capital so that we do not have to resort margin 1 to new debt. Under this new scheme, we can retain management of our assets, and this serves to attract financial partners who The value of our equity investment increases as our projects mature. Through share our long-term investment focus, as well as pension AERONAUTICAL REVENUES NON-AERONAUTICAL REVENUES PASSENGER TRAFFIC (MILLIONS) skillful management of our portfolio —refinancing, divestiture— we can monetize funds. The financial capacity of these investors complements Note: Figure expressed under IFRS standards for 2010-2013; 2001-2009 figures under Mexican FRS. our own, creating market advantages over other asset the value created and free up resources for new projects. We manage our portfolio managing competitors and strengthening our position as 1 Adjusted EBITDA margin = Adjusted EBITDA /(Aeronautical Revenues + Non-Aeronautical revenues). Adjusted EBITDA = Operating Income + Depreciation and Amortization + Maintenance Reserve. 2 As of June 31, 2014. with a long-term perspective, and with three basic aims: Partner of Choice. 3 Last 12 months as of August 31, 2014. Figures in millions of pesos. 104 105 INDUSTRIAL CAPITAL Diversification operations: The diversification activities that generate the most revenues are The NH T2 Hotel and Oma Carga (air cargo logistical services), for import-export operations at three important sites: Monterrey, Chihuahua and Ciudad Juárez. Complementary activities: The categories that generated the most revenues were inspection of checked baggage and sundry leasing. EC8 AERO INDUSTRIAL PARK OMA and VYNMSA Desarrollo Inmobiliario opened 5.3 BREAKDOWN OF DEBT BY SEGMENT the first industrial building in the Aero Industrial Park In order to improve our debt maturity profile, we paid off part of our short-term G4-9 at the Monterrey International Airport. The project debt using the proceeds of a new issue expiring in 2024. This reduction in covers 32.4 hectares of land, where buildings short-term debt meant a corresponding rise in long-term debt, as follows: from 5,000 to 50,000 square meters will be developed. The project is part of the master plan for an “airport 12% Total Debt (MXN mn) 2013 2014 % Chge. city” that will generate value for shareholders and Short Term 9,756 6,534 -33 airport communities, incorporating logistical centers, Long Term 28,816 47,245 64 light manufacturing companies, cargo and aerospace 44% 29% 33% Total Debt 38,572 53,779 39 EBITDA industry firms, sports arenas, offices and hotels, 38% BREAKDOWN like the Hilton Garden Inn Hotel, which will open its Total Cash 5,417 7,084 31 doors in 2015. Total Net Debt 33,155 46,695 41 35% TOTAL DEBT BREAKDOWN The construction process is expected to create 100 9% direct jobs and 300 indirect jobs, and its operation Although our debt ended 2014 higher than the year before, 35 % of it was in the will mean 6,000 direct jobs and 15,000 indirect jobs. concession segment, most of which is structured through project finance-type agreements (without recourse to the parent company). This debt is reduced EBITDA TOTAL as the asset operations generate more revenues, and is closely related to the DEC 2014 DEBT 48 % ebitda margin. 71 % of the debt is associated with projects under operation • Construction 33 % 12 % and 29% with projects under construction. In this segment, and given the status • Concessions 38 % 35 % of work on the projects, the debt is equivalent to 18.79 billion pesos, a 32 % increase • Airports 29 % 9% over 2013. The Construction segment accounts for 12 % of the total debt, mainly • Corporative and others -* 44 % through the use of working capital lines of credit, which are used to keep up *For ebitda, this figure was not reported with the schedule of work, and are paid off as client payments are received, and as the work is executed and projected. Finally, the airport division’s debt totaled 4.82 billion pesos as of the close of 2014, a 55 % increase over 2013. For 2015, ICA expects a 10-12 % increase in revenues with an ebitda margin of 14-16 %, excluding extraordinaries. This estimate is supported by a solid backlog and a growing volume of projects overseas. 106 107 We promote academic engagement and publication ICA promotes inter-institutional and academic engagement with universities, technical schools, institutes and companies involved G4-24 in infrastructure development in Mexico and abroad. To fulfill this commitment, various areas of the company cooperate and promote cultural research and dissemination through ICA Foundation, responsible for creating and transmitting knowledge of civil engineering, construction technology, and the preservation and transformation of Mexico’s infrastructure through the use and interpretation of our archive. ICA FOUNDATION Twenty-nine years after it was created, ICA Foundation has become an unpaG4-26 ralleled repository of images, not only for ICA but for the entire country, that SO1 depict over 70 % of Mexico’s territory from 1930 to 1990. Our archive provides services to dozens of researchers by creating channels for communication in a space that promotes research and innovative development. It is organized into six sections: Oblique Aerial Photography, ICA Collection, Mosaics, Vertical Aerial Photography, Geomatics, and fica Geographic System. In 2014 staff continued the work of digitalizing and editing the images, and EC8 recording and publishing them in a new online platform and independent website that contains the materials from the Aerial Photography sections and ICA 6.0 RESEARCH Collection. With this technological and operating improvement, all operating and informational applications are housed on a single platform, which allows for the use of integrated, functional applications, control of digitalized material, georreferential replication of the information, automatic backup and an online store. A total of 5,00 oblique photographs, and 5,000 vertical and georeferenced images were processed during the year (www.codifica.org.mx). In 2015 we will be expanding the library, storage area and publication archive at ICA Foundation to provide better service to users. UNESCO MEMORY OF THE WORLD In 2014, the photographic archive at Fundación ICA was recognized and registered in unesco's Memory of the World (mow) program, whose purpose is to preserve the world's documentary heritage – stored in libraries, archives and museums – as a symbol of the collective memory of humanity. The collection holds images for the 60 years in which the Compañía Mexicana Aerofoto (previously Fairchild Aerial Camera Corporation) was operating, when much the nation’s territory AND CULTURAL ACTIVITIES had not been viewed from the heights. The company, founded in 1930, obtained photogrammetric prints of the country, which it used as the basis for topographic plans–with precise horizontal and vertical measurements–using the restitution technique to correct the distortion that results from superimposing photographs taken from different angles. In 1965, ICA purchased the company and the photographic archive, which at the time consisted of over 100,000 negatives. The archive today holds more than a million negatives covering a surface area of more than a million square kilometers, including 73 rivers, 18 lakes and lagoons, 22 dams, 20 irrigation districts, 9 forest zones, more than 120 urban areas and a total of 2,286 engineering works. I Intelectual 01 Centro Urbano Presidente Alemán Mexico City 108 109 unesco recognizes the cultural, architectural and doPARTNERSHIP WITH THE HARVARD GRADUATE SCHOOL OF DESIGN cumentary artifacts that preserve Mexico’s history In 2013 we began a close collaboration with the Harvard Graduate School of Design, working on various and traditions. The ICA Foundation archive has projects that were completed in 2014. We developed two case studies of ICA projects, the Nuevo Necaxa-TiG4-26 already earned to Memory of the World distinctions huatlán highway and the Mayab highway, in order to share best sustainability practices and document at the national and regional level–in this case Latin them based on indicators, and also to strengthen our baseline of sustainability evaluation parameters in America and the Caribbean. Our goal in 2016 is to our projects using the envision methodology developed by Harvard’s Zofnass Program for Sustainable achieve the World category. To mark these recogInfrastructure. Finally, we co-published a book entitled Mexico City: Between Geometry and Geography, nitions, we published a commemorative volume which celebrates the endurance and transformation of Mexico City’s infrastructure. entitled Patrimonio Aerofotográfico de la Fundación ICA (Aerial Photography Heritage at ICA Foundation). “MUNDO ICA” APP ICA SCHOLARSHIP FOR ACADEMIC EXCELLENCE CASE STUDIES DINÁM ICA AUTOPISTA MÉXICO-TUXPAN DINÁM ICA AUTOPISTA KAnTUnIl – CAnCún EC8 As part of our effort to distribute and digitalize the The ICA Academic Excellence Scholarships were created to promote the interOne of our initiatives to document and publicize sustainability programs at NUEVO NECAXA-TIHUATLÁN PROYECTO MAYAB SO1 Reporte integrado de actividades Reporte integrado de actividades ICA Foundation Archive, in 2015 we launched an national mobility of underprivileged students who have maintained an excellent our projects was the publication of case studies summing up the key value NANAapp called “Mundo ICA” for tablets, enabling users academic average, in order to expand their horizons and improve their possibipropositions in economic, social and environmental issues. Both the Nuevo to explore all of ICA’s projects in Mexico and the rest lities for advancement within the global labor market. In 2014, scholarships Necaxa-Tihuatlán and Mayab highways (opened in 2014) were documented of the world. This is an innovative proposal, organized were awarded to nine students from the unam Engineering Department to and shown in short documentary films, available on our YouTube channel at by sectors, decades and years of execution, providing attend nine different universities in the United States, Canada, South Korea, https:// www.youtube.com/user/ICASUSTENTABILIDAD 2014 2014 detailed information on construction process and the United Kingdom and the Czech Republic. This program was in addition to interesting facts and figures about the projects. our social service and internship programs, which in 2014 involved 51 students The application, developed with research and material from 14 universities. WIND TUNNEL from the Foundation, includes 3D models (in cooTogether with unam and conacyt on February 3, 2014 we opened the Wind Tunnel peration with ICA BIM), augmented reality, videos, lab, part of the first phase of the Alianza FiiDEM High-Technology Structures historic and present-day photos, and a continually SUSTAINABLE WATER CONTEST 2014 and Materials Laboratory. This is a scientific and technological tool for solving updated stream of trivia and recent information. In 2012, ICA Foundation launched the call for entries in its first “University Persproblems relating to wind engineering through experimental study of wind pectives on Sustainable Water Management” contest, as an initiative to promote phenomena and effects. research and development of innovative solutions by undergraduate and postBERNARDO QUINTANA graduate students. For the third year in a row, the 2014 Sustainable Water ARRIOJA MEDAL Contest sought solutions to restore Mexico’s over-exploited aquifers. On July 1 S01 The Bernardo Quintana Arrioja medal was awarded the award ceremony was held, attended by the winners and members of the for the first time in 1988, in recognition of five jury. More than 37 universities from 19 states of Mexico took part, and the winning outstanding students from the preparatory schools entries were published in a book entitled Diez soluciones para el manejo susof the Universidad Nacional Autónoma de México tentable del agua (Ten solutions for sustainable water management). (unam), the Instituto Politécnico Nacional (ipn) and Consejo Nacional de Educación Profesional Técnica THE WATER PARADOX (conalep). For the past 26 years, three ceremonies One of the ring segments from the Emisor Oriente G4-26 have been held each year, one per institution, atTunnel, now being built by ICA, was displayed in tended by all of those who apply for the prize, the the patio of the El Eco Experimental Museum, during institution’s director or rector, and representatives the 2015 Eco Pavillion entitled “The Water Paradox.” of ICA, the Quintana family, and the Fundación de This pavilion was opened on March 28, 2015 following Apoyo a la Juventud. To date, 323 awards have a phase of cooperation the second half of 2014, been given our, 15 of them in 2014. and attests to the impressive achievement of this massive infrastructure work, 62 kilometers long and has vent shafts between 25 and 250 meters deep. The project, as well as cultural activities with visits to the project, are part of a cooperation agreement between ICA, the National Water Commission and UNAM’s Cultural Dissemination Department. 110 111 G4-32 7.0 GRI G4 INDEX NO. INDICATOR Strategy and analysis MATURITY LEVEL PAGE P.M. ISO 26000 DJSI FOR THE IN ACCORDANCE-CORE OPTION OF THE GUIDE Statement from Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer about the 7, 8, 9, 5 5 TABLE OF CONTENTS G4-1 relevance of sustainability to the organization. 10, 12 5, 9, 10, 12, 14, G4-2 Key impacts, risks and opportunities. 4 4 51, 52, 53, 54, 63 Company profile G4-3 Name of the organization. 6 5 5, 11 2, 13, 60, 94, G4-4 Main brands, products and/or services. 6 5 95, 96, 102 G4-5 Location of the company’s headquarters. 6 5 11 G4-6 Countries where the company has operations. 6 6 60, 63 G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form. 6 5 11 13, 60, Markets served, including geographic breakdown, sectors served and types 62, 69, G4-8 of customers and beneficiaries. 6 6 72, 101, 103 Scale of the organization, including total number of employees, of operations, 14, 27, G4-9 net sales, total capitalization broken down in terms of debt and equity and 6 5 69, 101, quantity of products or services provided. 103 Total number of employees by employment contract and gender; by region; whether a substantial portion of the organization’s work is performed by individuals G4-10 other than employees, including employees of contractors. Report any significant 6 5 27 variations in employment numbers. RELATING TO: G4-11 Percentage of total employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. 6 5 27, 34 06 Management 73, 74, 01. NON-EXISTENT 02. INTERESTED G4-12 Supply chain in the organization. 5 3 75 05 03. INVESTED 04. INVOLVED Significant changes during the reporting period regarding the organization’s size, 05. COMMITTED G4-13 structure, ownership or supply chain. 3 2 63 04 06. INTEGRATED Whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by G4-14 3 2 40 MATURITY LEVELS Collection of the organization. 03 information List externally developed economic, environmental and social charters, principles, 43, 51, 01. NO DATA G4-15 or other initiatives to which the organization subscribes or which it endorses. 6 3 80 02 02. MANUAL 03. SYSTEMATIZED List memberships of associations (such as industry associations) and national or 04. AUTOMATED 05. INTEGRATED international advocacy organizations in which the organization holds a position on 01 06. BUSINESS G4-16 the governance body, participates in projects or committees, provides substantive 6 3 41, 59 INTELLIGENCE funding beyond routine membership dues and/or views membership as strategic. * The report has not been additionally reviewed by an independent third party. In 2013 we began an internal opinion-gathering process through the company’s Audit Department, in which we identified aspects to take into account in the information reported, the traceability of the information, the performance, impacts and risks, as well as remediation plans. Atotonilco Wastewater Treatment Plant Tula, Hidalgo 112 113 Material aspects and boundaries EXTERNAL ASSURANCE G4-39 Whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer. 6 3 21 Operational structure, referencing the information in publicly available Nomination and selection processes for the highest governance body and G4-17 consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents. 4 2 6 G4-40 its committees. 6 3 19 5, 9, 11, Processes for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided G4-18 Process for defining the report content and the aspect boundaries. 4 3 54 G4-41 and managed. 3 4 19 List all the material aspects identified in the process for defining Highest governance body’s and senior executives’ roles in the development, approval, G4-19 6 3 56, 58 report content. G4-42 and updating of the organization’spurpose, value or mission statements, strategies, 3 3 23 For each material aspect, report the aspect boundary within the organization, policies, and goals related to economic, environmental and social impacts. G4-20 report whether the aspect is material within the organization. 2 2 6 Measures taken to develop and enhance the highest governance body’s collective G4-43 4 3 23 G4-21 For each material aspect, report the aspect boundary outside the organization. 1 1 59 knowledge of economic, environmental and social topics. Effect of any restatements of information provided in previous reports, G4-44 Performance assessment of highest governance body. 3 4 23 G4-22 and the reasons for such restatements. 2 1 6 Highest governance body’s role in the identification and management of economic, 20, 22, G4-45 4 4 40, 42 G4-23 Significant changes related to previous reports. 3 2 6 environmental and social impacts, risks, and opportunities. Highest governance body’s role in reviewing the effectiveness of the organization’s risk G4-46 4 4 22, 41 Stakeholders’ Engagement EXTERNAL ASSURANCE management processes for economic, environmental and social topics. Frequency of the highest governance body’s review of economic, environmental and 5, 55, G4-47 4 4 22, 55 G4-24 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. 6 3 57, 59, social impacts, risks, and opportunities. 80 Highest committee or position that formally reviews and approves the organization’s G4-48 6 3 22 G4-25 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage. 3 2 56, 57 sustainability report. 24, 28, G4-49 Process for communicating critical concerns to the highest governance body. 5 3 41, 55 33, 40, Nature and total number of critical concerns that were communicated to the highest Organization’s approach to stakeholder engagement, including frequency G4-26 of engagement by type and by stakeholder group. 4 3 55, 57, G4-50 governance body and the mechanism(s) used to address and resolve them. 4 3 40 58, 96, 107, 109 Remuneration policies for the highest governance body and senior executives and how 28, 29, G4-51 performance criteria in the remuneration policy relate to the highest governance 4 3 24 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder 34, 35, body’s and senior executives’ economic, environmental and social objectives. G4-27 engagement, and how the organization has responded to those key topics 4 3 36, 37, G4-52 Processes through which compensation is determined. 5 3 24, 30 and concerns. 45, 51, How stakeholders’ views are sought and taken into account regarding remuneration, 58, 96 G4-53 including the results of votes on remuneration policies and proposals, if applicable. 1 1 Report profile Ratio of the annual total compensation for the organization’s highest-paid individual G4-28 Reporting period. 6 3 5 G4-54 in each country of significant operations to the median annual total compensation 5 3 30 for all employees. G4-29 Date of most recent previous report. 6 3 5 Ratio of percentage increase in annual total compensation for the organization’s G4-30 Reporting cycle. 6 3 5 G4-55 highest-paid individual in each country of significant operations to the median 5 3 30 percentage increase in annual total compensation for all employees. G4-31 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents. 6 3 2 Report the ‘in accordance’ option the organization has chosen and report the Ethics and integrity G4-32 GRI Content Index for the chosen option. 6 3 110 Organization’s values, principles, standards and norms of behavior such as codes of Organization’s policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance G4-56 conduct and codes of ethics. 6 3 24 G4-33 for the report. 1 1 Internal and external mechanisms for seeking advice on ethical and lawful behavior, G4-57 and matters related to organizational integrity, such as helplines or advice lines. 6 3 24 Governance Internal and external mechanisms to report unethical or unlawful behavior, and matG4-34 Governance structure of the organization, including committees of the highest 6 3 20 G4-58 ters related to organizational integrity, such as escalation through line management, 6 3 24 governance body. whistleblowing mechanisms or hotlines. Process for delegating authority for economic, environmental and social topics from 5, 22, G4-35 the highest governance body to senior executives and other employees. 6 3 26 CATEGORY: ECONOMICS Whether the organization has appointed an executive-level position or positions with G4-36 responsibility for economic, environmental and social topics, and whether post holders 6 3 22, 26 Economic performance report directly to the highest governance body. Processes for consultation between stakeholders and the highest governance body on G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed. 6 5 15 G4-37 6 3 economic, environmental and social topics. G4-EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities due to climate change. 1 1 42 G4-38 Report the composition of the highest governance body and its committees. 6 3 19, 20, 21 G4-EC3 Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan obligations. 1 1 114 115 G4-EC4 Financial assistance received from government. 1 1 25 G4-EN12 Significant impacts of activities, products and services on biodiversity in protected 3 2 90, 91 areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. Market presence G4-EN13 Habitats protected or restored. 4 2 90 Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local minimum wage G4-EC5 at significant locations of operation. 6 3 31 G4-EN14 Total number of IUCN red list species and national conservation list species with habi4 2 91, 92, tats in areas affected by operations. 93 Proportion of senior management hired from the local community at significant G4-EC6 locations of operation. 3 2 31, 32 Emissions G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 1). 3 3 84 Indirect economic impacts 64, 65, G4-EN16 Energy indirect greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 2). 3 3 84 66, 67, G4-EN17 Greenhouse gas emissions intensity from buildings. 1 1 G4-EC7 Investments in infrastructure and services supported. 5 3 69, 70, Greenhouse gas emissions intensity from new construction and 71, 81, G4-EN18 redevelopment activity. 3 3 84, 85 95 CRE3 Other indirect greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 3). 1 1 73, 104, G4-EC8 Significant indirect economic impacts, including their extent. 4 2 107, 108 CRE4 Intensity of greenhouse gas emissions. 1 1 G4-EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas emissions. 1 1 Procurement practices G4-EN20 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances. 1 1 85 75, 76, G4-EC9 Proportion of spending on local suppliers at significant locations of operation. 4 3 104 G4-EN21 NOx, SOx and other significant air emissions. 3 3 85 G4-EN22 Total water discharge by quality and destination 4 3 87 CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE Effluents and waste Materials G4-EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. 6 3 87, 88 G4-EN1 Materials used by weight or volume. 6 3 76, 85 G4-EN24 Total number and volume of significant spills. 5 3 89 G4-EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials. 4 2 89 G4-EN25 Weight of transported, imported, exported or treated waste deemed hazardous. 1 1 Identity, size, protected status and biodiversity value of water bodies and related Energy G4-EN26 habitats significantly affected by discharges of water and runoff. 1 1 Energy consumption: total fuel consumption from renewable and non-renewable Land and other assets remediated and in need of remediation for the existing sources, including fuel types; electricity, heating, cooling and steam consumption; CRE5 1 1 G4-EN3 electricity, heating, cooling, steam sold; total energy consumption. Report standards, 6 3 76, 83 or intended land use according to applicable legal designations. methodologies and the source of conversion factors used. Products and services G4-EN4 Energy consumption outside of the organization. 1 1 G4-EN27 Extent of impact mitigation of environmental impacts of products and services. 1 1 91 G4-EN5 Energy intensity. 3 2 83 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are Reduction of energy consumption achieved as a direct result of conservation G4-EN28 reclaimed by category. 1 1 CRE1 and efficiency initiatives; types of energy included in the reductions, and basis 1 1 for calculating reductions such as base year or baseline. Compliance G4-EN6 Reductions in energy requirements of products and services. 3 2 83, 84 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for G4-EN29 3 3 92 G4-EN7 Reducciones de los requisitos energéticos de los productos y servicios. 1 1 84, 96 non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations. Water Transport G4-EN8 Total water withdrawal by sources. 5 3 86 G4-EN30 Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and 1 1 materials for the organization’s operations, and transporting members of the workforce. G4-EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water. 5 2 86 G4-EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused. 5 3 86 Overall CRE2 Building water intensity. 1 1 G4-EN31 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type. 1 1 92 Biodiversity Supplier environmental assessment Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to protected areas G4-EN32 Percentage of new suppliers screened using environmental criteria. 1 1 74 G4-EN11 and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. 2 1 89, 90 Significant, real and potential environmental impacts in supply chain G4-EN33 and actions taken. 1 1 92 116 117 Environmental grievance mechanisms Labor practices grievance mechanisms Number of grievances about environmental impacts filed, addressed and resolved Number of grievances about labor practices filed, addressed and resolved through G4-EN34 though formal grievance mechanisms. 2 2 G4-LA16 formal grievance mechanisms. 1 1 CATEGORY: SOCIAL PERFORMANCE CATEGORY: HUMAN RIGHTS Labor practices and decent work Investment Total number and rates of new employee hires and employee turnover by age group, Total number and percentage of significant investment agreements and contracts that G4-LA1 gender and region. 5 5 28, 29 G4-HR1 include human rights clauses or that underwent human rights screening. 3 2 25 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or Total hours of employee training on human rights policies or procedures concerning G4-LA2 6 5 29 part-time employees, by significant locations of operation. G4-HR2 aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations, including the percentage of 2 3 33 employees trained. G4-LA3 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender. 4 5 31 Non-discrimination Relation between directors and employees Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes, including whether these are G4-HR3 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken. 2 2 25 G4-LA4 specified in collective agreements. 1 1 35 Freedom of association and collective bargaining Occupational health and safety Operations and suppliers identified in which the right to exercise freedom of Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management–worker G4-HR4 association and collective bargaining may be violated or at significant risk, 4 2 35 G4-LA5 health and safety committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health 6 3 38 and measures taken to support these rights. and safety programs. Child labor Percentage of the organization operating in verified compliance with an internationally CRE6 recognized health and safety 6 3 36, 38 G4-HR5 Operations and suppliers identified as having risk for incident of child labor, 4 2 35 management system. and measures taken to contribute to the effective abolition of child labor. Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, 36, 37, G4-LA6 and total number of work-related fatalities, by region and gender. 6 5 38 Forced or compulsory labor Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced G4-LA7 Workers with high incidence or high risk of diseases related to their occupation. 3 2 35 G4-HR6 or compulsory labor, and measures to contribute to the elimination of all forms of 4 2 35 G4-LA8 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions. 5 3 34, 37 forced or compulsory labor. Training and education Security practices 32, 38, Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization’s human rights policies G4-LA9 Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, and by employee category. 6 5 G4-HR7 or procedures that are relevant to operations. 3 2 34 39 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued 26, 30, G4-LA10 employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings. 4 3 31, 32 Indigenous rights Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous peoples G4-LA11 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development 5 5 28, 29, G4-HR8 and actions taken. 2 1 25 reviews, by gender and by employee category. 31 Assessment Diversity and equal opportunity Total number and percentage of operations that have been subject to human Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee G4-HR9 rights reviews or impact assessments. 1 1 G4-LA12 category according to gender, age group, minority group membership and other 6 5 27, 30 indicators of diversity. Supplier human rights assessment Equal remuneration for women and men G4-HR10 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using human rights criteria. 1 1 74 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men by employee category, Significant actual ad potential negative human rights impacts in the supply chain and G4-LA13 by significant locations of operation. 5 5 30 G4-HR11 actions taken. 1 1 Supplier assessment for labor practices Human rights grievance mechanisms G4-LA14 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using labor practices criteria. 1 1 74 G4-HR12 Number of grievances about human rights impacts filed, addressed and resolved 2 2 through formal grievance mechanisms. Significant actual and potential negative impacts for labor practices in G4-LA15 the supply chain and actions taken. 1 1 118 119 CATEGORY: SOCIETY Type and number of sustainability certification, rating and labeling schemes for new CRE8 construction, management, occupation and redevelopment. 3 2 Local communities Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes G4-PR4 concerning product and service information and labeling, by type of outcomes. 1 1 77, 78, G4-SO1 Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, 4 2 79, 80, G4-PR5 Results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction. 6 5 45 impact assessments and development programs. 81, 107, 108, 109 Marketing communications G4-SO2 Operations with significant actual and potential negative impacts on local 1 1 80, 82 G4-PR6 Sale of banned or disputed products. 1 1 communities. Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes Anti-corruption G4-PR7 concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion and 1 1 sponsorship, by type of outcomes. Total number and percentage of operations assessed for risks related to corruption G4-SO3 and significant risks identified. 4 3 41, 42 Customer privacy Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy G4-SO4 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and procedures. 5 3 G4-PR8 and losses of customer data. 5 3 44 G4-SO5 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken. 3 3 25 Compliance Public policy Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations G4-PR9 3 2 44 G4-SO6 Total value of political contributions by country and recipient/beneficiary. 1 1 25 concerning the provision and use of products and services. Anti-competitive behavior Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust and monopoly G4-SO7 practices and their outcomes. 5 2 25 Compliance Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for G4-SO8 non-compliance with laws and regulations. 3 2 25 Supplier assessment for impacts on society G4-SO9 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using criteria for impacts on society. 1 1 74 Significant actual and potential negative impacts on society in the supply chain G4-SO10 and actions taken. 1 1 Number of persons voluntarily and involuntarily displaced and/or resettled by CRE7 development, broken down by project. 2 1 Grievance mechanisms for impacts on society Number of grievances about impacts on society filed, addressed and resolved through G4-S011 formal grievance mechanisms. 1 1 CATEGORY: PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY Customer health and safety Percentage of significant product and service categories for which health and safety G4-PR1 impacts are assessed for improvement. 1 1 43 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes G4-PR2 concerning the health and safety impacts of products and services during their life 2 2 44 cycle, by type of outcomes. Product and services labeling Type of product and service information required by the organization’s procedures for G4-PR3 product and service information and labeling, and percentage of significant product 5 3 43 and service categories subject to such information requirements. 120 121 Emisor Oriente Tunnel Mexico City | Mexico State 122 EMPRESAS ICA, S.A.B. DE C.V. Blvd. Manuel Ávila Camacho 36, Col. Lomas de Chapultepec, C.P. 11000 Mexico City Phone: (5255) 5272 9991 www.ica.com.mx
