UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2015 EG www.eg.dk Contents 3 Statement of Continued Support 4 Human Rights Principles 5 Labour Rights Principles 6 Environmental Protection Principles 7 Anti-Corruption Principles Version 1.0 2015 Statement of Continued Support October 15, 2015 EG’s position as one of the leading IT service companies in Compact. We have identified our prioritised sustainability Scandinavia is built on close relationships with our custoissues, and have initiated the process of optimising these. mers, industry knowledge and solid IT skills. We will follow up on our progress on a yearly basis. More than 35 years of industry experience has given us In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe great insight into our customers’ businesses. Our sectorour actions to continually improve the integration of the specific solutions are based on best practice processes UN Global Compact and its principles into our business within the sectors in which we have a strong market strategy, culture and daily operations. position. Over the years, we have accumulated experience We also commit to share this information with our customers, and refined solutions which create value for companies employees, suppliers and other stakeholders using our in the following sectors: Production, Construction, Retail, primary channels of communication. Trade & Transport, Government, Professional Services and Utilities. We serve more than 12,000 customers from our Yours sincerely over 25 locations in Scandinavia. Leif Vestergaard I am pleased to confirm that EG A/S reaffirms its supCEO, EG A/S port of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. Our complete CSR Policy, which includes our Code of Conduct and Business Ethics, has been approved by EG’s Management Team and the Board of Directors. Our CSR Policy is based on the 10 Principles of the UN Global EG A/S CSR REPORT 2015 3 Human Rights Principles Commitment organisation and towards our suppliers, and we will continue EG respects cultural differences and does not do business this work throughout 2015 and 2016. with a supplier if the supplier practices discrimination at We monitor the overall sickness absence in EG on a monthly work based on race, religion, gender, age, nationality or basis in order to detect employee health issues, and assess sexual orientation. No employee should ever be exposed if follow-up actions are required. to any physical punishment, threats of violence or physical, In accordance with the Danish Working Environment Act, sexual, psychological or verbal harassment or maltreatment EG conducts APV (Workplace Assessment Surveys) every in the workplace or in work-related situations. three years, and continually carries out follow-up actions. EG supports the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. We We will update our Employee Handbook to include guidelines respect Human Rights within our sphere of influence and in regard to Human Rights principles. operate our business in a transparent and trustworthy way. Performance Evaluation EG has a dedicated Health and Safety Committee in place to We have published our CSR Policy and Code of Conduct on regularly assess and evaluate the working environment in EG. our website. EG sees no significant risks that the company or its suppliers In the past year, EG A/S has not been subject to any inves­ violate the UN Global Compact Principles 1-2. tigations, legal cases or incidents involving Human Rights violations. No incidents or violations of the Human Rights Implementation principles have been reported to the Management Team. We have recently begun the work of implementing our CSR Policy and Code of Conduct within our Scandinavian EG A/S CSR REPORT 2015 4 Labour Rights Principles Commitment performance evaluations which include feedback from EG commits to provide a competitive salary package, employees on the ability to provide a safe and developing a safe and comfortable working environment, openly work environment. communicated career paths and well-established perforWe will update the Employee Handbook to include guidelines mance and development evaluation tools. in regard to the Labour Rights principles. EG respects the right of workers and operates our business with safe and attractive working conditions. We rePerformance evaluation spect the freedom of association and collective bargaining We currently employ more than 1800 people from six difand have zero tolerance for forced labour, child labour or ferent nationalities in our 25 Scandinavian locations. discrimination. EG sees no significant risks that the company or its suppliers Annual performance reviews have been carried out with violate the UN Global Compact Principles 3-6. all employees in all locations. Implementation We have published our CSR Policy and Code of Conduct on We have recently begun the work of implementing our our website. CSR Policy and Code of Conduct within our Scandinavian organisation and towards our suppliers, and we will continue In the past year, EG has not been subject to any investithis work throughout 2015 and 2016. gations, legal cases or incidents involving Labour Rights All EG employees undergo annual performance reviews to violations. No incidents or violations of the Labour Rights set individual plans and targets for advancement. All principles have been reported to the Management Team. EG employees with leadership responsibility undergo EG A/S CSR REPORT 2015 5 Environmental Protection Principles Commitment We have improved and optimised our headquarters in EG supports a precautionary approach to environmental Denmark to be more energy-efficient, and we are contichallenges, and undertakes initiatives to promote greater nuously upgrading our company car fleet to include more environmental responsibility. Also, we encourage the eco-friendly vehicles. development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Our waste management, including handling of chemicals EG actively supports a sustainable environmental progress and dangerous materials, is in compliance with all applicable through the development and distribution of IT solutions national laws and regulations, and we continually educate for various industries, which reduce waste of energy, our employees in this area. materials and transportation. We recognise that unnecessary travel by car and plane Performance Evaluation has a negative impact on the environment, and we We have published our company CSR Policy and Code of constantly work to minimise these effects by promoting Conduct on our website. virtual meetings, investing in more eco-friendly cars and A ”no more than” policy on CO2 emission is enforced on using public transportation where possible. company cars. In the past year, EG has not been subject to any investiImplementation gations, legal cases or incidents involving violations to We have recently begun the work of implementing our the Environmental Protection principles. No incidents or CSR Policy and Code of Conduct within our Scandinavian violations of the Environmental Protection principles have organisation and towards our suppliers, and we will continue been reported to the Management Team. this work throughout 2015 and 2016. EG A/S CSR REPORT 2015 6 Anti-Corruption Principles Commitment organisation and towards our suppliers, and we will continue Corruption and bribery are recognised as barriers to this work throughout 2015 and 2016. sustainable development and free trade, and EG supports Guidelines for handling issues of Corruption, Hospitality the work against corruption in all its forms, including (Gifts and Entertainment) and Donations are provided to extortion and bribery. employees through our Business Ethics document, CSR Policy and Code of Conduct. Gifts and Entertainment EG acknowledges that minor business gifts and modePerformance Evaluation rate entertainment, including meals, are accepted ways We have published our company CSR Policy and Code of to build relationships and generate goodwill between Conduct on our website. business partners. This practice must however always be conducted in a transparent way, and only to an extent In the past year EG has not been subject to any investiappropriate to our integrity guidelines and business ethics. gations, legal cases or incidents involving Anti-Corruption violations. No incidents or violations of the Anti-Corruption Implementation principles have been reported to the Management Team. We have recently begun the work of implementing our CSR Policy and Business Ethics within our Scandinavian EG A/S CSR REPORT 2015 7
