United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress Year 2015 www.avasant.com Avasant 1960 East Grand Avenue, Suite 1050 | Los Angeles, California 90245 | USA +1.310.643.3030 | Email: contactus@avasant.com Leadership: Mr. Kevin S. Parikh | Global CEO & Senior Partner Business Category: Management Consulting Number of Employees: 275 Member Since: November 21, 2011 United Nations Global Compact: Communication on Progress 2015 Page 2 Letter from our CEO Our core value of ‘service to humanity’ drives the social, cultural and corporate vision of Avasant. Avasant STRIVES each day to bolster its commitment for the betterment of global citizens. The firm supports numerous advisory engagements, driving employment generation in the emerging economies and contributes to philanthropic activities, which has earned a global recognition in the Vault Consulting Survey 2015. Avasant’s Core Values of STRIVE entrusts all stakeholders with high ethical and corporate governance standards. Mr. Kevin S. Parikh Service: to humanity Avasant Global CEO Teamwork: working together for better results Avasant Foundation Chairman Girl Rising Advisory Board Responsibility: taking accountability for our actions Integrity: doing the right thing Vision: working with purpose Excellence: in our commitment Avasant Foundation, is a 501(C)(3) not for profit organization in the State of California identifies and supports programs that uplift and create opportunities to the disadvantaged in underdeveloped and emerging economies. The Avasant Foundation Charity Golf Event scheduled in March 2015, raised over $200,000 in donations. The funds raised will go directly to the needs of youth in communities worldwide. It is the firm’s responsibility as a global corporate citizen to build, develop and provide programs that will help create jobs for youths in the US and around the world. Statement of Support Avasant wholly supports and adheres to the UN’s ten principles of the Global Compact and its endeavour to make this world a more conducive environment that fosters collaborative progress of businesses and society. Avasant believes that corporate social responsibility makes good business sense and imbibes UN’s ten principles across its various processes and practices, including  Winning and Retaining Clients  Recruitment, Training, and Retaining Employees  Supply Chain  Culture and Value System  Sustainable Growth, Revenue Generation, and Profitability  Accountability to Stakeholders, Society, and the Environment I am pleased to confirm that Avasant LLC reaffirms its continued support to the ten principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and AntiCorruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to consistently improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture, and operations. We reaffirm our commitment to bring about a change in the community we work. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Kevin S. Parikh Global Chief Executive Officer United Nations Global Compact: Communication on Progress 2015 Page 3 About Avasant With its headquarters in Los Angeles, California, Avasant is a leading management-consulting firm providing digital transformation, sourcing advisory, country capacity development and governance services to Fortune 1000 clients around the globe. Our talented team of consultants, technologists and lawyers average over 20 years of industry-honed experience and have conducted over 1,000 engagements in more than 40 countries worldwide. Avasant drives customer value through the use of its proprietary consulting and advisory methods, which have been refined over decades of real world transaction and engagement experience. The combination of world-class resources and cross-industry experience enables Avasant to yield superior business outcomes for its global clients across four primary domains: Digital, Business & IT Transformation, Strategic Sourcing, and Globalization Advisory. Avasant advises governments and private enterprises to develop and implement business strategies and improve process efficiencies. It also helps small and medium sized organizations increase their market share by enhancing their process efficiencies and customer reach. Avasant’s management consultants, and advisors, offer focused advisory services on market-expansion strategy, business process assessment, public-private partnerships as well as operations and compliance.  Avasant has been at the forefront of the Global Expansion of Outsourcing Services. Among our credentials are the Black Book of Outsourcing’s ‘Number 1 BPO Advisor’ and ‘Top 10 Full Service Advisors’ honours. In 2015, International Association of Outsourcing Professionals (IAOP) ranked Avasant as the most distinguished outsourcing advisory firm in North America. Avasant also ranked top #2 “World’s Best Outsourcing Advisors” in the IAOP list in 2014. Additionally, Avasant has been ranked in the Top 10 for four years consecutively as the ‘World Best Outsourcing Advisors’ by the IAOP in 2013, 2012, 2011 and 2010. The National Outsourcing Association (NOA) has also nominated Avasant for Corporate Social Responsibility 2015, 2014 and Outsourcing Advisory of the Year Award 2015 and 2014. European Outsourcing Association (EOA) has also recognized Avasant as the top five management-consulting firms in Award for Corporate Social Responsibility Category. The Vault Consulting Survey consistently ranks Avasant among the Top 50 and “Best to Work For” management-consulting firms for 2016, 2015, 2014 and 2013.  Avasant has extensive experience working with various Governments and donor agencies such as The World Bank, USAID, The Commonwealth Secretariat, and The Rockefeller Foundation, among others to promote and expand markets in countries such as Ghana, South Africa, Uganda, Jordan, Jamaica, Trinidad & Tobago, Dominican Republic, Haiti, Belize, and Bangladesh, etc.  As a strategic advisor, Avasant plays a unique intermediary role between multinational and government clients seeking consulting and implementation services and the global service providers who offer them. With our deep relationships in “buyer” markets like the US and UK, we maintain close relationships with many Fortune 1000 companies, as well as a strong presence in leading service provider geographies like India and China. United Nations Global Compact: Communication on Progress 2015 Page 4 About the Report This report is Avasant’s fourth “Communication on Progress” in adherence to the United Nations Global Compact’s ten guiding principles as part of our core strategy and business operations. As a UN Global Compact member since 2011, Avasant has aligned its corporate vision with the ten principles spanning human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. The submitted report provides a detailed overview of our business practices in tandem with United Nations Global Compact principles and showcases activities which Avasant undertakes to add value to the lives of global citizens. Through Avasant Foundation, a not-for-profit venture, we directly impact the lives of millions across emerging economies by providing employment opportunities and raising donations for education and skill development of the underprivileged youth. Avasant works with leading institutional bodies, including the World Bank, African Development Bank, Asia Development Bank and the United Nations Agency for International Development (USAID) in their pursuit to end poverty and enable societies globally to realize their potential. Avasant Foundation, in partnership with Jamaica Promotion Corporation (JAMPRO) and Xerox Corporation, launched its Avasant Youth Digital Employment Initiative to foster employment opportunities in Jamaica. Launched in June 2015, this six-week comprehensive skill development program equipped 30 high potential and underserved youth in the Kingston region with the professional skills necessary to foster a thriving career in the Business Process industry. Avasant Foundation has also received a grant from the Rockefeller Foundation for $460,000 towards implementing jobs-focused Impact Sourcing initiatives in Africa. The grant comes under the Rockefeller Foundation’s Digital Jobs Africa initiative, launched in May 2013 with a goal to impact 1 million lives in six African countries through job creation and skills development for youth who would otherwise have limited access to employment. Avasant Foundation is also a proud sponsor of the Digital Equalizer (DE) program in six schools in India. The program offered in partnership with the American India Foundation (AIF) has played a life-changing role in the academic journey of students and is tremendously beneficial. For Avasant’s corporate social responsibility initiatives, visit: www.avasantfoundation.org United Nations Global Compact: Communication on Progress 2015 Page 5 United Nations Global Compact Human Rights Principles PRINCIPLE 1 BUSINESS SHOULD ENSURE THAT THEY ARE NOT COMPLICIT IN HUMAN RIGHTS ABUSES PRINCIPLE 2 BUSINESS SHOULD SUPPORT AND RESPECT THE PROTECTION OF INTERNATIONALLY PROCLAIMED HUMAN RIGHTS For the Firm: Our Commitment As an equal opportunity employer, Avasant believes that its inherent strength lies in the intellectual and cultural diversity of its workforce. It strongly believes that employees are its biggest asset. Respect for employees is the cornerstone of Avasant’s Business Code of Conduct. Avasant workforce contributes their extensive knowledge, implicit understanding and passion towards the firm’s goal of guiding its clients through often difficult, uncertain and ambiguous situations. The firm, through its policies upholds the human and employee rights and strongly believes in acknowledging and respecting dignity, rights and ambitions of its employees. Avasant maintains a zero tolerance policy towards any kind of harassment, discrimination, coercion and misconduct. The firm adopts a fair-trade policy and neither allow nor use any child labour, bonded labour or prison labour. Avasant adheres to health and safety standards of its employees, contractors, partners and clients. Proactive Initiatives Avasant conducts a formal 360-degree feedback sessions twice a year along with informal, interactive “happy hour” sessions at least twice a month. Through these interactions, employees voice their concerns and suggest changes to any policy or practice that help nurture and develop them personally and professionally. Ideas that integrate teams globally and provide equal opportunities are focus areas. Any idea supported by the majority is then taken up in a time bound initiative. The mentor-mentee initiative is aimed at grooming the associates through regular one-on-one sessions on career progression, firm development and honing consulting skill sets. Impact on the Firm Avasant supports flexi-working, which allows a consultant to work from his/her home as per convenience, considering the demanding and challenging role of a consultant. We allow our workforce to maintain a healthy work life-balance and offer them more control of their own time. We have continually received positive feedback from our employee on our policies and believe that it has created goodwill, not just among our employees, but also our stakeholders and clients. Based on the feedback from Avasant employees, the Vault Consulting Survey has recognized Avasant among “Best to Work For” management consulting firms for 2015. Vault Consulting Survey ranks Avasant among the top management-consulting firms offering “internal mobility” across departments to its associates. The firm also ranks for offering international opportunities to its employees and subsequent career progression. United Nations Global Compact: Communication on Progress 2015 Page 6 For the Global Community: Our Commitment Avasant has adopted a focused approach to align its Corporate Social Responsibility initiatives with its deep expertise in Outsourcing:  Avasant strongly believes in the philosophy of giving back to the society and supporting the disadvantaged in the society. The firm works with various Non-Government Organizations (NGOs) globally, primarily in areas of sustainable employment generation and social upliftment.  One of major initiative which the firm has been involved is with The Rockefeller Foundation’s “Poverty Reduction through Information and Digital Employment” (PRIDE) program. PRIDE aims at employment creation opportunities for the poor and underprivileged through Impact Sourcing. Avasant’s global team is supporting this crucial initiative by providing best practice insights and sharing its deep experience in the outsourcing arena. This ensures restoring the dignity and rights of the disadvantaged.  Avasant works to empower unskilled workforce in emerging nations by helping governments devise policies towards skills development. This helps to provide a sustainable source of livelihood to underprivileged in the society. The firm works with multiple governments, including the Governments of Jamaica, Haiti, Ghana, Uganda, Trinidad, Haiti and Palestine identify key initiatives, policy level intervention, skill development and investment promotion required to scale up the Impact Sourcing Industry.  Avasant supports and contributes through various charities directly and indirectly time and efforts of its associates and supports/organizes fund-raising initiatives. In the year 2014, Avasant hosts the Annual Charity Golf Event and have raised more than USD 200,000 to support education and employment creation opportunities for the youth in emerging economies.  Avasant works closely with non-government organizations, like the American India Foundation, and collaborates with country specific foundations to assist and advise social upliftment of the needy. The firm undertakes Pro-Bono consulting assignments for NGOs to enable them in their pursuit to empower the global community.  Avasant supports the initiatives by World Vision International & Inter-America Development Bank (IDB) globally and in Haiti and Jamaica respectively. The initiatives are aimed at sustainable community development and poverty alleviation by creating sufficient infrastructure and adequate jobs ensuring socioeconomic security for the needy. United Nations Global Compact: Communication on Progress 2015 Page 7 United Nations Global Compact Labour Standards PRINCIPLE 3 BUSINESS SHOULD SUPPORT THE ELIMINATION OF ALL FORMS OF FORCED AND COMPULSORY LABOUR PRINCIPLE 4 BUSINESS SHOULD SUPPORT THE EFFECTIVE ABOLITION OF CHILD LABOUR PRINCIPLE 5 BUSINESS SHOULD SUPPORT THE ELIMINATION OF DISCRIMINATION IN RESPECT OF EMPLOYMENT AND OCCUPATION PRINCIPLE 6 BUSINESS SHOULD UPHOLD THE FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AND THE EFFECTIVE RECOGNITION OF THE RIGHT TO COLLECTIVE BARGAINING Societal Impact of our Initiatives Impact Sourcing: Empowering Poor and Vulnerable People The world’s disadvantaged and vulnerable people often lack access to jobs that can help them earn income in order to support their and their family’s well-being. Increasingly, organizations are working to create a positive impact through employment generation for unskilled and disadvantaged youth. Avasant is engaged with The Rockefeller Foundation to assist in its initiative “Digital Jobs Africa” wherein the Foundation aims to impact 1 million lives in six countries in EMEA region by promoting sustainable Information Communication Technology-enabled (ICT) employment opportunities and skills training for high potential but disadvantaged youth. The objectives of this engagement are:  Increase awareness of “Impact Sourcing (IS)” amongst Service Providers of IT & BPO services, through deep engagement with provider community.  Promote inclusion of “Impact Sourcing” in the outsourcing services delivery value-chain of Buyers and Service Providers leading to measurable commitments on actual services procured or delivered through use of “Impact Sourcing” resources in Africa.  Provide guidance and support to Business Process Outsourcing Service Providers to implement a component of “Impact Sourcing” in their portfolio. Avasant has been at the forefront of adding value to the lives of underprivileged and disadvantaged by supporting engagements, which aid in employment generation, skills development and promoting social upliftment. Avasant is engaged with multiple Governments, Donor Agencies and Non-Government Organizations globally, primarily in areas of sustainable employment generation and social upliftment through its Impact Sourcing Initiatives. This engagement is primarily focused on educating and influencing adoption of IS among Service Providers through regular interactions and training workshops. Avasant aims to explain the rationale and business case for Impact Sourcing and chart out the implementation roadmap. The business case demonstrates the “total economic value proposition” of Impact Sourcing. Avasant also focuses on educating the Service Provider on Impact Sourcing, its benefits and potential approaches to engage clients. United Nations Global Compact: Communication on Progress 2015 Page 8 Avasant also supported “The Rockefeller Foundation” in its Poverty Reduction through Information and Digital Employment (PRIDE) initiatives that aims to reduce poverty across the globe by bringing the poor and disadvantaged into mainstream by generating sustainable employment in the IT and BPO sector. The prime objective of Avasant is to develop a better understanding of how Impact Sourcing (IS) can be scaled with policies and incentives. Key areas of our engagement include:  Providing global best practices related to outsourcing and engaging people from the base of the pyramid in the outsourcing sector  Support analysis of findings in terms of likelihood of policy and incentives adoption  Identifying countries that show the most promise for policy change with a view to understanding where Impact Sourcing is more likely to scale  Developing a roadmap for Impact Sourcing adoption detailing policy levers, incentives and global best practices that countries with outsourcing sectors can implement to promote, support and encourage Impact Sourcing while eliminating discrimination  Help build the network of key Impact Sourcing stakeholders to advance the sector The Impact Sourcing project seeks to achieve growth with equity in Africa by enabling people at the base of the pyramid to tap into employment opportunities generated by the $119 billion global outsourcing sector. Avasant works with Donor agencies like the Rockefeller on impact sourcing in Latin America, India, Eastern Europe, and South America by  Creating jobs for those who would not otherwise have the opportunity for sustainable employment  Catalyzing a new sector that leverages the outsourcing sector and substantially improved ICT infrastructure in Africa & globally  Many of these employment opportunities, includes call center support, Business Process Outsourcing (BPO) centers, and Information Technology Outsourcing (ITO)  Jobs are targeted to be located in economic development zones, low-income areas, and rural towns with the objective of driving employment and opportunities to lower income individuals Avasant’s Socially Responsible Initiatives: Avasant envisions a world where children & youth are afforded opportunities to become productive and contributing members of the global community. Avasant's Primary Initiatives for 2015-2016 are: Digital Jobs Initiatives Africa Avasant Foundation is engaged with Rockefeller Foundation’s efforts to impact the lives of 1 million people in six countries in Africa through sustainable employment opportunities in the Information and Communications Technology Industry for African Youth, creating employment opportunities for more than 3000 youth in Africa. United Nations Global Compact: Communication on Progress 2015 Page 9 Digital EqualizerIndia In partnering with the America India Foundation (AIF), Avasant Foundation is bridging the educational and digital divide in India by providing students with access to technology. Avasant Foundation targets under-resourced schools to transform teaching and learning into a collaborative, project-based approach, inspiring students to have confidence in their abilities and an increased desire to stay in school. Digital Youth Employment Initiative Jamaica Avasant Foundation is involved with the Government of Jamaica in drafting policy interventions that will enhance outsourcing sector, develop skill, and create employment opportunity for the youth in Jamaica. In partnering with the University of Technology, Teens for Technology, and Xerox, Avasant Foundation has created a six-week contact-center training program focused on technology and professional skill development for high-potential deserving students in Jamaica. The Foundation hopes to scale this program across Latin America. Avasant also supports Girl Rising, Clinton Global Initiative, Akshaya Patra, One World Children’s fund Pratham, and STEAM. Avasant supports key global initiatives aimed at providing employment, food, and education opportunities to youth and children. The Clinton Global Initiative and Partnership with Microsoft Avasant Foundation has been an active member in the Clinton Global Initiative. The foundation has been using this platform to promote youth employment in the digital economy very effectively. Avasant has a Memorandum of Understanding with Microsoft on their e-learning platform. Avasant uses this state of the art platform to support online training of youth on various topics and is supported by Microsoft on some of the content. Inter-American Development Bank Avasant is proudly supports initiatives funded by Inter-American Development Bank (IDB), which stems from the larger Haiti Infrastructure Program, including reliable electricity, residential housing project and a water treatment plant. Avasant supported IDB’s initiatives by leveraging its Globalization Methodologies within Capacity Development & GoTo-Market domains. Called, Le Parc Industriel de la Région du Nord d’Haïti (PIRN), it is intended to bring the following benefits: United Nations Global Compact: Communication on Progress 2015 Page 10  Creating more than $500M USD in salaries and benefits for ten years, with each employee earning an estimated 3-4 times the current per capita GDP in Haiti  Eventually expanding to support 65,000 permanent jobs once the park is fully developed and increasing employment of the Haitian apparel industry by over 200%  Increasing the number of jobs in the private sector by at least 20%  Creating the first textile factory in Haiti for knitting and dyeing  Increasing the tax base by improving employment and trade flows In the year 2015, Vault Consulting Survey has recognized Avasant as the “Best Consulting Firms for Diversity”. This includes our representation of minorities, military veterans, and individuals with disability in our workforce. Avasant complies with local labour laws applicable to its global workforce. Our Commitment Avasant views diverse suppliers as small and medium enterprises; suppliers from underrepresented or ethnic minority groups. Avasant’s commitment to labour principles spans across its supplier base and employees, which includes removal of child labour, forced and bonded labour. Avasant is committed to a consistent and fair tender process and to facilities this, all potential suppliers receive:  Request for quotation/proposal RFP/RFQ letter inviting suppliers to participate  Intent to respond document  Non-disclosure document. Upon completion of these documents, suppliers wishing to tender will receive the RFQ/RFP, which includes timescales and the format of responses that suppliers must adhere. All tenders provide for an opportunity to allow suppliers to respond with questions and to give an identical time-period for all to respond. Impact on the firm Through this process, Avasant ensures that the bidding process for suppliers is fair and is conducted through an effective bidding process, which creates a win-win situation for both suppliers and Avasant. Avasant envisions a more integrated and inclusive supply chain in key geographies we operate and align our corporate social initiatives with the need of the outsourcing industry and our business. Fostering social upliftment of underprivileged communities helps Avasant to create a positive economic growth and employable workforce in emerging nations where we are directly engaged with governments. United Nations Global Compact: Communication on Progress 2015 Page 11 United Nations Global Compact Environment Principles PRINCIPLE 7 BUSINESS SHOULD SUPPORT A PRECAUTIONARY APPROACH TO ENVIRONMENTAL CHALLENGES PRINCIPLE 8 BUSINESS SHOULD UNDERTAKE INITIATIVES TO PROMOTE GREATER ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY PRINCIPLE 9 BUSINESS SHOULD ENCOURAGE THE DEVELOPMENT AND DIFFUSION OF ENVIRONMENTALLY FRIENDLY TECHNOLOGIES Our Commitment Although our impact on the environment is limited, we ensure that we take decisive action to mitigate any impact through our real estate, technology, employee business travel and procurement of goods and services. Avasant’s approach is to aim to establish and maintain effective and efficient environmental friendly management procedures. Avasant extends itself to comply with, and where applicable, to comply with all statutory and regulatory requirements, national and international standards and industry practices. Avasant does it best to raise employee awareness on environmental issues and attempts to utilise industry best practices wherever possible. Avasant’s leaders have regularly promoted green sourcing through industry forums related to the importance and benefits of ‘green information technology sourcing.’ Avasant undertakes environment friendly initiatives and sets annual targets, which it shares regularly with its employees and stakeholders. Avasant also strives to reduce its carbon footprints by minimizing travel to client locations and promoting video conferencing facilities with clients. Proactive Initiatives Within the Firm:  Increase use of video conferencing and web-conferencing to reduce its international workforce travel  Flexiworking facilities to reduce long office commutes  Increase use of recycled paper and published material in all of our global offices  Use of online record keeping as a de-facto standard instead of maintaining a paper based bookkeeping and record inventory  Usage of double-side printing unless absolutely necessary  Maximizing the use of email, and collaboration tools like Yammer and Delve to communicate externally as well as internally. United Nations Global Compact: Communication on Progress 2015 Page 12 For the Global Community: Avasant continually promoting green sourcing as one of the practice areas to consult its clients on environment-friendly purchase of various hardware and server components. This includes conducting significant research and analysis before selecting an outsourcing service provider or partner. Our Sourcing practice aims at:  Identifying Green Compliance Risks in Sourcing Strategy  Inviting providers with a green record  Incorporating regulatory guidelines into contractual language of service provider agreements  Assessing financial impact  Incorporating the use of well-defined checklists of agreed environmental considerations to ensure operational compliance. Avasant spearheads the Green Sourcing initiatives within the IT Outsourcing industry. The leadership team has been a proponent of green sourcing at multiple conferences around the globe and has been coaching organizations on the need to move towards green and emphasize the need in the sourcing cycle. The firm is also advising governments to devise policies, which aim at involving mandatory corporate contributions towards social initiatives. Impact on the firm As a result of our green initiatives, we have been able to:  Considerably reduce the usage of paper in our day to day business operations  Reduce staff travel, both internationally and locally  Build awareness amongst our clients and stakeholders that ‘going green’ makes a viable business case  Spread awareness in the industry of the importance and advantages of green sourcing United Nations Global Compact: Communication on Progress 2015 Page 13 United Nations Global Compact Anti-Corruption Principles PRINCIPLE 10 BUSINESS SHOULD WORK AGAINST CORRUPTION IN ALL ITS FORMS, INCLUDING EXTORTION AND BRIBERY Our Commitment Avasant strongly adheres to a zero tolerance policy against bribery, extortion and other corrupt malpractices. We strictly follow and adhere to the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977 (FCPA) following a disclosure by the Securities and Exchange Commission of the extensive practice by American businesses operating abroad of making payment to foreign government officials, for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. We have a centralised whistle-blowing cell that takes strict action against any reported malpractices observed by employees, stakeholders or clients or activities in deviance from those suggested by FCPA. Impact on the firm Avasant is fully compliant with FCPA and there are no reported malpractices or acts of corruption in any form. United Nations Global Compact: Communication on Progress 2015 Page 14 1960 East Grand Avenue Suite 1050 | Los Angeles California – 90245 Tel: +1.310.643.3030 Fax: +1.310.643.3033 Email: contactus@avasant.com
