BANK HAPOALIM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Economic, Social & Environmental Responsibility 2014 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY IT'S IN OUR HANDS SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY IT'S IN OUR HANDS BA NK H A POA LIM INTRODUCTION 2-3 4 32 94 Customers Community 136 178 204 Employees Environment Introduction The best interests Society and the Quality of life Living with the 206 Ethics and compliance 4  essages from the M of the client community and well-being environment 208 The bank's profile Chairman of the Customers, products, Creating value for well being and caring Logistical resources 210 Corporate Governance Board and the CEO and services society and for the for employees and the environment economy 218 The Banks' CSR 12  T he Bank's CSR perception and report performance profile 220 GRI index and Global 18 Presentation of the Compact Bank's material aspects 25 A ssimilating the bank's vision, adopting responsible initiatives and Promoting corporate responsibility INTRODUCTION 4-5 benefits for these businesses, and helped create The expansion of the bank's activity in the Arabbank's branches and structures and to its service as a result of the implementation of a long-term marketing arenas for them. These processes Israeli community is one of the most significant systems, in order to serve people with disabilities. plan, reflecting another aspect of the bank's strengthen small businesses, which contribute components of its retail-banking growth strategy. unique work environment. In recognition of in turn to growth in all strata of the population, This entails targeted tools, products, and services In the bank's financing activities, we are this achievement, the bank recently received to new job creation, and to reinforcement of the and full collaboration with the community, maintaining our leadership in financing projects the Business Diversity Award. fabric of society. addressing the needs of component groups such that promote environmental sustainability. This as children, students, women, businessmen, and primarily refers to solar energy, desalination, and The bank is an integral part of Israeli society, and One of the key values promoted in the activity more. The power of this endeavor has revolutionized power stations fueled by natural gas, but includes views investment in the community and the ability of the bank is financial freedom. In recent years, service provided to Arab-Israeli customers. As other fields as well; for example, in 2014, the bank to assist and advance essential social causes as the bank has deepened its involvement in various a complementary process, the bank conducts joined EIB and eight other financial institutions in a privilege of the highest importance. In 2014, the customer segments and in the general public, community activities in this sector, generating Israel in leading a financing agreement in a total bank continued to work to promote education, based on the mindset that its role is that of a direct and indirect contributions to the community. amount of NIS 2.35 billion for the construction of with a special emphasis on financial education for Message from Bank Hapoalim financial guide for customers, helping them gain The bank sees business potential in this effort, a thermo-solar project at a power station to be sensible financial conduct, and support for social a better understanding of the financial space intertwined with a social and economic process built at Ashalim, in the Negev region. The station, organizations that promote equal opportunities, Chairman Mr. Yair Seroussi and in which they function, so that they can make with significance for the State of Israel as a whole. scheduled to become operational in 2017, will as well as a variety of additional social causes. CEO Mr. Zion Kenan prudent decisions in all financial aspects of their supply approximately one percent of the total Year after year, thousands of employees of the lives and maintain economic equilibrium. Within Digital banking is gradually becoming one of the electricity in the Israeli economy, using clean, bank have engaged in volunteer work in a wide We are proud to present the annual sustainability our customers, in the present and in the future. this process, and as part of the aim of developing key arenas for development in the financial field. environment-friendly technology. range of areas, in communities throughout Israel, and corporate social responsibility report of Bank This approach has helped us promote banking businesses that benefit society, we have decided We are seeing a sharp increase in our customers' contributing to meaningful social action and to Hapoalim for 2014. The work described in the activity with economic value, while also creating to launch a large-scale project, the first of its kind use of smartphones for the consumption of The bank continues to promote and enhance the creation of a better Israeli society. bank's eighth CSR report reflects the social and added value for segments within Israeli society in Israel, for the peri-retirement segment – the banking services. The bank is therefore investing its greatest and most valuable asset: its human environmental values that we promote, alongside and for the Israeli economy as a whole. new seniors. The accelerated growth of this great efforts in maintaining its leadership in mobile resources, through the continuous cultivation This activity has positioned the bank at the the economic value of the bank's operations, and sector is expected to have a substantial impact banking. The range of technological innovations of labor relations that have been a strategically top of the local and international rankings. their added value for the stakeholders of the bank. In recent years, concurrently with the bank's on the economy, leading to the development of already launched and under development at the important asset for the bank for many years. The bank is a partner in key initiatives and The continual effort over the years to implement strategic initiative in the small-business sector, new markets and expansion of existing markets. bank supports the strategy of banking that sees Human-capital diversity has gained increasing pacts in this area. The bank is also committed and instill corporate responsibility has helped awareness of the immense importance of small The challenges faced after retirement – reduced the customer and uses innovation to provide better importance in the work environment, at the to the ten principles of the UNGC (United the bank realize its vision and become a leading businesses as a driving force of the economy income, changing expenses, worries about service. Advanced technological solutions help bank in particular and in the Israeli economy Nations Global Compact), which promotes organization in this field in Israel. has grown. These businesses provide jobs to future financial security, and the wish to support customers achieve smart financial management in general. Over 50% of managers at the bank economic development that is beneficial to the about 55% of all workers, including in peripheral family – necessitate a new financial balance. This and provide immediate access to banking products are women, a significantly higher figure than the community and to future generations. The bank's In 2014, we continued the trajectory of our threeregions and disadvantaged population groups, drive is becoming one of the key focus areas and services, allowing customers better flexibility average in Israel; in addition, the bank promotes commitment to the values of social responsibility year strategic plan. In implementing this plan, and and contribute approximately 43% of annual GDP. for the bank, now and in the coming years, and control over their accounts and businesses. employment of workers from population segments and sustainability creates value for the bank as Israel's largest bank, we were able to serve The bank defined small businesses as a focus encompassing unique benefits, services, and Accessibility also means the ability to serve any underrepresented in the Israeli labor market. and for its stakeholders; we see the realization all of the various elements of our extensive client area for its activity four years ago. As part of this products for seniors, aimed at strengthening customer who wishes it. To realize this concept, Employees in these population groups constitute of these values as an integral part of the bank's base, with an individual focus on and adaptation to effort, we set up specialized credit funds for small this population segment and providing solutions we are making the necessary adjustments to the approximately 10% of all employees at the bank, activity going forward. the needs of each different segment, and with an businesses at a volume of more than NIS 3 billion, tailored to their life stage. emphasis on professional excellence, innovation, developed advanced technological tools to help Yair Seroussi Zion Kenan and the development of services and products manage business accounts over the Internet, Bank Hapoalim is committed to supporting Chairman of the board of directors President and CEO to respond to the dynamically changing needs of launched mentorship programs and special economic growth in the Arab-Israeli sector. INTRODUCTION 6-7 Message from the Head of Corporate Social Responsibility The best interests of the customer This is the eighth report to be published Methodology for the Preparation of this Report: by Bank Hapoalim for its stakeholders. Measurement, Evaluation, and Control Each report surveyed a full year of This sustainability and CSR report refers to the calendar year 2014, and is current as of the end of activity within our overall sustainability the first quarter of 2015. During the reported period, there were no significant changes in the type of Making service accessible Promoting financial Supporting the and corporate social responsibility ownership, structure, or size of the bank. This report was prepared in accordance with the GRI:G4 to people with disabilities freedom for customers 155 peri-retirement segment 600 plan. The annual reports published Guidelines, at the most advanced level of transparency (In Accordance Comprehensive). Most of appx. appx. 500 since 2007 reflect varied, thorough, the data in the report were generated by the information systems at the bank, in accordance with GRI systemic, methodical activity. The reporting requirements. Information was collected regularly and routinely throughout the year. However, sustainability and CSR reports reflect some of the data were collected at the end of the reported period. The information is organized in a the bank’s journey, from the inception comprehensive database encompassing data on the reported period as well as multi-year data. All Thousand clients use advisors attended targeted training of the plan to the present day, to instill of the information in the report is presented through the various indices. Data are presented using branches accessible, and dozens the budget management programs to respond to the unique of branches in process application consulting needs of this group corporate social responsibility. Each comparative analyses referring to the reported period and to long-term trends. A small part of the report focuses on different highlights, data involves the use of estimates and evaluations. Estimates and evaluations, where used, were according to the key areas of activity in diligently checked and validated, and are clearly noted in the report. The report does not address the preceding year. CSR impacts of Isracard Ltd.1 Isracard is preparing to publish an independent CSR report, according to the schedule delineated by the Supervisor of Banks. In 2014, as part of the strategy of the bank, we continued to identify We recognize the importance of auditing and external assurance of our work and of the accuracy of the Encouraging growth in Direct banking 38 1.2 the Arab-Israeli sector 650 and realize business opportunities data accumulated as the plan moves forward. Accordingly, we have decided to continue to maintain in this area, while promoting social external auditing of the fairness of our reporting, on four levels: the corporate social responsibility and environmental benefits; improve implementation process; the fairness of the report pursuant to GRI guidelines; the completeness of service and fair, ethical conduct; form the report on our carbon footprint; and compliance with GRI guidelines for reporting on substantial Thousand customers partnerships with stakeholders in subjects. The report was submitted for the GRI Materiality Disclosures Service, and GRI confirmed use the bank's mobile services society and in the community; and the correctness of the locations of the G4 materiality disclosures. branches – the most extensive million customers use improve environmental and social risk nationwide reach in this sector the bank's website management. This year, we further The readers of this report, our stakeholders, will use it to critique and judge our performance and the expanded the bank's wide-ranging extent to which we have met their expectations. We are committed to making use of the comments activities in the various channels aimed and feedback we receive from our stakeholders in order to learn from them and continue to examine at promoting financial freedom for its ourselves. This year's Sustainability and CSR Report is available in Hebrew and English on the bank's customers and for the Israeli public. website, for convenient and environment-friendly distribution and reading. Credit for environmental The following initiatives and key metrics Excellence in Promoting the small-business segment 29.3 6.6 products in the sustainability service 25% 37 for the activity of the bank in 2014 are I would like to thank all of the employees and managers involved in every level of the bank’s work, sector described in detail in the report. who contribute to these activities each day, and who helped create this report. Thousand and hundreds of reduction Avraham Bar-Ilan customers participated in customer Head of Corporate Social Responsibility in Small Business Day complaints in the BILLION NIS BILLION NIS avraham.barilan@mailpoalim.co.il branch network over in credit given to small for projects in solar energy, two years businesses desalination, natural gas, and more 1.G4-17 INTRODUCTION 8-9 Empowerment of society and the community Employees' quality of life and well-being Embedding corporate Monetary investment responsibility considerations in the community Feedback and dialogue Collective employment contract Promoting women at the bank 70% 47 91.7% 51.5% in procurement with employees MILLION NIS 99% of the bank's employees received feedback covered by employment agreement of executives are women of the bank's suppliers are invested in a wide range of fields, small or micro-businesses with an emphasis on education 3,000 Volunteering by employees of the bank Electronic waste recycling Promoting equal opportunities 1,200 in the community 160 program Promoting workplace diversity Training and development 850 of human capital employees volunteered regularly nationwide thousand residents of towns in central Israel have access to this program thousand children and adolescents participated in the activity of educational organizations supported by 61,400 days of study for employees of the bank employees of the bank come from the bank under-employed population segments INTRODUCTION 10-11 Living with the environment 210 13.3% 4.5% Reduction of paper consumption Carbon footprint Energy efficiency Electronic waste Paper recycling recycling Ton decrease in annual paper consumption 1,352 Ton collected for recycling reduction of annual carbon footprint 44 Ton collected for recycling decrease in annual electricity consumption INTRODUCTION 12-13 THE CLIENT'S WELLBEING Corporate Social Responsibility and IS IN OUR HANDS ‫תמצעה‬ C ‫ ‏‬LIENTS, PRODUCTS AND SERVICES Sustainability at Bank Hapoalim ‫הליהקהו הרבחה‬ ‫‏‬Value creation for customers: Corporate social responsibility and sustainability are a strategic and social philosophy for • A ‫ונלש םיידיב הז‬ ‫ ‏‬nswering the client's needs throughout the life cycle • ‫‏‬Providing accessibility to a variety of services managing a business while creating economic, social, and environmental value. This section regardless of time and place ‫הלכלכלו הרבחל ךרע תריצי‬ presents the bank's CSR and sustainability perception, its organizing model for management • ‫‏‬Service, complaint management and customer ‫רתוי םיקוחר םילגעמב ךרע תריצי‬: in this area, and the implementation of these values in its activity. satisfaction ‫חוקלה תבוט‬ • ‫םיקפסה‬ • ‫‏‬G• reen ‫יהקה‬products • ‫‏‬C• redit ‫הל‬ ‫כלכה‬based ‫מה הל‬on and services ‫מוק‬environmental considerations Bank Hapoalim was one of the first business institutions in Israel to decide to apply this approach ‫םיידיב הז‬THE‫ונלש‬ ‫‏‏‬EMPOWERING ‫תי‬ • ‫‏‬Designated service for special populations • ‫‏‬Enriching the financial knowledge as a strategic element of its operations. The bank views this area as a source of business SOCIETY AND COMMUNITY of the customers opportunities, which also promotes social and environmental benefits, and as a foundation IS‫ל‬IN ‫חוק‬OUR ‫תו‬, ‫צומ‬HANDS ‫םיתורישו םיר‬ for innovation and competitive advantages, improvement of service, fair and ethical conduct, ‫תוחוקלל ךרע תריצי‬: C ‫ ‏‬REATING • ‫ריחה םודיק‬VALUE ‫סנניפה תו‬FOR ‫לש תי‬THE ‫תוחוקלה‬ management of environmental and social risks, and partnership with stakeholders in the • ‫כרצל הנעמ‬AND‫וקלה י‬SOCIETY ‫םייחה רוזחמב ח‬ ECONOMY community, which position the bank as a leading economic and social organization. The bank • ‫ םיצורע ןווגמ לש השגנה‬‫‏‬Value ‫לל‬creation ‫קמב תולת א‬in‫םו‬distant ‫ ןמזבו‬circles of E ER LU works to achieve in-depth implementation of these values based on the highest international influence ‫ ‏‬A N TI V O ATI • ‫תונולתב לופיטו תוחוקל ןוצר תועיבשו תוריש‬ standards, using a wide range of methods and tools to cope with the challenges posed by • Suppliers • ‫ ’םיקורי םיתורישו םירצומ‬ C RE E ‫ ‏‬MPLOYEES' WELLBEING this approach. CSR management and implementation help to achieve results in the business, • ‫יארשא ןתמב םייתביבס םילוקיש‬ • Community • ‫תודחוימ תויסולכואל ידועי תורש‬ • Local economy S ‫‏‬RE AGE RC OU MENT E ‫הביבסה םע םייח‬ IS IN OUR HANDS social, and environmental spheres that contribute to the bank's success and to the expansion of its positive impact on all of its stakeholders, both internal and external to the organization. M A TIE N R ‫ונלש םיידיב הז‬ ‫‏‬RESPONSIBILITY TOWARDS THE EMPLOYEES • Dialogue, sharing and transparency ‫תיארחא תיתביבס תולהנתה‬ • An arena for personal and professional development Organizing Model: The CSR Flower • ‫מה לוהינ‬and Solidarity ‫באש‬friendship ‫הרימש ךות )םייטסיגולה( םייזיפה םי‬ • ‫הביבסב תובשחתהו‬: ‫היגרנאב ןוכסח‬, ‫ריינ‬, ‫תלוספ‬ Wellbeing of the employees and their family The bank's CSR and sustainability perception has been formulated into an organizing model: ‫רוזחימו‬, ‫םימ‬, ‫הקורי הינב‬, ‫הרובחת‬, ‫דבוע תביבס‬, • Equal ‫נוגרא‬opportunity ‫’וכו הימ‬ the CSR Flower. The model maps the entire CSR and sustainability field into a unified cognitive pattern, simple to communicate and absorb, organized, and consistent. The model presents ‫‏א‬LENVIRONMENT ‫י‬IVING ‫ תוכ‬WITH ‫ ייח‬THEIS CSR by organizing parameters and indicators from the different content areas and condensing ‫ה‬IN‫וע‬OUR ‫דב‬HANDS ‫םתחוורו םי‬ them into a short, simple series in four central categories: customers, community, employees, and environment, which constitute the four petals of the flower. These represent the areas in ‫ונלש םיידיב הז‬ R ‫ ‏‬ESPONSIBLE ENVIRONMENTAL BEHAVIOUR which the bank's CSR and sustainability activities and impact are focused. Each category (petal) ‫‏חא‬M‫ר‬anaging ‫פלכ תוי‬logistical ‫בועה י‬resources ‫ םיד‬while considering of the model contains various activities. Each of the four categories is divided into two tiers: • ‫איד‬the ‫גול‬environment: , ‫ופיקשו ףותיש‬Energy ‫ת‬ efficiency, paper • ‫ריז‬consumption, ‫ישיא חותיפל ה‬recycling ‫ יעוצקמו‬and waste management, • ‫תורבחו תוירדילוס‬ ■ Value creation tier Focused on activity with the external stakeholders of the bank; creation of • ‫וור‬water, ‫עה תח‬green building, ‫שמו דבו‬ ‫ ותחפ‬transportation, working shared business value for the bank and its stakeholders, combined with social and environmental • ‫וש‬environment, ‫ תויונמדזה ןויו‬ergonomics etc. values, emphasizing: 1. The best interests of the customer; 2. Empowering Society and the Community. ■ Resource management tier Focused on the intra-organizational activity of the bank, with an emphasis on management of human resources as strategic partners and on the bank's environmental conduct: 3. Employees' quality of life and wellbeing; 4. Living with the environment. INTRODUCTION 14-15 Implementing and Assimilating CSR Values in All Levels of Activity This perception is implemented through a sustainability and CSR plan based on five the various levels of managers and workers. and businesses, academia, and more. resolve them, pooling resources, and promoting ideas and initiatives through shared main organizational aspects: This effort includes the CSR zone of the This web of connections has enabled the abilities. The forums bring together stakeholders from a range of public, social, and organizational portal, which presents the bank to expand and extend its strategic business organizations to lead the various initiatives, and to work together to promote Structure and authorityThe sustainability and CSR plan is managed based on the bank's worldview in this area and serves as and business activities and its sphere of change, in quarterly meetings. Issues on the agenda are discussed at each meeting, matrix management approach. In accordance with this approach, the head of CSR is the central location for CSR issues. As part influence, and to strengthen the nationwide and roundtables are held to enable thinking groups to come up with ideas and solutions, the strategic leader for this area, in coordination and cooperation with the various unit of the communication and implementation network involved in this field, in the areas of as well as opportunities for cooperation between leading market players, who can join heads. Each unit is responsible for implementing certain aspects under its authority, of CSR, a series of training sessions and the economy, society, and the environment. forces to promote common causes. Virtual meetings are held through a website designed using its resources. Activities of the CSR officer include integration of all actions talks was developed, covering topics such for that purpose, and direct dialogue is also promoted via e-mail communications. The related to CSR; overseeing methodology, tools, and professional support; controls as sustainability, healthy lifestyles, safe The bank runs several forums within the uniqueness of the forums lies in the partnership among the different spheres – public, and reporting; change management and communications in this area; and building driving, and more. effort to promote social values in the social, and business – coming together to form a single entity acting in unison. an up-to-date knowledge base. public sphere, rooted in the bank's vision, The annual sustainability and CSR report is including the Financial Freedom Forum The CSR zone of the bank's website, at www.bankhapoalim.co.il/csr, is the main Processes, metrics, and information-Measurement is a fundamental element of available and accessible to all stakeholders and the Small Business Forum. The forums window for the public to the bank's sustainability and CSR activities. The website management, allowing goals to be set, progress to be monitored, and performance in the Israeli and international economy: are designed to serve as a platform for presents an appropriate level of transparency for stakeholders with regard to events at to be compared. Improvement of the measurement infrastructure allows enhanced businesses, government agencies, nondialogue among partners, identifying joint the bank and delivers the maximum possible amount of information, which is essential controls to be applied to the various activities, and is aimed at promoting efficient, profit organizations, academia, analysts, opportunities, finding barriers and ways to to dialogue and feedback. effective management of the sustainability and CSR plan. The sustainability and CSR etc. All of the bank's sustainability and plan is implemented at the bank based on a fundamental infrastructure including: CSR reports are available for download, ■ Processes that gradually transform new initiatives in this area into routine activities in Hebrew and English, in an accessible, at the relevant units; user-friendly format on the bank's website. ■ Clear metrics for the various issues, allowing standardization of the plan and analysis of performance over time; Dialogue and collaboration with ■ Extensive information is collected in existing organizational systems or produced stakeholders2 -Over the last few years, directly for the purposes of the plan. Bank Hapoalim has developed a range of Broad implementation -The various CSR initiatives and projects at the bank are channels for dialogue with various groups implemented and administered broadly, in a top-down process, with the participation of stakeholders, with the aim of identifying of many units and encouragement for units to develop bottom-up initiatives. A large needs and providing an optimal response number of projects are being developed in order to realize various objectives of the to sustainability challenges in the bank's plan. Each new activity is first carried out as a pilot project. Following the pilot and the dynamic, complex environment. In this process of drawing the necessary conclusions, the many projects are absorbed into context, a comprehensive mapping process routine work processes and procedures, with the aim of achieving ongoing management of all potentially relevant stakeholders for comparable to other business processes of the organization. dialogue and collaboration was performed. Since then, a wide-ranging network of Branding, communication, and development of awareness In order to support change collaborations and connections has been management and differentiate the various initiatives undertaken within the plan, a logo created and continues to form, with clients, was designed for the organizing model of the plan – the CSR Flower – accompanied by employees, government and municipal the slogan, “Social responsibility – it’s in our hands.” In the spirit of this logo and slogan, agencies, environmental and social experts, each initiative launched as part of the plan was branded and widely communicated to non-profit organizations, entrepreneurs 2.G4-25 INTRODUCTION 16-17 Selected examples of key stakeholder groups are listed below, with the ways in which the bank promoted dialogue and cooperation with them during 2014, of the hundreds of channels with the bank's extensive range of stakeholders: Stakeholder Selected dialogue channels in 20143 Stakeholder Selected dialogue channels in 20143 ■ Promotion of financial freedom and deeper relationships – All of the bank's branches hold customer Suppliers ■ Conferences for the bank's suppliers, attended by hundreds of suppliers from various fields (consulting, Customers conferences several times a year, in various content areas; training content and practical tools are developed, transportation, construction, printing, sales promotion, office supplies, food, and more). Professional for budget management, financial planning, and investments, and made accessible through the website content is imparted, with an emphasis on purchasing, as well as content with added value for suppliers and in meetings with customers; in the areas of banking, marketing, and sales promotion; ■ Customer conferences provide added value for customers. Each of the branches holds several customer ■ Communication of the bank's CSR values to the general population of suppliers of the bank through conferences during the year; an annual regional conference is held for small businesses. Professional periodic letters and the ethical code for suppliers. lectures are given at the conferences, on subjects such as pensions, mortgages, and family budgets, as well as external enrichment sessions on communications, innovation, personal empowerment, and more. Government ■ Meetings and lectures for the exchange of knowledge and insights with representatives of government A total of 965 conferences were held in the bank's branch network during 2014; and and municipal agencies. Joint projects aimed at addressing environmental and social issues are promoted municipal ■ Small businesses – Special emphasis is placed on the relationship of management tiers and branch in this context. agencies bankers with business clients: meetings at the business, special products, professional conferences, etc; ■ Deeper relationships with selected customers – Management staff at the branches follow defined Community ■ Relationships with non-profit organizations including Adam Teva V'Din the Israel Union for Environmental routines for meetings and telephone calls with customers at various points and at customers' life and events; Defense, Life & Environment – The Israeli Union of Environmental NGOs, Olim Beyahad – Leadership and environmental Employment Excellence for Ethiopian-Israeli University Graduates, Tevet, and others active in the content ■ Client surveys – Customers at the branches and in the various channels are continuously sampled, organizations areas relevant to CSR, in order to receive feedback, exchange knowledge, and offer mutual assistance; on a daily basis, uniformly across channels, lines, and branches; 30% of sampled clients are also ■ Promotion of green businesses – such as the Renewable Energy Association of Israel, Ecommunity, contacted via telephone by a manager at the branch for further learning and improvement; Tashtiot, and others operating in various sectors such as recycling, transition to natural gas, energy ■ Focus groups – Designed to obtain clarity regarding customers' needs and examine solutions on efficiency, solar energy, water, etc., through knowledge sharing, assistance, and examination of various matters connected to customer relationships. opportunities for cooperation; Employees ■ Feedback meetings with all employees of the bank; midterm meetings to track objectives with employees; ■ Non-profit organizations active in the area of diverse human capital and employment of population groups ■ Regular roundtable meetings with employees are held by the CEO and by members of the board of underrepresented in the job market, such as The Israeli Forum for Diversity Hiring, Kav Mashve – Employers' management, for dialogue and feedback, throughout the year; Coalition for Equality for Arab University Graduates, Tevet – Joint Israel, Olim Beyahad – Leadership and ■ Employee union – The union's work with management and employees is characterized by continual Employment Excellence for Ethiopian-Israeli University Graduates, and more, for the promotion of diversity dialogue (updates, feedback, and consultation) and partnership in all key initiatives and everyday in Israel in general and at the bank in particular, through knowledge sharing and action. processes; ■ Mobility and transfer processes – The process includes preparation, support, and personal consultation ■ Management and professors at universities and colleges, including Tel Aviv University, the College of until staffing and full absorption at the new unit are complete, through ongoing contact; Academia Management, the Academic College of Tel Aviv Yaffo, and Bar Ilan University; ■ Dialogue with managers – Regarding manpower needs, organizational changes, annual processes ■ Individual meetings with students for assistance, study, and enrichment on CSR topics; (ranking, bonuses, etc.), and more; ■ Project for installing recycling facilities and instilling environmental conduct at the College of Management ■ CSR zone of the organizational portal – Employees are invited to suggest ideas and tips, ask questions, campus and at Bar Ilan University (see details in the Community section); and request help from various content experts. Some of the ideas and tips are posted in the content ■ Course on sensible financial conduct for managers of non-profits and community initiatives at Tel Aviv sections, with credit given to the employees who suggested them. The ideas are considered, and University (see details in the Community section). some are implemented; ■ Dialogue with new employees of the bank – Welcome meetings; orientation days; course opening, CSR ■ Contact and professional dialogue with Israel's leading business organizations and CSR managers; midterm, and closing sessions for introductions, mutual coordination of expectations, feedback, etc. community ■ Maala – Shared discussion and mutual assistance in facing professional problems and challenges; ■ Lectures on CSR at relevant venues (courses, conferences, etc.). 3.G4-24, G4-26 ,G4-27 INTRODUCTION 18-19 Defining Material Aspects GRI:G4 Since 2008, the bank has reported on its activities and impact in the area of sustainability and CSR in compliance with the recognized process was carried out last year to identify and analyze material Following the review of topics in these sources, the findings were GRI international reporting guidelines. All of the bank's sustainability reports were prepared according to the GRI G3.1 guidelines (to the aspects, which were established in an integrated internal and external processed and segmented in order to identify the material topics highest transparency level of A+ ). In the preceding report, for 2013, the bank transitioned to the new GRI G4 guidelines.. process. Following examination and evaluation of the material from the perspective of international stakeholders. A total of 36 aspects during the preparation of the current report, taking into topics were found in these sources; following an examination of The new reporting framework requires the bank to focus its report on the aspects most material to its activity, in accordance with its consideration the feedback received from external stakeholders the topics' relative frequency, 26 central topics were chosen. strategic approach, while addressing the expectations of its various stakeholders. Material aspects are defined as areas of activity in regarding the preceding report, the bank concluded that there 3. Local stakeholders – which the bank has a significant impact on its various stakeholders in the area of CSR and sustainability, within and outside the bank. had been no significant change in the topics material to its activity The evaluation of local stakeholders' reporting expectations included This requirement allowed the bank to examine and update the aspects reported in its sustainability and CSR report. A comprehensive relative to the preceding year 4. The process of defining the material an analysis of two main sources of information: aspects, performed during the preparation of the previous report, is ■ Maala Index content areas; presented briefly below. ■ Stakeholder survey: Material topics in CSR reports of banks Process of Defining Material Aspects for the Bank in Israel A first-of-its-kind independent review in this field, by the accounting firm BDO Ziv Haft. Hapoalim Sustainability and CSR Report The process of defining material aspects for the report 5 was conducted with the guidance of the BDO Ziv Haft Sustainability and CSR Group. Following the review of aspects in these sources, the findings were The process consisted of five main stages (for extensive details, see processed and segmented in order to identify the key topics from the Bank Hapoalim Stakeholders the bank's CSR report for 2013): perspective of local stakeholders. A total of 27 aspects were chosen. 1. Intra-organizational analysis to establish material topics 4. Integrated analysis of international and local stakeholders – for the report A comparison of aspects chosen for international and local Sustainability and CSR International the analysis included the following three steps: stakeholders was used to screen out topics not relevant to the perception Review of CSR reports in Local • the bank’s peer group and BDO survey of ■ An up-to-date examination of the sustainability and CSR banking sector in Israel. New aspects and at leading foreign banks stakeholders’ philosophy-The organizing model, and the various processes expansion of existing aspects implemented at the bank over the years • Aspects raised in dialogue with international ESG analysis organizations + expectations of reports in the banking sector • that reflect the implementation of this philosophy at the bank. ■ Analysis of new aspects and expansion of existing aspects 5. Establishment of material aspects for the bank's CSR and sustainability report• • Key aspects based Examination of the bank's new activities and expansion of its Focus on activity of the International study An integrative analysis and segmentation of stakeholders' by GRI on stakeholders’ on the Maala rating activities in existing areas. various units relevant to expectations with the list of topics identified by the bank led to a expectations of reports each aspect ■ Identification of focus areas within the various activitieslist of the 21 material topics in the bank's report to its stakeholders. in this sector Examination of the various initiatives relevant to the content Several aspects were considered: areas of sustainability and CSR promoted by the bank, ■ Strategic topics for the bank -Topics that represent the bank's using a bottom-up approach. This parallels the top-down strategic philosophy and its unique in-depth activity, in areas implementation of the strategic philosophy, as the different in which the bank has a significant impact on its stakeholders. List of material List of material aspect units join to promote shared efforts. ■ Topics that present a focus on the implementation of CSR aspects reflecting representing stakeholders’ strategic focus areas combined expectations of and sustainability in the bank's operationsTopics that are and the depth of sustainability reports in the 2. Analysis of expectations of international stakeholders – not strategic for the bank, but are perceived as important by implementation banking industry The evaluation of international stakeholders' expectations the bank for the promotion of business opportunities and regarding sustainability reports for banking operations included the minimization of risks in its activity. Material aspects overlapping three types of sources: ■ Unreported topics Topics perceived as of lesser importance between stake■ An international study by GRI: Sustainability Topics for to the report, due to the nature and environment of the bank's holders’ expectaSectors: What do stakeholders want to know? operations and due to the low impact of these topics on the tions and prioritiza■ A review of topics from the methodologies of international bank's stakeholders. Examples include safety and hygiene tion based on the ESG (environment social governance) analysis companies. management, and management of water consumption at considerations of the bank. ■ Review of sustainability and CSR reports of foreign banks. the bank 4.G4-23 5. G4-18 INTRODUCTION 20-21 List of Material Aspects for Sustainability Reporting at Bank Hapoalim 6 Economic Presentation of Material Aspects for the Report In accordance with the CSR Flower model, the material aspects represent four content areas (the best interests of the in Terms of Social, uence (Value creati customer, empowerment of the community, employees' quality of life and well-being, and living with the environment), nal inﬂ on tie Economical, and xter r) 7 which describe impacts on all of the bank's stakeholders. The material topics for the CSR and sustainability report E Environmental Impacts8 8 8 are listed below: The following diagram presents all of the material aspects 1  P  romotion of financial freedom for customers 12  Volunteering 66 99 reported by Bank Hapoalim, ernal inﬂue 33 (providing information, products and tools, individually (presentation of volunteering at the bank) Int manage nce 44 based on two facets: rce me tailored service and consulting, and financial education) 13 Promoting a culture of dialogue 18 18 esou nt ti7 11 2  C  ustomer diversity and promotion of sectors within and openness with employees ) 21 21 22 ■ Impact area – internal or 15 (R er 15 8 the Israeli economy (presentation of channels for intra-organizational 77 13 13 external does this aspect (integration of the Arab-Israeli and Haredi sectors; dialogue and partnership with employees) affect external stakeholders, 20 20 16 promotion of small and mid-sized enterprises) 14 Promoting diversity, equal opportunities, 17 17 16 14 14 55 internal stakeholders, or both 3 A  chieving financial freedom in a multichannel world and transparency (the external circle versus the (banking services via Internet, mobile, and telephone, (promotion of gender and sector equality, 19 19 internal circle in the diagram); offering customers better access and increased prevention of discrimination, and promotion of 12 12 ■ Impact zone – economical, control over financial management) diverse employment) En social, environmental – vir 11 11 4 S  erving a diverse clientele 15 Personal development and training l cia does this aspect create (instilling a perception of excellence in service to (presentation of training and learning at the bank) on So economical, social or each customer segment) 16 Promoting an appropriate work environment me 10 10 environmental value, or a 5 A  ccessibility (policies on human capital, remuneration nta combined value. (making the buildings and branches of the bank as and benefits, and wellbeing and caring for l well as banking services accessible to people with employees in various aspects of the work disabilities) environment and of their lives) 6 D  eveloping products and services to promote 17 Power consumption management environmental sustainability and energy efficiency (financing for projects that promote environmental (presentation of activities aimed at reducing the causes) bank's consumption of energy) CUSTOMERS WORKERS 7  Examining environmental risks in financing 18 Management of paper resources 1  P romotion of financial freedom for 13 P romoting a culture of dialogue customers and openness with employees (management of environmental risks when (the bank's strategic effort to cut back the use 2  Customer diversity and promotion of 14 Promoting diversity, equal granting financing) of paper in its operations) sectors within the Israeli economy opportunities, and transparency 8 B  usiness continuity 19  Reducing environmental impacts 3  Achieving financial freedom in a 15 Personal development and training multichannel world 16 Promoting a appropriate work (preparation to maintain continuous business (environmental management at the bank and 4  Serving a diverse clientele environment operations at the bank during emergencies) reduction of its environmental impact) 5  Accessibility 9 R  esponsible supply chain management 20 Corporate governance and ethics 6  Developing products and services to ENVIRONMENT (integrating CSR and sustainability considerations (presentation of the structure and activity of promote environmental sustainability 17 P  ower consumption management 7  Examining environmental risks in and energy efficiency into purchasing activities) the board of directors, and assimilating ethics financing 18 Management of paper resources 10 Expanding our sphere of influence at the bank) 8  Business continuity 19  Reducing environmental impacts (direct and indirect economical and social effects on 21 Prevention of corruption the Israeli economy and society) and money laundering COMMUNITY ETHICS 9  Responsible supply chain management 20 C  orporate governance and ethics 11 Community action (the bank's commitment to the prevention of 10 Expanding our sphere of influence 21 P  revention of corruption (investment in the community, including support of corruption, and presentation of the activity of 11 Community action and money laundering community activities and donations) the bank's compliance unit) 12 Volunteering 6. G4-19 7. G4-21 8. G4-20 INTRODUCTION 22-23 Working to Promote Financial Freedom for All Stakeholders As a business leader, Bank Hapoalim has the responsibility to promote equal economic opportunities Products and tools in Israeli society and economic sustainability among its customers. The bank welcomes this duty, and • Budget management tools: Poalim Like Me, The Budget believes in its mission to contribute to the empowerment of the society from which it draws its strength. Management Tool, setting objectives Every person has different economic needs, according to the milestones in his or her life, and different • Savings tools and products: Dan the Saver, CashBack Club financial resources available to meet those needs. In order to cope with such needs appropriately in the • Poalim UP – tools for increased control and flexibility in short and long term, it is necessary to obtain a solid understanding of the full range of financial needs managing current accounts and possibilities, become familiar with the tools and products offered in this area, and achieve optimized • Applications for advanced banking services matching in order to eventually attain good control and balance between needs and possibilities. Proper identification of needs, full information regarding financial possibilities, tools, and supporting products, Financial freedom for small use of advice, and appropriate prioritization make it possible to reach good decisions for each time frame businesses and maximize financial potential. • Specialized credit through various funds • Customized professional consulting: Promoting Bank Hapoalim acts strategically to promote prudent financial conduct among its customers and in the Business Branches, the bank's Business Club, Israeli public. This effort is congruent with the trends identified by the bank in recent years in customers’ professional consulting (investments, credit, Financial needs and wishes, indicating a greater demand for more extensive financial knowledge in recent years. foreign trade, etc.) The bank recognizes that financial knowledge and the use of financial tools are essential in order to create • Provision of a marketing platform: Small Business Day, the CashBack Club, the Small Freedom financial freedom and strike a balance between financial needs and abilities, for each customer. The bank Business Fair, Small Business Competition therefore endeavors to provide information regarding the financial possibilities available to its customers at high resolution and transparency, with maximum availability, matched to different life stages. A wide The bank promotes Personalized consulting and service range of tools, products, services, knowledge, and guidance by the bank are offered in order to ensure financial freedom in five • Personal financial planning • Pension advice that customers are familiar with the full picture and with all of the alternatives open to them, in order to areas. Extensive details reach prudent, independent decisions. The bank promotes financial freedom in several areas of its activity, of the financial freedom • Investment advice • Credit advice for various stakeholders: by providing financial information, raising awareness, and promoting financial perception are presented • Savings advice knowledge for customers, employees, and the community; promoting the growth of different segments in the Customers and groups in Israel, such as small businesses, the Arab-Israeli sector, and the Haredi sector; multi-channel section and in the Providing financial information Community section. banking services via telephone, Internet, mobile, tablet, etc., offering customers tools and products for • Information on financial subjects through the direct banking channels (website, sensible financial conduct; and increased physical and virtual access to banking services. On this foundation, telephone, smartphones, and tablets) customers' relationships with financial institutions become more balanced and more aligned with their expectations, and they become able to make better economic decisions for each stage of their lives. • Information from bankers at the bank's branches and from the bank's experts on various financial subjects As part of the dialogue conducted by the bank with additional organizations and groups for the promotion of this area, in 2014 the bank initiated the launch of the Israel Financial Freedom Forum. The forum unites many participants from the government, community, and business sectors seeking a shared platform Financial education for conversation, identification of opportunities, and initiation of ventures for the promotion of financial • Educational programs at the ORT network of schools education in Israel. The forum will enable different stakeholders to join forces in order to consult, discuss, • Dan the Saver summer camps • Enriching Parents and think about solutions in this area. •Growing Families • Growth Opportunities • Professional training conferences for clients • Employee volunteers – financial education The bank promotes financial freedom in five areas. Extensive details of the financial freedom perception lessons in the community • A financial education course for bank employees are presented in the Customers section and in the Community section. INTRODUCTION 24-25 Assimilating the Bank The Bank Hapoalim Vision comprises ten Process Controls for Implementation of the Hapoalim vision elements: CSR Plan at Bank Hapoalim Over the last five years, an ongoing process has been underway to assimilate the Global, centered in Israel An external assurance process allows readers of this report to verify the bank's Bank Hapoalim vision, with the aim of expressing the future projected for the bank at We are, and will remain, a leading Israeli bank. Yet self-report based on an independent opinion from a professional observer. The its best. The Bank Hapoalim Vision is a clear, powerful, meaningful description of our in today's world, under conditions of a globalized expanded assurance process with regard to the adequacy of the report on Examination of the quality of reporting future as it can and should be. It also provides a structured framework for charting economy, a large top-tier bank must engage in sustainability and CSR and the involvement of additional sources of assurance on the bank's carbon footprint our future course; declares our commitment to our employees, our customers, and international activities and offer its customers enable the bank to learn from the feedback received from those conducting the This examination was performed by all of our stakeholders; imparts meaning and a connection with our values to the globe-spanning services. Our international process and provide verification of the reliability of the report for stakeholders. Good Energy (Registered Non-Profit objectives and initiatives led by the bank; and empowers the bank in its leadership operations are an important growth driver for The current report underwent four assurance processes, each focusing on a Association), a social initiative for on the shared path to the challenges of the future. Values chosen for inclusion in the the long term. different aspect of the report (for extensive details of the assurance process and climate change. The organization works Bank Hapoalim Vision are intended to create an impact on the following three levels: methods and the criteria examined, see p.226. towards minimization of greenhouse-gas 1. Proud to belong Our focus on our customers and our financial leadership are a Leadership emissions, which accelerate climate source of pride and foster a sense of belonging for our employees; of the bank is mainly measured by its market change, while raising public awareness 2. Committed together The endeavor to create value for our stakeholders and capitalization, profitability, and return on equity, Routine Process Control and Examinationof the CSR Implementation of this issue. The process of examining our commitment to the cultivation of human capital on a path of humanity, integrity, but also by its operating efficiency, brand strength, Process at the Bank the bank's carbon footprint is based openness, and accountability are aimed at nurturing a personal commitment to CSR activities, upholding of sustainability The CSR and Sustainability Group at the on the prevalent principles for carbon our shared journey, in which each person acts responsibly and contributes to the principles, contribution to the community, and BDO accounting firm has guided Bank calculation and marking, developed by success of all; professional ethics. The bank is strong on all Hapoalim in the implementation of its the Technical Working Group of the British 3. In it for the long haul The drive towards financial freedom for our customers, in of these parameters, and is working to improve sustainability and CSR program for the Government. The data were adapted to congruence with the principles of sustainability and in encouragement of excellence and advance further. last eight years. The group’s activities focus on monitoring the process and Israel through the Israel Greenhouse Gas and innovation, reflects a long-term commitment to improvement and empowerment. progress of the program for sustainability and social, economic, and environmental Emission Recording System – Operating The concept underlying the integration of these three dimensions and the Focused on the customer responsibility. BDO consultants’ close work with the bank allows a professional Rules and Reporting Guidelines, issued fundamental motif of the Bank Hapoalim Vision is: Leading Growth Together. We are dedicated to responding to the changing opinion to be provided based on an examination of the processes performed by by the Samuel Neaman Institute and the needs and aspirations of our customers, during The vision consists of ten values. Practical applications of these values are the bank throughout 2014 and up to the end of the first quarter of 2015. Ministry of Environmental Protection in each stage of their lives, while creating economic demonstrated throughout the sections of this report. April 2015. value for the bank and tailoring services to The Bank Hapoalim Vision Due diligence examination of the report, in accordance with the GRI and different sectors: households, private banking, AccountAbility guidelines small businesses, commercial, and corporate. GRI-G4 (In Accordance – To be a leading global financial institution, We believe that our focus on our customers is Comprehensive) headquartered in Israel, focused on its customers the key to our success over any period of time. The report was submitted for the GRI and working towards their financial freedom. Materiality Disclosures Service, and GRI To create value for our stakeholders while Financial freedom The external assurance process for CSR reports is conducted by a third party confirmed the correctness of the locations This concept represents the freedom and will upholding the principles of economical, social, and who was not involved in the writing of the report. The third party ascertains that of the G4 materiality disclosures (G4-17 – of our customers and employees to make good environmental sustainability.To cultivate human the information presented in the report is congruent with the three principles set G4-27). The report is ‘In Accordance’ with choices, based on their personal preferences, forth in the AccountAbility quality assurance standard AA1000APS and with the the GRI G4 Guidelines – Comprehensive capital and encourage excellence and innovation. while taking responsibility for and understanding GRI due diligence guidelines. option. To base our actions on the core values of humanity, the financial capabilities and possibilities open integrity, openness, and accountability. to them. INTRODUCTION 26-27 Sustainability principles The bank believes that the human capital of any business organization is one These represent and reflect environmentally of its most valuable assets. The bank considers its employees to be partners, conscious business conduct aimed at preserving maintains a relationship with them based on mutual trust and respect, and strives and enhancing existing resources and achieving economic, social, and environmental balance for to enable them to succeed and to provide them with tools for professional and personal development. 2011 our own sake and for the sake of future generations. FTSE4GOOD The bank believes that the assimilation of these Fundamental principles: humanity, integrity, transparency, and responsibility principles supports its objectives and increases These values embody the ethical and moral standards and principles that are the 2010 its value for the long term. cornerstones of our organizational culture, reflecting the bank's way of life and rules of appropriate conduct. We will uphold these values in our work relationships with Creating value for stakeholders each other, and in our connections with customers, suppliers, and the community. The essential mission of a business enterprise is THE GLOBAL COMPACT to maximize its value in a way that serves all of its Assimilation of Responsible Initiatives, Promotion stakeholders: employees, customers, investors, suppliers, the community, and the general public. of Partnerships, and Transparent Reporting VOLUNTARY REPORTING SYSTEM 2009 The creation of value is based on four pillars: the The bank is committed to its partnership with at promoting economic development that ON GREENHOUSE-GAS stability of the bank, which ensures its ability to organizations working towards sustainability is beneficial for the community and for EMISSIONS IN ISRAEL meet its obligations at any given moment and and CSR, and has assimilated international future generations. Since then, the bank GOOD ENERGY to support the development of the economy; standards of responsible conduct: has ensured that the principles of the INITIATIVE sustainable profitability, balancing risk and compact are implemented in its activities. returns; promotion and cultivation of sustainability Global Sullivan Principles of Social The sustainability report also serves as a principles, and a philosophy of genuine partnership with employees and customers. Responsibility – The bank assimilated these principles as early as 2004, in the COP (Communication on Progress) for the Global Compact. 2008 belief that the implementation of the AA1000 LICENSED Excellence principles would help achieve greater FTSE4Good BThe bank has been included ASSURANCE An organizational and personal spirit leading to tolerance and understanding among in the global FTSE4Good index continuously PROVIDER 2007 success, and expressing the desire, responsibility, peoples and promote a culture of peace. since 2011. The index measures the and commitment to be better, through resolute sustainability and CSR performance of and effective efforts. Excellence is the ambition to Maala – Bank Hapoalim joined Maala in leading business firms around the world. GLOBAL make the most of our inherent potential, to make 2006 as a member of the organization’s Bank Hapoalim is listed alongside 73 REPORTING optimal use of available resources, and to set a business leadership. In ratings assigned by advanced banks, of the thousands of banks INITIATIVE high standard for performance. Maala for 2014, based on reported data for operating worldwide. 2006 2013, Bank Hapoalim was ranked at the top Innovation of the Platinum Plus class, the highest rating Voluntary reporting system on greenhouseFinding and promoting new initiatives that generate category; it therefore topped the Maala gas emissions in Israel – In 2010, Bank MAALA business value and competitive advantage, through charts. The bank also appears on Maala's Hapoalim was one of the first organizations processes that encourage employees to raise stock-market index, which consists of all to join the voluntary system for recording ideas and to think creatively and innovatively, of the public companies rated by Maala greenhouse-gas emissions. This system is a throughout the bank. This effort is aimed at improving processes and systems, developing and traded on the TASE. joint initiative of the Ministry of Environmental Protection and the Manufacturers’ 2004 new products and services, and promoting UN Global CompactDuring 2010, Bank Association. The bank updates this data GLOBAL SULLIVAN business initiatives. Hapoalim joined this UN initiative aimed and reports to the ministry annually. PRINCIPLES INTRODUCTION 28-29 Bank Hapoalim Composite Index of ■ The first criterion used to screen the baseline group on the parameter of corporate An internal examination of the scores Sustainability and CSR Performance – responsibility was whether the organization publishes a report included in the earned by Bank Hapoalim on the various international GRI database. This group consists of approximately 500 banks, or International Analysts' Perspective rating scales of the organizations noted 9.1% of the banks in the baseline group; above for sustainability and corporate Capital-market analysts, both internationally and in Israel, have been including sustainability and responsibility indicated that it ranks with ■ The next screening criterion was whether the organization appears in the databases of CSR components in their evaluation of business firms and organizations' performance. These the group of banks at the apex of the international analysis organizations (at least one of the following: Eiris, Sustainalytics, aspects of the company or organization under review are presented to investors, particularly or Oekom). It is important to note that a prerequisite for inclusion in such databases international banking sector. long-term (institutional and pension) investors. Over the last two decades, the implementation of is a demonstrated threshold of corporate responsibility performance, according to corporate responsibility has expanded in the Israeli and global financial sectors. Consequently, standards of transparency and quality. This group contains 300 banks, or 5.5% of information has accumulated that allows financial corporations to be examined and compared the baseline group; based on their performance in this field. ■ The last screening criterion was whether the organization is listed in the international ratings by FTSE4Good. The ratings cover the 73 banking corporations with the Since the inception of the Bank Hapoalim sustainability and CSR plan, the bank has received best corporate responsibility performance, of the groups covered by analysts. This inquiries from international analysts regarding its performance in these areas. The bank accords resulted in a select group constituting only 1.3% of the banks in the baseline group. high importance to this dialogue, for two main reasons: 11. Dialogue with international analysts who are in routine contact with corporations all over the THE BANKER world offers the bank valuable insights regarding current trends in the global CSR field and material issues for the banking sector; 22. An examination of the bank's scores on the various rating scales nourishes a continuous GRI process of gap analysis in the management of CSR issues and a discussion of ways of improving performance on the various parameters. EIRIS, SUSTAINALYTICS, OEKOM In 2014, an analysis and integration process was performed with the assistance of the BDO CSR FTSE4GOOD and Sustainability Group, culminating in the creation of a composite index. The index provides a comprehensive, comparative measure of the corporate responsibility performance of Bank Hapoalim relative to the requirements of various international analysis firms. The requirements of several major international analysis and measurement organizations were compared and analyzed: FTSE4Good, Eiris, Sustainalytics, and Oekom. This study helped the bank examine its performance 73 from a broad perspective, aligned with the standards defined in this field for the global financial sector, and to understand its position relative to banks worldwide. 300 In the initial mapping process, the baseline group (the widest reference group in the financial 500 sector) was established using The Banker magazine's database of banks. This database contains information on approximately 5,500 banks around the world, operating in more than 160 jurisdictions, 5,500 and accounting for some 90% of total global banking assets. The next stage was to examine all of the banks for compliance and ratings on the international standards of the analysis organizations. The group of banks was screened and gradually trimmed down based on the following criteria: INTRODUCTION 30-31 The bank intends to continue to expand the activities conducted within its sustainability ■ Identification of opportunities for financing of banking products in the sustainability field. The bank intends to and CSR plan, in accordance with its perception and with the material aspects, continue to expand LOOKING ■ Implementation of the long-term plan for promotion of access to banking services for while continually following global progress in this field. This approach is given people with disabilities, including adaptation of buildings and branches of the bank and the activities AHEAD practical expression, first and foremost, in the creation of value for customers and accessible services. in advancement of society and of the community, through business activities and conducted within through identifying new opportunities for the promotion of economic value alongside social and environmental values. Concurrently, the bank will continue to develop the With suppliers – ■ Implementation of the work plan for integration of CSR considerations into purchasing its sustainability The sustainability and corporate social quality of its human capital; to care for its workers, in various aspects of their lives; processes of the bank and into its interaction with suppliers. and CSR plan, in accordance with responsibility program continues to be a and to behave responsibly towards the environment. Key directions and activities to part of the strategic core of Bank Hapoalim. be pursued by the bank in the coming years: Investment in the community – The program is ongoing, and encompasses ■ Investment in the community, through educational projects and expansion of activities its perception. aimed at promoting financial freedom in the community. organizational infrastructures, information and measurement systems, milestones, and For the benefit of its customers – ■ Expansion of initiatives and channels for the promotion of financial freedom: the bank ■ Development and expansion of dialogue with various stakeholders in the area of CSR This approach is controls, constituting an element of the bank's will continue to lead a strategic initiative in the coming years aimed at promoting the in Israel. given practical financial freedom of new seniors. This drive will encompass unique services, products, long-term vision. As extensively illustrated in the and benefits for the peri-retirement population, responding to their specific needs. expression, first CSR report, structured work plans and planned In the bank's work environment – future activities have been formulated. At the ■ Support for the small-business sector in Israel, as a strategic effort of the bank. ■ Implementation of the long-term plan for promotion of the employment of population and foremost, in the creation of value groups underrepresented in the job market; same time, within its emphasis on innovation and entrepreneurship, the bank works to identify ■ Maintaining the bank's leadership in the development of innovative banking solutions original ideas in this field and to bring these and services in the multi-channel banking space (Internet, mobile, and telephone), ■ Cultivation and promotion of the quality of human capital, with a focus on the employee. This includes the advancement of women in general, and in management positions in for customers and in advancement of with an emphasis on lateral integration of services in different channels. concepts to fruition through pilot projects. The particular; encouragement of academic studies; and support for employees' wholeperson wellbeing. society and of the projects are designed to test the feasibility of ■ Promotion of excellence in service, by instilling the bank's service philosophy, the ideas in light of societal, environmental, including the creation of standards for processes, measurement and feedback and economical considerations. Following the surveys, absorption of structural changes, job definitions, process improvement, Minimization of the bank's environmental impact – community testing period, ideas that prove successful on and upgrades of technology. ■ Implementation of the long-term process of cutting back paper use (the Paperless Branch project), including conversion of processes to digital formats in order to reduce paper use; these parameters are implemented broadly ■ Implementation of the plan for increased activity in the Arab-Israeli sector, which includes across all units. addressing specific needs, expanding physical and digital services, and integrating ■ Implementation of continuous processes aimed at energy efficiency and reduction of employees from this sector, as part of the integration of this community with Israeli society. the bank's carbon footprint. THE BEST INTERESTS OF THE CLIENT THE BEST INTERESTS OF THE CLIENT 34-35 The bank encourages extensive use of its products through online means, thereby improving service quality while reducing environmental impact. In today's world of technological change, customers' expectations for innovative, advanced solutions in the services provided by businesses have increased. The bank invests great effort in immediate adaptation to technological developments, and in the integration of new applications with its products and services Bank Hapoalim recognizes Optimal service offered at any place and time, while helping to protect the environment that customers’ needs and The bank encourages extensive use of its products through online means, aspirations change during thereby improving service quality while reducing environmental impact. In different life stages. The today's world of technological change, customers' expectations for innovative, bank therefore endeavors to advanced solutions in the services provided by businesses have increased. provide customers with all The bank works to create value for its The bank invests great effort in immediate adaptation to technological of the financial information Meeting Customer Needs customers in the following ways: developments, and in the integration of new applications with its products and services that can help ■ Development of responsible products and services. As a result, a multitude of channels is currently available to them understand, plan, and This section describes the bank’s relationships with its customers, the services to foster economic and environmental customers at any place and time, so that essentially all of their routine and products offered to customers by the bank, and the ways in which the bank sustainability, for our customers and for interactions with the bank can be conducted without visiting a branch. In carry out both long-term and identifies opportunities and manages risks in the area of social responsibility, in the economy as a whole; 2014 continued expansion of the use of computerized and online channels, immediate financial decisions a changing business environment. The bank strives to develop banking services ■ Maintaining a multichannel network for such as the Poalim by Telephone call center, the Hapoalim Online website, and products based on a philosophy of creating shared value for its customers communication with customers at any time smartphone and tablet applications, the Mail Net service, and more. This and its other stakeholders, such as the community, various participants in the economy, the environment, and others, while and place, with appropriate accessibility; trend minimizes the environmental impact of banking products, in that it often simultaneously generating economic value for the bank. ■ Providing optimal service to achieve eliminates the need for the customer to visit the branch in person (leading customer satisfaction, and responding to and to pollution savings) and, obviously, saves paper. The use of bank branches Bank Hapoalim recognizes that customers’ needs and aspirations change during different life stages. The bank therefore endeavors learning from customer communications; also carries relatively low environmental impact, due to the broad distribution to provide customers with all of the financial information and services that can help them understand, plan, and carry out both long■ Responsiveness to customers’ needs of the branches of Bank Hapoalim and the extensive network of ATMs, selfterm and immediate financial decisions. The bank’s view of its customers is derived from a philosophy of sustainability, giving rise through all life stages; service stations, and self-service information stations located adjacent to to a relationship designed to encompass a comprehensive understanding of the needs of customers and their families over time. ■ S o l u t i o n s t a i l o re d t o t h e u n i q u e and outside of branches. Customers can visit a branch or use a self-service characteristics of different customer groups. station conveniently, with minimal travel and environmental impact. In addition, the changes in the business and social environment the rapid technological changes, the dynamic evolution of customers' demands, the transition to a low-carbon economy, resource scarcity, water and land conservation efforts, global warming, and the need to integrate and empower each sector of society harbor potential business opportunities Bank Hapoalim was selected the Best Bank for the bank. As a result of sustainability strategies, customers' values and needs are evolving as well. The bank's role is to provide solutions in the financial arena and to promote emerging demand in the sustainability space. Towards that end, the in Israel by the prestigious magazine Global bank offers various financing solutions, deposits, and investment products that encourage sustainable consumption and Finance for the fourth consecutive year. environmentally and socially conscious investment. THE BEST INTERESTS OF THE CLIENT 36-37 Working to Promote value for businesses in three main areas: credit, expert consultation and service trends (e.g. with regard to pensions, savings, the capital market, the housing market, etc.). This information is accessible to customers through a variety of a daily, up-to-date, detailed overview of income versus expenses. The Goal Financial Freedom for tailored to this sector, and the creation of marketing platforms for businesses. channels: direct banking channels (the bank's website, call center, and smartphone and tablet applications), bankers at the branches, and the bank's experts in each Setting tool enables clients to plan their budget according to income and Customers financial area. expense categories and to set monthly targets. At the end of each month, In line with the financial freedom philosophy presented in the introduction to this Providing Financial clients can obtain a current snapshot report, the bank promotes its customers' financial freedom on five key axes: Information Products and Tools for the Promotion of performance relative to the targets. ■ Financial information Highly detailed and extensive information is As part of the bank's effort to enhance of Financial Freedom available to the bank's customers, through every channel and at all financial freedom, it provides its customers ■ Budget management tools The bank has developed a series of unique tools A new concept for the budgettimes, regarding their financial assets, liabilities, transactions, and more. with extensive information in various financial designed to offer ongoing assistance with financial conduct, as part of the management tool, developed in 2013 This information helps customers to be aware of their financial condition areas. This in order to give customers a status effort to offer education on sensible budget management. Within this process, and launched in the new format in and of the options available to them; it serves as the infrastructure for snapshot that is as complete as possible, the bank developed online budget building and management tools allowing early 2014, uses game-like elements control, consultation, and prudent life decisions in this area; in order to enable them to balance their customers to examine their financial conduct in comparison to customers with to provide a new financial planning ■ Products and tools to promote financial freedom Over the last few financial needs and abilities in the short and a similar profile, leading to more prudent behavior. experience simple, customized, years, the bank has developed a series of products and tools designed to long term. The information includes details and enjoyable aimed at helping help its customers make prudent financial decisions. These tools enable of transactions executed by the customer, The bank's UP Budget Management application presents a current snapshot of customers achieve better financial customers to understand and analyze information, and to obtain control a range of products and tools for financial income versus expenses. The information is based on collection, classification, and conduct. Personal information is and flexibility in managing accounts and family budgets and in creating management, and current market data and analysis of all of the customer's transactions. The service provides customers with displayed in an easy-to-understand, long-term savings. The tools are accessible through innovative digital colorful, graphical layout; a user-friendly channels, so that they can be used at any time and place; interface makes organizing expenses ■ Personalized consulting and service In accordance with Regulation and income convenient; information is of Investment Advice, Investment Marketing and Investment Portfolio more accessible; and customers can Management Law1995-, the bank provides clients that signed a view their status relative to their own consulting agreement, with a consulting service, personalized to the goals and relative to others. Within the About 500 client's needs. This based on earlier familiarity with the client`s needs, budget-management tool, customers preferences and goals; can use the Poalim Like Me service, ■ Financial education and literacy As part of the promotion of financial which offers comparisons of total freedom for its customers and for the general public, the bank has expenses as well as a breakdown of initiated efforts designed for a range of target audiences (children and expenditures by category, such as food, adolescents, young adults, households, and seniors), according to life communications, education, etc. stage, aimed at raising awareness and enhancing financial education. Taking the drive to instill financial freedom to the next level, several Thousand clients initiatives of the bank encourage changes in behavior and in financial About half a million clients habits for its target audiences, effectively promoting financial literacy; ■ Promotion of financial freedom for small businesses The bank works to have registered for the online empower and promote the financial freedom of its customers in the smallbudget management tool. business sector by developing financial tools and knowledge adapted to 90,000 clients registered for their unique needs. The bank's numerous initiatives in this arena create the service over the last year THE BEST INTERESTS OF THE CLIENT 38-39 Dan the Saver activities About About About About About 190 3.1 130 1.8 20 Thousand NIS billion Thousand million visits Thousand Number of Monetary Registered users Dan the Saver Number of children Dan the Saver volume of Dan the Saver website visits who attended Dan accounts managed website (cumulative) the Saver summer camps in 2014 ■ Tools and products for savings As UP at the beginning of the year. This range of value-added services is another part of sensible long-term financial step towards realization of the bank's vision of leading its customers to growth conduct, the bank is promoting the and providing them with tools for sensible financial conduct. Poalim UP comprises value of saving and offering a range six products and services, three of which are new. The services are designed to of tools for this purpose. The Savings help customers with everyday financial management while offering high levels Management tool allows customers of choice and customizability. to select a purpose for the savings ■ UP Active A service allowing customers to optimize routine account ■ Applications for advanced banking services Private and business customers long-term, customized management of plan, assign a name of their choice management without monitoring their account status daily, by setting up can use the range of services and information offered through the bank's pension savings, taking into account to the plan, define the saving method automatic actions in a range of areas. Customers establish a set of actions applications to manage many aspects of their financial lives, at any place and various present and future financial (standing order or one-time deposit), in advance, so that sensible financial options can be offered to them at the time, and to benefit from unique services using the most advanced technological considerations and risk factors. The bank set the monthly amount to deposit, appropriate time; the actions are executed following approval by the customer. capabilities, which offer an optimal client experience and maximum availability. offers consulting and information in this and choose a preferred duration for the Possibilities include withdrawal from a daily interest deposit when the account area, with the aim of helping customers plan. Progress towards the goal can balance is negative, a deposit to a savings plan when the balance is positive, Personalized Consulting and Service gain better knowledge and understanding be tracked throughout the period, and sending an alert when a checkbook is about to run out and ordering a new ■ Personal financial planning In response to customers' needs, the bank of pension savings and make more customers can make changes to the plan checkbook, and more; offers personal financial planning meetings, with the aim of expanding the informed decisions. This effort includes and deposit one-time sums to promote ■ UP Card An international card charged with funds from the customer's bank services provided by the bank to promote customers' financial freedom. The an area dedicated to pension savings timely achievement of their goal. account, which can be transferred to a family member, as it is not imprinted with meetings are designed to allow an in-depth examination of the customer's within the bank's website, in which Another project, Dan the Saver, offers the account owner's name. Customers can charge the card remotely through banking activity through a look at all of the customer's financial data and realextensive useful information is posted a series of special savings products any service channel (at a branch or through a direct channel), or remove funds time access to all relevant information, along with an understanding of the for the benefit of the bank's customers aimed at encouraging savings by from the card to their accounts, at any time; customer's needs. Based on these materials, practical solutions are offered and the general public. The bank has 8 parents for their children's future. The ■ UP Smart Allows regular current-account charges to be consolidated to a for improvement of the customer's ability to make sound budget management pension consulting centers at the Israel; goals of the savings plans are aligned single day of the month, similar to credit-card payments, providing customers decisions. The bank has trained bankers to specialize in providing this service. ■ Customized expert financial advice A with each life stage of the child, until with better control over expenses in their accounts. Deferred charges include In order to create an ongoing guidance process, contact is maintained with wide range of expert advisors in various financial independence. Along with checks, cash withdrawals, payments, transfers, and more. Charges are deferred the customer in the months after the meeting, through the bank's website This fields (such as investments, credit, and the Dan the Saver programs, the to a day of the month of the customer's choice. This service is offered to process is aimed at encouraging customers to adopt a pattern of independent savings) are available to the bank's private bank installed cash and coin deposit customers as part of the UP Smart track; planning and monitoring of their financial activity, while raising their awareness and business clients. Consultations are machines for children, and issued Dan ■ UP On Time Offers real-time alerts from the bank via text message or e-mail, of the main budget management tools offered by the bank through the direct aimed at helping customers make rational the Saver ATM cards and checkbooks. with various updates on the customer's account or the markets, according to channels. Hundreds of bankers have been trained to provide this service, and decisions regarding various aspects of ■ Tools to increase control and flexibility the customer’s choice; it is currently offered at branches in all areas of Israel; their financial lives. in the management of current ■ UP Mail Allows customers to receive messages from the bank via e-mail ■ Pension advising Financial freedom and economic balance are significant accounts the bank launched Poalim instead of the post. across all stages of life. One of the key elements of these values is THE BEST INTERESTS OF THE CLIENT 40-41 Financial Education 10 ,000 and Literacy ■ Poalim Restructuring An initiative created based on a customer retention concept, with the aim of providing a better response to the needs of private customers who encounter financial distress that prevents them from meeting customers their financial obligations. In contrast to ordinary collection procedures, Poalim Restructuring aims to promote financial freedom by working to stabilize the customer's account, with the customer's cooperation and consent, through Poalim Restructuring This project individual assistance, using a range of tools and service has been carried out at 51 branches, channels of the bank; and has included approximately ■ The Growing Family A project initiated by the bank in 10,000 customers collaboration with the ‫״‬Yedioth Ahronoth‫ ״‬newspaper and the ynet website, to mentor families facing various financial challenges in order to help them learn how to improve their economic conduct. The families are provided with guidance by the bank's advisors in areas such as personal financial conduct and financial growth, real estate and mortgages, pensions, investments, and more. The project serves as a platform demonstrating to the general public, through the stories of five families, how consumer habits, economic habits, and financial behavior in general can be transformed, with the aim of achieving economic balance and growth. A third round of this project was completed in 2014; ■ Bankopedia In 2014, the bank launched a database of information and tips for prudent financial conduct, presented on its website. The database consists of content areas based on the financial topics relevant for each target audience (children, soldiers, students, households, adults nearing retirement age, etc.). Various aspects of each content area are presented, in accessible and userfriendly terms, with the aim of providing practical help with financial conduct in various life stages. The database is accompanied by videos demonstrating prudent financial conduct for each life stage, available in the Bankopedia section of the bank's website; THE BEST INTERESTS OF THE CLIENT 42-43 350 families participated in the Growth Opportunities initiative and received instruction and guidance from mentors in 2014 ■ Growth Opportunities The Growth Opportunities project was launched in 2012, as part of the implementation of the bank's financial freedom philosophy and the expansion of its impact in the community. The project provides tools for families coping with a financial crisis, in the areas of financial education, navigating a time of change, and growth through crisis. The families receive financial instruction and personal guidance, aimed at preventing financial deterioration and allowing a return to positive financial activity. The initiative for the project emerged from the bank's customer contact center; the idea was initially sparked by customers' letters to the bank regarding economic and personal crises, usually caused by events beyond their control, such as job loss, bereavement, divorce, illness, etc. The project has helped Examining Achievement of Objectives the bank learn and draw conclusions regarding the needs and challenges faced by customers in all of the financial aspects of their lives. This project was expanded to 2014 Objectives Status additional geographical regions and a larger number of households in 2014; LOOKING A specialized content area on the bank's website, the AHEAD ■ Enriching Parents Bank Hapoalim has set a goal of working to promote financial Bankopedia, is planned to launch during 2014, as a education from an early age, for children and adolescents, based on an acknowledge guide offering website visitors extensive information, Completed. that good financial habits built at a young age can serve as the foundation for financial tips, and tools on prudent financial conduct across well-being when they reach adulthood. Healthy financial habits can also contribute to the life cycle. The content designated for the site was circulated to the bank's employees for examination a successful household economy when children participate in planning and carrying Poalim Restructuring is gradually and validation prior to the public launch. out expenses, and serve as ambassadors for these messages to their friends and expanding through the bank's branches, and is expected to roll out to all branches The Israel Financial Freedom Forum is planned family members. Young children, in preschool and elementary school, are acquiring their first concepts of money, savings, by the end of 2015; to launch in early 2014. The forum unites many etc. Because they are exposed to financial decisions from an early age, it is important to provide them with tools to manage participants from the government, community, and Completed. their own financial lives. In the Enriching Parents project, parents of students give lessons at their children's schools based business sectors seeking a shared platform for on a lesson plan and presentation created by the bank – a brief, simple session designed to teach children aged 5 to 8 basic Additional videos are being produced to conversation, identification of opportunities, and provide access to information and increase initiation of ventures for the promotion of financial concepts for sensible financial conduct. The language of the presentation is suited to children in this age group; financial literacy, for different target education in Israel. The forum will enable all of these ■ Professional training conferences for customers The conferences cover various financial content areas and are designed audiences at various life stages. stakeholders to come together to consult, discuss, for different target audiences, depending on the professional field and content. The goal of these conferences is to enhance and think about solutions in this area. the financial knowledge of various target groups. Training conferences are held at the initiative of various functions within the bank. Dozens of the conferences are held each year. THE BEST INTERESTS OF THE CLIENT 44-45 Financial Freedom for Seniors Seniors constitute approximately 10% of the population in can prepare for the day after through pension advice Israel, according to data from the Central Bureau of Statistics. and financial planning. Retired customers will be offered This group is expected to double in size by 2035, and is comprehensive financial planning aimed at finding the balance already a highly significant force in the Israeli economy. The between short-term and longer-term needs. accelerated growth of the seniors sector is expected to have a substantial impact on the economy, leading to the development The bank is prepared to provide an extensively deployed, of new markets and expansion of existing markets in areas comprehensive, professional response to the needs of the such as leisure, culture, education, health care, and more. seniors sector. 600 advisors nationwide have undergone specialized training to respond to the unique needs of these The life stage of people in this age group is characterized customers. In addition, eight existing pension advising centers by dramatic changes: retirement leads to a drop in income, will be joined by four new centers planned to open during 2015. expenses shift to align with new needs, and financial routines are deeply transformed. Seniors need to attain a new financial The core of this effort is specialized financial planning for equilibrium. After retirement, many seek to live in the present: seniors via Poalim Advisor, an advanced new advising system to learn, travel, and try new experiences; but they may developed at the bank. This planning process entails setting also be concerned about the future and strive for control customized financial targets and providing solutions for the and security for their long-term needs. At the same time, attainment of these goals, full asset mapping, and an analysis seniors often wish to support their families by helping their of present and future income and expenses. At the end of children and grandchildren, serving as the family's anchor. the advisory process, customers will be offered solutions Thus, post-retirement seniors navigate a complex matrix of matched to their needs, based on their financial abilities and needs and financial considerations, requiring meticulous and future plans, taking into consideration their age and risk level. comprehensive financial planning. The challenges faced after retirement necessitate the creation of a specialized set of This drive is another expression of the bank's concern for services and products designed for this population. its customers' financial freedom and of its role as a financial guide for families through important milestones, addressing As part of the aim of developing business with a social benefit present and future needs. component, and in response to the needs of seniors, the bank has launched a broad strategic initiative for peri-retirement As part of the aim of developing business LOOKING seniors, the first of its kind in Israel. This effort is one of the focal points for the bank's activity in 2015 and for the with a social benefit component, and in AHEAD coming years. It will encompass unique benefits, services, response to the needs of seniors, the and products for the seniors sector, centered on the bank's bank has launched a broad strategic belief that retirement opens a new era of life in which seniors can reap the fruits of their labors, after years of hard work. initiative for peri-retirement seniors, the Pension advising centers: The bank plans first of its kind in Israel. This effort is one to increase the number of pension advising The bank will offer customers aged +55 advisory services of the focal points for the bank's activity centers to 12 during 2015. tailored to their life stage and needs. Pre-retirement customers in 2015 and for the coming years THE BEST INTERESTS OF THE CLIENT 46-47 The recognition of the importance of small businesses has led to the creation of special programs, over the last three years, aimed at responding to a wide range of these businesses' needs. This extensive activity is aimed at enabling businesses to grow and expand, while coping with challenges, across all life stages of the business, and to provide equal opportunities to all population groups in both the central and the peripheral regions of Israel. The knowledge and services offered in this area are based on the bank's core capabilities and on organization-wide Credit to small businesses: processes. This activity consists of several key elements: NIS 29.3 ■ Credit granting The bank grants credit to small businesses, as part of its routine activity, both within its credit portfolio, the largest in the Israeli banking system, and through funds that specialize in credit for small businesses. The bank creates collaborations through dialogue in the public sphere; ■ Personalized consultation and service The bank has launched a range of billion services and knowledge tailored to the needs of small businesses, in order to increase financial freedom in this sector. Among other activities, the bank has Working to created specialized business branches and trained bankers for this purpose; Total credit to the In recent years, in accordance small businesses are served by approximately 235 branches. The bank has with the values embodied by the small-business sector Promote Financial also developed innovative services for the management of businesses via direct Bank Hapoalim vision, the bank channels and digital platforms, and provides knowledge about various aspects has worked diligently to enhance Freedom for Small and promote its small-business of the life of a business through experts in a wide range of fields; NIS ■ Creation of marketing platforms The bank helps small businesses cope with 3.5 Businesses customers' financial freedom, through the development of financial the challenges of exposure and advertising, which all such businesses face. The bank has initiated and launched several marketing programs and channels The small-business sector, which contributes about half of Israel's tools and services and the provision designed to promote exposure for small businesses throughout Israel (Small gross domestic product and provides jobs for 43% of the Israeli job Business Day, the CashBack Club, business fairs, and more). of personalized, professional service market, is one of the pillars of the Israeli economy and one of its key growth drivers. In recent years, in accordance with the values close to every business in Israel. NIS billion 100 embodied by the Bank Hapoalim vision, the bank has worked Within this effort, Bank Hapoalim million diligently to enhance and promote its small-business customers' is committed to supporting and Designated credit granted financial freedom, through the development of financial tools and promoting small businesses, as a (beyond credit in the services and the provision of personalized, professional service foundation for growth of the Israeli Credit for businesses in ordinary course of business) close to every business in Israel. Within this effort, Bank Hapoalim economy as a whole southern Israel during is committed to supporting and promoting small businesses, as Operation Protective Edge a foundation for growth of the Israeli economy as a whole. THE BEST INTERESTS OF THE CLIENT 48-49 Credit ■ Establishment of targeted aid funds ■ Establishment of the Instant Credit for Businesses service Unique credit for businesses Bank Hapoalim won solutions for small businesses. This quick and simple service is available to 7,000 a tender to participate in the operation customers at any time on the bank's website, via mobile, or at the branches, of the Small and Mid-Sized Businesses without additional collateral and without bureaucratic procedures. Credit is Fund, backed by the state. The bank is approved in real time, cutting down the time needed for credit applications and the leading provider of loans through approvals to just minutes and offering an immediate response for businesses, this fund in Israel. To date, it has to address challenges or to finance routine operations. granted credit of more than NIS 2.5 Personalized Consulting and Service billion. The bank also established the Poalim for Growth fund, a specialized ■ Broad deployment of specialized business services Specialized business businesses fund for small businesses, which has branches for mid-sized and large corporate clients have been established over the were members of the club in 2014 granted credit with special terms in last three years. The branches offer personal service customized to client needs; the amount of NIS 1 billion to date. full availability, including opening hours suited to business clients; professional The fund enables small businesses to service by experts; and proactive updates for clients. Bank Hapoalim currently annually, and will offer special benefits grow by granting credit with unique operates a network of individualized professional services for small businesses to business owners and employees. terms, including preferred interest rates through the retail banking system at most of its branches, in the most extensive Small and mid-sized businesses with and no collateral requirement beyond geographical distribution of any bank in Israel; accounts at the bank will benefit from an owner's guarantee. Customers of ■ Innovative channels for business account management The bank has developed prices usually reserved for the largest the fund also benefit from the option a range of innovative services for the management of business operations, at businesses in the country, in a range to receive ten hours of free business any time and place, based on the most advanced banking service technologies, ■ Professional banking solutions and special benefits The bank offers expert of areas: food, fuel, wellbeing services, consulting from leading consultancy with access from a variety of smart devices. Hapoalim Online Business is an services in various financial fields, tailored to the business, in order to increase leisure and vacations, office supplies, firms, aimed at providing the businesses area of the bank's website tailored to business needs. The site offers a range of small-business managers' financial knowledge. This service is provided through advertising and marketing, insurance, with a comprehensive service package financial activities that can be carried out simply and quickly. The bank's mobile experienced professional consultants who guide the business using knowledge based and more. as a foundation for growth and prudent and tablet applications for business clients offer a steadily growing range of on financial and economic research conducted in Israel, matched to the needs of financial conduct. actions and information, allowing owners to manage various financial aspects the business, in areas such as investments and foreign trade. A desk specializing Marketing Platform In addition, a joint fund has been of their businesses and respond in real time; in mid-sized businesses operates in the bank's dealing room. In addition, branch ■ Poalim CashBack Club The largest established with the Manufacturers' managers' authority to grant credit to these businesses has been expanded, at all customers' club in Israel, launched during Association of Israel, at a volume of branches of the bank. This process helps business clients receive a rapid response 2012, provides all customers who use NIS 250 million, for small businesses Establishment of the Instant Credit for to credit applications, in an efficient procedure without superfluous bureaucracy; the bank's credit cards with cash rebates that are customers of the bank and Businesses service Unique credit solutions for ■ Current-account benefits for small businesses in the setup phase In order to to their current accounts on purchases members of the Association. The fund small businesses. This quick and simple service assist small businesses across all life stages and strengthen the survivability of from thousands of businesses. Over grants credit in amounts of up to 10% new small businesses in Israel, Bank Hapoalim has, for the last three years, offered 7,000 small and mid-sized businesses is available to customers at any time on the of the annual turnover of the business, the Easy Start Package to small businesses in their first two years of existence. nationwide participate. Participation bank's website, via mobile, or at the branches, at attractive terms, including preferred The package provides an exemption from current-account fees for businesses in the club allows these businesses to interest rates and a grace period. without additional collateral and without in the setup phase and offers business owners assistance with their first steps; benefit from a broad marketing platform Within a collaboration with the Korat bureaucratic procedures. Credit is approved ■ Poalim Business Club Another program aimed at promoting the small-business reaching a large number of customers, Foundation, the bank also provides in real time, cutting down the time needed for sector is the Poalim Business Club, for small and mid-sized businesses. The club through a range of media channels, special loans to microbusinesses. credit applications and approvals to just minutes will lower the costs involved in running a business by up to thousands of NIS within and outside the bank. THE BEST INTERESTS OF THE CLIENT 50-51 80 15 ■ Business Founder Fairs; fair for small businesses from The website was open to all southern businesses, regardless of the bank they use for their Small Business Forum southern Israel during Operation Protective Edge – business accounts. The businesses presented themselves and their products to the public on Another of the bank's Following the fairs held in 2013 to support the opening of the website, directing customers to their websites, Facebook pages, or telephone numbers; initiatives to promote new businesses in Israel, increase the number of jobs, and ■ Small Business Competition Held in collaboration with the newspaper Yedioth Ahronoth and promote the growth of small businesses, the bank held a fair Branches: 80 branches Business departments: the Ynet website. In the competition, 18 outstanding small businesses in various fields were small businesses, as allowing shoppers to buy from small businesses located in in the retail network have The distribution of selected, and six of these were chosen for special commendation. The media coverage of the one of the key drivers southern Israel during Operation Protective Edge. The fair been defined as anchor business banking was competition provided extensive exposure to the participating businesses and helped enlarge of success for the was held at the Poalim Campus in Shefayim, as part of the branches, providing extended in recent their customer base. In addition, competing businesses were provided with close guidance Israeli economy and job bank's activity in support of small businesses in the south. an exceptionally broad years, and 15 new from bank advisors and external advisors, and with professional knowledge and tools for market. The goal of this Thousands of people attended, including bank customers range of solutions. these business departments improved management of their business; effort is to reinforce the ■ Small Business Day tradition In a tradition started in 2013, Bank Hapoalim held its third annual and employees as well as the general public, and bought branches have extensive were opened nationwide small-business sector thousands of products from 120 participating businesses. The Small Business Day. For one day of the year, Israelis are urged to patronize small businesses. authorizations, allowing in Israel by creating event was covered by the media, on Keshet Television, the As in previous years, Small Business Day serves as a special opportunity to support small Mako website, the Galei Tzahal radio station, 102FM Radio, them to offer quick businesses. 37,000 small businesses throughout Israel participated in the event; the participants an arena for ideas solutions to business clients Deployment of and solutions that can and more. This initiative connected with the commercial received exposure allowing them to offer discounts and special sales to potential customers. arena on the Ynet website, sponsored by the bank, in which who apply for financing, in business branches: Small Business Day was preceded by a marketing campaign including advertisements on the change the business small and mid-sized businesses from southern Israel (up to an efficient procedure free 7 business centers and Keshet broadcasting network and on national and regional radio stations, with the participation environment confronted 40 km from the Gaza Strip) offered their wares to the public. of superfluous bureaucracy 22 business branches of mayors who encouraged the public to participate. The Mako website opened a page for the by small businesses event, allowing small-business owners to register for the event, provide information about their business, tell viewers about themselves, and promote a special offer for the event. During Small Business Day, the special benefits and offers at the businesses could be viewed on the Mako app, based on the user's location. Registration for Small Business Day was open to customers of all banks; customers Examining Achievement of Objectives 37K who registered received an advertising kit from the bank; ■ Small Business Forum Another of the bank's initiatives 2014 Status to promote small businesses, as one of the key drivers Objectives of success for the Israeli economy and job market. The Small business banker stations goal of this effort is to reinforce the small-business sector During 2014, as part of the bank's effort in Israel by creating an arena for ideas and solutions that to promote and grow small businesses, Completed. can change the business environment confronted by small the services currently offered to these Stations set businesses through private-banking up at 235 businesses, and to identify opportunities for cooperation departments will be expanded; branded branches. between leading figures in the public, community, and stations with specialist bankers (Small businesses Business Bankers) will be added at 245 business spheres, who can join forces through the forum for the success of this common objective. Participants in branches. The goal of this process is to create a specialized station for this segment Businesses participating the forum are selected representatives of a variety of public, and direct these customers to a business community, and business entities who are dedicated to the banker specializing in small businesses, for in Small Business Day promotion of the small-business sector in Israel. Additional personalized professional service. meetings of the forum were held during 2014. THE BEST INTERESTS OF THE CLIENT 52-53 38 8,500 Serving a Diverse Clientele Markets Served by the Bank Segmentation of Borrowers The activity of the Bank Group is conducted via six principal operating segments. Total credit to the public amounted The division into operating segments is based on the types of products and to approximately NIS 263.9 billion in branches new customers services or on the types of customers included in each of the segments. The board 2014, rise of 4.9% from 2013. (for the of management of the bank uses this division to make decisions and to analyze condensed development of balancethe group's business results. The operating segments are presented according to sheet balances of credit to the public Branches located in towns and cities with Recruitment of new customers: In the process of characteristics stipulated by the Supervisor of Banks: the Households Segment, the by segment of activity, see p. 45 of the Arabic-speaking populations: In 2014, the opening new branches and expanding its presence Private Banking Segment, the Small Business Segment, the Commercial Segment, financial statements 2014). bank opened branches in Sachnin and in the Arab-Israeli community, approximately 8,500 the Corporate Segment, and the Financial Management Segment (for segment definitions and details, see the bank's financial statements for 2014 p.124-72 Kfar Qasim, adding to the 36 operating in new customers joined the bank Arabic-speaking communities Credit to the public by segment of activity, 2014 Working With the Ultra-Orthodox families in this sector. Products include and Arab-Israeli Sectors special credit solutions for holidays, 14.4% Bank Hapoalim accords high importance to cultivating a stronger relationship with engagements, weddings, and tuition, Private banking its customers in the Haredi (ultra-Orthodox) and Arab-Israeli sector, in the view and a groundbreaking new housing segment that these communities are catalysts for growth of the Israeli economy. Based on credit product. Within the effort to 13.4% this perspective, and as part of Bank Hapoalim's vision and strategy, the bank strengthen the bank's relationship with Corporate segment 26.8% Households continually endeavors to create value offers and develop services tailored to the this community on significant occasions, segment specific needs of these customers. Over the last few years the bank has achieved holiday greetings were published on a leap forward in marketing to customer segments within the retail banking area, holidays celebrated by the Muslim, Druze, 11.1% Small business segment 31.8% and it continues to expand its community and business activities in these sectors. and Christian communities. Additional Commercial segment activities focused on specific target Financial Freedom and Encouragement of Growth in the Arab-Israeli Sector groups included an event for the opening 1.8% Others and adjustments The bank works to encourage growth in the Arab-Israeli sector, as part of the of the school year at higher-learning implementation of its strategic plan to strengthen and solidify its leadership in institutions in this sector; Read & Succeed diverse population groups important to the Israeli economy and Israeli society. to encourage children to read; grants to Within this effort, two new branches serving this sector opened in 2014, joining encourage savings; and a conference 36 existing branches. The expansion of this network will continue in 2015, with on the promotion of women in business new branches and services made accessible to the Arab-Israeli sector. Plasma and of business clients in this sector. An screens were installed at branches serving Arabic-speaking customers, displaying Arabic-language website is available to promotions in Arabic for relevant products and services. the bank's customers. The site contains changing information regarding new and A new consumer approach introduced in 2014 offers a range of credit solutions existing products and services of the tailored to the Arab-Israeli sector, in response to unique financial requirements of bank: www.bankhapoalim.co.il/arabic. THE BEST INTERESTS OF THE CLIENT 54-55 The Ultraorthodox Sector 23 branches of the bank operate in The bank's activity in the Ultraorthodox sector in recent years has led to ‫״‬Living Wisely‫ ״‬A project held for a second communities with large observant and initiatives, development, and adaptation of products and services designed consecutive year, providing guidance to LOOKING ultra-orthodox (Haredi) populations. The to complement and respect the Ultraorthodox lifestyle: a range of loans suited Ultraorthodox families on prudent economic bank offers a specialized package of services to customers' needs, and a range of credit products matched to observant habits and sensible management of household AHEAD and products to Ultraorthodox sector customers' life stages, including loans for Yeshiva students, engagement loans, budgets. The bank collaborated with HaModi'ah, customers. Branches of the bank operating wedding loans, home purchasing loans, loans for children's weddings, and the leading daily newspaper in the Ultraorthodox in the Ultraorthodox sector have been holiday loans. Adjustments have also been made to new and existing products community, on the project. The five participating adapted to these customers' needs. Each at the bank, such as UP Card, Dan the Saver for homes, credit products, families receive guidance from branch managers branch has a reading library, decorated with and value offers for newlyweds. The bank operates a website targeted to and from a team of expert advisors from the bank 5 new branches are planned to open in Arab-Israeli towns Judaica pieces and stocked with religious the Ultraorthodox audience at www.bankhapoalim.co.il/bsd. The site serves and from the newspaper, who provide them with and villages in 2015; works, which customers can peruse while Ultraorthodox and observant customers and is adapted to the norms of these tools and knowledge for prudent financial behavior. waiting; pictures on branch walls, videos communities. Customers can use the site to access their accounts, receive This effort was covered extensively in weekend Over the coming year, conferences on financial conduct and displayed on screens at the branches, and routine banking information, and execute various transactions. The Read & editions of HaModi'ah, and garnered a high level of other topics will be held routinely for Arab-Israeli customers. marketing materials are adapted to this Succeed program for the Haredi sector operated successfully for the fifth success and publicity in the Ultraorthodox public. The bank will also sponsor various professional conferences customer segment. consecutive year in 2014. in this sector. Examining Achievement of Objectives 2014 Objectives Status In 2014, the bank will continue A list of solutions in the to emphasize the introduction of form of credit products products and services adapted adapted to the unique to the needs and lifestyles of needs of customers in customers in the ultra-orthodox and this sector was launched Arab-Israeli communities, expand in 2014. A pilot project its footprint in these sectors, and was performed with a provide a specialized response to specialized mortgage their needs. product for the ArabIsraeli sector. In the coming years, the bank plans 2 new branches were to expand its reach in the Arabopened; 2 branches Israeli community by adding about scheduled to open in 10 additional branches (4 new 2014 will open in the first branches will open in Arab-Israeli quarter of 2015. towns in 2014). THE BEST INTERESTS OF THE CLIENT 56-57 Committed to Customer The organizational Satisfaction commitment to Customer service approach at Bank Hapoalim is an expression of our organizational service and to increasing the commitment to customer satisfaction. This approach refers to internal customers as well as end users. The approach is broad-based and integrative, and covers the breadth of the bank's operations. number of satisfied customers is Service is a value exemplified across the entire organization and through all processes, beyond direct, immediate interaction with customers. The direct reflected in all encounter with both internal and external customers is the initial stage in the levels of the bank’s service cycle, based on the information that is collected and processed. The activity from upper analysis of this information makes it possible to draw conclusions, learn, and improve, contributing to the development of work processes that improve the management to level of service. This service cycle enriches the value offer for various customers, the lowest-level creates a flexible organizational framework open to feedback, and expresses the bank's organizational commitment to customer satisfaction. employees Service from an Organization-Wide Perspective The organizational commitment to service and to increasing the number of satisfied customers is reflected in all levels of the bank’s activity from upper management to the lowest-level employees. Service processes pertaining to the organization as a whole can be classified into three levels: ■ Organization-wide culture level A focus on organization-wide activities designed to foster a culture of service. These activities include formulation of a service philosophy, improved measurement capabilities, organization-wide implementation, and creation of work routines and remuneration methods; ■ Division partnership level Divisions of the bank not in direct contact with customers provide support for business activities and back up the activity conducted at the points of contact with customers. Service is perceived as a key pillar of the promotion of an organizational culture supportive of and focused on better business performance. Activities in the area of service are therefore a key route to organizational success; ■ Client area level The service philosophy is an essential aspect of the promotion of customer satisfaction and enhancement of customers' relationship with the bank. THE BEST INTERESTS OF THE CLIENT 58-59 Service Quality Metric Branches 9.0 8.69 8.61 8.66 8.49 8.45 8.5 8.29 8.06 8.0 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 The service quality metrics described below are based on a statistical model consisting of parameters from several content areas. The content areas relevant to service at the branches are: caring and concern, professional service, devoting time and attention, banker availability, and wait times. Each content area consists of parameters. Each parameter and each content area are assigned weights, which determine their relative effect on the service quality metric. An external research firm performs the customer surveys for the bank, and provides a quarterly service snapshot of the various service channels. Service activities at Bank Hapoalim are centered on the following three elements: 1. The service philosophy, which sets a uniform standard for internal and external service processes; 2. Service performance measurement, which allows the bank to collect detailed information from its internal and external customers and use this information to improve service; Customer surveys at branches: 3. Lateral and vertical implementation of service processes based on uniform Tens of thousands of customers standards designed to realize the bank's service philosophy. who received service at the bank's branches were sampled in 2014; Service Philosophy service quality metrics at the As part of the construction of the bank's service strategy and commitment branches trended up during the year to improve customer service, an intra-organizational service philosophy was formulated. This effort involved the construction of processes for instilling the philosophy, creating infrastructure for management in this area, and Customer surveys at Mishkan promoting the formation of a supportive organizational culture. Internal service (Hapoalim Mortgages): Thousands is being absorbed into the annual work plans of the divisions of the bank, of customers who contact Mishkan on three main axes: organizational culture including the change in values, are sampled each year. approach, and organizational identity; processes and measurement – surveys, THE BEST INTERESTS OF THE CLIENT 60-61 Service Measurement Instilling Service Comprehensive, extensive measurement was carried out Employees and managers at the bank were provided with during 2014 in a variety of channels and points of contact practical tools during 2014, encompassing a range of methods 90% with customers: and channels, designed to instill an organizational culture ■ The service experience is measured based on various reflecting the bank's Service Compass: parameters customers are sampled regularly, on a daily ■ Hundreds of training days were conducted at branches; basis, at branches and in the different service channels, ■ Service metrics and service language were integrated into throughout the year; feedback research is broken down by branch routines; channel, line, and branch; ■ Service workshops were held at the Poalim Campus, for ■ Customers' feedback is routinely reflected to the branches various ranks of employees; each week, with the option to contact the customer again ■ Managers were trained to drive service and performance in order to learn and improve. 30% of sampled customers improvement processes and mentor employees; receive a telephone call from the branch manager, for ■ An observation and practice process was implemented, for continued learning and improvement; the purposes of learning and personal development; ■ Feedback studies are also performed based on the type of ■ Learning and improvement processes were implemented service and service channel used by customers of the bank, in the processing of customer inquiries; Direct channel incorporation of structural changes, job descriptions, process improvement, in order to continue to create customized value; ■ Training programs placed significant emphasis on the quality adaptation of metrics, and technology upgrades; and the business perspective – ■ An innovative new channel was launched this year allowing the of customized outreach to customers; customer surveys: integrating service into core activities, continually improving the quality of services bank to listen to customers' voices using surveys conducted ■ Outstanding employees in the area of service were periodically Thousands of ranked low on the intra-organizational service survey, initiating new services, and via text message, closely following the customer's visit to a rewarded. In order to support the process of instilling service customers who use regularly examining the mission and roles of each division as a direct function of branch. These surveys provide quick, immediate, individual values and emphasize the service aspect of everyday its contribution to the bank's customers and leadership. feedback on the service experience. Management teams at activities, the bank commends twenty branches for the direct channels The following main processes were carried out during 2014: the branch receive a daily summary of the feedback; outstanding service each quarter. The branches receive offered by the bank ■ Host Units This project, launched during 2014, is aimed at improving intra■ Platinum clients' satisfaction was also measured. appreciation certificates and a gift. are sampled each year. organizational service by deepening employees' familiarity with the various units at the head office and increasing internal dialogue. In the meetings, the host unit Over 90% of users of introduces the faces behind the names, as well as its business objectives, work Service Quality Metric Hapoalim Online the bank's website plans, and the nature of its daily work; ■ Israel Internal Service Forum The bank continued to lead the Internal Service 8.78 9.00 expressed satisfaction Forum in 2014. This activity included periodic meetings aimed at learning, with the service development, and advancement of internal service; production of a monthly 8.69 professional newsletter on internal service; and lectures at other organizations 8.75 on service, in which the bank's service philosophy was shared; ■ Guidance for the areas of the bank Each area of the bank is closely mentored to achieve improvement of the service it provides to its internal and external Q2 Q4 Q2 Q4 Q2 Q4 Q2 Q4 8.50 2011 2011 2012 2012 2013 2013 2014 2014 customers. In 2014, in addition to the routine mapping process at the areas of the bank, this guidance was extended beyond service improvement to focus on adaptation to structural changes and improving efficiency. THE BEST INTERESTS OF THE CLIENT 62-63 Responding to Inquiries and Requests The customer contact center oversees processing of incoming contact 14% (including complaints) from customers through all channels: Internet, fax, telephone, etc. All areas of the bank devote focus to processing complaints, with high alertness and awareness to accurate and appropriate response to complaints, promptly when they arise. The service philosophy of the customer contact center is transmitted to the employees of the bank through courses at the Poalim Campus, intra-organizational communication, and lessons learned in various formats. The service philosophy is based on the following elements: ■ The bank sees the inquiry as an opportunity to provide an appropriate response Complaints in the to the customer's needs and improve the customer's trust and satisfaction; ■ Inquiries are used as a means of monitoring the quality and professional branch network skill of customer service; ■ Inquiries serve as a sensor indicating customer expectations, enabling better The number of complaints preparation for the future; decreased by approximately ■ Inquiries present an opportunity to learn and draw conclusions for the 14% this year. With last improvement of performance on the business, service, and operational levels; year's decrease, the number ■ Centralized management of customer inquiries: prioritization according to of complaints has fallen by the type and severity of the inquiry, processing on a predefined schedule, 25% over the last two years monitoring through specialized software, and more. Distribution of complaints in the branch network by product, 2014 2 4% 25 16% approx. 10% Customer inquiries: The customer contact 5% 7% center processed approximately 25,000 3% 3% 3% 4% 4% inquiries in 2014 (the decisive majority were information queries, while a minority were Securities NIS Cash credit Mortgages Current Bank Checks/ Loans/ Current complaints). Complaints accounted for only deposits limits account/ cards checkbooks credit accounts 0.01% annually of the actions performed thousand foreign currency credit through the bank's various service channels 9% THE BEST INTERESTS OF THE CLIENT 64-65 Privacy and Information Security Bank Hapoalim accords high importance to information security, number of physical, administrative, and technological controls (such and invests extensive technological and human resources to as encryption, limited authorizations, monitoring tools, protective maintain the confidentiality and privacy of customers' information tools, and more) in order to protect all aspects of information, and of banking information on the Internet, through the use of highly including its confidentiality, completeness, and availability. The Percentage of justified complaints: advanced security methods and some of the strongest encryption information collected is in accordance with the requirements in Of the total number of complaints systems available. Information security complies with the directives the regulatory directives governing face-to-face and electronic recorded at the bank, only 9% were of the Bank of Israel and with the Protection of Privacy Law, 1981, contact with customers, as well as information required for found to be justified; in these cases, the and other laws, as relevant, in order to protect the informationcustomer verification when executing transactions via electronic bank apologized, remedied the error, technology system and minimize information security risks. This means. Information is retrieved by electronic applications, as area is managed at the bank by the information systems and required for the customer's business with the bank's systems. and compensated deserving customers cyber defense division, which reports to the head of information Most information is accessible to customers for viewing only, with technology. The information security department ensures that its the exception of specific instances of management of account Processing of inquiries – from localized staff, both internal and external employees, consists of the best beneficiaries, in transfers via the bank's website. resolution to organizational learning professionals with the knowledge, experience, and authority in During 2014, Bank Hapoalim became the first organization in Israel Organizational learning The customer contact the field of information security, and regularly conducts training, to be certified under the international cyber security standard center monitors complaints and inquiries with enrichment, and awareness programs. ISO 27032, in a complex certification process conducted by the systemic implications, such as recurring events at Information security in the bank's systems is maintained on bank's information technology area. The certification under the new various units and problems with organization wide several levels and circuits, in order to ensure that the bank's information-security standard is in addition to the older certification procedures or work processes. These inquiries are systems are properly protected from penetration, unauthorized under the leading information-security standard ISO 27001. presented to the appropriate professionals at the access, or harm. Information-related projects at the Bank are bank for study and potential improvement of the accompanied from their inception by an information-security Bank Hapoalim accords high importance to relevant procedures and processes. When an inquiry Percentage of justified requests team that ensures strict compliance with information-security information security, and invests extensive is classified as systemic, the process and progress Bank of Israel data rules, protection of the privacy of information, and the restriction of resolution are monitored via a formal procedure. of access to information to authorized personnel only. Security technological and human resources to maintain Event analyses of systemic inquiries appear in the 14.4% events in IT systems are referred in real time to an expert the confidentiality and privacy of customers' 2014 service zone on the organizational portal, in order to 15.4% center of information-security personnel, and addressed and information and of banking information on the assimilate the use of inquiries as a driver for learning documented from the initial stage of the event to its completion. Internet, through the use of highly advanced 27.3% at the branches. Service inquiries and events are 2013 22% Relevant events are also referred to the audit department. Material security methods and some of the strongest analyzed in branch staff meetings from time to time; incidents are reported to the board of management and the board encryption systems available 26.6% of directors. The bank routinely conducts resilience tests and 2012 21.4% Localized resolution Localized inquiries without information-security surveys of its systems, in order to ensure implications for the lateral activity of the bank are that information security is maintained at all times and complies Inquiries concerning privacy and confidentiality 23% handled appropriately through a shared process by 2011 26.1% with the strict rules established in this area. 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 the customer contact center and the source of the The bank continually works to enhance privacy, to the extent issue. For example at the end of the process, a letter 25.7% possible, including through regular surveys by neutral third parties Number of requests 92 77 78 30 18 2011 25.3% or report summarizing the resolution is sent to both the and case-by-case monitoring of each project and system. As a large customer who initiated the inquiry and to the branch. and complex organization, the bank maintains tens of thousands Number of justified requests 14 9 10 3 0 Bank Hapoalim Bank average The branch is also issued with recommendations for of databases, in different locations and technologies. Business improvement and instructions for action aimed at and/or technological actions are recorded and documented in Percentage of justified requests 15% 12% 13% 10% 0% The data are relative to the average of the five major banks in Israel avoiding similar incidents in the future. (Hapoalim, Leumi, Discount, FIBI, and Mizrahi-Tefahot). the organization's databases. The bank strictly maintains a large THE BEST INTERESTS OF THE CLIENT 66-67 Information about Banking Products and Services LOOKING AHEAD The bank is subject to laws that impose transparency and disclosure requirements concerning information to be delivered to customers on banking products and services. Bank Hapoalim strictly adheres to Customer survey via text message: A new measurement the directives, which apply to all products and channel will be introduced in 2015 in order to monitor services, through designated mechanisms customer satisfaction in the retail-banking network. Within half an hour of the end of the customer's interaction with a subject to controls and audits. Fundamental branch banker, a brief satisfaction survey will be sent to the principles underlying consumer-protection customer by text message; directives: disclosure duty (transparency) towards customers; protection of customer Organizational analysis: In 2015, the various service surveys rights to receive advice and service from will be cross-referenced with the organizational climate survey, in order to allow analysis from a broad perspective of all the bank. intra-organizational bottlenecks. This process will serve as a diagnostic tool in two key areas for managers: the satisfaction In this context, as a leading business of their internal customers, and the level of commitment of their organization in the Israeli economy, the bank employees to various aspects of service. The diagnosis will exercises caution in its advertising, marketing, enable managers to prioritize intra-organizational and external service processes in which their units need to improve; and sales promotion, and applies several levels of rigorous screening and controls. All Service incident investigation: As part of the continual messages published by the bank conform to process of learning and improving service, incidents related the law the first and most essential level. to service will be investigated, including in supportive areas of Examining Achievement of Objectives In addition, the bank consults with experts the bank. During the year, each area of the bank will focus on several significant negative service incidents in the value chain 2014 Objectives Status on the essence, content, and style of its and will draw conclusions based on a structured process. advertisements, according to the service or These lessons will subsequently be integrated into a work plan Host Units A project aimed at improving intra-organizational product and the target audience. The third or improved process. The conclusions in aggregate will also be service by deepening employees' familiarity with the various level consists of internal controls applied examined from a broad perspective by the service unit, in order units at the head office and increasing internal dialogue. Completed. to learn about applicable systemic improvements; by the bank's experts in this field, including further review of the preceding two stages. Israel Internal Service Forum Periodic meetings Service coaches: A team of service coaches for each area will for the development, study, and promotion of be established in 2015, as another intra-organizational tool for Compliance with Laws and Regulations ntra-organizational service. Completed. the improvement of service. The service coaches representing Concerning Marketing Communications each area of the bank were selected meticulously and received Guidance for the areas of the bank Each area of the bank No significant fines or nonmonetary sanctions relevant professional training in service. The service coaches is closely mentored to achieve improvement of the service it will be available to all units of the bank to give lectures and run were imposed on the bank for noncompliance provides to its internal and external customers. Completed. activities on service. with laws and regulations in the area of marketing during 2014. THE BEST INTERESTS OF THE CLIENT 68-69 Leading Financial Freedom Accessible Website in a Multi-Channel World The bank’s marketing site is accessible to users with disabilities. The website meets the Level II accessibility standard, Bank Hapoalim is dedicated to assisting its customers with the full range of complying with all requirements financial aspects of their lives. In view of this commitment, the bank offers its (approximately 99% of the pages within customers full availability and accessibility of banking information and financial the website are Level II accessible). The services, through a variety of service interfaces: an extensive network of branches goal is to enable people with motor and a range of direct channels available at any place and time. Activity in the disabilities affecting their hands, impaired various service channels is based on the bank's strategic philosophy of promoting vision, or cognitive disabilities, as well innovative banking services while examining and responding to customers' evolving as people who experience difficulty in needs, with an emphasis on an advanced customer experience. Beyond the using computers and the Internet, to advantages of convenience and time savings, these services also save travel and access the website comfortably and fuel, thereby preventing pollution. In 2014, the bank continued to lead the Israeli to gain the benefits of online banking, banking industry in direct services and channels meeting international standards. saving the inconvenience of visiting a branch. The new website, built with the assistance of an accessibility consulting Hapoalim Online firm and in collaboration with the Access The bank's website offers a comprehensive package of services for its customers. Israel foundation, is aimed at providing The financial freedom philosophy is the foundation for construction of these a response to the accessibility needs of services, which include extensive information and self-service options, designed people with disabilities. to provide customers with full control and prudent choices in their banking activity. Services are offered through a uniform, convenient, user-friendly interface, at www. Bank Hapoalim is dedicated bankhapoalim.co.il. The bank also offers a range of secondary sites tailored to to assisting its customers the needs of different customer groups: a site for private clients; a site for retail business clients and clients of the corporate banking area; an English-language with the full range of financial site for business clients; a mortgage site; an English-language international aspects of their lives. In view site designed for non-residents; a site for global private banking (BHI) clients in of this commitment, the English, Spanish, Russian, and French; a marketing site in Russian and Arabic bank offers its customers full for residents of Israel; and a site designed for the ultra-orthodox sector. availability and accessibility Bank Hapoalim’s Internet activity is based on the principle of customer advocacy. of banking information and Customer advocacy is part of an advanced philosophy centered on customers' financial services, through a needs and financial freedom, with the following foundations: variety of service interfaces: ■ Full transparency regarding the terms, prices, and properties of products and services; ■ Thinking from the customer’s perspective and offering solutions tailored to unique an extensive network of customer needs; branches and a range of ■ Granting customers complete, easy control in managing their financial activity on direct channels available at the bank’s website. any place and time THE BEST INTERESTS OF THE CLIENT 70-71 Hapoalim Online in 2014 Innovations in 2014 included the launch of the following services on the bank's website: information. The service is activated an immediate, easy, convenient procedure that does not require ■ Budget Management Tool The budget management tool on the bank's website through the bank's website, by simply guarantors or collateral, and does not necessitate a visit to a was upgraded in early 2014. The new, advanced version encourages customers entering the beneficiary's name and branch. The service is a leap forward in credit solutions available to manage their budgets using an innovative experienced-based interface, which mobile phone number. Customers can to business clients online, and can be used for investments in contains visual elements from the world of gamification. Half a million customers add a personal message or choose from the business, bridging cash-flow gaps, or private consumption. have already registered for the budget management tool, which they use to sort a selection of greetings on the website, and analyze all income and expenses in their accounts. In order to bring this tool suited for a range of different occasions. to a larger number of customers and make the user experience more enjoyable The certificate can be sent by e-mail or and intuitive, a game-based concept has been created, sparking curiosity and handed to the recipient in person. The LOOKING AHEAD increased involvement and motivation to use the application. recipient can deposit the certificate at ■ UP Card and UP Active The following services have been launched, in accordance any time and place through the Bank 1.2 with the approach of providing customers with tools for sensible financial conduct: Hapoalim website, even if he or she is ■ UP Card – A prepaid international card transferable to family members aged not a customer of the bank. Recipients 14 or over. The card can be recharged multiple times, and details of purchases select the Check by Click deposit As part of its leadership in online banking, in 2015 the bank will begin implementation of a large-scale project to build a Number of can be viewed on the Bank’s website. The card combines the advantages of a option on the website, and enter a code customers new website, on a new Internet platform. The Bank Hapoalim credit card with the ability to monitor and control expenses. received by text message, the code on website will serve as a smart financial partner for customers, active on the ■ UP Active – A service allowing customers to set automatic actions in their the certificate, the amount, and their guiding them in everyday decisions and in planning for the Million bank's website accounts for optimal financial management, such as automatic transfers from deposit details. future. Innovations on the new website will include: current accounts to savings, automatic coverage of negative balances using daily ■ Transition to Two Identifiers for A new home page, allowing each customer to focus on interest deposits, automatic orders of checkbooks, automatic transfers to third Account Log-In As part of the the content important to him or her; parties, reminders to make payments, and more. UP Active provides advanced upgrade of infrastructures for customer A variety of new displays, helping customers easily services to upgrade customers’ accounts, including an interface on the website identification, the process of logging in understand their financial position; allowing customers to update and customize the service according to their needs, to accounts on the bank's website has A personal profile summarizing all of the information receive information about new services, and view dynamic information on the been simplified, beginning in the last important for customers to remember: passwords, areas services they have chosen to activate in their accounts. quarter. Customers can now access of activity, registration for banking services, and more; ■ TipRanks A service on the bank’s website designed to help customers who their accounts by entering a user Reminders – payments waiting, arrival of checkbooks, Examining Achievement trade in foreign securities on stock exchanges in the United States make rational name and password only, without the loan status, etc; investment decisions. The service, based on a system developed by TipRanks, need to also enter their ID numbers. of Objectives Tasks – important tasks can be set up to help with provides information regarding analyst recommendations, as well as ratings of the The log-in process is quicker and account management, such as payment reminders, 2014 Objectives Status analysts according to the success of their forecasts as compared to the actual shorter, while still maintaining stringent scheduling appointments with bankers, and more; performance of the stocks that they cover. The launch of this system is another confidentiality of financial information In 2014, the bank will work New tools for smart money management; to increase lateral use of the step in the realization of the Bank Hapoalim strategy of providing its customers with and secure access. Call Me service (requests for Completed. The service advanced tools for financial management in all areas, including the capital market. ■ Instant Credit for Business on the The new website, built with the assistance of an accessibility assistance from a banker) in all has been expanded to the consulting firm and in collaboration with the Access Israel ■ Check by Click Check by Click allows Bank Hapoalim customers to give special Bank's Website Based on an of the digital platforms. mobile application and to foundation, is also aimed at providing a response to the gifts by transferring funds without using checks or cash. The service is essentially understanding of business clients' accessibility needs of people with disabilities. self-service stations. a virtual order to transfer funds from the customer's account to the beneficiary's needs, an option has been added for account, in an easy procedure that does not require the beneficiary's account instant credit via the bank's website, in THE BEST INTERESTS OF THE CLIENT 72-73 Bank Hapoalim is Hapoalim Mobile and Tablet the leader in digital In a dynamic competitive environment that shapes customers' expectations, Bank Hapoalim innovation, and is committed to offering its clients the most advance banking service, on every platform represents the cutting and through any channel they choose. The bank aspires to serve as the customer's smart edge in digital account financial partner and to offer added value in a wide range of financial and consumer arenas. management solutions The bank accords extremely high importance to products that can accompany customers continuously, and can be used at any time and place – primarily smartphones today, and in Israel. The bank offers other products and formats in the future. its customers the most Bank Hapoalim is the leader in digital innovation, and represents the cutting edge in digital extensive range of account management solutions in Israel. The bank offers its customers the most extensive mobile applications range of mobile applications applications that make life easier, for purposes such as account management; rapid trading on the capital market via smartphone and iPad; a digital wallet that saves valuable time; an application for managing business accounts from anywhere; and an application that allows customers to maintain sound financial conduct while traveling abroad. The bank's initiatives of recent years have made advanced technological solutions available to customers, helping them manage their accounts on the go using innovative applications that make financial management easier and simpler. Account Management Smartphone Application The bank continued to upgrade and expand its mobile account management application in 2014. The application offers a unique, personalized banking experience, and provides rich and varied information, as well as actions such as loan applications, deposits, check deposits, and more. Mobile services remain a key tool used by customers to monitor their accounts and plan ■ Poalim Wallet Application A package of services for payments, money transfers, and purchases via smartphone. The Poalim their personal financial behavior. Two new features have been launched within this application: Wallet services constitute an upgrade of the Mobile Wallet application offered by the bank in recent years. The application 650K ■ Quick Glance A new feature within the account management application, allowing expands the range of services and transforms the use of the mobile wallet into a consumer experience. The range of services customers direct access to the most important information – the balance in their account available through the application was expanded in the second quarter; innovations include: and expected expenses (to the bank’s knowledge) until the end of the month – quickly and ■ Transfers to smartphone contacts Money can be transferred to contacts without entering their bank-account details, using easily, without entering identifying information. When they register for the service, customers only the transferee’s mobile phone number. Recipients can deposit the funds in an account of their choice, via the application can choose to have their account balance and/or expected expenses in the account up to or the bank’s website; the end of the month, according to the information available to the bank, displayed when ■ Mobile ATM Cash transfers from the customer's account to the customer; the amount to withdraw and the preferred currency Number of customers they open the application. The service thereby provides customers genuine added value, denominations are selected in an interactive smartphone experience. Customers withdraw money from the ATM without using who use mobile services enabling them to prepare and plan their expenses. Customers can also choose to have a card, through a text message sent to any mobile phone; their balance displayed either as a specific amount or as positive or negative in general, ■ Scheduling appointments at branches via smartphone An exclusive feature that allows customers of the bank to and they can decide which accounts are displayed; schedule an appointment to receive service at the branch and to track their place in line. This service is being deployed ■ Month End Calculator Shows customers how much money will be available to them at gradually at branches where an appointment management system is in use; the end of the month, based on the data known to the bank (the current account balance, ■ Location-based CashBack benefits The service offers customers updates on sales and CashBack benefits in their vicinity; and future expenses and income known to the bank) as well as expense and income data ■ Foreign currency at the airport via mobile phone Foreign currency can be ordered directly via smartphone and picked up that customers can add on their own. The bank thereby strengthens its customers’ sense on the day of the flight at the Bank's counter at Ben Gurion Airport. Previously, this service was available via the bank's of awareness and control, as a partner in prudent, responsible financial behavior. website and call center, and at its branches; it can now be accessed via mobile as well. THE BEST INTERESTS OF THE CLIENT 74-75 610K Number of customers who use the bank's applications ■ Hapoalim Business application An application for the bank's business clients, allowing business accounts to be managed at any place and time. The application allows users to approve transactions awaiting signature, trade on the capital market, and receive extensive information about their business accounts. The application enables officers of companies and organizations to respond immediately to the everyday needs of their business even when they are not at the office or near a computer, making mobile devices a true work tool. Access is quick and simple, and does not require the USB physical “Outstanding Online Banking Website”: identification component needed to access accounts online. The bank won this title for the tenth ■ Capital market application The application allows trading orders to be transmitted easily and with great speed, the most important parameter in consecutive year, as well as the titles of trading; it also provides a wealth of capital-market information: graphs, up-to“Best Mobile Application in Online Banking” date information on indices and shares, decision-support tools and analyses and “Best Mobile Application in the Capital of market conditions, a display of the portfolio by investment segments, and Market,” in the prestigious Webi 2014 more, taking advantage of touch-screen capabilities. In 2012, the capitalcompetition market trading application was upgraded to add intuitive, convenient trading in foreign securities, along with extensive information from leading stock markets worldwide and new decision-support tools for investors, including “Champion of Champions”: The bank won smart graphs and comparisons of foreign securities and various indices. this award again in the Internet and mobile categories of the Webi 2014 competition, held by the People & Computers group LOOKING Excellence award: Bank Hapoalim won an award for “Excellence in Banking Services” ■ UP Overseas A unique smartphone application designed to help overseas travelers organize their expenses and maintain AHEAD in the Mobi Awards competition The bank reached the final round of the sensible financial management. The application can be downloaded free of charge by customers of all banks, and offers an The bank plans to launch another mobile feature designed to encourage savings in 2015. In order to encourage prudent financial EFMA competition in the categories of interface for travelers to create shopping lists, set a planned budget for their trip, and most importantly, document all of their conduct, the bank intends to offer this tool in response to customers' “Excellence in Customer Experience” and expenses during the trip in real time, including the time and location of the purchase and a picture. The application enables need to save even small amounts, including when the cost of living “Excellence in Distribution of Financial travelers to remain aware of their current status relative to the planned budget and the remaining amount they can spend until the is high. The application will make savings accessible to as many end of their trip, at any time. Customers of the bank can also obtain relevant financial services directly through the application, customers as possible, and will encourage customers to save small Products.” The bank also reached the final sums on the go, in a unique savings plan for the mobile app, without round of the Financial World Innovation such as purchasing foreign currency before the trip, picking it up at the airport, applying for a loan for the vacation, and more. logging in to their accounts. ■ HD iPad application An application offering Bank Hapoalim customers account management via iPad. The application provides Awards in the categories of “Everyday transparency with regard to the status of the account, and offers a wide range of available actions. Banking” and “Most Promising Idea. THE BEST INTERESTS OF THE CLIENT 76-77 Poalim by Telephone 2 Poalim by Telephone is a service channel offering a wide range of account transactions, including trading in Israeli and foreign securities, as well as support for the bank's website and mobile applications. The service is accessible around the clock, allowing all 700K customers, including those with disabilities, to receive professional service without visiting a branch. In order to offer customers comprehensive service, the authority of Poalim by Telephone bankers has been expanded, to enable them to provide solutions on Poalim by Telephone the spot during the call. A voice response system is number of active accounts available 24 hours a day for information and various transactions. Services offered through the voice response system include: ■ Poalim Voice An innovative service, the first of its kind in the Israeli banking system, allowing Poalim by Telephone callers to identify themselves and manage their accounts using voice only, without the need to memorize a password or key in digits. Customers can conduct a million simple, convenient, intuitive conversation with the bank, to receive extensive information or carry out account transactions, all through speech; ■ Callback This service makes it possible to hold the customer's place in line for the call center. Customers hear a recording offering the possibility of disconnecting the call while the system keeps their place, until the banker returns the call, thereby saving time for the Number of monthly calls at Poalim by customer; ■ Voice response in Arabic The Arabic-language voice system provides information to Arabic-speaking customers; Telephone Poalim Connect This service makes a personal banker at a contact center available to customers, in addition to their branch banker, who is familiar with their needs, serves as the contact person for all of the customer's requests, and can be reached during extended business hours. Customers can contact their personal banker through a range of different channels (e-mail, chat, text message, website, telephone). The personal banker also proactively initiates ongoing routine contact with the customer. Through Poalim Connect, the bank provides its customers with comprehensive solutions, combining the experience of personal service through the direct channels with continued service through a branch. This comprehensive response also relies on an advanced online interface, presenting all of the important information about the customer's account on a single, central, innovatively designed screen, adapted for laptops and tablets. THE BEST INTERESTS OF THE CLIENT 78-79 277 Network Deployment ■ Extensive automation and operations external to the branch Channeling on a comprehensive process of learning In 2014, the bank continued to manage resources to the improvement of customer service at the branches through an from customers about their needs and its branch network in accordance with the increase in the volume of transactions and services delivered via self-service expectations. The branch network sets following principles: stations, and through the transfer of technical operations that do not require a new standard for innovative, excellent, ■ Wide distribution and adaptation to the customer's presence to a central back office. proactive service, responsive to each needs The bank continues to develop business client's unique needs, and for its branch network in accordance Business branches Specialized branches have been established exclusively for the connection of all systems serving the with its customers' evolving needs. mid-sized and large business clients, as part of the Bank Hapoalim branch network, client. Another significant change was branches For example, Boutique Branches are forming another element of the service package provided by the bank's Corporate carried out at the business branches in designed to serve private-banking Banking Area. These branches provide a skilled, high-quality service experience across 2014, in which branch managers were customers. These branches are aimed at all aspects of routine banking activity, offering professional solutions and improving granted credit authority, so that customers the provision of consulting and privateresponse time and availability to customers. The service offering created by the bank at can be referred to them from the business in the most broadly-deployed banking services, with an emphasis these branches focuses on personal service customized to client needs, full availability centers to receive service. The branches nationwide network of the on comprehensive financial solutions including opening hours suited to business clients, professional service by experts, will handle all aspects of credit for the encompassing investment advice as and updates and initiatives for clients. The service package was constructed based business clients assigned to them. Israeli banking system well as a range of credit solutions and additional services. The branches offer extensive self-service solutions while Distribution of the branches of the bank, 2010-2014 stressing personal connections; 350 Branches ■ Expansion of branch distribution 5 5 Bank branches serve as an anchor and point of origin for all of the bank's services, in the Arab-Israeli sector Bank 300 4 and for all customers interested in face-to-face service. The branch channel offers Hapoalim is already the leading bank 21 6 14 22 customers of the bank 277 branches, in the most broadly deployed nationwide network in terms of its deployment of branches 6 of the Israeli banking system. Bank Hapoalim has branches throughout Israel, from city in this sector. In order to adapt to 10 22 11 centers to remote regions. Although most of the services provided by the branches future changes and demographic 15 22 are also available through other means of communication with the bank, the physical growth, and in order to continue to 17 20 15 encounter between the customer and the bank has a meaningful contribution, mainly offer its customers leading banking 17 14 250 in the following areas: services close to home, in the coming ■ The human dimension Fostering a relationship of trust between the banker years Bank Hapoalim will emphasize 200 and the customer, and allowing listening and support for the customer's needs further expansion of its reach in these 249 150 Central back oﬂices at the highest level; communities; 247 246 244 Business branches ■ Clarification of needs and addressing complex information and execution ■ Pension advising centers The bank 100 241 Boutique branches Meeting in person supports an orderly, in-depth discussion to understand the opened eight centers nationwide 50 customer's needs and present appropriate solutions, with the assistance of the providing pension advice in 2014, Hapaalim Express branches bank's information systems and experts; as part of the effort to strengthen 0 Traditional branches ■ Customer relationships Face-to-face meetings help nurture bonds with its customers' financial future. The 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 customers by maintaining the continuity of the relationship and improving the centers offer professional advice in As part of the process of expansion of the services offered to customers, Express Branches were converted into traditional level of service. the area of pensions; branches during 2013; these branches therefore appear in the traditional branches category and are not listed separately for 2013. THE BEST INTERESTS OF THE CLIENT 80-81 Promoting accessibility As part of its service philosophy and corporate social responsibility values, the bank sees accessibility for disabled persons as an essential issue and business obligation, and endeavors to fulfill every disabled customer's basic right to receive the full range of its services as independently as possible, 155 or with support, while maintaining their dignity. Disabilities may involve mobility, vision, hearing, cognition, or the weakening of various functions, as a result of old age or a permanent or temporary incapacitation. The bank has the duty to adapt and create specialized solutions for various types of needs and disabilities, and to customize services to ensure that customers with disabilities are served in an optimal manner, consistent with the service offered to the general public. This duty is grounded both in regulations and in the standards the bank has set beyond its regulatory obligation it applies to both physical and virtual service channels. accessible branches Over the years, the bank has continually and consistently worked on a systemic, integrated accessibilization process, including physical accessibilization of its buildings and branches, to customers as well as As of this writing, 155 branches employees; technological and virtual accessibilization; and adaptation of its service philosophy to are accessible and have earned customers with disabilities. This process has been conducted based on dialogue with the relevant the new Access Israel accessibility stakeholders and professionals, and with the guidance of the Access Israel foundation. The bank seal. Step Hear, Call Hear, and routinely reviews relevant legislation and advanced options available for accessibilization, and strives Inductive Loopset systems have for improvement and adaptation. been installed at these branches 56% As part of its service philosophy Accessibilization at Bank Hapoalim and corporate social responsibility Accessibilization of branches and buildings values, the bank sees accessibility The effort includes a thorough examination of all for disabled persons as an essential obstacles and barriers that customers with disabilities issue and business obligation, and of the bank's endeavors to fulfill every disabled face when entering the branch from the street and inside the branch, and finding solutions for smooth, buildings are now customer's basic right to receive the continuous movement and accessible service. This accessible full range of its services begins with wide reserved parking spaces, and continues with ramps to bridge height differences, wide entrances to the branch, sufficient space for Financing for Accessible Businesses movement inside the branch, appropriate signage, Regulations regarding the accessibility of businesses to people with disabilities that took effect a wheelchair-accessible service station, comfortable in 2014 require businesses, organizations, and property owners to promote the accessibility access to a desk, comfortable waiting seats with of buildings and stores. In view of the considerable costs of making buildings accessible, armrests and restrooms adapted for disabled persons, including for small businesses, the bank partnered with the Access Israel foundation in a and more. An accessible service station is available first-of-its-kind collaboration to offer loans with preferred terms to businesses. The loans can at each of the accessibilized branches, offering be used to help finance accessibility adjustments at the business (investment in devices and comprehensive service. These stations are staffed aids to enable access), and can be repaid over a period of up to five years, at an unlinked floating annual interest rate based on the Prime rate. This effort is another facet of the bank's by employees who can provide service to customers ongoing strategic drive to promote the small and mid-sized business sector. in the full range of the bank's products and services. THE BEST INTERESTS OF THE CLIENT 82-83 Virtual channels and interfaces Over time, the bank has worked to integrate and enhance technological innovations A page on the bank's portal aggregates in its service offering, to enable customers to receive the full range of its services and all of the information on accessibility 186 316 products, at any place and time: through the call centers, online via desktop computer, at the bank's buildings, as well as on smartphones of every kind, on tablets, etc., using convenient, advanced interfaces. basic guidelines for serving people Beyond the benefits to customers and to the environment due to savings on travel, time, with disabilities, information regarding paper consumption, this approach represents a leap forward in allowing customers accessibility of the bank's website, and Accessible buildings: Accessible ATMs: Accessibility tutorial: with disabilities to use banking services in the way they find most convenient. an explanation of ways of serving people As of this writing, the As of this writing, the bank A tutorial formulated at with various disabilities, such as visual, bank has a total of 186 has 316 accessible ATMs the bank helps users gain The variety of channels and technologies makes it possible to overcome limitations on hearing, or cognitive impairments, during accessible buildings at 248 of its branches, a better understanding mobility, hearing, or vision, making all of the bank's products and services accessible to routine operations. News and procedures (branches, business or a total of 87% of the of customers' needs disabled persons. However, accessibilization of service interfaces in these channels for related to the accessibility of buildings centers, administrative branches, and at 23 and provide adapted, some customers still presents a challenge, such as in the case of cognitive, visual, or and of service were communicated to buildings, etc.). A total Customer Courts. Step appropriate service. The auditory impairments (e.g. in a call to a call center representative), difficulties using the employees during 2014. of 56% of the bank's Hear systems have been tutorial is mandatory for mouse, keyboard, or touch screen and clearly identifying information on the screens. buildings are now installed in 215 ATMs in all employees of the bank The bank’s marketing site is accessible to users with disabilities. The website meets accessible branches of the bank the Level II accessibility standard, complying with all requirements (approximately 99% of the pages within the website are Level II accessible). The bank plans to The following devices are available at the ■ Call Hear: The system alerts a designated banker responsible for the branch's accessibilize its personal banking website as well. branches to facilitate service for customers accessible service station that a customer with a visual impairment or limited mobility with various disabilities: is at the entrance to the branch. When the customer pushes a button, prominently ■ Step Hear: devices are available at located at the entrance to the branch, an alert light blinks at the accessible service the branches to facilitate service for station, and the banker on duty comes to the entrance to open the door (if no Examining Achievement customers with visual impairments, security guard is stationed there) and provide all necessary services; LOOKING of Objectives AHEAD to help locate branch entrance doors ■ Inductive Loopset This system is designed to improve dialogue with customers and accessible ATMs. For example, who have auditory impairments, by neutralizing background noises and broadcasting 2014 Status the base unit of the system may be the banker's voice only, on a frequency received by hearing aids. The system makes Objectives installed in the doorframe at the branch it possible for a person with an auditory impairment to hear only the banker, through 65 additional branches are planned entrance. The system is based on radio his or her hearing aid, without superfluous background noise. to become accessible by the end 194 branches of the bank (including regional wave broadcasts, and customers with As of this writing, Step Hear and Call Hear devices are installed at all accessible of 2014, and the process of making Completed. administrations), or about 70% of the total, are visual impairments can wear a bracelet branches of the bank. The systems will be standard equipment for all branches that the bank's head-office buildings planned to be accessible by the end of 2015; accessible will continue. that serves as a remote control and qualify for the new accessibility seal, as well as at all branches that are renovated. will vibrate or beep within range of Inductive Loopsets are installed at all accessible stations at the branches. 234 buildings of the bank, or about 70% of the total, the base unit (several dozen meters). ■ ATMs accessible to customers with visual impairments The bank uses an are planned to be accessible by the end of 2015. Pressing a button on the bracelet integrated solution, in which customers with visual impairments can use an earpiece activates a voice message at the base connected to a socket on the ATM as well as the keyboard; customers can use the unit, serving as a compass point for ATM through voice commands, in addition to the keyboard buttons. Instructions the customer; are provided in four languages: Hebrew, English, Russian, and Arabic. THE BEST INTERESTS OF THE CLIENT 84-85 560 ATM distribution: The Envelope-free cash deposits: During the year, approximately 15 older ATMs were replaced bank has the most extensive with new ATMs allowing distribution of ATMs in the Israeli direct deposits of cash banking system, with 560 ATMs into accounts, without the 474 at the bank's branches and need to use an envelope 86 in Customer Courts Dan the Saver devices: One machine was added in 2014; the machine accepts deposits of coins, in addition to bills. These machines are located in shopping centers and city centers; they are designed to communicate with children, using clear instructions for making deposits. There are 18 machines in total Hapoalim Self Service Distribution of self-service devices Adaptation of Self-Service The self-service stations (ATMs), available throughout Israel, operate independently of branch opening hours and Stations for Additional Uses allow customers to execute a wide range of transactions at their convenience. Self-service stations save time, ATMs offer cash withdrawals, balance hassle, and resources, and enable the bank to provide better, more advanced service. Customers are increasingly 0 inquiries, cash and check deposits, using the self-service channels to perform transactions previously conducted through bankers. Starting in 2010, payments into certain deposits, and more, 453 478 482 474 funds can be deposited for third parties and into savings plans through these stations. 486 and are widely and extensively distributed 88 throughout Israel. The bank's relative 105 87 86 108 share of total ATMs in Israel is greater Self-service transactions as a percentage of total transactions 700 than its market share in the Israeli banking 528 574 605 sector. The addition of user interfaces in Cash withdrawals Checkdeposits Cash deposits 614 635 four languages Hebrew, Arabic, English, 0% 231 and Russian to the self service network 184 140 118 continued during 2014. 211 2014 1400 2010 2014 2011 2012 2013 2013 50% 60% 2012 67% 2011 100% 91% 2010 Adcan machines Check deposit machines ATM In Customer Courts ATM: In bank courts THE BEST INTERESTS OF THE CLIENT 86-87 Developing products The bank has set a strategic technological innovation in the energy industry; Creation of sustainable consumption patterns and consumer behavior in line with sustainability values; Water: management, objective of being a leader and services to transport, recovery, purification, and desalination; Rising of the challenging of in offering financing 6.66 producing and supplying food to a growing population while reducing wastage in solutions to its clients promote environmental the process, and more. Bank Hapoalim recognizes the strategic inevitability of the necessary change, and for projects that promote environmental concerns: sustainability the resulting opportunities. Action is therefore being taken on all levels of the activity, both internally and externally. In its outward-oriented activities, the bank is working to renewable energy (solar NIS Mankind is at a critical crossroads due to the ever-expanding gap between supply impart knowledge to its customers and offer tools for responsible financial planning thermal energy, photovoltaic billion energy, geothermal energy, and demand. Most environmental resources are being used faster than they can and management, in order to promote its customers' economic sustainability. In be renewed in nature, and meanwhile increased consumption of nonrenewable addition to its internal environmental efforts, the bank has set a strategic objective pumped energy storage, As of the end of 2014, resources (such as fossil fuels, metals, and more) is causing severe shortages. of being a leader in offering financing solutions to its clients for projects that promote cogeneration stations, wind In societal terms, the world's population is growing and developing, adopting environmental concerns: renewable energy (solar thermal energy, photovoltaic energy, the bank has granted wasteful consumption patterns, and creating an even greater strain on the existing geothermal energy, pumped energy storage, cogeneration stations, wind turbines, turbines, transition to natural credit in a cumulative resources. These and other trends call for a worldwide systemic change, based transition to natural gas etc.), energy efficiency, water, and more. Activity in these gas etc.), energy efficiency, water, and more amount of NIS 6.66 on several strategic activities: areas is conducted alongside traditional banking activity. The new activity follows the Development and implementation of resource-efficient business processes, accumulation of the necessary professional knowledge and an in-depth examination billion for environmental including in the areas of reuse and recycling; Emphasis on highly efficient product of goals and consequences. projects and products manufacturing processes; Incentivization and acceleration of groundbreaking ■ Promotion of the solar-energy industry in Israel Bank Hapoalim is committed the largest insurance companies and to promoting the new field of solar energy by taking a proactive approach, and pension funds in Israel. The institutional has become an active partner in providing momentum to this industry. The bank's financing was organized by the bank involvement in the promotion of the solar-energy industry is based on five key in collaboration with Clal Finance. The Segmentation elements: inter-sectoral partnership with the Electricity Authority and Israel Electric bank also finances the power station of credit for Corporation; intra-organizational evaluations of professional and comprehensive adjacent to the Sorek desalination plant, environmental 21.7% service to the range of clients in this sector; product quality assurance; dialogue a double-fuel station powered by natural Solar energy products with and support for the network of suppliers and installers; and raising public gas, with the capability for operation 9% 24.5% Thermosolar Power stations awareness of solar energy. The bank continues to offer financing solutions in the using diesel fuel; the station's capacity power fueled by gas 7.3% stations solar-energy field to all client segments, based on the arrangements published by is approximately 140 MW; Green the Electricity Authority; ■ Desalination The bank is a leader in building 6% ■ Power stations fueled by natural gas The bank organized the credit for the private financing for desalination plants, funding Water power station project Dorad, to the south of the city of Ashkelon. The station will approximately 80% of the desalination purification be powered by natural gas as a primary fuel, and will also have the capability to industry in Israel. The bank financed 2.9% Energ 27.2% operate using an alternative fuel (diesel). The station will supply about 800MW to the desalination project at Palmachim, y prod uction 0.7% Waste tr using wind Desalination the IEC and to major private consumers, accounting for a substantial percentage including its expansions; participated in e atment turbin facilitie es s of total power production capacity in Israel. The station began to operate at the financing for the desalination projects 0.5% Energy efficiency end of the first quarter of 2014. Bank Hapoalim led the senior debt funding for in Hadera and Sorek; and arranged 0.2% Biogas fueled power station the project, and organized a syndication for that purpose encompassing most of financing for a desalination project by the the commercial banks in Israel, as well as institutional investors including some of water corporation Mekorot in Ashdod. THE BEST INTERESTS OF THE CLIENT 88-89 The financing deal led by Bank Hapoalim and EIB was named the European Solar Deal of the Year by the prestigious international IJGlobal Project Finance & Infrastructure Journal Ashalim Thermosolar Project ■ Wind The bank is following the progress fuel derived from waste, used as a combustion material by the concrete manufacturer In 2014, the bank, together with EIB (European Investment Bank) and eight other 50,000 tracking mirrors to focus the rays of of regulation in the area of wind energy Nesher. The plant will process about 1,500 tons of household garbage daily – about half Israeli financial institutions, led a financing agreement for a total of NIS 2.35 billion the sun at the head of a 200-meter tower, in Israel. The bank is in negotiations with of the amount received at Hiriya. This quantity can be used to produce 500 tons of RDF to fund the construction of a thermosolar project using solar tower technology. The and harnessing the resulting heat to move leading entrepreneurs in this area for the per day. In order to achieve maximum recycling, mixed waste will be separated, using project is owned by the French company Alstom; Brightsource Industries (Israel), the a turbine that generates electricity. formulation of a financing package for advanced technologies, into organic waste and dry commercial waste; developer of the technology; and the Noy Infrastructure & Energy Investment Fund. The financing deal led by Bank Hapoalim wind-energy projects; ■ Water purification The bank provides financing to several operators of sewage purification The financing will serve the setup of the first thermosolar field in Israel, at Ashalim, in and EIB was named the European Solar ■ Green building The bank provides facilities; the water obtained is primarily used as treated wastewater in agriculture; the Negev region. The cost of setting up the field is estimated at NIS 2.9 billion. This Deal of the Year by the prestigious financing for several construction ■ Energy efficiency The bank participates in financing for several companies in the field is a BOT project, in the format of a franchise agreement with the state, encompassing international IJGlobal Project Finance projects based on green-building of energy efficiency. the planning, construction, and operation of a thermosolar power station based & Infrastructure Journal. The award principles throughout Israel; on solar tower technology, with an installed capacity of 121MW, equivalent to the was given to Bank Hapoalim and to ■ Waste treatment facilities The bank electricity consumption of a mid-sized Israeli city. The franchise covers a setup period the shareholders of the project (Noy provides financing for several companies LOOKING The bank intends to continue to of three years and an operational period of 25 years, during which the Israel Electric Infrastructure Fund, Alstom, and that operate facilities for responsible examine financing solutions in the AHEAD Corporation, with backing from the state, has committed to buying the station's Brightsource of Jerusalem) at an official waste treatment (sorting, separation, areas described above, including entire power output. ceremony held in London. During the and recycling). As part of this effort, a the transition of the Israeli economy The power station will be built at Ashalim in the Negev region of Israel, over an area competition, the journal examined a large waste screening and sorting facility and to the use of natural gas and financing for Israeli institutions and of 3.15 million square meters. Operation of the station is planned to begin in 2017, number of solar-energy project financing an RDF (refuse-derived fuel) production operators in this industry. supplying about 1% of total power consumption in the Israeli economy using unique, deals signed during 2014 in the EMEA plant have been set up at the Hiriya clean, environment-friendly technology by Brightsource. This method involves using (Europe, Middle East, and Africa) region. waste dump site. RDF is a green solid THE BEST INTERESTS OF THE CLIENT 90-91 Examining environmental risk management processes when financing major infrastructure projects. relationship managers). The bank's system for the management of environmental risks in financing is applied to all infrastructure projects and real-estate projects over ISO 2230, making it the first bank in Israel to obtain this certification. The certification risks in financing A prerequisite for specific financing of such projects is an examination of the project’s NIS 50 million, and to credit above NIS 200 million. This activity continued in 2014. followed comprehensive tests conducted by the Israel Standards Institute at the Business continuity Pursuant to the directives of the Supervisor of Banks regarding exposure to and impact on the environment. Clients are business continuity management unit, with management of environmental risks, Bank Hapoalim established a working committee required to prepare an environmental the full participation of all areas of the bank. to formulate recommendations regarding environmental risk management policies survey, which is examined for the bank In order to protect the bank's business continuity and survivability in the event of Concurrently with the improvement and and methodologies. The committee enlisted the assistance of external specialists by an external consultant. The consultant a disaster or malfunction, in accordance with the Bank of Israel's Directive 355, upgrade of its emergency preparedness in and examined existing methodologies at banks elsewhere in the world. ensures that the project complies with all Business Continuity, and Directive 357, Information Technology Management, the Israel, the business continuity plans of the of the requirements set forth in the permits bank maintains continual preparedness based on detailed action plans, working bank's subsidiaries in and outside Israel Methodology for Management of granted by government agencies. procedures, and periodic drills, as specified in the system of emergency procedures. and of its overseas branches have also Environmental Risks in Financing The bank's system of environmental The bank's business continuity management system was approved by the Israel Standards been adapted. In 2014, the bank complied The objective of the environmental risk management system is to identify, specify, and risk management in financing currently Institute, in 2014, as conforming with the requirements of the international standard with all of the requirements of the various manage environmental risks in its key areas of activity, based on a uniform, approved encompasses the organizational regulators with regard to emergencies in methodology, in accordance with the following principles: components necessary for efficient Israel during Operation Protective Edge, ■ Management of environmental risks from the perspective of the overall exposure and effective management in this area, and provided its full range of services. of the bank to each specific risk; including a policy formulated and The bank continually works to improve ■ Management of credit risks through assessment and management of the exposure approved at the level of the board of its emergency preparedness system, in to environmental risk in the corporate credit portfolio, assessment of environmental directors; organizational structure; a order to address deficiencies, including risk and its effect on credit risk in new credit applications that meet predefined model for the classification of the risks, physical flaws and issues with information criteria, and management and monitoring of exposure to environmental risk at the including control thresholds; procedures systems and human resources, resulting level of the overall credit portfolio and at the individual level; for transaction approval processes; and from various scenarios. ■ Management of market risks managing exposure to environmental risks in direct control systems. The bank has approved a investments by the bank (in the proprietary portfolio and in general); model for environmental risk management The bank's business continuity ■ Management of operational risks adapting operational systems to regulatory in financing. The model links the various changes on environmental matters. environmental risks, as defined by the management system was Supervisor of Banks, to the business approved by the Israel Standards Risk Management Method sectors to which the bank's clients belong. Institute, in 2014, as conforming of the Bank Group The model, which is based on equalization with the requirements of the Risk management at the bank is performed based on a global view of its activity principles, categorizes different sectors international standard ISO in Israel and of its branches abroad, with due attention to the activity of banking of economic activity by risk level (high, 2230, making it the first bank in subsidiaries. Risks are managed separately by each banking subsidiary in the group, intermediate, low). The bank is assisted by Israel to obtain this certification. according to policy formulated by each company’s board of directors and presented an environmental consultant, as necessary, The certification followed to the board of directors. Some risks are hedged during risk management. Financial to analyze environmental risks in specific and operational risk assessment and control are performed based on a uniform credit applications. comprehensive tests conducted methodology at the level of the group, with guidance from the risk management area, All of the relevant personnel of the bank by the Israel Standards Institute taking into consideration the unique characteristics of each subsidiary's activities. were given training in this area (a total of 100 at the business continuity Even before a general policy had been formulated, the bank began to apply environmental senior-level employees, including customer management unit Acting for the best interest of the costumers, while integrating social & environmental aspects Starting with innovative digital services, providing information and tools for And also in activities for promoting the development of various populations prudent ﬁnancial conduct as well as savings on paper and transport important for the Israeli society and economy 650K 1.2 500K 38 23 155 Collaborating with ﬁne-tech Extended innovative and start-up companies to strategic move for develop new ﬁnancial products promoting the customers million customers seniors sector customers in Israel, branches branches branches use mobile services active on the bank's website, which Use online budget including ﬁnancial located in towns and cities with operate in communities with and 316 ATMs accessible includes tools, information and management tool planning, unique Arabic-speaking populations large observant and for disabled people self-service options services and products, Expanding and suited service ultra-orthodox (Haredi) A multi-year program for accessing the and customers club populations bank's structures and services And as part of the work, it all starts at the basics: the best interest of the customer and excellent service Service Quality Metric Branches 8.69 Simultaneously, the Bank also promotes social and Q4 environmental aspects in its core business 8.06 2014 During 2014, Tens of thousands of customers Q2 of the costumers where surveyed throughout the year in branches and various channels, Strategic initiative for empowering small businesses Financing projects which 2009 for research and feedback promote environmental sustainability Personalized service in the widest Exposure through creating spread in Israel, including marketing arenas: Service Quality Metric Hapoalim Online NIS 29.3 billion 235 branches with business 37K 7,000 businesses businesses NIS 6.6 billion in credit, for promoting energy from 8.69 8.78 Q4 2014 14% decrease in costumers in credit for the small expert banker, designated participated in Small members of CashBack Club renewable resources, energy complaints in branches this business sector, including website and apps for Business Day Poalim business club Q2 eﬃciency, desalination, green building, year, adding to an 11% designated funds and beneﬁts business with added value 2011 transition to gas usage, and more decrease last year, together about 25% in two years. EMPOWERING SOCIETY AND THE COMMUNITY 94-95 EMPOWERING SOCIETY AND THE COMMUNITY EMPOWERING SOCIETY AND THE COMMUNITY 96-97 Influencing the State and Society of Israel As Israel’s largest bank, Bank Hapoalim is a powerful economic institution with a strong influence on Israel’s economy and society. This section of the report reviews the broad economic impact of Bank Hapoalim, and describes its added value and its extensive efforts devoted to promoting Israeli society and communities. The economic impact of the bank reaches beyond its direct positive value, which is primarily aimed at its shareholders and investors; it also takes the form of taxes, local procurement, and employment. In addition to its routine business, the bank considers itself an integral part of the community, and is committed to advancing and empowering the community. The practical expression of this philosophy is the bank’s community investments, on a number of dimensions: a range of community activities, based on dialogue and collaborations with organizations in every sector of society; continual volunteering by employees of the bank; and donations and sponsorships. Through all of these activities, the bank expands its sphere of influence and promotes social and environmental values in society and in the community. 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Profit from financing activities* 7,496 7,884 8,415 8,423 8,684 Total income (financing profit 12,827 13,083 13,637 13,664 14,022 + operating income) Operating costs 8,333 8,410 8,886 9,024 9,140 Wages and related expenses 4,709 4,847 5,130 5,434 5,300 Donations and investments in 44 47 48 46 47 the community Shareholders’ equity 22,406** 23,662** 26,561 28,834 31,361 Dividends paid to shareholders 270 276 448 of the bank The economic impact of the bank reaches beyond its Interest to debt or bond holders 1,627*** 1,956*** 1,925 2,065 1,361 direct positive value, which is primarily aimed at its Provision for taxes (tax benefit) on operating profit 1,328 792 1,230 1,271 1,729 shareholders and investors; it also takes the form of Provision for doubtful debts 1,030 1,202 987 874 425 taxes, local procurement, and employment. In addition * Restated due to retrospective implementation of guidelines of the Supervisor of Banks concerning capitalization of software costs9. to its routine business, the bank is committed to ** Restated due to the initial implementation of International Accounting Standard 12, Income Taxes. *** Reclassified due to the initial implementation of the directives of the Supervisor of Banks concerning the format for statements of profit and loss of advancing and empowering the community banking corporations. 9. G4-22 EMPOWERING SOCIETY AND THE COMMUNITY 98-99 Economic Impacts 98% The direct economic impacts of the bank are reflected in its annual earnings, as well as in its contribution to the national economy through taxes, local procurement, Recruitment procedures are identical for all branches. Consequently, the bank employs Approx. Responsible Supplyemployment, and community donations. The following table presents key data regarding the bank’s financial performance and the added value it generates (based on the bank’s an equal proportion of residents of peripheral and central regions. Chain Management consolidated financial statements, in millions of NIS) Bank Hapoalim operates two call centers Profile of the Bank’s Supply Chain The following table describes the financial added value of the bank, which includes and a central back office, which provide The operational activity of Bank Hapoalim, as a banking organization, is based on a supply chain that consists of a pool of suppliers of goods and services, gross wages (including related items), taxes, earnings, and more (in millions of NIS). This approximately 1,500 jobs. One of the call comprising thousands of companies in the areas of logistics, technology, and value reflects the bank’s contribution to the Israeli economy, as a large organization in centers is located in central Israel, at the of the bank’s procurement consulting. Contractual engagements were executed with approximately 1,700 economic interaction with many stakeholders (employees, suppliers, the community, industrial zone in the Azor Regional Council, is from suppliers who suppliers from this pool during 2014. The bank's supplier pool contains suppliers of government agencies, etc). Bank Hapoalim pays state and municipal taxes, and receives and the other, for reasons including social varying sizes (large, mid-sized, small, and micro businesses), operating throughout no financial assistance or support from the state. responsibility considerations, is in the northern are located in Israel and Israel and in additional countries. Approximately 98% of procurement at Bank town of Nesher. The central back office (Matab) employ workers there Hapoalim is from suppliers who are located in Israel and employ workers here. A Nationwide Employer is located outside Tel Aviv, in the Beit Dagan Bank Hapoalim maintains a network of 277 branches (as of the end of 2014), distributed area. The central back office in Beit Dagan also throughout Israel. About 20% of the branches are located in National Priority Areas, operates through regional offices throughout and approximately 40% of the branches are outside the Gedera-to-Hadera central Israel, located in Beer Sheba, Nesher, Givat region. Branch employees and managers usually reside in the vicinity of the branch. Olga, Hatzor Haglilit, and Jerusalem. Economic value of the Bank Hapoalim Group, in NIS millions Breakdown 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Economic value Total income (including 12,827 13,088 13,637 13,664 14,022 created by the group extraordinary income) Economic value Operating and other expenses 7,654 7,735 8,174 8,350 8,502 Distributed to (including municipal tax; stakeholders by the excluding depreciation)* group (operating Wages and related expenses 4,709 4,847 5,130 5,434 5,300 and other expenses (within operating and other expenses)* plus provisions for taxesand dividends) Donations and sponsorships 44 47 48 46 47 (within operating and other expenses) Provision for taxes (tax benefit)* 1,328 792 1,230 1,271 1,729 Dividends declared* 0 270 276 448 Total* 8,982 8,527 9,404 9,621 10,231 Economic value Difference between the group’s income 3,845 4,556 4,233 4,043 3,791 retained and its operating and other expenses, provisions for taxes, and dividends *Restated due to retrospective implementation of guidelines of the Supervisor of Banks concerning capitalization of software costs. EMPOWERING SOCIETY AND THE COMMUNITY 100-101 Breakdown of Bank Hapoalim procurement in 2014 (financial expenditure) Responsible Procurement As part of a As part of a comprehensive philosophy of corporate responsibility, the bank is in comprehensive advanced stages of implementation of a formalized plan for embedding corporate philosophy 30% responsibility within purchasing operations. The goal of this plan is to expand the Technology and 18% perception of third-party risk management in allocating the bank's resources; to of corporate responsibility, Human resources, communications professional services, communicate the bank's corporate responsibility philosophy to its suppliers; and the bank is in and consulting to encourage suppliers to adopt norms for responsible conduct in the areas of fair 11% Other and equitable employment, fair business practices, protection of the environment, advanced stages of 30% and promotion of opportunities in the area of green purchasing. The plan is implementation of a based on an in-depth analysis of the procurement patterns and characteristics Construction,real estate, and maintenance of buildings 7% of suppliers of the bank, and is being implemented according to the responsible formalized plan for and properties ,s h ip p in g ,a n d s e c u re d e li ve ry procurement policy. embedding corporate rt a ti o n responsibility o Tra n s p Office supplies,prindng,and mailing 4% This policy establishes the following principles and guidelines for the management within purchasing of supplier relationships: operations The five main categories in the bank's supply In addition to these five categories, additional purchasing groups are aggregated chain, which in aggregate account for 89% under the category others, such as advertising and sales promotion, information Promotion Transparency Mitigation and Fairness and Nurturing Partnership Dialogue and of its total annual procurement, are: services, professional literature, and more. Procurement in each of the additional of small and prevention of protection of long-term and creation of groups does not exceed 4% of the total purchasing volume. peripherally environmental human rights relationships reciprocity shared value 1. Construction, real estate, and maintenance located damage businesses of buildings and properties; Procurement at Bank Hapoalim is managed by the corporate procurement 2. Projects, acquisition, and maintenance unit, which serves as the integrative administrator of all procurement activities The implementation of the policy was adapted to the customary practice at the bank in contractual engagements and to of technological and telecommunication and manages interfaces with the bank’s supply chain. The process is defined, the nature of the different suppliers: infrastructures; uniform, and orderly; clear parameters are established to examine the quality of 3. Human resources, professional services, the purchased items; separation of authority is practiced in the critical stages and consulting; of the procurement process (such as establishing demand, selecting suppliers, Responsible procurement policy 4. Transportation, shipping, and secure and payment); authorizations are set up on the bank’s information systems; and Mandatory Voluntary deliveries; information and decisions in each stage of the process are documented on these Mandatory criteria adapted Mandatory criteria for all Preference criteria (additional quality 5. Office necessities, printing, and mailing. systems. All of these practices are aimed at improving the efficiency and quality to the unique nature of each suppliers (required norms of parameters) used to evaluate bids in of procurement management, allowing control and conclusions, and preventing procurement category responsible conduct) significant contracts conflicts of interest. EMPOWERING SOCIETY AND THE COMMUNITY 102-103 Implementation Process and Main Activities in 2014-2013 Precedence criteria The basic rules 11. A corporate responsibility appendix and a questionnaire for the evaluation of During 2013, binding requirements bidders' corporate responsibility performance were formulated. of conduct were distributed to and criteria for granting precedence to suppliers were formulated, with the 22. A matrix was prepared for factoring corporate responsibility performance into aim of including these requirements general evaluations of bidders. A decision regarding the method of integrating 1,700 suppliers of the bank during and criteria in contracts with suppliers these factors with the bidder selection process will be made after examination and in bid procedures. As part of this of the results of a pilot project in this area. process, a list of general requirements 2014, as part of the applicable to all suppliers was formulated, as well as a list of adapted requirements Basic Rules for Suppliers' Conduct distribution of the applicable to some suppliers, according In 2013, the bank formulated basic rules for the conduct of suppliers in contractual terms of contractual engagements with the bank. The rules are based on the values in the bank's vision and to the nature of their activity. The list is based on the existing language in the on norms detailed in the bank's ethical code of conduct. The basic rules are designed engagements contracts, in addition to a new version, in to clearly and simply elucidate the bank's expectations with regard to the conduct of accordance with the policy of the bank. the suppliers with which it has working relationships. The basic rules of conduct were In constructing the list, the trends in this distributed to 1,700 suppliers of the bank during 2014, as part of the distribution of the area in the international banking sector terms of contractual engagements. Further, beginning in 2014, the rules have been and developments in Israel were taken into consideration. New legislation and enclosed with every contract of the bank and are proactively distributed to the entire future regulatory trends were also a factor. group of suppliers from time to time. During 2014, the bank worked to instill responsible procurement in the following Promoting Small Businesses in the Supply Chain ways: Bank Hapoalim recognizes the importance of small businesses to the progress of the Israeli economy, and promotes these businesses in its procurement processes. The Mandatory requirements bank engages small suppliers when possible, in view of its size and nationwide reach. In 11. General and adapted requirements practice, more than 20% of the bank's procurement is from small and micro-businesses; gradually began to be included in new contracts with suppliers of the bank. they constitute approximately 70% of all of the suppliers engaged by the bank in 2014. 22. Concurrently, updates of responsible procurement requirements in Breakdown of Procurement extent (by size of business) the bank's existing contractual engagements began. 33. In order to coordinate expectations with suppliers in advance, prior to engagement, a corporate responsibility appendix was formulated, covering all of the requirements in this area. In the next step of implementation, this appendix will be attached to bid specification documents and 79% 14% 7% distributed to suppliers as part of the routine work process, during the price bid stage. Large Small Micro EMPOWERING SOCIETY ‫הליהקהו הרבחה תמצעה‬ AND THE COMMUNITY 104-105 Breakdown of the bank's suppliers (by size of business) Micro Large Small 30% 31% 39% 70% During 2014, the Green Procurement In 2014, as in previous years, the bank continued to examine alternatives for bank built up a environmental procurement of products such as envelopes, wood-free paper, doublepool of Socially sided printers, recycled toner cartridges made in Israel, LED lights, etc. Conscious suppliers who organize Empowerment of Socially Conscious Suppliers During 2014, the bank built up a pool of suppliers who organize activity days to activity days to promote team spirit, for various units of the bank. This list mainly consists of small promote team spirit, businesses from central and northern Israel whose activity embodies social values for various units and content, such as employment of at-risk youth, assistance to people in need, of the bank integration of people with disabilities, and more. When possible, the bank also grants precedence to socially conscious suppliers in procurement gift baskets and flower bouquets for its employees and clients. Support for Suppliers from Southern Israel during Operation Protective Edge Small During Operation Protective Edge, the bank rechanneled budgets in the amount of approximately half a million NIS to suppliers in the southern region of Israel, in order to help them during this time of crisis. Within this process, occasional suppliers (not of the bank's necessarily regular suppliers of the bank) were located by branches in the southern suppliers are Suppliers region, for purchases of food, office supplies, and flowers. small or microbusinesses EMPOWERING SOCIETY AND THE COMMUNITY 106-107 responsible for ensuring the protection of the employees' rights and response to their inquiries during their employment on bank premises. As part of its efforts in this area, the bank collaborates with Hilan, which 73 monitors the terms of payment by suppliers to their employees. During 2014, controls were applied by Hilan at all of the employment contractor companies engaged by the bank (eleven suppliers). The number of suppliers undergoing this process decreased in comparison to 2013, but the volume of the control process carried out by Hilan (the number of pay stubs examined) remained identical, and is in compliance with the law. Ethical Code for External Contractor Employees Within the process of instilling social responsibility, the bank formulated an ethical code adapted for external contractor employees who work on its premises in the areas of security, cafeteria services, and cleaning. The content of the code is communicated to all contractor employees employed at the bank's facilities. Enquiries As part of the process of implementing Protecting the Rights of These employees receive and read the code, and sign the code document. The bank receives a report of the completion of this process from the company of external contractor employees were corporate social Contractor Employees employing the workers, signed by the general manager of the company. The processed using the responsibility, the content of the code is distributed in Hebrew, Russian, Arabic, and Amharic. bank created an Working on the Premises As of 2011, all new and existing suppliers are required to communicate the content of the new code, annually, to every employee they assign to the bank. Human Resources Division system during 2014. ethical code, in collaboration with of the Bank its contractors, for To supply its needs, the bank enters into agreements with various contractors for the provision of Examining Achievement supervised contractor LOOKING security, cleaning, and cafeteria services, through employees of the contractor who are assigned of Objectives employees working in to the bank. In order to ensure the protection of these workers’ rights, the agreements between AHEAD the areas of security, the bank and the contractors stipulate the obligation of the contractors to provide the following 2014 Objectives Status the cafeteria, and to their employees, among other matters: minimum wage, and all other rights granted to workers in Israel under the labor laws; social benefits; prevention of harmful employee turnover, and due cleaning in the bank. A process of integrating disclosure of their rights. This infrastructure was created in order to prevent harmful employment, The process of integrating mandatory requirements into additional requirements The content of the Completed and has been in place at the bank for years as part of its CSR approach. contracts with the bank's suppliers will continue in 2015; into all of the bank's code is distributed contracts with its in Hebrew, Russian, In 2012, with the implementation of the Law for Increased Enforcement of Labor Laws, 2011, A pilot project for the integration of voluntary criteria in a suppliers, according to the supplier's activity and Arabic, and Amharic based on the existing processes at the bank, the infrastructure was adjusted to the provisions significant RFP will be completed during 2015. After drawing conclusions and examining the implementation of the process the criteria formulated, of the law, which took effect in June 2012 (The supervision process took place even prior to in this RFP, a decision will be made regarding the method of will begin in 2014. the low taking effect, and is conducted today in accordance to the low). This move included laterally integrating these criteria into RFPs. updates of the bank's procurement contracts, the establishment of a system for inquiries by contractor employees at the bank's human resources division, and the appointment of a supervisor EMPOWERING SOCIETY AND THE COMMUNITY 108-109 850 Expansion of the Bank's Sphere of Influence in Israeli Society In its efforts to promote sustainability and CSR values, the bank works to expand its sphere Thousand of influence to Israeli society and the public arena by implementing social and environmental values in ever-widening circles. The bank is guided by two essential principles: dialogue, residents and the creation of shared value. The bank conducts dialogue with stakeholders in order to The program is now understand their needs, provide accurate and appropriate solutions, and optimize its activity, available to a total with the aim of influencing a wide variety of population groups within Israeli society and contributing to the public good. Based on this dialogue, the bank has initiated a broad range of 850,000 residents of programs and projects, with inter-sector collaboration, to promote various causes in Israeli society and create shared value for the bank and for stakeholders in the social, environmental, and economical spheres. Selected initiatives of the bank in 2014 are described below. Implementation of the Program Promoting Green Campuses In early 2012, 20 receptacles were placed in Holon, with the Within the drive to expand its environmental and social In its efforts to promote sustainability and CSR values, the bank full cooperation of the mayor and his leading team; the launch impact to the general public in Israel, the bank is conducting works to expand its sphere of influence to Israeli society and the process began. During the subsequent months, conclusions a joint effort with a range of academic institutions to promote were drawn for the expansion of the program to additional towns. activities that generate shared environmental and social public arena by implementing social and environmental values During the same year, in view of the program's success, it was value. This initiative is based on the principle of dialogue in ever-widening circles. The bank is guided by two essential expanded to the towns of Ashdod, Rishon Lezion, Rehovot, with stakeholders, in which the bank maintains ongoing principles: dialogue, and the creation of shared value Yavneh, and Shoham. In 2013, the program expanded to the relationships with various academic institutions in the areas town of Nes Tziona, and additional receptacles were placed of corporate responsibility and sustainability. The Social-Environmental-Economical Project in the participating towns. The program is available to a total of 850,000 residents, through 130 receptacles in their towns. In a collaboration aimed at instilling recycling habits in for Collection and Recycling of Electronic Waste students and employees at these institutions, various with Employment of Persons with Disabilities During 2014, as part of the ongoing implementation process of recycling facilities were placed in campus buildings and the program, the bank introduced educational environmental courtyards at several academic institutions (the College Bank Hapoalim initiated a pioneering social program for systemic treatment activities, in collaboration with the town of Holon, at the town's of Management, Bar Ilan University), providing solutions of the collection and recycling of electronic waste, metals, and appliances, in elementary and high schools. The goal of this effort is to promote for collection and recycling of beverage bottles and cans; collaboration with municipalities throughout Israel. The program includes design a change in habits and to raise awareness of waste collection paper recycling in offices, using individual receptacles; and and development of collection receptacles made in Israel and supplied by the bank and recycling. Activities included an electronic waste collection collection of electronic waste, metal, appliances, fluorescent to the municipalities; placement of the receptacles in city centers; organization contest between schools, accompanied by preparation and bulbs, and used clothes. The bank financed the installation of collection and recycling processes, and publicizing the program to residents. knowledge provided to students and parents. Relevant lesson of the receptacles and consulted on a comprehensive Collection from the receptacles and disassembly of the waste are carried out by plans were also provided in advance of the competition. The solution for waste recycling, which encompassed academic Ecommunity, which employs disabled workers. The bank thereby creates shared project was advertised at the schools, on the Internet, and in knowledge, operational knowledge, communications and value and responds to both an environmental and social needs. the local press. The competition ended on Earth Day. advertising, etc. The activity was publicized through the EMPOWERING SOCIETY AND THE COMMUNITY 110-111 various media channels of the academic The bank also donated recycling receptacles to the Ramat Hadassah Youth institutions, including social media. The Village school, as part of an educational process aimed at achieving a recycling receptacles designed by the bank greener village. The village is home to 300 adolescents who come from were installed for use by students, staff, and disadvantaged families. The northern region administration of the bank has visitors at the schools; they are available to adopted the youth village for the last three years. In appreciation for the 50,000 potential recyclers in this environment. bank, the management of the village held a green conference, to introduce the recycling receptacles and raise students' environmental awareness. In 2014, the bank promoted the installation of solar-powered charging stations in public Promoting Social and Environmental spaces on campus, allowing twelve mobile Issues in the Galilee phones of various types to be charged Within the effort to expand its impact, the bank supports the hovercraft simultaneously using energy derived from project run by Moona – A Space for Change, a social organization operating solar panels. Benches were set up next to the in the Majd Al-Krum area in cooperation with the local council. In this charging stations, which are located in central project, Arab-Israeli and Jewish youth work together to develop and operate areas where students congregate during the hovercraft used to discover environmental problems or hazards from the day. The stations provide a response to the air, in various parts of the Galilee region, thereby helping to address these familiar need to charge the batteries of mobile issues and minimize their negative effect on the environment. Moona, devices and offer a service to students, while through this project, promotes technological initiative and innovation, also promoting an environmental message (use equal opportunities for the population of the Galilee, and environmental of the solar panel), a technological message, and social values. and a place for students to meet. Promoting Diverse Employment These stations are part of the ongoing The Poalim Campus hosted a course for organizations working in the area collaboration of the bank with the Corporate of employment of people with disabilities. The Ze Oved Coalition consists Responsibility Center at the College of of commercial firms, including Bank Hapoalim, non-profit organizations, Management. The project was carried out and government agencies, working to promote the inclusion of workers with a team of students from the college, with disabilities in the private market. As part of the bank's participation and culminated in a prototype currently in the coalition, in 2014 the Poalim Campus hosted a second course on manufactured at the Segev factory in Yavneh. the development of employer relationships, for staffing coordinators at In the first stage, two stations will be placed employment organizations working with people with disabilities. The course at the College of Management campus. Later, provides practical tools for dialogue with the business world, such as sales eleven additional stations will be installed at skills, identification of the strengths of the target audience, communicating university campuses, and in a public space in a marketing message, customer retention, and more, as well as content the town of Holon. This is part of the effort to from the bank in the area of sales, service, and presentation. 30 staffing promote an environmental and social agenda in coordinators participated in the course, from employment organizations Israel, while also providing a necessary service throughout Israel, including Bayit Cham, Shmaya, AKIM, Slav and Sons, in response to the problem of mobile-phone Shekulo Tov, Enosh, and Beit Ekstein. The course was moderated by the battery charging. Poalim Campus, in cooperation with Tevet-Joint Israel EMPOWERING SOCIETY AND THE COMMUNITY 112-113 Poalim for the community Cumulative donation of 456M NIS Monetary and Bank Hapoalim Committed through Our Strategy and Vision 2004-2014 Equivalent Community exercises its 47 Investments As part of the Bank Hapoalim Group’s vision, strategy, and corporate values, the bank is 46 456 community committed to an active, leading role in the community, alongside its business leadership and 48 409 Assistance to the numerous 47 363 involvement economic initiatives. This involvement is implemented through Poalim for the Community 44 organizations supported by the bank 268 315 through nationwide (Registered Non-Profit Organization), as part of an advanced managerial approach. The 224 is delivered through the Poalim for projects, including bank holds that an organization that operates within the community and draws both its the Community Forum (there is no projects targeted employees and customers from within it should take a leading role in the advancement donations of other units at the bank). to geographic, and improvement of conditions for all members of the community, especially those who 20022010 2011 2012 2013 2014 The Forum, which consists of senior are underprivileged. In the spirit of this business philosophy, the bank conducts a varied 2009 executives of the bank, manages all economic, and and extensive range of community-oriented activities in the form of social involvement, of the bank's donations according to social peripheries, monetary donations, and large-scale volunteer activities with the participation of both Cumulative donation Annual donation criteria established in the policy of the with expert management and employees. Community activity is an important factor in developing Poalim for the Community Foundation assistance in the employee pride and cohesion. As noted, the bank’s community-oriented activity is (Registered Non-Profit Organization). As understanding of organized within the Poalim for the Community foundation. Mrs. Shelly Amir, head of Creating Strategic Partnerships in previous years, the foundation made community needs community relations at the bank, is responsible for this activity. Bank Hapoalim exercises its community involvement through nationwide projects, contributions in many different areas in including projects targeted to geographic, economic, and social peripheries, with 2014, including education in general, expert assistance in the understanding of community needs. These projects and financial education in particular; NIS 47 strive to realize the underlying philosophy of the principles of social community culture and the arts; welfare and health development. The distinction between aid and socio-community development care; and other social causes. The bank is an important one; such development is based on the following principles: does not donate money or equivalents ■ Focus on a core issue closely related to the bank's essence and essential to to political parties, politicians, or political Israeli society; institutions. Bank Hapoalim’s investment ■ Long-term projects, rather than temporary action; in the community amounted to NIS 47 ■ Measuring the project according to effectiveness in attaining its objectives, million in 2014. with conclusions drawn and implemented throughout the course of the project; 456 ■ Strategic partnerships with additional parts of the community, including Cumulative donation million professional partners, rather than stand-alone projects. The bank maintains strategic partnerships with a range of leading community Bank Hapoalim’s investment organizations. These include collaborations with the ORT network of science and in the community in 2014 technology schools, museums, the National Parks Authority, the Israel Association of Community Centers, the Batsheva Dance Company, the Israel Philharmonic Orchestra, the Israel AIDS Task Force. The bank also collaborates with a large number of nonprofit organizations on unique projects in their respective fields. Notable organizations million NIS include Hayim, Etgarim (Challenge), Paamonim, Latet Israeli Humanitarian Aid, from 2004 to 2014 Beit Issie Shapiro, ELEM Youth in Distress in Israel, Beterem Safe Kids Israel, The Council for a Beautiful Israel, and Be-Atzmi – Employment for Youth at Risk. EMPOWERING SOCIETY AND THE COMMUNITY 114-115 Breakdown of Bank Hapoalim donations budget, 2014 essential welfare or health-care problems (such as assistance to distressed and 24.5% disadvantaged population groups), Community which contribute to society by offering 50% 17.5% a venue for appropriate treatment of the Education Health care and welfare problems they have chosen to address; and organizations that promote culture and the arts, and would find it difficult to Culture and arts 8% exist without support. The survey found that organizations in this group primarily Results of Community Investments in 2014 measure outcomes, which serve as the As part of its investment in the community, the bank has updated its examination key metric for examining the results of of the non-profit organizations that receive its support and its mapping of these their activities. foundations. The review covered the organizations’ areas of activity, goals, target ■ Approximately 80% of the foundations populations, methods, and outcomes (outputs and effectiveness). The purpose of surveyed earmarked the bank's this process is to obtain an understanding of the bank’s current influence in Israeli contribution for specific projects or society and in the community, and to create a measurement infrastructure to assist programs within their activities; with routine management in this area and support informed decisions regarding the ■ Of the activities and projects bank’s overall investment in the community. The process was conducted through surveyed, approximately 65% are surveys and dialogue with the organizations, and involved the major organizations, targeted specifically to participants in which account for about 60% of the bank’s annual community investment. geographical and social peripheries Donations of Computers Main conclusions of the review: (foundations in which %50 or more of Recognizing the great importance Donations of Computer systems (NIS thousands) ■ The decisive majority of the organizations present their area of activity, goals, activity is targeted to peripheral regions). of technological investment for methods, and participating population in an orderly manner; In about %50 of the foundations 2008-10 2011 2012 2013 2014 the education and advancement ■ In the context of measuring the outcomes of the organizations supported by the surveyed, %80 of activity is targeted 6.3 2,554 921 500 831 361 of children and youth, the bank bank, the organizations can be divided into two groups: to peripheral regions. The other donates computers and related equipment each year. Donations million 11.Educational activity – Organizations active in this field help participants maximize their individual potential and leverage their abilities for a better future, through education foundations target various population groups, according to the type of The monetary value of the of computers are managed by the and learning. The review found that all of the organizations operating in this area activity, encompassing all parts of donations of computer technological procurement center. systems by the bank in measure their outputs (the number of participants and the volume of activity), and Israel, including the peripheral regions. NIS In 2014, the bank donated 629 2007-2014 is approximately the large majority also measure the effectiveness of their activities (e.g. improvement NIS 6.3 million. computer systems and auxiliary in students’ scores, dropout prevention, students who continue to college, etc.). equipment, at a value of NIS 361 22.Organizations in the fields of health care, welfare, culture, and the arts – This thousand. group consists of two types of organizations: organizations engaged in remedying EMPOWERING SOCIETY AND THE COMMUNITY 116-117 The central focus Promoting Education and Financial Education in of the bank’s the Community community activity is education. The The key focus of the community activities of the bank is education. The bank invests in several long-term projects, as well as a variety of other projects aimed at supporting learning bank invests in in educational institutions, academic institutions, and informal education organizations. several long-term projects, along with In 2014, the bank invested in dozens of non-profit organizations and community groups projects aimed to active in the area of education, which helped more than 160,000 students – children and support education in adolescents – in hundreds of institutions, in dozens of communities throughout Israel. schools, academic The bank's contribution helped approximately 37,000 children and adolescents directly. institutions, and Promoting Education Initiatives and Projects informal settings Main examples of the bank’s investment in education are described below: From Three to Five Bank Hapoalim, through the ORT Alumni Association, is participating in the effort to help students with lower socioeconomic backgrounds improve their academic achievements in scientific and technological subjects. Poalim from Three to Five is designed to promote a vision of social change, in which geographically remote communities in northern and southern Israel are brought closer to academic centers, with a substantial increase in the number of students from these areas who take matriculation examinations in mathematics and sciences. The aim of this effort is to help reduce social inequalities. The project includes 80 students in grades 9 through 12 from Israel’s Jewish, Arab, Bedouin, and Druze communities. A Password for Every Student and teachers As part of its support for the integration of technology into education, in 2011 the bank participated in 464 9,864 the program Students in the program About 40% of the joined the educational initiative A Password for Every Student, which combines in 2014, at 200 who were given support program's students began education and today's technology as a way of acquiring learning and developing Thousand schools, in 42 before a matriculation the school year at risk abilities. Within its support for this project, the bank has adopted ten schools in students towns examination achieved of demotion to a lowerStudents Students an average improvement level academic grouping. communities needing special reinforcement, throughout Israel, for a period of three articipated in this Since the launch of of 25.5 points in their Thanks to the program, years. The goals of the project are to create a technological infrastructure allowing The direct support of the bank activity, at 23 the project, 9,864 scores, relative to demotion was prevented helpe d the pr ogr a m r each all users to work and learn using a central portal, from any location; to implement schools, in 16 students have scores prior to the for 32% of the students, more than 7,500 students at towns throughout participated, in program, an increase of and they remained in the a view of the school as a computerized organization; and to create a computerized 16 schools in 8 towns. Israel 1,218 groups approximately 45% higher groupings educational environment in the school. EMPOWERING SOCIETY AND THE COMMUNITY 118-119 7,800 Read & Succeed Starting in 2004, the Poalim for the Community Forum has led a focused initiative aimed at changing the reading habits of Israeli children and youth. This project continued Subscribers in 2014. The Read & Succeed project includes a public informational campaign, In 2014, 7,800 participants distribution of books, funding of story hours throughout Israel, activities during National registered for the eight Book Week, and collaboration with the Children’s Channel and other media. As in mobile libraries operating throughout Israel, up 40% recent years, the bank continued the Read & Succeed project in the Arab-speaking from 2013. sector and in the Haredi (ultra-orthodox) sector as well, in formats adapted specifically for these communities. Read & Succeed also includes mobile libraries, operated in cooperation with the Key Books Foundation. This project consists of mobile lending libraries housed in trucks that travel throughout Israel, allowing children and youth to enjoy a wealth of children’s theater, creative writing workshops, lectures, story hours, and enrichment classes. 160,000 More then students – children In 2014, the bank invested in dozens of non-profit organizations and community groups active in the area of education, which helped more than 160,000 students – children and adolescents – in hundreds of institutions, in dozens of communities throughout Israel. The bank's contribution helped approximately 37,000 children and adolescents directly EMPOWERING SOCIETY AND THE COMMUNITY 120-121 Amiram Sivan Center for Community Initiative – Tel Aviv University Approx. The center is dedicated to reducing social inequalities by making academia accessible to diverse 500 groups within Israeli society, with an emphasis on the population of social and geographical peripheries. The center supports four programs: Periphery Excellence – aid for outstanding highschool graduates from peripheral regions, with direct acceptance to the university; University for scholarships the People – an inspiring experience with university studies for a range of population groups that The bank provided have not had the benefit of this environment due to circumstances; Summer Youth University – a assistance in funding program in which the gates of the university are opened to high-school students from peripheral approximately 500 regions with the potential for higher education, introducing them to enriching content areas and scholarships for college knowledge; and the Socio-Economic Leadership Promotion Program – projects designed to students from various encourage young socio-economic leadership in Israel, with an emphasis on participant diversity by sector, gender, and geography. University students involved in these programs experience a process sectors of Israel in 2014 that imparts knowledge and tools while offering experience with meaningful community work. Ben Gurion Heritage Institute More then 100% of the students in 82% of participants An educational institution dedicated to 1,700 90% the Periphery Excellence in a women's communicating the heritage of David Ben program completed their economic leadership Gurion. The institute works in many areas third and final year of program said that derived from this heritage: Zionism and Students undergraduate studies of the participants in the the encounter with Jewish identity, sovereignty, excellence participated in the successfully, and 20% of Summer Youth University the students allowed in society, leadership, development of center's activities these students continued to program continued to them to acquire new the Negev region, and more. The institute during 2014 graduate studies undergraduate studies knowledge and skills has several units that operate specialized programs for various groups: children and FIRST youth, teachers, defense employees, new FIRST is an international non-profit organization dedicated to encouraging adolescents to study science immigrants, tourists, and the general public. and technology. The organization’s flagship event is an annual competition in which participants 15 Thousand from all over the world present technological projects created by teenagers, with the guidance of a team of instructors and volunteers from the local community. This is the fifth year in which the bank has supported this initiative, within its ambition to promote technological education in Israel. students The institute conducted a wide range of educational programs for approximately 8,000 3,000 Children aged 6-18 The bank supports 15 thousand students in 2014 participate in this program. a project targeted to Over the last nine years, children aged 9-14 Over 60,000 visitors came to the site Students the number of students Students (grades 4-9), which in 2014 involved in FIRST activities reached over 3,000 grew from 360 to 8,000 students in 2014 EMPOWERING SOCIETY AND THE COMMUNITY 122-123 Promoting Financial Education in Society and in the Community 84% of families that completed the program in 2014 will reduce the gap between their 8,000 The bank’s effort to promote education and its financial Over income and expenses by approximately NIS 2,000 within one year freedom perception have given rise to several projects, some unique, designed to advance financial education Children 28% of families participating in the organization's programs will increase in the community, as described below : participated in dozens of Dan the Saver their income by approximately 30% day camps, in over 20 towns, during the 2014 summer vacation within one year. Financial Education in Secondary Schools at the ORT Network Bank Hapoalim, in collaboration with the ORT Israel Development Center, offers Chasdei Lev a program of study for secondary-school students designed to provide personal Approximately 60,000 children have Enriching Parents The Chasdei Lev organization has set participated in Dan the Saver day camps financial education, teach skills that students will need as independent adults, Bank Hapoalim has undertaken a goal of working to promote financial education the goal of creating a better financial and over the last five years. and impart the tools and knowledge necessary to make sound personal financial for young children, preteens, and adolescents. Young children in preschool and personal present and future for families decisions. The program consists of fifteen hours of instruction, with a blend Dan the Saver – Teaching Savings elementary school are acquiring their first concepts of money, savings, and more. in the Galilee region, through stronger of face-to-face teaching and virtual learning, in ten self-contained modules Within the drive for financial education for the It is therefore important to provide them with the tools for future management economic resilience. As a social and covering subjects such as investment, savings, income, smart consumerism, bank’s customers and for the next generation, of their economic lives. The bank created a presentation and a lesson plan for professional organization, Chasdei Lev money and means of payment, personal budget management, bank accounts, aimed at making a better economic future children aged 5-8 regarding basic concepts for prudent financial conduct, as promotes the construction of economic and the capital market. possible for them, based on the awareness that part of the Enriching Parents project, in which parents teach classes at their resilience for Israeli households, through 4,500 childhood habits become the habits of a lifetime, children’s schools. three key programs, each designed for participated in the Each participating class program in 2014, in received 20 annual hours the bank is leading a financial education effort a different target group: Positive Family 140 groups, at 43 of instruction on financial targeted to children and parents. This project Paamonim Foundation – an economic empowerment program schools education Students is designed to reinforce and promote the value The foundation promotes balanced, responsible financial lifestyles for families, and for families caught in a cycle of poverty of savings for parents and children. Activities works to strengthen the personal financial responsibility of families and individuals and financial distress; Economic Growth The Growing Family aimed at parents focus on encouraging savings, and to boost their ability to conduct a stable, balanced economic life, thereby College – for employed and self-employed A project initiated by the bank in collaboration with the Yedioth Ahronoth by evoking positive nostalgic memories, while helping to reinforce Israel's social and economic resilience. people who earn wages that do not allow newspaper and the Ynet website, to follow families facing various financial maintaining innovation and a value offer to them to support themselves with dignity, 16,000 challenges in order to learn how to improve their economic conduct. The families benefit the client. Activities for children focus 60% of families that received and in many cases may lead to economic individual financial guidance are provided with guidance by the bank's advisors in areas such as personal on creating a positive experience at their first over the last few years attained collapse; and Shekel – a financial education financial conduct and financial growth, real estate and mortgages, pensions, encounter with a bank, and building a beneficial, financial balance within three program supporting education on values, People years. More than 7,000 families investments, and more. The project serves as a platform demonstrating to the empowering relationship. During 2014 Dan the understanding, and clear thinking on these In 2014, the foundation helped approximately in Israel have reached financial public, through the stories of five families, how consumer habits, economic Saver summer day camps were held in more 16,000 people through workshops and balance over the last few years, subjects, aimed at raising a new generation habits, and financial behavior in general can be transformed, with the aim of than 20 towns throughout Israel for children lectures, and provided individual counseling with the help of Paamonim with an awareness of the significance and sessions to 6,000 families. guidance and workshops. achieving economic balance and growth. from various sectors. value of prudent economy. EMPOWERING SOCIETY AND THE COMMUNITY 124-125 Promoting Culture and the Arts Israel Philharmonic Orchestra The orchestra runs the Mafteach The perception of Poalim for the Community places special emphasis on culture (Key) program, in which children and the arts. The bank provides assistance to outstanding cultural institutions and adolescents gain exposure to dedicated to leadership and excellence, focusing on institutions that have classical music through in-person initiated community efforts to bring culture and the arts to a wide range of meetings with orchestra musicians different audiences. The bank also works to make cultural events accessible to and in concerts, in various locations underprivileged children and adolescents. in Israel. 40 Over At least 20 In 2014, at least 40,000 people attended cultural and artistic events supported by attended cultural and the bank. The bank's contribution directly aided the participation of approximately artistic events supported Thousand 23,000 people. Children by the bank. The bank's adolescents, and people of all ages, Several examples of the bank’s investment in culture and the arts (of the dozens contribution directly with an emphasis on peripheral communities, participated in this of initiatives and projects in which the bank is involved ), are described below: aided the participation Thousand program in 2014 of approximately 23,000 430 People Poalim for Culture and Nature in Israel Thousand people The bank's contribution supported Since 2005, Poalim for the Community the participation of more than People 2,000 children and adolescents has conducted a special project each visited dozens museums and in the program Passover, in which all Israelis are invited other sites free of charge, to visit a variety of sites throughout Israel sponsored by the bank at its free of charge during the holiday week. initiative, during the Passover Cameri Theater holiday in 2014 Bank Hapoalim believes that closeness to The bank’s aid to the theater our heritage and culture is of the utmost importance, and has therefore resolved includes tickets donated to various to make it possible for parents and children throughout Israel to travel during population groups throughout Israel the holidays and enjoy a variety of sites all over the country at no cost, while that are usually unable to attend promoting culture and the arts. performances, thereby helping to make culture and the arts accessible 20 Batsheva Dance Company to all segments of Israeli society. Thousand The dance company runs a project 1,000 Students for morning performances at schools, Within the effort to promote holding approximately 50 performances culture throughout Isr ael, Tickets each year for students across the for a wide range of audiences, As it has done each year, the theater country. The performances are organized the Batsheva Ensemble held donated 1,000 tickets, inviting approximately 50 performances people who are not able to attend jointly with Sal Tarbut Artzi (National for 20,000 students in 2014. theater performances routinely, Culture Basket), an arts education according to target groups selected program in which all students in grades 1-12 are exposed to each of the by the bank canonical art forms an inspiring model for bringing a young audience closer to the arts. EMPOWERING SOCIETY AND THE COMMUNITY 126-127 Promotion Welfare and Health Poalim for the Community is involved in a wide range of community activities and invests in welfare programs and in aid to health-care institutions. Israeli Art Exhibition for the Israel AIDS Task Force The inner space of the bank’s head-office building is reminiscent of a museum, with open galleries on every floor. For several years, the bank has organized At least 410 art exhibitions in this building in order to raise funds for important causes. The exhibitions are professionally curated, so that the building is transformed into a museum for the duration of the show. The bank leverages its network of community and business relationships to draw stakeholders and contributors to the exhibitions. This exhibition, in memory of Leah Rabin, one of the earliest supporters of the battle against AIDS, was held for the sixteenth year at the bank's head-office building. Artwork donated by hundreds of artists was displayed. All of the funds Thousand raised through the sale of the artwork at this event are devoted to the Israel AIDS People Task Force. 2.7 was collected at the The Israel AIDS TaskForce received treatment exhibition held by held more than 100 workshops the bank in support for approximately 17,50 0 and assistance in the of the Israel AIDS adolescents areas of health care and million NIS Task Force welfare in Israel through organizations supported Ezra Lemarpeh Latet by the bank. The bank's This non-profit organization, headed by Rabbi Elimelech Firer, has a wide range An Israeli non-profit humanitarian aid organization, founded to help reduce poverty for the creation contribution directly of activities and services for patients, aimed at enabling both patients and their of a better and more just society, by assisting population groups in distress, encouraging mutual families to resume their lives and return to work. In addition to medical advice accountability and giving in civil society, and spearheading a change in national priorities. Programs helped approximately and rehabilitation services, the organization runs activities for children who are run by the organization include a nutritional security initiative; aid with food and medications for 41,000 people sick and for their families, including medical, educational, and emotional support Holocaust survivors; Latet Youth, developing leadership and social initiative in adolescents; Latet for children and families; the Elder Brother program, which offers home visits and Future, for the development of micro-enterprises among populations living on the borderline of help with schoolwork; birthday celebrations; making wishes come true; and more. poverty; Hunger Free City; and efforts to raise social awareness and change policies. 150 60 Approx. In 2014, the organization Approx. The foundation serves as an umbrella organization, helped 150,000 people collaborating with 150 local non-profits and receive advice, treatment, organizations, which helped approximately 60,000 and medical support. The families throughout Israel during 2014. Approximately Thousand bank's contribution helped Thousand 5,400 families received assistance from the foundation People approximately 1,500 people Families as a result of the bank's donation EMPOWERING SOCIETY AND THE COMMUNITY 128-129 Promoting Additional Social Causes Poalim for the Community also invests in a range of additional areas, fostering various social and environmental values – such as support for organizations that promote equal opportunities, organizations promoting employment in underemployed At least population sectors, environmental groups, organizations for the empowerment of 58 women, and more. IIn 2014, at least 58,000 people participated in programs and projects related to various community causes in Israel, initiated by the non-profit organizations supported by the bank. Key examples of the bank's investment in additional social causes: ■ Non-Profits Exhibition For the ninth year, the bank invited the Israeli public to Thousand buy holiday gifts sold by non-profit organizations that offer products handmade by children, adolescents, and adults with disabilities or special needs. The exhibition People is used to develop resources for the organizations, as a platform for exposure of the organizations’ activity to various stakeholders and the general public, participated in programs and as a model that can serve other business organizations seeking to promote and projects related community causes. All income from the sale of these products is dedicated to to various community the activity of the foundations. The exhibition was held at the Poalim Campus causes in Israel, initiated in Shefayim, with 35 non-profits participating; the proceeds were transferred to the organizations in full; by the non-profit ■ Etgarim In 2014, the Etgarim foundation helped approximately 5,500 adolescents organizations supported and adults with special needs, such as physical, sensory, and mental disabilities, by the bank maximize their individual potential, expand their abilities, and participate in the community through challenging activities in nature; Examining Achievement of Objectives ■ Promoting employment: Olim Beyahad A non-profit organization working to reduce unemployment among Ethiopian-Israeli college graduates by offering job LOOKING 2014 Objectives Status AHEAD opportunities suited to their skills. 260 people participated in this program in 2014. 89% of the program’s graduates are currently employed in suitable positions; Poalim for the Community will ■ Promoting employment: Be-Atzmi The Mifne-Massar program for unemployed continue to focus on education, with women from diverse population segments (Arab-Israelis and Jewish Israelis, an emphasis on financial education Completed Poalim for the Community will continue to focus on and education for prudent financial single parents, and women aged 45+) achieved 67% success in job placement education, with an emphasis on financial education behavior, while also continuing to and/or occupational training for its participants, who numbered 251 in 2014. The and education for prudent financial behavior, while promote strategic projects of the Employment for Empowerment program for financial guidance and workforce entry also continuing to promote strategic projects of the bank, such as Read & Succeed, the as means of emerging from poverty, targeted to families referred by municipal bank such as Read & Succeed, the Passover project, Passover project, the Non-Profits social services, achieved 81% success in placement in jobs and/or occupational the Non-Profits Exhibition, and more. Exhibition, and more. training (approximately 2,500 families in the last three years). EMPOWERING SOCIETY AND THE COMMUNITY 130-131 Volunteering The bank has established a nationwide network of volunteers, encompassing thousands of Youth is an initiative of Poalim Volunteers 3,000 its employees from various parts of the country. The frequency and type of volunteer work in collaboration with the employee union, vary widely among the units, including weekly, monthly, or quarterly activities, activities held the human resources division, and the on holidays, and activities on Good Deeds Day. The bank's broad geographical deployment Poalim Campus, funded by the bank. makes it possible to respond to the needs of local communities and volunteer for a wide The project enables employees' children employees volunteered range of activities, so that the local branch becomes a center for social improvement and to learn about and absorb the value Approximately 3,000 employees aid during times of distress. Employees and executives volunteer in their spare time, some of giving, through activities aimed at volunteered on a regular, ongoing privately and independently, and some with the leadership of the bank, in collaboration helping various population groups in basis in 2014. Overall, 30% of the with the various foundations. Volunteer activities are varied, with numerous community Israeli society. The participants learn bank's employees volunteered on partners; employees can choose a continuous activity throughout the year, or specific events about the underprivileged parts of Israeli a regular basis where they can contribute according to their abilities. Among other efforts, employees society and experience volunteering for of the bank volunteer with children and adults with special needs, Holocaust survivors, one week. Six six-day sessions of this mentoring for soldiers with no family in Israel, mentoring for women who are victims of project were held during the summer. violence, assistance and training for the promotion of employment, adoption of centers Volunteering in 2014 Each session opened at Poalim Campus More then for children and for the elderly, assistance at group homes for children at risk and at foster Volunteering to Promote Financial Education with an introduction to content areas 4,000 homes, and packaging and distributing food to people in need. The bank's volunteering efforts emphasize financial education, in alignment with its related to Israeli society and experiencecore activity. Within this effort, bank employees volunteered in several areas in 2014: based enrichment, including instruction The bank's broad geographical deployment on volunteering, and learning about the ■ Lectures on financial education and family budget management Given for value of financial freedom and about employees makes it possible to respond to the needs of various target audiences by employees of the bank. In addition, within the activity managing youth bank accounts, and On Good Deeds Day, held for the eighth time in 2014, more than local communities and volunteer for a wide of the non-profit organization Shiur Acher ( A Different Lesson ), hundreds of later progressed to practical volunteer range of activities, so that the local branch employees of the bank taught classes at schools throughout Israel on financial activities. 4,000 employees volunteered in a wide range of activities and other subjects; parents and retirees gave lectures to children in the Enriching becomes a center for social improvement more then 100 Parent program; and aid during times of distress. ■ Children's Bank The first children's bank in Israel was founded at the Kfar Hayeladim group-home school in Karmiel, serving 230 children. Children who receive an allowance can deposit it at the children's bank, check their balance at Lectures on financial education and Volunteer work is performed through integrative management ■ Core social leaders 46 leaders selected by division/region any time, buy products at the village store, and pay with a magnetic card issued household budget management were and an orderly organizational structure, consisting of the heads, responsible for promotion of the Poalim Volunteers to them. The bank provides the children with their first banking and financial given by volunteers from the bank following functions: program and its goals and objectives in their division/ experience; 500 ■ Senior manager Appointed within the bank to hold overall region, development and management of partnerships ■ Promotion of entrepreneurship -Employees of the bank give lectures on writing responsibility for management of this area; and volunteering programs on the regional and local level a business plan and advise teenagers on business ventures at schools, within ■ Steering committee Provides strategic support for the with community partners, motivation of employees, and the Premium Entrepreneur and Taasiyeda projects. new structure through the exposure and selection of models management and guidance of the network of social leaders; Within the Shiur Acher program, and of potential strategic partners in the community; ■ Social leaders network400 leaders selected by Summer Youth 60 courses on financial and other formulates policies for recognition and appreciation of department and branch heads, serving as a direct liaison As part of the promotion of the values of doing and giving, 1,200 children of bank subjects were taught at 44 schools, volunteers, marketing of the activities in the organization, to all employees and leading the volunteering drive at the employees aged 15-18 participated in a wide range of community activities during to 1,500 students, by more than 500 and recruitment of volunteers; level of the units and branches. the summer vacation (in accordance with the Youth Employment Law, 1953). Summer bank employee volunteers EMPOWERING SOCIETY ‫הליהקהו הרבחה תמצעה‬ AND THE COMMUNITY 132-133 120 Thousands Thousands of employees participated in volunteer activities during the holidays, in areas such as childcare centers, elder care, hospitals, and more, and distributed Bank employees were trained to instruct new drivers, as part of the Or Gift Packages 120,000 gift packages Yarok program The employees' children were praised and honored of Holocaust survivors' rights. Employees in the Jerusalem area worked on this by the foundations and community partners, who project, visiting survivors' homes, explaining their rights to them, and filling out welcomed the activity and initiative of the bank's forms on their behalf. Participating employees received certificates at a ceremony management and the sense of partnership and held during the year. values demonstrated by the participants. Many of the adolescents expressed satisfaction with the Volunteer Activity Management System experience and a desire to continue volunteering A specialized computer system was set up in 2013 to manage the bank's volunteer after completing the program. system. This system enables employees who volunteer to enter information regarding their activity, making it possible to measure the aggregate volume of employee Realizing the Rights of Holocaust Survivors volunteering. The system also serves as a platform helping employees who wish In recent years, employees of the bank have to volunteer near their homes find an appropriate venue, through a user-friendly participated in a project promoting the realization search interface. Registration of employees on this system continued in 2014. Examining Achievement of Objectives LOOKING 2014 Objective Status AHEAD The emphasis in 2014 will be on maintaining 124 the volume of volunteers at the bank at approximately 30% of all employees, and Completed on closer relationships with the group of Thousand Volunteer activities in the area of financial regular volunteers freedom for a range of target audiences Volunteer activities in the area of financial hours of will be expanded during the year, and will freedom for a range of target audiences include various non-profit organizations will be expanded during the year, and will Completed include various non-profit organizations Children's bank – Children's banks will be Registration of all volunteersan volunteer activities on the system used to measure volunteer work set up at three group homes for at-risk children during 2015 employee volunteering will be completed Completed during 2014; the system will be integrated with the organizational portal Activity to benefit Holocaust survivors Employees performed over 124,000 hours of community will continue in 2015, through In 2014, bank employees will be trained volunteer work during 2014 participation in the project for realization to instruct new drivers, as part of the Or of rights, as well as volunteering on an Yarok program Completed. individual basis and at activity centers. A group of employees received the training. The lion's share of the monetary value that the bank has generated EMPOWERING SOCIETY 134-135 is returned to the its Israeli stakeholders AND THE COMMUNITY Out of its revenue of Annual yield of Salary payments for more than Procurement from NIS 14 billion in 2014, 9% 10,000 1,300 47 1.7 448 Property tax payments for the the bank has generated NIS NIS NIS hundreds of the banks' assets a value of NIS 10.2 for share holders employees suppliers in Israel million billion million nationwide billion to its various Donations & investments Tax payments were distributed as in the community dividends to investors stakeholders It also had an indirect economic In addition, the bank invests contribution, nationwide in social causes 6.6 98% 277 29.3 263.9 456 1,200 3,000 6.3 Prevention of abusive Electronic waste employment, protection of treatment program for NIS NIS NIS the rights of contractor's workers, reduction of NIS collection and recycling. The NIS billion of the procurement is branches billion billion environmental impacts via million employee's program integrates bank employee's million for environmental from local suppliers. nationwide in credit to small in credit to the public responsible procurement, donated for a variety of children volunteer during employees with bank employees took part in donated for projects 30% of the businesses allowing economic and promotion of small social organizations summer vacation special needs volunteering activities purchasing computing procurement is from growth and and peripherally located and projects, that help throughout the year systems between small suppliers development businesses hundreds of thousands 2007-2014 of people each year (between 2004-2014) EMPLOYEES QUALITY OF LIFE AND WELL-BEING EMPLOYEES QUALITY OF LIFE AND WELL-BEING 138-139 The bank's philosophy is that the most successful Human Capital Approach way to manage human The bank applies long-term considerations of sustainability and social responsibility to the capital, in the best interests management of its human capital. For the bank, its employees are key stakeholders; its of the organization and relationship with them is conducted on a firm foundation of true growth and partnership. The bank promotes a responsible work environment while ensuring compliance with its employees, is through the law regarding the terms of employment of its employees and other workers on genuine partnership. The its premises. Furthermore, the Bank respects and acts in light of universal norms of bank recognizes that as an securing employment rights listed in the UN Convention (UNGC, UN International Bill employer, it must consider of rights, UN int Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights and UN Guiding its employees' wellbeing Principles on Business and Human rights) and the conventions of the International and wellness, as well as Labour Organization (ILO), this inter alia in issues of freedom of association and collective their enrichment, growth, bargaining, prevention of discrimination and inequality and more. and empowerment, and According to long-standing tradition, the work environment at the bank is characterized by: Responsiveness, flexibility, assistance, and support, from a broad perspective on employees' works to achieve the ■ Equal opportunities and the prevention of discrimination; lives, are vital elements in fostering the desired relationship between the bank and its optimal synergy between ■ A wide range of opportunities for personal and professional growth and employees. This includes a balance between work hours and leisure time. The work week at each employee's individual development, generating shared value for employees and for the bank; the bank consists of fewer hours than the number of weekly work hours established in Israeli development and the ■ Concern for the wellbeing of employees and their families, including aid and labor laws. The bank also ensures that its employees do not exceed the amount of overtime needs of the organization, support during times of change or crisis; permitted by law. The bank asks its employees to use the full amount of vacation days owed across all stages of the ■ An excellent working relationship, dialogue and partnership maintained to them each year. This approach helps the bank achieve the goal of satisfied employees work cycle between management and the employee union. who are able to function to their full potential and who view the bank as a desirable, preferred workplace where they seek to remain. The bank's philosophy is that the most successful way to manage human capital, in the best interests of the organization and its employees, is through genuine partnership. Rating on List of Best Workplaces The bank recognizes that as an employer, it must consider its employees' wellbeing and In a survey conducted by BDI in 2014 to rank the 100 best workplaces in Israel, Bank Hapoalim wellness, as well as their enrichment, growth, and empowerment, and works to achieve placed seventh. The Bank has maintained its standing as one of the top ten best workplaces the optimal synergy between each employee's individual development and the needs in Israel over recent years. In another BDI survey of high-tech workers at 60 Israeli companies, of the organization, across all stages of the work cycle: from recruitment, to training, the bank was rated one of the ten most desirable workplaces. The bank is the only financial promotion, and orderly and attentive preparation for retirement, as well as ongoing organization included in the top ten. These accomplishments reflect the bank's commitment relationships with retirees, who remain part of the family of employees of the bank. to its employees and its achievements in the area of social responsibility. EMPLOYEES QUALITY OF LIFE AND WELL-BEING 140-141 Presenting Information on Employees 9,283 95.9% 91.7% The number of Full-time and part-time Collective agreement: The bank recognizes 62.4% The percentage of employees who hold academic degrees rose from 59.5% to 62.4% employees of the employees: 95.9% of its employees' right to unionize and conduct in 2014. 200 employees were enrolled in academic bank in 2014 the bank's employees are collective negotiations. The collective degree programs this year, with tuition financed employed full time, while agreement applies to the decisive majority by the bank through a joint fund of the board of 4.1% are employed in of employees of the bank, excluding those management and the employee union. part-time positions employed under personal contracts 37.4% of the bank's degree-holding employees have master's degrees or higher. This group constitutes 23.4% of all employees of the bank Education and Age Upward trend in percentage of degree-holding employees at the bank The following table presents a breakdown of the 9,283 employees of the bank in 2014, by age and level of education 62.4% Education No academic Academic degree Total Age group 59.5% Age degree distribution 57.6% B.A. M.A. Ph.D. 56.6% 18-21 23 23 0.2% 54.4% 22-30 486 527 95 1,108 11.9% 31-40 567 1,324 748 3 2,642 28.5% 41-50 767 1,001 871 7 2,646 28.5% 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 51-60 1,373 614 356 5 2,348 25.3% 60+ 275 158 81 2 516 5.6% *The upward trend in the percentage of degree-holding employees continued at a greater pace in 2014. This achievement reflects an ongoing long-term positive trend of rising proportions of degree holders at the bank, due to factors including the bank's encouragement of employees to study towards undergraduate Total 3,491 3,624 2,151 17 9,283 100% and graduate degrees, through tuition aid and added vacation days for examinations. Overall, from 1997 to the end of 2014, the percentage of degree-holding employees at Bank Hapoalim rose from about 26% to 62.4%. Education 37.6% 39.5% 23.2% 0.2% 100% distribution EMPLOYEES QUALITY OF LIFE AND WELL-BEING 142-143 92.4% of employee positions were of the bank, while 7.6% were of Distribution of employees by type of employment agreement 2014 Collective contract Personal contract Permanent employees 80.93% Temporary employees 10.82% Senior employees Total 91.75% 6.98% 1.26% 8.25% Supervised workers 2013 Collective contract 80.7% 12.4% 93.1% Personal contract 0.2% 5.5% 1.2% 6.9% 2012 Collective contract 78.1% 15.1% 93.2% Personal contract 0.2% 5.3% 1.3% 6.8% Ratio of bank `s employees to Supervised workers at the bank 13.4% 12.6% 12.4% 9.9% 9.5% 8.7% 7.6% Employee turnover, 2012-2014 (employee departures) Year 2014 Age Up to 30 31-50 50+ Female Male 102 9 496 71 12 202 Total 173 21 698 4,026 Absorbing supervised workers: In 2014, the bank hired 374 supervised workers as regular employees (approximately 70% of these are women), these Total 607 285 892 employees consist 48% of all supervised workers 86.6% 87.4% 87.6% 90.1% 90.5% 91.3% 92.4% 2013 Up to 30 198 72 270 employed during the year. Overall, the bank hired 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 31-50 119 81 200 4,026 workers in 2008-2014. The percentage of supervised employees decreased from 18.8% to 50+ 212 134 346 Supervised workers Bank employees 7.6% between 2007 and 2014 Total 529 287 816 Maternity leave: 695 employees took maternity 2012 Up to 30 181 78 259 leave in 2014, while 523 returned to work 31-50 96 57 153 following maternity leave. Employees returning from maternity leave usually resume their 50+ 84 68 152 previous positions. Any position change if made, Total 361 203 564 is done in coordination with the employee EMPLOYEES QUALITY OF LIFE AND WELL-BEING 144-145 Employees become Promoting a Culture of 220 31 partners in promoting the bank's endeavors Dialogue and Openness through organization-wide Bank Hapoalim considers its employees to be full partners who contribute to all communication on all levels: business and organizational processes. Employees become partners in promoting the Employee-management encounters: From Employee-CEO encounters: dialogue between managers bank's endeavors through organization-wide communication on all levels: dialogue the launch of this initiative to December ,2014 31 breakfast meetings with and employees, and direct between managers and employees, and direct communication between the various 220 Executive Chat meetings were held by CEO Zion Kenan have been members of the board of management with held (3 in 2014). Approximately communication between units. Direct dialogue between managers and employees enables employees to groups of bank employees (40 meetings 1,000 employees participated the various units. The feel connected with organizational objectives. Lateral dialogue between units helps in 2014). Approximately 2,320 employees these meetings range of methods applied organization-wide processes move forward with flexibility and efficiency. The range of participated these meetings methods applied at the bank to achieve these aims includes face-to-face meetings, at the bank to achieve use of the organizational portal, promotion of a culture of sharing and innovation, these aims includes faceand processes of feedback, assessment, and drawing conclusions. The bank also to-face meetings, use of works to encourage the wisdom of the crowd and a culture of social dialogue by 1,800 the organizational portal, providing a comment section for news items posted on the organizational portal, as promotion of a culture of well as through surveys, webinars, forums, etc. sharing and innovation, and processes of feedback, Strengthening Relationship with Employees ■ Management-employee encounters A series of different types of meetings assessment, and drawing have been held between the bank's management and employees: breakfast proposals were submitted. conclusions meetings with CEO Zion Kenan, aimed at forging closer relationships with In the “I Care” initiative, introduced as part employees and giving management a stronger connection to events on the of the innovation drive, any employee in ground; and Executive Chats -open talks held by members of the board of any position who identifies an activity that management with groups of employees from different units of the bank, in a can be streamlined is invited to formulate a proposal, which is submitted and variety of positions, representing a range of the bank's units. These meetings processed in an organized procedure. A continued during 2014; total of 1,800 proposals were submitted by ■ Employees instill the vision of the bank The project of instilling the bank's 1,000 employees in 2014. From the launch vision, initiated in 2010, represents a process of renewal and growth as well of this program in 2009 to the end of 2014, as a declaration of the bank's commitment to universal social values, towards 17,000 proposals were submitted by 5,000 its business environment and its community. A detailed plan was constructed employees, of which approximately 7.5% for leadership of this process by managers and its application to the bank as are being implemented a whole, from senior management to each and every employee. Following the official organization-wide launch of the vision in 2011, the process of instilling the vision continued in 2014, through various aspects of the bank's activity: instilling the vision at the different units of the bank, integrating the values of the vision into learning and training materials, and communication of the bank's vision to employees and managers; EMPLOYEES QUALITY OF LIFE AND WELL-BEING 146-147 Activity of the Organizational Portal in 2014 ■ The organizational portal The values of dialogue, transparency, and sharing are put into practice through the through forums, surveys, comments, and participatory activities. As a result, the bank has achieved improvement in employees' professional skills, increased synergy between the head office and the units on the ground, stronger organizational identity 4 million Number of pages 159 Employee queries k bank's organizational portal. Since among employees, and genuine dialogue through the range of tools available on viewed monthly via the portal the launch of the portal in June 2006, the portal. The bank's organizational portal has earned recognition in Israel as it has become a key arena for intrabest practice in the areas of knowledge management and intra-organizational 95% 500 250 organizational communication and for communications. In 2012, Bank Hapoalim was the first organization in Israel to conveying messages within the bank. earn accreditation under the Israeli knowledge management standard SI 25006; The portal allows management of and access to organizational knowledge ■ Feedback and evaluation processes Each year, managers provide feedback (work processes, rights and obligations, to employees on their individual performance at their positions. The performance Attainment of response Content expert employees who Knowledge items posted information about the employee union, evaluation process takes the form of a dialogue between the manager and the targets (24 hours) manage sites within the portal on the portal daily etc.) and professional knowledge employee, and supports a number of goals, including employee development, (processes, data, and supporting coordination of expectations, and improvement of performance. The process helps information); a professional desktop a empower and nurture employees, and promotes excellence. The performance gateway to business activities through evaluation process includes an examination of the employee's performance over ■ Organizational innovation Innovation is one of the most significant values promoted Alongside the intra-organizational which employees can reach all of the the last year and formulation of the main objectives for the coming year, including at the bank. Activities related to innovation are aimed, first and foremost, at creating innovation processes, the bank also organization's systems and applications; professional as well as personal objectives. Midyear talks to track progress on value for customers through innovative thinking originating both within and outside reaches out to external entrepreneurs and an infrastructure for organizational the objectives and development are held about six months after the feedback the organization. Innovation processes have been led for the last five years by the and companies in order to bring in sharing and dialogue among employees sessions. These processes continued to be performed routinely in 2014; Research and Development Unit in the Strategic Management Center, within the outside innovation. During the last Corporate Strategy Area, through a series of initiatives congruent with the present quarter of 2014, the bank launched 99% and future goals of the bank. the BankApp application development competition, considered innovative Several processes were conducted in 2014 with the aim of encouraging in-house innovative even on the international level. The initiatives. In addition, the annual Innovation Festival was held, as in recent years, with bank gave competitors controlled the participation of some 200 employees and managers from various bank units. access to some of its databases, and invited developers and start-up In 2014, the Fintech Unit of the bank's Strategic Management Center continued to collaborate entrepreneurs to develop mobile with the Information Technology Area and with Poalim Capital Markets on an initiative to applications based on data including of the bank's employees promote, adopt, and invest in promising financial technology companies. The goal of this anonymous information on financial and participated in an evaluation activity is to expose the bank to innovative technologies in the financial industry being consumer behavior in bank accounts process in 2014, based on their developed outside the bank, and to gain a competitive advantage by absorbing these and credit cards. The competition performance in 2013. Midtechnologies, as part of the value offer for the bank's customers. Representatives of the sparked fruitful collaboration with year follow-up talks to check bank meet with financial technology start-ups and examine the innovativeness of their ideas the start-up community in Israel, progress on objectives were held with 76% of employees and their potential added value for the bank. Companies offering an interesting product are and generated various ventures, the examined in depth, on the business and technology dimensions, and some are selected promotion of which will be considered for practical testing at the bank. Since the foundation of the Fintech Unit at the bank, new during 2015. technologies from ten Israeli start-up companies have been embedded in a wide range of areas, such as improving the customer experience, the capital market, and payments. EMPLOYEES QUALITY OF LIFE AND WELL-BEING 148-149 Examining Achievement of Objectives LOOKING Objectives 2014 Status AHEAD An organizational event calendar will be launched on the portal in 2014. The calendar will display periodic activities and The calendar has been launched organizational tasks to employees, at the level and is being used by the business Launch and implementation of the Mobile Portal of the bank and of the unit. websites and the portal. The portal will contain news and useful content for employees, including for access from home, such An upgrade of the search engine on the portal as information regarding employees' rights during is planned, to improve capabilities and reduce pregnancy and maternity leave, rights of employees the time needed to find information. Planned for the first quarter of 2015. on prolonged sick leave, information for parents of children with special needs, information about The upgrade to Version 8 of the IBM support for aging parents, and more. The portal also PortalWebSphere infrastructure used for contains benefits for social and leisure activities, the portal will continue, in order to improve Successfully upgraded in June 2014. and the Poalim Travel forum, where employees can stability and utilization of capabilities. share experiences and tips; The structure of the portal's homepage will be revamped in order to make knowledge more Specifications and setup of the Colleague Portal accessible and personalize the presentation of The new homepage was launched The portal will enable groups of employees with information, so that each employee can view following the upgrade of the portal in shared interests to discuss them and share content relevant unit-level information in a box on the July 2014. and knowledge. This solution, managed using main page, without delving into the depths of Connections by IBM, will be fully integrated with the the portal. portal and will serve small knowledge communities The expansion of information consumption as a space to promote dialogue among members, through the organizational portal will continue, in order to learn from each other’s experience and as a result of its accessibility via mobile The Mobile Portal is in the final stages thereby improve work processes, improve customer phones, tablets, and the Portal from Home. of development, and is scheduled to response times, and promote the business. The Colleague Portal will eventually replace outdated launch in the first quarter of 2015. tools, such as the Staff Rooms and Forums; As part of the innovation drive, the implementation and absorption of selected Deeper and broader intra-organizational initiatives drawn from within the bank with Several intra-organizational efforts dialogue through new tools and channels added value for its clients will be emphasized. have been conducted, along with the An online news program, uniform message creation of processes to allow the sheets, recruitment of mid-level executives as development and launch of a range of communication agents, and more; innovative initiatives during the year. The bank will continue to promote and instill The effort to promote innovative initiatives that an organizational culture of innovation, create value for the bank's customers will continue; through the existing innovation infrastructures: Several processes were implemented the annual Innovation Festival, the Innovation to promote innovation at the bank and The drive to promote and instill an organizational Competition, business innovation workshops, to foster an organizational culture of culture of in-house and external innovation will the Innovation Community, and more, while innovation in the business units. continue, with the aim of achieving continual continually monitoring and improving the improvement. effectiveness of these activities. EMPLOYEES QUALITY OF LIFE AND WELL-BEING 150-151 Promoting Diversity, and information about rights and obligations, as well as a personal gift for the employee's home Equal Opportunities, and a detailed orientation package. The bank provides new employees with information regarding terms and processes related to their work, as well as useful information on all matters connected and Transparency with the beginning of their employment. New employees are invited to initiation conventions and orientation days, to receive an explanation of their designated position and of what it means to work at the bank, and to gain familiarity with the bank's organizational culture and expectations. Non-Discrimination From the Bank Hapoalim ethical code: Equality in Wages and Terms The bank treats its employees fairly and without discrimination. In general, salaries and terms of employment for bank employees are determined according to The policy of the bank is to employ, promote, and make decisions a role book. The role book, which is available on the organizational portal, contains information regarding employees based on pertinent considerations, such as regarding the terms of employment and entitlements granted to employees at each rank and qualifications and performance, with no discrimination due to religion, position. The publication of the role book contributes to transparency in wages and allows control race, sex, age, political views, sexual orientation, disabilities, etc. over the terms of the wages. The bank will raise the minimum monthly wage for its employees, The bank does everything in its power to implement this policy. in one step, to NIS 5,000, beginning in April 2015. This decision, which has been approved by Any claims of discrimination brought before the responsible parties the board of directors, will apply to employees of the bank as well as to external employees are addressed by the bank immediately, in order to investigate the who work at the bank. allegation. No complaints of discrimination found to be justified were filed at the bank in 2014. Equal Wages for Men and Women Basic wages and related terms are established at the bank according to employees' position and Transparency from Step One rank, based on the role book, regardless of gender. This method is used to construct the wage The relationship built between an employee and the bank during his system and calculation charts. The bank performed a review of remuneration at all levels of the or her first days with the organization forms the foundation for their organization, and found that wages were equal for men and women, at all positions and ranks. work at the bank over the years to come. The bank accords high Obviously, there are certain differences in total wages paid to employees in specific positions, due importance to employee satisfaction during the orientation period, to individual characteristics such as seniority, added benefits for parents of children, overtime, etc. 51.5% and emphasizes respectful individual attention and full explanation Equal Opportunities Gender and Sector Data on the employment of women at the bank indicate that the percentage of female managers Male Female Total at the bank as a whole is on an upward trend. The pool of female employees with management potential (at the first tier of management) is large, and has a positive effect on the growth of Board of directors* 5 10 15 talented female managers and on the rising proportion of women in senior management. The bank strives to promote workplace diversity and hires employees from a variety of sectors and Senior executives 23 66 89 population groups, as part of its human-resources management policy. Middle Management 1,309 1,172 2,481 An officer responsible for the prevention of sexual harassment in the workplace has been Employees 4,673 2,040 6,713 of executives at the bank appointed at the bank. Channels for communication with her, as well as the bank's regulations are female, versus 34% in on this matter, are posted on a topic page in the organizational portal. This topic is refreshed Total employees 6,005 3,278 9,283 annually using a specialized tutorial. * members of Board of Directors are not bank`s employees the labor market EMPLOYEES QUALITY OF LIFE AND WELL-BEING 152-153 Adapting Work and Proportion of women in management positions, 2010-2014 the Workplace for Special Needs 2014 2013 The bank invests the necessary resources 2012 Members of and carries out any adjustments that are the board of 2011 management 2010 called for in the work environment when 65% 5.1% 17% new employees with physical disabilities Hiring of employees are hired, or in the event of changes in from population groups 2014 employees' health. Thus, the bank provides 2013 underrepresented in the job disabled employees with an appropriate 2012 market: 57 employees from work environment that enables them to Division 2011 of the employees of the Minority employees underrepresented groups were hired by supervisors and function to their full potential. In some cases, division heads 2010 bank are women, versus constitute 5.1% the bank in 2014 (minorities, ultra-orthodox approximately 47% in of the bank's employees, Ethiopian Israelis, and disabled the bank assigns employees to a position the labor market in Israel manpower persons), constituting approximately 17% of in which their disability is not an obstacle, the employees hired by the bank in total. in order to enable them to continue to work 2014 at full capacity. 2013 2012 Collaboration with non-profit organizations committed to the promotion of population groups Branch/ 2011 underrepresented in the job market: The bank continues its collaborations with the non-profits Kav department heads 2010 Mashve Employers' Coalition for Equality for Arab University Graduates, Olim Beyahad Leadership and Employment Excellence for Ethiopian-Israeli University Graduates, Mafteach Ultra-Orthodox Employment Working to Include Development Centers, Tevet Fighting Poverty Through Employment, Tech Careers Computer Training for Population Groups 2014 Ethiopian Israelis, IT Works Empowering People, and Be-Atzmi (employment programs). Underrepresented in 2013 2012 the Job Market 2011 First tier Segmentation of minority employees The bank is leading a diversity initiative, management 2010 based on an understanding of the 0% 20% 40% 60% advantages of diversity on the level of the business, its values, and the organization. Within the vision of the bank, it is committed from population groups underrepresented in the job market, as part of its hiring policy; to the inclusion of a range of different more than 1,200 employees from these sectors are currently employed at the bank. Employees population groups in congruence with As part of the long-term work plan formulated by the bank, several processes are 83% their representation in society. This is being promoted in this area, including focus and adjustments in the recruitment and First tier management justified both in business terms and in absorption process, as necessary: activities designed to instill a diversity approach in 12% terms of the bank's commitment to the the bank's management culture as part of its leadership philosophy; and structuring of society of Israel. The bank encourages work processes and collaborations with non-profits specializing in empowerment and recruitment and absorption of employees integration of underrepresented population groups in the job market. 5% Branch and Department heads at Headquarters EMPLOYEES QUALITY OF LIFE AND WELL-BEING 154-155 Promoting Workplace Diversity Examining Achievement of Objectives LOOKING As part of the diversity drive, the bank's senior executives attended a forum aimed at inspiring proactive leadership to develop and boost diversity. Objectives 2014 Status AHEAD Dialogue sessions are held from time to time with employees of the bank who represent different sectors of society, in order to gain a better Instilling the ability to accept difference and diversity at the bank understanding of the unique aspects of the employment of each sector. Creation of a plan adapted for each target group within the bank, from senior management to all employees, with goals (according to group) Completed. In 2014, the bank continued to emphasize maximization of the potential In 2015 and in the coming years, the work plan for the including: understanding and internalization of the added value of inherent in population groups underrepresented in the job market, by promotion of diverse human capital at the bank will diverse human capital; creating motivation to promote this issue at the reaching out to non-profits and organizations that specialize in these continue, encompassing several organizational efforts: bank; providing tools to bridge cultural differences and bring together sectors, advertising available positions in a wide range of channels, and a multicultural team. The plan includes publications on the bank's Continued implementation of the diversity portal, production of a guide for managers on managing diversity, a guiding candidates through screening and training processes. The bank approach at the bank The In House Art exhibition for senior forum conference on this subject, and dialogue by a member of has adapted its standard screening processes to the unique cultural employees and retirees of the bank will focus on this the board of management with a wide range of employees; characteristics of candidates from population groups underrepresented theme; a content page on this subject will be posted Formulation of an outline for a mentoring program For selected in the job market. Special emphasis has been placed on expansion to the organizational portal; relevant news items will be employees, to support their adjustment to the bank and promotion published on the organizational portal; and growth of the bank's branches serving the Arab-Israeli sector. to a range of positions in the long term. Postponed to the end of 2015. As part of its collaboration with organizations and foundations that Arab-Israeli and ultra-orthodox colleague teams Organization Promotion, integration, and acceptance promote diversity, the bank participated in seminars and courses on Incorporating diversity management in courses and of regular group meetings, for Arab-Israeli employees and for ultrathis subject, and hosted and participated in guiding a class on the training programs; continuing the series of dialogue orthodox employees, specialized for each sector, aimed at building In a preliminary process, a series of sessions with workers representing different sectors; a platform for stronger, better relationships between the bank and meetings with the Head of Human development of relationships with employers for organizations specializing forming a mentoring program; publishing information its employees, between the bank and these communities in general, Capital, Advising, and Resources has in employment of people with disabilities, within the Ze Oved Coalition. and among employees, such as through assistance with recruitment and useful tips on the organizational portal. been initiated for workers representing Employees of the bank shared their experience in various forums, in their segment, improvement of work processes, creation of diverse groups. including professional conferences for organizational consultants. collaborations with figures in each sector, and more. EMPLOYEES QUALITY OF LIFE AND WELL-BEING 156-157 The Campus is a key partner in a range of strategic Personal Development of support received by the employee in implementing the skills, tools, and processes learned during training, and the main barriers to such implementation and absorption. ■ Call center New bankers join the call center following basic training at processes at the bank, and Training This feedback enables the Campus to improve the quality and precision of its training programs. The Campus also works to map employees' knowledge gaps, with the aim the Poalim Campus. At the unit, they receive additional internal training from the initial stage of The bank cultivates a culture of learning and invests in professional and management of identifying the main areas of missing professional knowledge and designing focused aimed at imparting knowledge about examining needs, through the training to empower its employees and managers. Most of the bank's professional and training programs to close the gaps. The knowledge gap mapping process is performed business processes and new banking development of training tools, management training is conducted through the Poalim Campus. The Campus serves as on an ongoing basis at the bank, using anonymous sample testing, particularly in areas products (mortgages, loans, etc.) and to testing their effectiveness the central arena for change-generating learning, leading to personal, organizational, and involving regulatory requirements. refreshing their existing knowledge. after implementation. During professional growth, with the goal of ensuring professional and managerial excellence for In addition, as part of the process process development, the the bank's employees and managers. The Campus consists of the banking school; the In addition to the activity of the Poalim Campus, several of the bank's units conduct of developing human capital at the Campus uses all of the tools management and leadership school; the training planning, development, and evaluation on-the-job training processes and other internal training activities designed to impart call centers, training sessions are unit; the banking portal; and the intra-organization communication and organizational specific professional knowledge relevant to the unit and improve employees' capability conducted to improve employees' at its disposal, integrating a development unit. The Campus melds employees' desire to learn and develop with and performance. These training activities are conducted at the following units: individual skills. range of training methods. the bank's need for high-quality workers, and promotes an organization-wide culture The time employees invest of ongoing learning. This learning-oriented approach emphasizes the ambition to ■ Central back offices The central back offices conduct basic training for all new in training does not impede decentralize learning, from Campus classrooms to the training centers at the regional employees, to familiarize them with the range of activities performed at the centers business performance; administrations and beyond, to each employee's workstation and branch. and impart basic knowledge. Advanced training for experienced employees is instead, it serves to enhance designed to create specialization in specific knowledge areas. In addition, brief and hone professional The Campus is a key partner in a range of strategic processes at the bank, from the professional training sessions are conducted each year for all employees, to capabilities, on the path initial stage of examining needs, through the development of training tools, to testing refresh professional content and teach skills needed to work with new software; their effectiveness after implementation. During process development, the Campus towards better business uses all of the tools at its disposal, integrating a range of training methods, such as achievements online learning, use of videos and simulations, use of the portal, and frontal instruction. According to this view, the time employees invest in training does not impede business performance; instead, it serves to enhance and hone professional capabilities, on the path towards better business achievements. The Campus routinely assesses the effectiveness of its courses and development programs, field training programs, and training sessions within systemic projects. The assessments are conducted using questionnaires administered at the midpoint and end of the course, aimed at encouraging and evaluating the effectiveness of learning processes. Key performance indicators (KPIs) established for this process include attainment of objectives, acquisition of knowledge, skills, future implementation, preparedness to perform, relevance, and satisfaction. The average KPI score serves as an index of the general effectiveness of the course. Another measurement is performed some time after the course, to evaluate absorption and implementation of the knowledge and skills learned in training, and the extent of change in the employee's behavior following participation in the program. This post-completion evaluation makes it possible to assess the extent EMPLOYEES QUALITY OF LIFE AND WELL-BEING 158-159 190 Course evaluations 92% Participant satisfaction 85% Achievement of KPIs (effectiveness Performed in 190 course 92% of participants rated their evaluation) 85% of participants sessions, with 3,000 satisfaction with the training as rated achievement of these objectives employees participating high or very high; as high or very high; Mapping individual knowledge gaps in the learning system Performed for the first time; individual questionnaires were accessible to employees at their workstations, and matched to their specific positions. The mapping process was a pilot project held with approximately 200 employees at the central back office. Poalim Campus 2014 computer-based learning. This project, which also addresses the general culture training sessions at their branch given by managers from other branches where access to the learning system, which The activities held at the Campus in 2014 of learning in the organization, was chosen as one of the 100 leading computerthe new approach had already been implemented. All of the bankers also attended allows managers to track employees' included the following: based learning projects worldwide in the ELearning! 100 Awards, a competition a workshop designed to help them internalize the necessary behavior changes; progress; and more; held by the ELearning! Media Group one of the leaders in this field in the US. ■ Implementation of the learning The project was selected based on the parameter of innovation. Towards the ■ Team Leadership The implementation of this program continued during 2014, ■ Afternoon Campus Another session system The lear ning system end of the year, the learning system was used to begin a process of mapping with 52 branches participating. The program stresses team management, the of financial education workshops for introduced at the Retail Banking Area knowledge gaps in various areas at the bank's operational center; empowerment of individuals, and development. A new team leadership program employees of the bank opened in 2014. in 2013 was expanded to the entire was also developed specifically for department heads at the head office; The workshops consist of six group bank in 2014, including head-office ■ Campus in the Field 2014 was marked by the continued transition in which sessions and two individual coaching workers. This process has involved the responsibility for learning was transferred to regional administrations. Lesson plans ■ Development as a way of life The bank believes that fulfillment and development sessions, aimed at bringing about ongoing development of brief, focused on a range of subjects were created and made available for use by the regions are the shared responsibility of employees, managers, and the organization an changes in financial behavior. A survey computer-based learning modules in training their employees, in order to expand their knowledge and eliminate ongoing process of learning and improvement of individual capabilities, granting conducted for the first time gave bank designed to maintain employees' any knowledge gaps; the employee knowledge, experience, and added tools. The bank offers employees employees the opportunity to influence professional preparedness across the many opportunities to develop in various directions, according to their ambitions and the subjects of courses to be offered. In full cycle of service in each position, ■ Poalim Restructuring training program The Poalim Campus collaborated with abilities. The three main development axes, managerial, professional, and personal, response to the survey, workshops in through the use of modules matched the Retail Credit Division in the Retail Banking Area to develop an innovative are primarily realized through the Poalim Campus. On the organizational level, a English, Spanish, and interior decorating to each position. The system serves instruction program, designed to introduce a new organizational process to Development Index was introduced at the bank in 2014, to examine employees' opened in early 2015. as the platform for annual learning bankers in private banking at the retail branches. The Poalim Restructuring satisfaction with the training and knowledge they receive and with the mentoring mandated by regulations. This project process is aimed at changing bankers' perspective on debt collection, with the and feedback provided by their direct supervisors. Processes and tools for routine was chosen as one of the 100 leading goal of focusing on helping the customer restructure, rather than on collecting use are available to managers in order to encourage employees' development, projects worldwide in the area of the debt. 51 branches joined this effort in 2014, with staff attending professional such as the annual performance evaluation process; mid-year development talks; EMPLOYEES QUALITY OF LIFE AND WELL-BEING 160-161 Poalim Campus activity average number Annual training activities, 2014 of learning hours per employee Annual training activities, 2014 Employees 620 83% 17% 61,400 2010 2011 Number of Percentage of Percentage of 2012 course sessions position-specific managerial/ behavioral 2013 at the Campus training programs training programs 2014 Days of learning Examining Achievement of Objectives LOOKING First tier management AHEAD 2010 2011 Objectives 2014 Status 2012 Poalim Restructuring The Poalim Campus is a 2013 participant and leader in the implementation of the 43 2014 Poalim Restructuring project. The project is focused Completed. The execution of several projects at the Poalim on changing the approach to customers and on a Campus will begin during 2015: transition from collection to restructuring. Thirty Poalim Restructuring Nationwide expansion of this additional branches will join this project in 2014. Branch/Department heads The branches will receive guidance on changing 2010 effort towards behavioral change at 230 branches behaviors as well as training by managers who have within six months; 2011 already implemented this process at their branches; Average hours 2012 Advising older customers Based on the board of Training needs mapping process As part of the of learning per 2013 management's decision to provide more in-depth promotion of training for the bank's employees 2014 service to customers of the bank aged 55 or older, the employee bank plans to reach out to these customers to offer in the field (at branches, etc.), learning processes Completed; are being adapted and specialized content to be pension and financial advisory sessions focused on is being created. In this process, the various continued planning for retirement. In advance of this process, Senior management needs are studied in order to achieve retention in 2015. training days have been planned to strengthen pension and reinforcement of high-quality professional 2010 advisors, as well as behavioral training days designed 2011 knowledge. Focus groups organized by content to enhance financial advisors' ability to communicate areas and performance have been used; 2012 with this customer segment; 2013 Absorption of the learning system This system, 2014 Mapping knowledge gaps The process of mapping which enables employees to learn through their knowledge gaps in the Retail Banking Area using personal computers, will be expanded to the Completed. the learning system launched during the last quarter business branches, the central back offices, and 0 10 20 30 40 of 2014. The goal of this process is to map gaps in the head-office units. The development of brief various areas among branch workers, and provide an computer-based learning modules will continue, immediate response to close any gaps discovered. allowing employees to learn focused professional content as part of their workday routine. EMPLOYEES QUALITY OF LIFE AND WELL-BEING 162-163 Promoting Appropriate Work Environments policy is consistent with the Bank's vision, strategy, work plans, and risk appetite. The policy is designed to maximize the bank's value, while emphasizing stability and the ■ To promote a remuneration structure that prevents damage to labor relations Insurance Policies, employee and management funds, and used to finance wellbeing activities and interchange between achieving returns and taking risks. at the bank; Funds, and Benefits assistance for employees and retirees. ■ To adjust remuneration to the nature of activity, responsibilities, and skills for Employees Objectives of Employees' and Executives' Employees are entitled to discounts on bank-account fees, subsidized loans, spreading of employees and managers, such Bank Hapoalim pays wages to its of debts into installments, and loans tailored to personal milestones: moving to a new Remuneration Policy that remuneration is determined employees in accordance with personal home, buying a vehicle, children's weddings, and more. ■ To motivate officers and senior executives to work to create long-term economic following consideration of the or collective employment contracts signed value for the Bank and its stakeholders, in a manner that strengthens the employee's education, skills, with each employee. In addition to wages, Performance Rewards connection between remuneration and the creation of value for the stakeholders expertise, professional experience, employees enjoy a wide range of benefits, The bank’s remuneration policy is consistent with the directives of Amendment 20 in general and for shareholders of the Bank in particular. In accordance with and achievements, as well as under agreements with the employee to the Companies Law, 1999 (the Companies Law ) and with Proper Conduct of this objective, wages for officers, executives, and employees are derived the employee's position, areas union and pursuant to their personal Banking Business Directive 301A, Compensation Policy at Banking Corporations from a scale of ranks, which offers the possibility of promotion and reflects of responsibility, and previous contracts, as relevant. Employees receive ( Banking Corporation Compensation Directives ). The remuneration policy reflects the authority and responsibility of each level in the organizational hierarchy. wage agreements. Remuneration comprehensive insurance coverage, the bank's ambition to compensate its employees and managers for their work and for Variable remuneration for senior executives consists of components including for functions of the organization including pension insurance (starting their contribution to the bank, and to retain them over the long term, with appropriate an annual bonus contingent on the financial performance of the bank, based involved in supervision and control is on the first day of employment at the incentives and linkage of their best interests with those of the bank and its stakeholders, in on profit adjusted for risk, and the bank's cost of capital; the bonus is also determined based on standards which 59 bank), disability insurance, life insurance, congruence with the bank's long-term goals, work plans, and policies. The remuneration determined based on achievement of quantitative and qualitative measurable take the importance and sensitivity of personal accident insurance, health personal performance objectives; these roles into consideration. insurance, and dental insurance. In addition to the insurance coverage described above, additional safety nets are available to employees during times of crisis: K ■ The Malki Foundation A voluntary fund, administered as a non-profit foundation financed by employee Mashab donations, which provides financial queries: coverage for employees in the event of serious illness or similar occurrences; 59,000 queries to Mashab were documented ■ The Mutual Assistance Foundation in 2014, from 10,000 employees. This foundation is financed by During the year, Mashab complied with management's budget, and is an SLA of responding to 85% of contacts designed to assist employees who by the end of the following business day. encounter financial difficulties and family or financial crises; Since the establishment of Mashab in 2010, ■ The Management and Employees' over 220,000 queries have been made by Shared Foundation Financed by 16,000 employees EMPLOYEES QUALITY OF LIFE AND WELL-BEING 164-165 Excellence in Service to Employees The Mashab Personal Service Center serves as the centralized destination for employees' and managers' queries on various matters related to human resources, aimed at improving satisfaction and strengthening connections. Mashab was established with the aim of bringing human-resource services to the next level, 45% and provides service to all employees and managers of the bank. Mashab consists of three functions: ■ A service center for online and telephone queries from employees and business partners on matters related to Elah system (self-service human resources; loans for employees): ■ An operational system to support work processes derived 45% of the number and from queries on matters related to human resources, in areas amount of loans taken out by employees of the bank such as attendance, maternity leave, unpaid leave, employee were processed through loans, monitoring of missing data on employees, employment the Elah system certifications, visas, eligibility for mobile phones, cafeteria points, daily expense allowances, and more; ■ Support center for employees in crisis – Assistance, care, and advice; information, mediation, and help exercising rights within the bank or in the community, for personal or family issues such as care for elderly parents, care for children with special needs, parenting guidance, health problems, bereavement and coping with grief, communicating with Outstanding employees: occupational doctors, work-related crises, preparation for The selection of retirement, coping with emergencies, and more. outstanding employees expresses management's The Elah (Bank Employees Credit) system, available to employees appreciation for these employees' contribution in recent years, offers loans to eligible employees of the bank to the accomplishments through a quick, simple, user-friendly procedure on the bank's of the bank. Outstanding website. The hotline for contractor workers employed on the employees are chosen premises of the bank operated routinely (for data on queries by for their skills and for a contractor workers, see the Supply Chain subsection in the combination of qualities Community chapter). based on a range of Seven workshops on financial knowledge for employees and criteria, such as striving for excellence, colleague their spouses were held free of charge again in 2014. Options for relationships, teamwork, self-service online applications were expanded in various areas and more. of human resources, such as education certifications, assistance for employees caring for children with special needs, and more. EMPLOYEES QUALITY OF LIFE AND WELL-BEING 166-167 80 k 400 Lectures and workshops on health: Thousands of employees of the bank participated in lectures, including online talks, Poalim Health on the portal: during the year. 50 Running groups: About 400 The Poalim Health zone of the employees quit smoking employees of the bank participated portal logged over 80,000 visits with the help of the in 30 running groups during the year; in its first four months; workshops; 1,700 joined gyms and sports clubs; Creating an Capital Development Center (HCDC) handles hiring of new employees, through a range of different hiring tracks. Organizational Map Several processes were carried out in 2014 at the Human Capital Development Center at the Human Capital (HCDC) to improve the process of hiring employees employed through external Development Center companies. In the area of recruitment, a continued emphasis was placed on diverse human capital. As part of the hiring process, welcome conferences and orientation days The bank is committed to providing were held for new employees, to strengthen their connection with the organization. In a setting conducive to its employees’ the area of employee retention, professional conferences were held for specific target Poalim Health personal and professional development; groups; examples include employees receiving tenure at the bank and graduates of the HCDC serves this purpose by the management training program with one year's experience at the bank. A joint effort by the Human Resources, ■ Health lectures – Lectures were given and employees were offered discounts creating a point of contact between the To facilitate employees' transitions between units and positions at the bank, a computerized Advising, and Resources Area and the both in person and online via the on purchases of sports equipment and organization’s needs and employees’ tool was developed to allow employees to familiarize themselves with screening tests employee union, aimed at promoting organizational portal during the year health-related products and activities. professional ambitions. To realize this and experience them before the day of actual testing, in cases of mobility or promotion healthy lifestyles for employees; a on various health-related subjects, philosophy and foster employee growth, to a position requiring tests at a testing institute. Employees experiencing mobility were significant new step towards expansion such as child nutrition, meatless days, Part of the drive to encourage good health development, and empowerment, the given individual guidance by a staffing coordinator at the HCDC, including face-to-face of the range of activities at the bank helping etc. Speakers include Miki Haimovich, was an effort to rebrand the stairwells in HCDC provides a comprehensive, meetings, individual preparation for professional interviews, interview tracking, support, to encourage health for employees and Michal Tzafir, and Michal Daliot; the Rubinstein Tower head-office building. current operational status snapshot of and advice, until the staffing process was complete, with full absorption at the new their families. In a comprehensive process ■ Promotion of good nutrition – In All of the stairwells in the building were capabilities and skills, while advancing unit. Departing employees met face-to-face with a human-resources representative and during 2014, employees were offered tools, a collaboration with professional redesigned, beginning with the lobby, using employees through individual instruction received an aid package including career advice and job search guidance. tips, and activities in the areas of nutrition, nutritionists, articles and tips were visual motifs from various sports. The design and occupation changes. Hundreds of exercise, family health, and preventive written for the Poalim Health project, also included elements aimed at inviting employees experience mobility each year An Ergonomic Work Environment medicine. Activities during the year: presentations were prepared for employees into the stairwells. The goal of at Bank Hapoalim, as they are assigned ■ A dedicated space on the portal – A employees' use, and employees were this project is to encourage employees to to new positions or promoted. Employee One of the many facets of caring for employees is to ensure a healthy, appropriate space dedicated to Poalim Health invited to send in recipes and healthy use the stairs and to exercise, within the mobility takes place within a supportive, work environment. This is achieved through ergonomics. Information on ergonomics has been added to the organizational nutrition tips to share on the portal; creation of a healthy work environment; values-driven work environment that is accessible to employees on a page dedicated to this subject in the CSR section portal, with a wealth of tips, articles, ■ Encouraging exercise – The Poalim to create an unconventional atmosphere encourages workers to enrich their of the organizational portal. The page contains professional information and rules nutritional recommendations, health Health project also stresses the of innovation and creativity; and to add knowledge and experience, in congruence for working correctly in an office environment, such as how to sit, how to adjust calculators (BMI, calories, pulse, child importance of physical exercise. 30 another component to the Rubinstein Tower with the business needs of the bank. In chairs, how to use accessories, etc., as well as instruction on exercises during work, development), a presentation on child running groups for employees and as it becomes the showcase for the bank's addition to mobility processes, the Human answers to frequently asked questions, and more. nutrition, and more; their partners were formed nationwide, corporate social responsibility philosophy. EMPLOYEES QUALITY OF LIFE AND WELL-BEING 168-169 processes in the day-to-day running of the subsidized tickets to cultural and entertainment events, discounts on hotels and bank. The roles fulfilled by the Employee vacations, holiday gifts and gifts for personal occasions, various types of insurance Union include protecting every employee's for employees and their families, medical examinations, aid funds, assistance for rights and obligations; developing cultural, families in mourning, assistance during crises, and more. The national union heads the instructional, and social activities; and pyramid of local unions, which are organized into regional unions. Branch managers organizing mutual assistance among in each region have a regional union as well as representation in the national union. employees. The numerous activities of The national union consists of representatives of the regions (including branches and the union for the wellbeing of employees the head office), with representation proportional to the size of the region. The national include summer day camps for employees’ union operates on the basis of association articles, accessible to all employees in a children across Israel, reduced-price or dedicated section of the organization's web portal. Examining Achievement of Objectives LOOKING Status Objectives 2014 AHEAD Elah system phase II – Phase I of the Elah system will be expanded to additional types of loans available to Implementation eligible bank employees; process started. To continue in 2015. The expansion of the Elah system to additional types of loans available to eligible employees will continue Coaching days for managers – Three Promoting Healthy Caring for Employees during during 2015; coaching days in the area of human resources will be held during 2014 Completed. Lifestyles Organizational Changes Plans to support employees in need will be for branch managers and department constructed, in order to care for employees who heads at the head office, with the aim The bank allocates resources to activities As a dynamic business organization in a competitive environment, the bank carries suffer prolonged illnesses or work accidents, and for of improving their understanding and that promote healthy lifestyles, such as out organizational changes and adjustments that sometimes take several months. employees in financial distress; capabilities in this area; subsidized medical testing; lectures on Such changes are communicated to and coordinated with the various stakeholders. Poalim Health – The Poalim Health Medical examinations for employees over the age of drive will be launched in 2014 as a joint healthy lifestyles, good nutrition, and In some cases, not only do units undergo change, but employees are also reassigned 30 are planned during 2015; initiative of the Human Capital, Advising, Completed. exercise; organizing and coaching a wide to different positions. In these situations, the appropriate training and instruction are and Resources Area and the employee Workshops on quitting smoking and ergonomic variety of sports teams for employees, provided in order to prepare the employees for their new roles, and support is offered union. Activities will be conducted consultations will be offered to employees in 2015; and participation in sports competitions through all stages of the transition and absorption. Under the bank's labor constitution, throughout the bank on subjects such as for workplaces; workshops on quitting in all cases of transfer of employees to a different position, the employee must be Employees will receive subsidies for individual good nutrition, exercise, family health, consulting sessions on moving towards healthy and preventive medicine. Information smoking; and more. The bank also offers given at least one month’s advance notice. Caring for employees involves ensuring lifestyles and healthy nutrition; about this new project is presented in employees and their families assistance that the conditions of their employment are not impaired as a result of the change. a dedicated area on the organizational with the cost of membership at sports Frontal and online lectures on various health-related portal, where employees can keep current and fitness clubs, comprehensive health Employee Union subjects will be offered to employees during the with tips and tools for a healthy lifestyle year; articles and tips on health will be added to the and receive information regarding the insurance, organized walks, and more. The Employee Union is first and foremost a strategic partner and a key stakeholder. dedicated page of the portal. various activities. The work of the management with the Employee Union follows a pattern of ongoing dialogue (updates, feedback, and consultations) and partnership in all key actions and EMPLOYEES QUALITY OF LIFE AND WELL-BEING 170-171 Support and Assistance for Employees during Operation Protective Edge During Operation Protective Edge, the bank worked to provide immediate relief and support to employees who live and work in the conflict zone, to employees whose family members were hurt, and to employees called to reserve military service. Activities included: ■ Telephone calls to each of the employees of the branches in the Negev and Southern regions and to employees in reserve military service, offering assistance (approximately 700 calls). Issues mentioned in these conversations were referred to wellbeing officers, regional administrations, Mashab, and other parties; ■ Day camps opened for children of employees (approximately 500 children attended each day, at several sites); ■ Visits to hospitals and employees' homes by wellbeing officers and human-resources representatives; ■ Operation of a hotline offering aid and advice to employees; ■ Creation of a new emergency consumer loan for employees residing in the conflict zone; ■ 1,100 employees from conflict-zone towns were invited with their families to spend a weekend at hotels throughout Israel, at the bank's expense; ■ Care packages were distributed to employees who live and work in the conflict zone, employees in reserve military service, and soldiers. Wellbeing services are offered on two levels. Caring for Employees’ Occupational Wellbeing The bank supports employees in times of need, and offers assistance in response The bank's management Individuals receive improved Whole-Person Wellbeing to personal, financial, and health needs, as a reflection of the value of humanity and and employee union benefits, guidance and as a practical expression of the bank's vision. The bank's two wellbeing officers accord great importance Wellbeing Services assist employees coping with distress, crisis, or change in their personal, family, or to employees' quality of support, and a range Employees of the bank benefit from an extensive array of wellbeing services in many occupational life, and help them resume their routines, in situations such as prolonged of available activities life and to the balance of different areas. These services provide appropriate solutions for a broad range of illness, disability, financial distress, or bereavement. Intervention and assistance to improve wellbeing, employee needs, from leisure activities and healthy lifestyles to enrichment for are also offered, as necessary, to employees' family members or to the surviving work life with family and strengthen their sense of employees and their families, professional assistance in times of personal or family family of deceased employees. Any employee can request assistance directly; the leisure life, along with belonging, and position crisis, and more. Wellbeing services complement the wages and various benefits service is confidential. employees' enrichment, the bank as a leading given to employees. Services are offered on two levels. Individuals receive improved empowerment, and growth organization and employer. benefits, guidance and support, and a range of available activities to improve wellbeing, strengthen their sense of belonging, and position the bank as a leading organization Work-Life Balance The bank as a whole and employer. The bank as a whole conducts organization-wide activities, and The bank's management and employee union accord great importance to employees' Bank employees are offered a wide range conducts organization-wide mobilizes for employees and the community at special events. quality of life and to the balance of work life with family and leisure life, along with of social, cultural, and leisure activities activities, and mobilizes A page in the wellbeing services section of the organizational portal, set up in employees' enrichment, empowerment, and growth. Most of the bank's employees at attractive subsidized prices, including for employees and the collaboration with the employee union, offers employees of the bank a wide range are entitled to an annual vacation day quota higher than the amount required by sports-center memberships, fitness community at special events of special offers and discounts. Employees are also offered discounts and subsidies law. The bank also grants additional paid leave on holidays and personal occasions, clubs, swimming pools, hikes and walks, on leisure activities, such as fitness clubs, swimming pools, subscriptions to cultural including Purim, Tisha Be'Av, May 1st, weddings, weddings of sons and daughters, subscriptions to cultural institutions institutions, performances, theater, and more. birth of a child, mourning and memorial days, days off to study for examinations, and throughout Israel, theater performances Another component of wellbeing services is a range of benefits offered through a joint more. The bank practices a shortened work week of 40.5 hours. In many positions, in Tel Aviv, the Good Movie Club, and fund of management and the employee union: gifts for holidays and special occasions, workday beginning and end times are flexible. Work at the branches ends in the short vacations. insurance plans, financial aid, and tuition aid for employees and their children. early afternoon three days a week. EMPLOYEES QUALITY OF LIFE AND WELL-BEING 172-173 Bar Mitzvah trips: 1,000 Approximately Life Cycle Workshops The bank is committed to being a family-friendly employer, and therefore offers employees support in their family roles and duties as parents of children, children of aging parents, spouses, and more. In The In House Art annual this context, the bank offers life-cycle workshops, such as a parental authority workshop, defensive exhibition was held for the ninth driving classes, couples' workshops, language courses, courses on Israeli heritage, coaching time, to display a wide range children of employees participated workshops, mediation workshops, Adler method classes for parents of adolescents, and more. of artwork by employees and in a Bar Mitzvah trip to Jerusalem as retirees of the bank part of their Bar Mitzvah year Parents of children with special needs As part of the activity of the CSR Division and the Occupational Wellbeing Unit of the bank, the dedicated area of the portal has been updated Promotion of Financial Freedom for Employees with comprehensive professional information on all aspects of raising a child with special The drive to instill the bank's financial freedom philosophy with the Poalim Campus, held a week-long campaign to needs, aimed at providing an initial response to issues faced by parents. New materials have among its stakeholders and the concern for employees across encourage financial freedom in December 2014, during been added to the portal page, such as information regarding treatments and benefits for the life cycle encompass the promotion of financial freedom for which extensive information was provided, daily tips were which children may be eligible, in addition to the extensive information already available on employees of the bank as well. This endeavor includes: posted, and a behavioral survey was conducted each day. the portal regarding rights and services for families of children with special needs ■ Coaching days on sensible financial behavior for A different topic was selected as a focus for each day of employees of the bank The coaching days were the week, including the need to change behavior on the introduced in 2014, with the aim of raising awareness of this path towards financial freedom, budget management, issue and of its importance, providing knowledge and tools financial conduct in families and with children, smart to improve financial conduct, and expanding the circle of consumerism, savings, and pensions. Employees were employees who participate in activities aimed at promoting invited to participate actively by suggesting tips and financial freedom at the bank. The coaching sessions focus responding to surveys. A virtual discussion with Alon Gal on misguided financial habits, procrastination, responsible was held in the middle of the week. The level of response family communication, budget management, and the to the campaign was high; development of personal responsibility and engagement; ■ Learning Hour for employees of the bank In 2014, the ■ Financial planning workshops A financial planning Poalim Campus introduced a one-hour learning module on workshop designed for employees of the bank was financial freedom for bank employees. The Learning Hour launched in late 2013. The workshop consists of six presents a series of everyday events that raise questions sessions, including two individual guidance sessions and for discussion and shared thinking about optimal financial instructional meetings, as well as a lecture on pensions by conduct. This activity is supported by a targeted content area the bank's pension advisors. The goal of the workshops is on the portal, where learning experiences can be shared; to spark behavioral and financial changes while imparting ■ Communication of activities to employees The Financial knowledge and tools for better financial management. The Freedom Newsletter has been distributed on a quarterly workshops covered content including examination of the basis since the beginning of 2014, in two versions: one existing financial situation and issues to resolve, budget for the members of the bank's internal Financial Freedom and expense management, identifying and addressing Forum and the senior management tier of the bank, and financial threats with the potential to disrupt the process, a corresponding slightly abridged format for stakeholders and more. Over 200 employees of the bank have participated in the public, social, and business arenas involved in the in the workshops. Participants' feedback indicate high bank's efforts to promote financial literacy in Israel. The levels of satisfaction with the content, the coaches, and newsletter provides a venue to communicate the extensive the behavioral changes achieved; activities conducted by the bank's partners and to transmit ■ Financial Freedom Week campaign on the organizational important information regarding developments in this field portal The Marketing Administration, in collaboration in Israel and worldwide. EMPLOYEES QUALITY OF LIFE AND WELL-BEING 174-175 Poalim Service Center The Poalim Service Center offers a unique package of services to bank employees Examining Achievement of Objectives and their families, 24 hours a day. Among other matters, the center helps employees LOOKING Status Objectives 2014 AHEAD contact the police in cases of home burglaries, tows cars after accidents, and provides Assistance for employees initial assistance and references to the appropriate professionals for malfunctions suffering from prolonged of household systems. illness In view of the Completed. importance accorded by the bank Budget management tips enclosed with pay slips to the wellbeing of employees The bank is promoting an initiative in which several Preparing for Retirement tips on sensible financial conduct in various areas will and their families, an aid package has been created for employees and Keeping in Touch with Retirees be enclosed with employees' pay slips. For example, suffering from prolonged The bank’s obligations in respect of retirement plans, compensation, and pensions are employees could receive practical advice on savings, illnesses. This package will be pensions, imparting good financial habits to children, fully covered by pension plan assets. The bank cares for employees and employees' offered when special difficulties budget management, and more; spouses approaching retirement age by offering preparatory courses and workshops arise as a result of a prolonged illness, in order to assist the regarding retirement, and maintains continuous contact with retirees. This includes Continued efforts to raise awareness, make knowledge employee with the economic, support, financing, and cooperation with the retiree union, which organizes trips and more accessible, and provide employees with guidance, legal, bureaucratic, and emotional as the first step in improving individual financial conduct leisure activities and arranges monetary assistance in times of need. aspects of their condition, and spreading this approach to wider circles. according to their needs. 4,000 430 Poalim Service Center: Preparation for retirement: Approximately 4,000 employees received retiring employees registered for a assistance during the year from the Security course on preparing for a new life stage Department's center, open 7/24 Work environment: Dialogue and Openness with employees How is the unique work environment in bank is created? The ﬁrst step in creating a proper work environment is direct employing The bank also promotes equal opportunities and diversity through recruitment and ensuring workers right to union processes and in its daily activities Aprox. Some More than 92% of the bank employees are directly employed under 4,000 contractor's personnel were 51.5% of the managers in the bank 1,200 of the bank employees come from absorbed as bank employees are women sub-employed populations. collective agreements in recent years The bank has won the Dov Lautman award for diversity in business. And promotes dialogue between 99% employees and managers Internal communication in various channels of employees receive an annual performance evaluation and feedback talk At the same time, the bank recognizes the importance of empowerment and development of human capital 61,400 62% Rate of 26% graduates employees Days of learning and 1997 2014 43 Average hours of learning per employee Promoting healthy A wide range of social Personal service center and a And takes care of employees' quality of life during and after working hours lifestyle activities services and professional hotline for employees and Employee Beneﬁts includes: Gifts at holidays and special events, insurances, assistance in times of crisis managers inquiries ﬁnancial aid, and support for employees' and employees' children education. LIVING WITH THE ENVIRONMENT 178-179 LIVING WITH THE ENVIRONMENT LIVING WITH THE ENVIRONMENT 180-181 The bank involves its employees in this process The bank involves through internal changes in environmental its employees in this practices, as well as through the attempt to process both through maximize the impact of all of its environmental efforts in the hope that its employees, who internal changes in The bank recognizes the added value associated with the implementation of with their families number in the tens of environmental practices this environmental policy, on two main levels: thousands, will become agents of change in and through the ■ The integration of environmental values with the economic values of efficient use their own communities. Towards that end, the attempt to maximize of logistical resources creates shared value for the profit line of the bank’s financial bank strives to supply its employees and their statements and for the environment; families with information and tools designed the impact of its ■ A policy of environmental responsibility makes it possible to improve the work to able more environment friendly behavior, in overall environmental environment, contributing to better quality of life for employees at work and higher driving, recycling, saving energy, and more. activities, in the hope workplace satisfaction. This effort expands the bank's sphere of that its employees Setting Environmental Policy The bank's environmental policy is presented on its website. influence, so that its environmental impact expands from the internal environment of the will become agents In recognition of the bank's social responsibility and the importance of sustainable Obeying the Law bank to the external public arena. for change in their environmental policies, Bank Hapoalim has formulated a comprehensive, The bank is aware of its legal duties in connection with environmental protection and own right.In addition, formalized policy in this area. The policy was delineated by professional bodies prevention of environmental damage, and acts accordingly. No substantial fines or sanctions This section extensively reviews the and constitutes an integral part of the bank's strategy: have been imposed upon the bank for violations of environmental laws or regulations. bank's material environmental impacts the bank seeks to ■ The bank views environmental protection ■ The bank will continually measure (energy consumption and paper use), extend its influence as a social value, managed as an integral its impact on the environment, and From Consumption Management to Resource as well as the reduction of its additional on environmental component of its social responsibility; will strive to understand ecological Management environmental impacts by various means. conduct to employees' ■ The bank recognizes that natural consequences and make decisions This approach is implemented through the resources are an asset belonging to accordingly; The bank views consumable materials as resources to be managed from an environmental bank's environmental management system, communities; with the public, the community, and future ■ The bank will collaborate with other and business perspective, rather than as an inevitable but undesirable component of its which was certified under the international their families, the generations, in accordance with the companies and public entities to routine expenses. Consequently, key environmental resources consumed by the bank management standard ISO 14001 during bank's employees are principle of sustainable development; promote environmental causes; are managed according to the following parameters: 2012. The bank is the first financial institution a force for change ■ The bank seeks to achieve the ■ The bank will work to assimilate ■ Creation of a measurement infrastructure allowing monitoring of trends and identification in Israel to attain organization-wide certification proper balance between economic environmental education among of areas needing improvement; under this standard. Bank Hapoalim also takes numbering in the tens development and environmental its employees, and will initiate and ■ Establishment of a multi-year comprehensive work plan; responsibility for the indirect environmental of thousands. protection in its business decisions; participate in community projects. ■ Validation of forecasts from the planning stage and analyses of variance in performance impact of banking products. The Clients ■ The bank complies with environmental ■ The bank is committed to managing for learning purposes; chapter discusses these environmental effects, regulations and laws, and adheres its environmental impact in a manner ■ Implementation of initiatives aimed at increasing efficiency; with an emphasis on services and products to the directives of environmental that ensures continual improvement, ■ Partnership with employees, internal professional functions, and external stakeholders that promote sustainable development and protection organizations; by setting measurable targets and in the implementation of localized initiatives and formal work plans; generate environmental value for the economy ■ The bank diligently endeavors to monitoring the achievement of its ■ Examination of environmental effects throughout the life cycle of the resource, taking all and the general public, while also maximizing prevent environmental damage; objectives; types of impact into consideration (pollution, global warming, resource scarcity, etc.). financial value for the bank's customers. LIVING WITH THE ENVIRONMENT 182-183 Power Consumption During 2014, the bank Management and 2,000 began to receive electricity from Dorad, Energy Efficiency New air-conditioning systems: a supplier of power Electrical power is a key resource used at the bank. The basic assumption is that in The bank continued to Users install more power-efficient produced using natural enterprises that operate in an office setting, just as in industrial operations, electricity systems to replace older airFax2Mail: Expanded to over 2,000 users gas. Dorad supplies should not be seen as an uncontrollable expense or as a necessary evil. Electricity conditioning systems in its throughout the bank; 150 new users were should be managed as a resource, with rigorous analysis of power consumption over electricity to the bank's the course of the day, week, and year, and with comparisons among buildings. buildings during 2014. added during the year head-office buildings and large branches. A The central principle in efficient management of electricity consumption by offices is Installation of VRF air-conditioning systems total of about one-third coordinated timing of air conditioning and lighting systems and of computer operation, according to employee presence, to the extent possible. The collection and analysis of 15 11 of the bank's annual as much data as possible allows organizations to identify excessive consumption and 16 200 power consumption find the optimal solution. Virtually all of the energy consumed at Bank Hapoalim comes 69 185 169 was supplied by in the form of electricity (with the exception of fuel consumption) which is supplied by 61 100 the Israel Electric Corporation. There are no additional suppliers of energy for the bank Dorad. The transition which produce energy from renewable sources. 5 to Dorad has lowered the bank's energy During 2014, the bank began to receive electricity from Dorad, a supplier of power costs and reduced the produced using natural gas. Dorad supplies electricity to the bank's head-office buildings New installations and large branches. A total of about one-third of the bank's annual power consumption environmental impact of was supplied by Dorad. The transition to Dorad has lowered the bank's energy costs 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Existing systems its power consumption. and reduced the environmental impact of its power consumption. Energy Efficiency 4.5% Data on the decrease by Command and Control Systems bank's total power The bank uses computerized command and control systems to monitor and control all of its energy consumption; these systems provide alerts of significant problems, and controls consumption of air conditioning and lighting based on the consumption in 2014 presence of employees and customers in each building. The systems have been installed at all of the bank's facilities, and indicate a 4.5% are operated based on a fixed regime according to work hours at each branch or building. The systems were installed at decrease compared all new branches opened during 2014. with 2013 Installation of Efficient Air Conditioning Systems The bank is installing new chillers with a higher COP (coefficient of performance), as well as VRF (variable refrigerant flow) in power consumption air-conditioning systems, which leads to savings of about 38% on energy and maintenance costs (20% of the savings are in power consumption), relative to other systems, for replacements and installations;. The process of replacing the aircompared with 2013 conditioning systems (chillers) at the bank's head-office buildings and the VRF systems at the branches continued during 2014. LIVING WITH THE ENVIRONMENT 184-185 Transition to Energy-Efficient Lighting Green IT As part of an ongoing long-term process The bank also works to achieve energy saving and efficiency by thoroughly examining ■ IP telephony-The bank is gradually of installing efficient lighting in the bank's the possibilities for green information technologies at its branches and offices. Energy transitioning its landline communications to buildings, all lighting fixtures in the fourefficiency is one of the parameters in the procurement tenders for IT equipment. Equipment an IPT system. The transition enhances landline story parking garage at the Rubinstein with more efficient power usage earn added points in IT tenders, motivating bidders communications management by allowing Tower head-office building were replaced, to supply more advanced equipment. In addition, the hardware and communications digital management through a centralized in a move from fluorescent lighting to division does not rely on manufacturers' information only regarding the performance of computer system. This connection eliminates efficient LED lights. This process followed the various components, and runs the necessary tests on server hardware and software, the need for local switchboards at each branch tests demonstrating a worthwhile return printers, and peripheral equipment at a laboratory set up for that purpose. The tests allow and allows internal calls between system users on the investment involved. Work has for products to be examined in greater depth, and serve as a preliminary stage to pilots to be performed free of charge, without using also begun on the installation of lighting in the field to generate more reliable forecasts. In 2013, the bank completed the project the Bezeq network. In addition, the phones sensors at the garage. The system will of converting physical servers to servers based on virtual consolidation technology. The allow users to dial through their computers operate beginning in the afternoon hours servers allow savings on power consumption for cooling, optimal utilization of server and to access a directory of all telephone in the different parking areas of the garage, resources, reduced maintenance, and savings on physical space. Main activities carried numbers in the organization. The transition to turning on lights only in response to out during 2014 in the area of green IT: an IP switchboard improves the bank's control vehicles entering or exiting. LED lighting over its communication system and saves installation is planned to expand to the ■ Transition to printing centers and double-sided printers The bank is gradually power consumption due to the elimination of parking garage of another head-office replacing desktop and department printers, fax machines, scanners, and photocopiers local switchboards; building during 2015. with integrated devices, operated using an employee card reader, with doublesided printing capabilities. Printing centers lead to savings of about 40% on paper Additional savings on power consumption in consumption at the bank's headquarters units, and reduce toner consumption. The computer use are achieved at the bank through installation will progress over the course of 2014-2015, and is expected to lead to a system that turns off personal computers annual savings of approximately 11 million pages (about 40% of current consumption) at the end of the workday and through the as well as significant financial savings; use of a fax-to-mail / mail-to-fax application. Energy consumption at Bank Hapoalim 2011 2012 2013 2014 Change vs. 2013 10,000 46 Total (KwH) 94,058,465 93,600,417 90,616,904 86,567,004 -4.5% Total (GJ) 338,610 336,962 326,221 311,641 -4.5% Consumption per employee (KwH) 8,299.5 8,367.6 8,493.5 8113.2 -4.5% Bank area in sq. m. 312,787 312,316 308,909 304,184 -1.5% Telephones Printing centers IPT switches: Installed at 168 branches and sites to 46 printing centers were installed during Consumption per square meter (KwH) 300.71 299.7 294.1 284.6 -3.2% manage telephony through a centralized computer the year. A total of 100 printing centers with system, saving employee travel. 10,000 telephones are efficient paper and toner consumption have currently covered by the new technology been installed at the bank so far LIVING WITH THE ENVIRONMENT 186-187 Bank Hapoalim is more efficient in power consumption in comparison to banking industry* 110 LOOKING 100 AHEAD 93.2 Outdated fluorescent Fluorescent bulbs The bank will 90 bulbs in the parking will be replaced continue to 87.1 garage of the headby LED lighting on install efficient office building on several floors used air-conditioning 80 systems in its Yehuda Halevi Street by workers at the 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 will be replaced by Rubinstein Tower facilities. Bank Hapoalim Banking industry LED lighting in 2015 head-office building decrease by Management and Measurement of Power Consumption 3.2% The bank maintains a power consumption database, which is routinely updated to reflect structural changes in the bank's properties as a result of addition, closure, rental, or change in designation. The database enables the bank to examine Examining Achievement of Objectives the monthly and annual consumption patterns of each property, compare it to 2014 Objectives Status buildings of similar size and designation at the bank, and compare multi-year trends in consumption per square meter and per employee. The database also The bank will begin the installation of approximately 150 printing centers in makes it possible to identify trends of improvement and increased efficiency, and its head-office buildings in 2014. The printers and systems will be connected Average to locate properties with a risk of inefficiency or malfunction. to a central server, allowing precise monitoring of the quantity printed by Completed. consumption per Data on the bank's total power consumption in 2014 indicate a 4.5% decrease each unit as well as the application of uniform print settings, such as secure and double-sided printing, color restrictions, and deletion of unneeded The process will continue during square meter compared with 2013. Average consumption per square meter decreased by print jobs. The installation will progress over the course of 2014-2015, and 2015. is expected to lead to annual savings of approximately 11 million pages compared with 3.2% compared with 2013. The decrease in 2014 mainly resulted from the ongoing energy efficiency processes undertaken by the bank. In addition to the (about 40% of current consumption) as well as significant financial savings. 2013 contribution to the environment, the downward trend in electricity consumption In 2014, the bank will continue the installation of VRF systems at its new has financial implications in the form of cost savings. branches and the replacement of old systems with these systems during renovations and refurbishments of branches. Completed. * Gadir Engineering Ltd. analyzes power consumption at business firms, among other activities. Starting in 2006, the company has issued an index of power Outdated fluorescent bulbs in the parking garage of the Rubinstein Tower consumption in the banking sector. The index presents the relative multi-year change in power consumption at Bank Hapoalim and at other banks; the reference point (100%) is the volume of consumption in 2006. As shown in the diagram, power consumption at the bank has grown more efficient over the last eight head-office building will be replaced by LED lighting in 2014. years. The index does not factor in changes in the area of the banks' properties or power consumption in buildings shared by the banks with other entities Completed. (branches located in shopping malls, or premises shared by banks and government agencies, other businesses, etc.). LIVING WITH THE ENVIRONMENT 188-189 Annual fuel consumption (in liters) Data on Bank Hapoalim vehicles 2010 The bank is working 2014 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 to reduce its fuel Number of vehicles in leasing fleet 1,324 1,329 1,288 1,238 1,188 consumption, and Annual fuel consumption (in liters) 3,586,759 3,574,235 3,440,152 3,448,047 3,537,444 consequently to cut Mileage in kilometers per liter 10.1 10.1 10.5 11 11.8 back air pollution, (based on manufacturer data) by various means Number of hybrid vehicles in the fleet 110 23 27 22 19 3,586,759 3,537,444 Reduction of Energy Consumption in Transportation The direct and indirect environmental impact of Bank Hapoalim in the area of transportation, primarily fuel consumption and emissions resulting from fuel burning, derive from the bank's vehicle fleet and the internal system for transportation between branches and facilities of the bank. The bank is working to reduce its fuel consumption, and consequently to cut back air pollution, by various means. These include: ■ Limiting the vehicles chosen for the vehicle fleet to those with a pollution rating of 8. most of the vehicles at the bank, have lower pollution ratings; ■ Conducting a dialogue with employees through the organizational portal – publication of articles and recommendations concerning safe, efficient, careful driving; ■ Encouraging employees to commute by bicycle – The bank encourages employees at the head office to ride bicycles to work, by providing showers and bicycle parking spots. In addition, a large proportion of banking services are consumed digitally or over the telephone, eliminating the need for customers to visit a branch, which leads to reduced travel and air pollution. LIVING WITH THE ENVIRONMENT 190-191 The project Paperless Management of Paper Branch entails analysis of the bank's Resources paper consumption Paper is one of the main raw materials consumed during the routine operations of the bank; as such, this resource is managed in an effort to cut back consumption and of the possibilities and increase recycling. The drive to reduce paper consumption at the bank for reduction or continued during 2014. Special attention has been devoted to fully maximizing the potential for automation of formerly paper-consuming processes. This important elimination of forms achievement has primarily been made possible by the Paperless Branch strategic and reports, both for project. The project, which has been led by the LEAN Unit at the Corporate savings Strategy Area since 2009, entails analysis of the bank's paper consumption and of internal needs and in 190 the possibilities for reduction or elimination of forms and reports, both for internal mail to customers. needs and in mail to customers. of about The initiatives of the Paperless Branch Unit have resulted in cumulative paper Paper consumption at the bank (in tons) savings of about 190 million pages since 2009 (equivalent to 960 tons of paper). )‫צריכת הנייר בבנק (בטונות‬ The full potential annual savings of all of the initiatives are estimated at 280 million pages tons of paper. 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 248 271 265 259 261 256 Paperless Branch 1,204 1,048 822 The main activities conducted within the Paperless Branch project in 2014 are Digital signatures for 1,659 1,461 1,306 reviewed below: ■ Digital signatures and customer service via touch screen – Digital signatures for teller teller transactions were 380 2,015 1,527 328 359 transactions were implemented at most of the bank's branches during 2014; the process implemented at most 348 will be completed at the end of the second quarter of 2015. Transactions include cash of the bank's branches 355 deposits and withdrawals, check deposits and withdrawals, addition and withdrawal of during 2014. This 445 394 deposits, bank transfers, payment of bills, and checkbook orders and pickups. Customers who receive face-to-face service from bankers are shown details of the transaction on transition saves time a touch screen, and they sign the form digitally. When the transaction is complete, the on document filing, 603 customer receives a printed confirmation and the documents are saved digitally on the allows rapid retrieval bank's computer system, instead of the previous practice of retaining physical documents. of documents, and This transition saves time on document filing, allows rapid retrieval of documents, and contributes to savings of some 15 million pages per year. The rapid retrieval capabilities contributes to savings will also make it possible to respond more promptly to customers' queries requiring a of some 15 million Paper for mail to customers Paper for internal use Blank A4 paper search for documents; pages per year. LIVING WITH THE ENVIRONMENT 192-193 102 preventing over decrease by 12.6% Consumption at the bank decreased thousand by 210 tons in 2014 trees from relative to 2013, an being cut annual decrease of down of paper consumption in 2014 12.6% Cumulative ■ For loans and guarantees in New Israeli Shekelscustomers will be offered ■ Encouraging customers to register for Mail-Net – In order to increase the efficiency of the process of savings in paper the option of receiving an amortization schedule by the direct means of their sending messages to customers who are active users of the bank's website and direct channels, a choice – Mail-Net, fax, or paper mail. The bank has moved from retention of proactive effort is being conducted to register customers for the electronic mail service, in a quick and consumption, paper copies of the amortization table to saving on its computer systems; the simple procedure, as a substitute for paper mail. The result has been almost double the number of new measured since table can be retrieved instantly for customer inquiries. Paper savings come to registrations for the service each month. 1.5 million pages per year; 2007 (the baseline ■ Green accounts – The bank has completed the process allowing customers Collection of paper for recycling (in tons) year), reached to receive a copy of any instructions transmitted by fax or telephone through 2,017 6,690 tons. This the direct channels (Mail-Net, fax, or automatic mail); a copy of the transaction is retained on the bank's systems. This makes it possible to use a range of 1,380 1,352 figure is equivalent distribution channels, according to customers' needs, leading to savings of 1,067 to preventing approximately 1.5 million pages annually; 987 approximately ■ Letters to customers – A system has been developed to allow letters to be sent to groups of customers simultaneously, such as invitations to branches, 102,000 trees from holiday greetings, etc. This significantly shortens the time needed to distribute being cut down for the letter to customers, allows distribution to a wider group of customers, and provides documentation of the messages on the bank's systems at the level the paper industry. of the customer; 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 LIVING WITH THE ENVIRONMENT 194-195 Increase in rate of 1,234,000 Mail Net users 942,000 519,000 456,000 862,000 810,000 754,000 441,000 407,805 301,345 Transition to Recycled Paper At the beginning of 2011, the bank made the transition to green A4 paper for its printers and copiers. The Active website users green paper is made in Israel, using a combination 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Mail Net subscribers of 50% recycled fibers and 50% ordinary fibers (original cellulose). Mail Net Bank Hapoalim aims to streamline and environmental mail initiatives such as Mail Net. The Mail Net service enables reduce mailings to customers. Under registered customers to receive account notifications through the bank’s website, various regulatory consumer protection in a mailbox linked to their online account. Every customer registered for this directives, the bank is required to send service contributes to average savings of 45 mailed pages annually. LOOKING AHEAD mail to its customers, at specified Paper and Cardboard Recycling times, containing the details specified The bank collects and transfers paper waste for recycling: paper no longer in use by law. Within this requirement, the (documents, forms, etc.) is regularly and systematically collected and transferred bank is working to reduce its paper for recycling by a specialist external company. As part of this effort, each employee consumption. This effort includes has a bin designated for paper collection. Cardboard containers are also collected Establishment of a paperless consolidation of messages, reduction at the head-office buildings (Rubinstein, Yehuda Halevy, and Rothschild). Cardboard digital branch, allowing Examining Achievement of Objectives of mailings where possible, and is collected and compressed, and then transferred for recycling. customers to sign all documents 2014 Objectives Status using touch screens Decrease by Digital signatures – The use of digital 59% Sending a copy of a transaction signatures on touch screens at teller stations will be expanded to most Completed. performed with a banker to the of the bank's branches during 2014. The process will 519 customer's personal e-mail K This transition eliminates the practice 40 continue during Cardboard address (instead of handing of printing a physical copy of forms 2015. Paper consumption for internal recycling to retain at the bank, which will lead them a hard copy) use at the bank was down by to savings on document filing time, 59% in 2014 as compared customers allow rapid retrieval of documents, tons and contribute to reduced paper to 2007 (the baseline year); Mail Net: 519,000 customers Completion of the installation paper consumption for mail were collected by the consumption and use as well as to use this service. The number of of printing centers at all financial savings of millions of NIS to customers decreased by bank and transferred users grew by 13.8% in 2014, headquarters units of the bank. annually on paper and storage costs. 37% in the same comparison for recycling in 2014 relative to the end of 2013 LIVING WITH THE ENVIRONMENT 196-197 Reducing Additional Environmental Impact Green Construction Production and service processes in banking have a minor direct environmental impact, Construction projects as the bank's activity is essentially administrative and the service it provides to its carried out by the customers is digital by nature. Nonetheless, Bank Hapoalim strives to minimize the bank in 2014 used additional environmental impact of its activity. The bank manages environmental issues environment-friendly systemically, based on the international standard ISO 14001. The system formalizes elements such as efficient air-conditioning organized work processes in the various interfaces used at the bank for environmental units, energy-efficient management, addressing all milestones and the completion of processes. Controls are lighting, shading to applied to ensure compliance with the requirements of the law as well as with norms save energy used for in this area. air conditioning, and The bank involves its employees in this process both through internal changes in acoustic ceilings to prevent noise pollution environmental practices and through the attempt to maximize the impact of its overall environmental activities, in the hope that its employees will become agents for change in their own right. In accordance with this worldview, the bank aspires to rigorously manage its direct environmental impact, with employee involvement whenever The bank manages necessary, after the infrastructure for appropriate environmental conduct has been environmental issues established. The bank engages employees in these processes, based on the philosophy systemically, based Turning Waste into a Resource and that their participation is essential for success. In addition, the bank seeks to extend its Preventing Pollution influence on environmental conduct to employees' communities; with their families, the on the international Environmental trends of recent years have highlighted the fact that bank's employees are a force for change numbering in the tens of thousands. Towards that end, the bank strives to supply its employees and their families with information standard ISO 14001. one person’s waste is another’s resource. Population growth creates and tools to enable them to be greener, in driving, recycling, saving energy, and more. The system formalizes pressure on ecological systems, making it difficult to meet demands for natural resources such as metals, wood, water, fossil fuels, and more. In organized work Electronic waste: 44 addition, without proper treatment, waste pollutes the environment and Promoting Green Construction processes in the damages soil, water, and the air, while contributing to global warming. The bank has adjusted all of the purchasing specifications used for the construction of its office buildings and branches to align with green construction principles. It various interfaces These and other insights highlight the importance of a methodical approach to the future of the materials and products that we consume, is important to note that a significant number of branches are located in shopping used at the bank after they have been used. Bank Hapoalim mapped the types of waste malls and commercial centers not owned by the bank, where the bank cannot alter for environmental generated by its operations, and subsequently examined the most the infrastructures of the buildings. However, the bank intends to bring as many as possible of the elements of green construction to these sites, although the properties management, environmentally beneficial methods of treating such waste: Tons involved may not meet accepted green construction standards. As part of this process, addressing all ■ Reuse of a resource or of its components; collected and removed from the the bank has started to install environment-friendly carpets in several buildings. The milestones and ■ Recycling of the resource by external parties, who convert it into recycling receptacles at the bank, a carpets are manufactured in compliance with international environmental standards. raw material and then reinsert it into the production process; high figure relative to previous years, The bank has made a decision to use environment friendly carpets in all future the completion of ■ Responsible disposal through collection and transfer to a licensed due to the removal of outdated IT installations at its properties. processes. site (prevention of environmental pollution). equipment from all parts of the bank. LIVING WITH THE ENVIRONMENT 198-199 2,618 6,470 Construction waste: Fluorescent bulbs: 21,370 Ink and toner cartridges: 280 108K 17 Batteries: 280 kg were Beverage bottles and sacks Medications: 17 sacks of 2,618 cubic meters of 6 ,470 b u lbs we r e The bank's printers and fax collected and removed cans: 108,000 bottles expired medications were waste were removed collected and machines used 21,370 ink and from the bank's buildings and cans were collected collected from the receptacles from construction sites responsively removed toner cartridges for safe burial at the bank for recycling at the bank for proper disposal The bank promotes the ■ Responsible disposal of construction waste– The bank includes a contract clause in Responsible disposal of electronic waste (in units) collection and responsible its agreements with construction and renovation contractors working at its branches The bank has disposal of waste through the following activities, and buildings requiring the responsible removal of waste to a licensed facility. The aim 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 developed a series among others: of receptacles for is to fully prevent construction waste originating with the organization from reaching Computers 258 714 273 496 246 unlicensed sites or open fields; ■ Collection of electronic waste– Bank Monitors 354 284 150 168 48 waste collection and recycling Hapoalim strictly maintains responsible, Collection of bottles and cans – Systematic recycling in collaboration with the ELA Printers 324 170 151 243 73 orderly disposal of disused computer recycling corporation. Refunded deposits are transferred to the unit's employee Servers 77 104 197 142 85 equipment. Computer equipment not union and used to finance various social activities, donations, etc. Keyboards 174 120 218 at its buildings, suitable for donation is transferred for Telephones 120 1,100 3,100 with an emphasis Instilling the Habit of Recycling at the Bank responsible recycling and disposal each year. All mobile devices no longer in use The bank has developed a series of receptacles for waste collection and recycling Fax machines 30 18 31 on high quality are returned to the supplier for responsible at its buildings, with an emphasis on high quality and design. This effort is based on Routers 26 9 20 and design. This 540 1,520 effort is based on the concept of turning waste into a resource, and on the idea that design sells. The Hard drives disposal. All other disused electronic process is being conveyed to employees through intra-organizational communication, 32-46 LCD monitors 50 110 the concept of equipment is transferred to Ecommunity, which specializes in electronic waste in which the bank encourages its employees to collect and recycle waste. The Scanners 21 recycling and employs workers with receptacles offer a convenient, accessible destination for removal of waste in the Other 28 16 18 68 turning waste into a resource, and disabilities. Head-office employees can workplace, contributing to manufacturing and reuse processes, in addition to the Total 1,013 1,650 934 2,278 5,519 bring electronic waste from their homes reduction of environmental damage. Recycling receptacles are available for paper, to the collection center at Rubinstein electronic waste, fluorescent bulbs, bottles and cans, batteries, used clothes, and In addition, the bank removed 10 crates of electronic components waste: electric on the idea that Towers in Tel Aviv; medication. The waste is collected and treated by licensed operators. cables, electronic cards, plastic parts, and electronic parts. design sells. LIVING WITH THE ENVIRONMENT 200-201 Measuring the Carbon Footprint Carbon footprint data (in tons of CO2eq) 2011 2012 2013 2014 Change vs. 2013 LOOKING 16,962 18,745 15,525 Volume of emissions in CO2 tons AHEAD 17,811 Total 106,593 101,696 94,342 81,749 ‑13.3% 12,700 Per employee 10.44 10.05 9.68 8.81 -9.1% 70,409 68,286 73,614 63,668 59,539 Per square 0.34 0.33 0.31 0.26 -16.1% The Bank aims to reduce meter greenhouse gas emission intensity of its operations, 13.3% 19,386 19,562 12,557 12,861 9,510 Examining Achievement of Objectives and set a goal of reducing 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 emissions intensity on scope 3 scope 2 scope 1 2014 Objectives Status a scale of 1% each year during the next four years. Total carbon footprint of Measuring the Carbon 1% reduction of greenhouse-gas emissions at the bank Moreover, in the future, the Bank aims to keep an 0% Bank Hapoalim in 2014: 81,749 tons CO2eq., decrease Footprint Completed increase in GHG emissions of 13.3% from 2013 Bank Hapoalim recognizes the phenomenon of global climate change, and therefore intensity of its operations. monitors the key elements that contribute to greenhouse-gas emissions. In 2010, Bank Hapoalim joined the voluntary greenhouse-gas reporting system of the Ministry Carbon footprint and relative contribution of Environmental Protection. Since that time the bank has reported to the recording of elements to the total value system in accordance with the established methodology. In addition to energy 23.4% consumption (electricity and transportation), the bank monitors indirect sources of emissions, such as paper production, branch construction, waste treatment, air travel by employees, and more. For a control report on annual carbon footprint vehicles data, see page 232. 10.1% construction power Emission of Substances that Damage the Ozone Layer consumption Multi-year reduction of 5.4% The bank uses five main types of air-conditioning systems: split air conditioners, 72.9% carbon footprint : From paper central air conditioners, VRF systems, cooling towers, and chillers. The older 2010 to 2014, the bank reduced 5.2% systems use Freon gas, which is permitted by law, but may be harmful to the ozone its carbon footprint by 23.4% layer. The bank is working to replace these existing air conditioning systems with systems that use only environment-friendly gases. The air-conditioning systems of 3.3% IT deprection 3.15% other all of the bank's properties in aggregate contain about 24 tons of coolant gas, of which more than 70% is the environment friendly R-410a. During leak repairs and ˇ coolant gases 1.48% | air flights 1.31% | water 0.14% | ink 0.13% | hotel stays oversea 0.05% | generators 0.04% routine maintenance in 2014, the coolant gas in the air-conditioning systems was supplemented by approximately 2.35 tons. The bank manages environmental issues in multiple channels, LIVING WITH THE creating additive value to the bank as well as to the environment ENVIRONMENT 202-203 Initiatives for reduction of energy consumption Management and Measurement of Power Consumption The result: 2012 about 4.5% 1 201 Command and Control systems 201 3 20 14 STOP 2010 Installation of eﬃcient Air Conditioning Systems 106,721 2011 KW Power Green IT systems consumption reduction in The Bank's electricity 2012 consumption, carbon footprint Transition to eﬃcient lighting compared to 2013 (Tonne CO2eq) 2013 And Paper use and transition to digital services 2014 Preventing the logging of: 81,749 2-Sided lettering to customers Paper Usage in the Bank The result: 102K (tonnes) 12.6% Cancellation or reduction of forms trees Transition to Digital forms The result: 23.4% E-mailing customers 1,518 2014 reduction in paper 2012 consumption Transition to printing centers and double-sided printers 2,104 2010 2008 during 2014 As well as for the reduction of additional environmental impacts, reduction of the bank's in cooperation with our employees The result: carbon footprint between 2010 and 2014 The bank's actions led to an Collection and Promoting Expired Fluorescent Batteries Beverage environmental eﬃciency, substantial responsible Green disposal of waste Construction medications bulbs bottles and monetary savings and a reduction cans Collecting, of its environmental impacts. transferring, and recycling waste, while implementing changes Electronic Paper Construction Cardboard Instilling Water waste waste Recycling at reduction the Bank INTRODUCTION 204-205 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE, ETHICS AND COMPLIANCE INTRODUCTION ETHICAL CODE 206-207 95% Instilling the Ethical In addition, a head of ethics was appointed at the Poalim Campus, from the Leadership during all hours of activity. To ensure that employees who submit reports are protected and do not suffer any harm as a result of the report, a process and procedure have Conduct Code and Organizational Development Unit. The responsibilities of the head of ethics been developed and approved by the board of directors in order to safeguard these employees and maintain their anonymity. In 2004, Bank Hapoalim assimilated an ethical code that addresses the values of include helping to instill the code. The accountability, trust, integrity, and respect. The code defines the relationship between channels for reporting on ethical issues In order to increase the effectiveness of the response to any ethical issues that arise employees and their environment the bank, other employees, customers, and the were changed in 2013. Responsibility during the course of the bank's operations, a shared interface is routinely operated of the bank's employees community. The ethical guidelines stress employees' respectful behavior towards their for this area was transferred to the chief during the year for audit staff, risk management staff, and the head of the ethical experienced a training module environment and the bank's commitment to treat employees fairly and respectfully. In risk officer of the bank, in order to allow code. The interface is aimed at learning and applying lessons learned, and optimizing on ethical dilemmas and 2009, the bank updated the code, with renewed phrasing and expanded content, and a single independent function to oversee the response to various issues, the relevant procedures at the Bank, and the content possible responses; the code became a global ethical code. In 2010, the code was officially launched for all of the reports. Bank employees who of the code, and is maintained in addition to routine audit activities and the lines of The bank has been proactive in preventing employees. The process of assimilating the code was conducted on three organizational suspect any violation of the bank's values defense at the Bank. corruption and bribery for many years, in a variety levels: the individual level, the level of leading forums, and the organizational level. The and norms by any other employee can use process aimed to reinforce the status of the code as a significant element of the bank's several methods to discuss and report Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption of contexts. The bank has a system comprising content, processes, controls, and procedures organizational culture. The ethical behavior code is divided into four sections: their thoughts: telephone, e-mail, written As a banking organization at the heart of Israel's business and economic community designed to prevent corruption and bribery. Key ■ My work at the bank Defines the relationship between the bank and its employees; letters, or the anonymous channel on the and as a player in the international business arena, Bank Hapoalim is committed to sections on this subject have been added to the ■ Customer relationships Defines the relationship between the bank and its customers organizational portal, which is available an active role in the international fight against corruption. bank's ethical code, reflecting its position on of the bank; ■ Relationships with external parties, suppliers, and competitors – Defines the In order to increase Bank Hapoalim recognizes that corruption the prohibition of corruption and bribery and on relationship between the bank and external parties, suppliers, and competitors; the effectiveness and bribery are a harmful threat. The bank receiving or giving gifts or benefits, with the aim of ■ Promoting the environment, society and community in Israel Deals with the bank's of the response to strongly rejects corruption and bribery. The making a clear and unequivocal statement to all of the bank's internal and external stakeholders social involvement, environmental responsibility, employee quality of life and welfare any ethical issues bank is committed to implementing its policy regarding its policy in this area. A minute number services and its customers' wellbeing. that arise during the in this area, from the level of its board of of immaterial events involving the impairment of course of the bank's directors and management to the level of each moral standards were addressed at the Bank in An organizational structure has been established with the aim of promoting a culture of operations, a shared individual employee, including the adjustment of 2014, in accordance with the procedures of the conduct congruent with the ethical code. The structure encompasses work processes interface is routinely existing mechanisms and work processes. bank and of the Bank of Israel. and reporting channels in this area. Within the new structure, the head of the Human Capital, Advising, and Resources Division was appointed as the bank's ethics officer. operated during the The role includes: year for audit staff, risk Examining Achievement ■ Management of learning and guidance processes; management staff, and LOOKING of Objectives AHEAD ■ Creation of various reporting channels for employees disposal; ■ Discussing ethical issues raised by employees through the various channels at the head of the ethical 2014 Status their disposal; code. The interface Objectives ■ Discussing cases of violation of the code. is aimed at learning All employees of the A discussion of ethical issues Following a general survey on and applying lessons All employees of the bank will study the updated tutorial on bank will study the and the proper course of action conflicts of interest throughout the ethical code in 2015, as part of a month-long campaign to was integrated into various the Bank, the procedure for learned, and optimizing updated tutorial on the Completed raise awareness in this area; ethical code in 2014. banking courses receiving gifts was updated the response to various issues, the relevant The content of the ethical code will be incorporated into the The content of the ethical code will be Employee inquiries regarding ethics were responded to and addressed procedures at the various banking courses, and a module will be developed for integrated into the Completed routinely. During 2014, 4 queries by employees and managers regarding suspected conflicts of interest were addressed; all of the queries were Bank, and the content management courses. various courses on banking. handled in accordance with the bank's procedures and the ethical code; of the code THE BANK`SINTRODUCTIONPROFILE 208-209 The Bank`s Profile Chart of the Bank's main holdings* The Bank The Bank Bank Hapoalim was founded in 1921 by the central institutions of the Jewish Settlement Hapoalim Group ( the Yishuv ) at the time the Zionist Histadrut and the Histadrut General Federation Banks Overseas Credit Cards Other Financial Services of Hebrew Workers in Eretz Yisrael and incorporated as a limited company under the operates in all Companies Ordinance. The Bank is a banking corporation and holds a bank license 100% Bank Hapoalim (Switzerland) 98.2% Isracard 100% Poalim Capital areas of banking in under the directives of the Banking Law. In 1983, within an arrangement formulated 100% Bank Hapoalim (Luxembourg) 100% Poalim Express Israel through two between the Israeli government and the banks, the shares of the Bank were brought 69.8% Bank Pozitif Turkey main units. The under state control, and it was fully privatized in 1997, with the controlling interest transferred to the current controlling shareholders and others. Corporate Banking 100% Area serves most Bank Hapoalim Group Activity in Israel Bank Pozitif Kazakhstan business clients. The Bank Hapoalim Group operates in all areas of banking in Israel through two main The Retail Banking units. The Corporate Banking Area serves most business clients: large corporations The chart includes the principal companies held directly by the Bank or indirectly through private subsidiaries under the full ownership of the Bank. The whollyare served by head-office sections specializing in each sector; middle-market firms Area serves owned subsidiaries through which the companies in the above chart are held do not appear In the chart. For the purposes of this chart, a principal company Is a company engaged in business operations which in the opinion of the Board of Management of the Bank is a principal company In the Group, and In which the are served by seven business centers located throughout Israel. All clients of the households, Bank's investment is at least 1% of the shareholders' equity of the Bank, or the Bank's share of whose net operating profit (loss) attributed to shareholders of Corporate Banking Area receive operational banking services through a network of the Bank exceeds 5% of the net operating profit (or loss) attributed to shareholders of the Bank (similar to the criterion established in Public Reporting Directive private-banking No. 662 of the Supervisor of Banks regarding the statement of data on principal subsidiaries in financial statements of banking corporations). 22 business branches. The Retail Banking Area serves households, private-banking clients, and small clients, and small businesses, through the branch network; operates services through the direct channels (Internet, telephone, and mobile), and oversees consumer credit businesses and mortgages. The Retail Banking Area operates through 255 branches, providing the In the credit card sector, the Bank Group through a subsidiary (the Isracard Group ) investment products and global asset full range of banking services.In addition to its banking business, the Bank Group also issues, operates, and markets credit cards, within and outside the Bank, for use in management. Corporate banking overseas engages in related activities, mainly in the areas of credit cards and the capital market. Israel and overseas, and clears transactions executed using its credit cards as well as encompasses credit for local and foreign externally-issued cards. The Bank Group's capital-market activity includes providing borrowers, including participation in credit services for the execution of trading transactions in securities (brokerage), securities organized by leading foreign banks; credit custody services, research and consulting, services for financial asset managers, for borrowers with an affinity to Israel, Organizational and Operational Structure investment portfolio management, and issuance underwriting and management. and investments in bonds. Within its international operations, the bank maintains Chief Executive Officer relationships with foreign banks around the Bank Hapoalim Group Activity Overseas world. The key focus of the bank's strategy In addition to its activities in Israel, the bank group operates overseas in the privateis the development and expansion of its FInance and banking and corporate sectors, in Europe, the United States, Canada, Latin America, international activity, in the area of global Information Risk Finance and Strategy Corporate Systems Division Management Banking Management Banking and Asia. Overseas activities are conducted through the bank's branches, representative private banking as well as commercial Officer Division Officer Division offices, banking subsidiaries, and asset-management subsidiaries. The bank group banking in New York. The bank aims to Chief Internal IT Division Retail Banking International Human Capital, Chief Legal Comptroller also operates in the households sector and in the commercial sector in Turkey and continue to expand its service offering Auditor Division Banking Advising and Advisor Division Resources Division Kazakhstan. In its private-banking business, the bank group provides high-netand improve its capabilities in the areas of worth clients overseas with advanced, professional products and services, including products, marketing, and customer service. CORPORATEINTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE 210-211 The Functions of the Board of Directors and the Board Committees Governance Directors of Bank Hapoalim are appointed pursuant to the provisions As a part of the banking system in Israel, Bank Hapoalim operates in a broad legislative environment of the law, including the following: including primary legislation, standards, and regulations with which the bank is obligated to ■ The Companies Law (section comply: the Banking Ordinance, the Bank of Israel Law, the banking laws concerning licensing 57) states that the appointment and customer service, the rules of the governor of the Bank of Israel, the Companies Law, The of external directors shall be Securities Law, directives of the Supervisor of Banks, and more. These factors regulate the approved by the general meeting; bank's activities on various levels, including requirements with respect to its capital and ways ■ As described in Article 24 of the of managing capital, exercise of internal and external auditing, and the areas in which the bank Periodic Report of the bank for 2012, its controlling shareholders is permitted to engage. According to the Companies Act, shareholders can suggest discussion have received a control permit from issues for the next general meeting. Employees are able to appeal to the board according to the governor of the Bank of Israel. the bank's procedures and legal requirements. Details regarding the appointment of directors pursuant to the control The Board of Directors: permit are provided in the Periodic Report of the bank for 2007; Composition, Activity, and Committees ■ Article 16 of the Articles of the Bank (which were approved The Bank Hapoalim Board of Directors operates in accordance with corporate governance by the general meeting of the guidelines established by law, including the Proper Conduct of Banking Business Directives shareholders of the bank (the of the Bank of Israel and the SOX Act.The bank implements all of the directives set forth in the Articles of the Bank ) establishes legislation, standards, and regulations with regard to preventing conflicts of interest within the the procedure for the appointment of directors. Pursuant to Article board. As part of the separation of duties required between management in practice and the 16B of the Articles of the Bank, formulation of policy and supervision, the board's chairperson does not serve as an executive directors shall be appointed by a at the bank. Directors are selected pursuant to the directives of Israeli law the Companies Law, resolution of the general meeting; 1999, and the derived regulations; the Securities Law, 1968; and the Proper Conduct of Banking however, notwithstanding this Business Directives of the Bank of Israel as well as the bank's codex. The directors' duties article, the board of directors may appoint an additional director or under the law are uniform for all types of directors; the basic duty is to act in the best interest additional directors from time of the company. These duties include: duties of care, fiduciary duties, corporate governance Ownership Structure and Legal Organization duties, avoiding conflicts of interest, and other duties applicable to boards of directors, by law to time, provided that any such appointment is performed in The holder of the permit for control of the bank, near the date of publication of the financial statements, is Ms. Shari Arison. Her and pursuant to the directives of the Bank of Israel. accordance with the directives of stake in the bank is held through several trusts that have holdings in the Israeli companies noted below, which own shares of the the voting agreement between the bank: Arison Holdings (1998) Ltd. (hereinafter: Arison Holdings ) holds shares comprising approximately %20.20 of the bank’s share The Bank Hapoalim Board of Directors operates in shareholders of the company who are entitled to appoint directors, capital, near the date of publication of the financial statements, which constitute the “controlling interest” of the bank (as defined accordance with corporate governance guidelines etc. (Article 16C of the Articles of in the control permit issued by the Governor of the Bank of Israel); Arison Investments Ltd. (a sister company of Arison Holdings) established by law, including the Proper Conduct of the Bank). The composition of the (hereinafter: Arison Investments ), through a wholly-owned subsidiary, holds the entire share capital of Salt of the Earth Ltd., which Banking Business Directives of the Bank of Israel and the board of directors is subject to the provisions of the Companies Law, holds shares comprising approximately %0.63 of the share capital of the bank. Total holdings of the Arison Group (through Arison SOX Act.The bank implements all of the directives set Holdings and Arison Investments) in the share capital of the bank, near the date of publication of the financial statements, are Directive 301, the Articles of the forth in the legislation, standards, and regulations with Bank, and the Board of Directors approximately %20.63( %20.83 fully diluted). regard to preventing conflicts of interest within the board Procedures. CORPORATEINTRODUCTIONGOVERNANCE 212-213 The financial expertise and The Functions of the Board of Directors management and control committee if the board of directors receives annual and quarterly 2013 (the Board of Directors Procedures ). professional qualification of reports that are adequate in order to monitor, control, and asses risks, as required by Proper This refers to all materials related to the activity directors are evaluated by the and the Board Committees Conduct of Banking business Directives. of the bank or the assets of the bank, and to board of directors. The range During 2014, the board of directors of the bank continued its work of formulating strategy, policy, and all documents of the bank that the directors of considerations include the fundamental principles for the activity of the bank in Israel and overseas, while establishing guidelines Among the board members of the bank there are directors with expertise in risk management, require in order to fulfill their duties. director's education, experience, on various matters, in accordance with the requirements of updates in legislation and in accordance including a director who served in the past as the bank's risk manager, an expert in credit risks and knowledge in areas and issues with the new Directive 301 of the Bank of Israel. As part of this process, the board of directors set forth and other experts. The bank's board of directors has decided on 19.7.2007 to establish a board of With regard to business matters, directors are related to the activity of the bank, policy for the activities of subsidiaries in Israel and abroad, limits for exposure to various risks, bond directors committee for risk management and control. The committee is comprised of 6 members, entitled to request clarification or additional as detailed in the Companies issuance, share capital issuance, execution and realization of fixed investments, and the execution of who received trainings and acquired extensive experience as part of the committee's work. The information in meetings of the board of Regulations (Conditions and Tests buyout offers and mergers. The board of directors addressed the approval of the quarterly and annual board members receive from time to time trainings in the field of risk management. In addition, directors or its committees (section 57 of for Directors with Accounting and financial statements; dividend distribution policy; the organizational structure of the bank; establishment the directors are free to address the appointed management member, if they seek to broaden Directive 301). Directors who wish to exercise Financial Expertise and Directors of policy on manpower, salaries, retirement terms, and the remuneration system for employees and senior their knowledge in a certain field. governance processes within the bank group. Concurrently, the their right to receive information required with Professional Qualification), executives; and supervision and control over ongoing business operations executed by the board of bank is working to improve and instill corporate governance processes within the bank group. for the fulfillment of their duties as directors 2005. Applications to appoint a management and the congruence of these operations with the policies of the bank. shall submit the request in writing through director, with a declaration filled out The board of directors usually meets twice a month. The committees of the board of directors the chairperson of the board of directors. by the director, pursuant to Proper The plenum of the Board of Directors receives and discusses routine reports regarding execution plans in usually convene between these meetings; some committees meet every week. Thus, any urgent Directors interested in receiving clarification Conduct of Banking Business the area of sustainability and corporate social responsibility at the bank, These include banking products matter can be discussed at any time. In particularly urgent cases, the board of directors is convened or materials regarding matters discussed, or Directive No. 301, are sent to the that promote sustainability, clients service, responsible employment, community investment and mitigation to discuss the issue that has arisen. Urgent meetings are sometimes held remotely, in order to scheduled for discussion, by the board of Supervisor of Banks for review; of environmental impacts of the bank, including those that influence climate change and all activities conduct an immediate discussion of an issue. Pursuant to sections 98-99 of the Companies directors or any of its committees may contact the appointment of the director is described in this report. The chairperson of the bank's Board of Directors serves as the director responsible Law, 1999, directors are entitled to demand a discussion of a specific urgent or critical matter. the CEO or the relevant member of the board subject to advance approval by the for sustainability and CSR, and is charged with promoting this area on the strategic level. The bank has a Pursuant to section 99 of the Companies Law, such issues are added to the board of directors' of management at the bank, provided that the Supervisor of Banks. chief CSR officer who is the operational manager in this area, and who interfaces with all of the relevant agenda. Section 44 of Proper Conduct of Banking Business Directive 301 states that the board of query does not concern a business venture functions within the organization and reports to the board of management and the board of directors. directors' agenda should include, among other matters, any subject that a director or the CEO has or business matters of specific customers, The performance of the board of asked the chairperson of the board to include in the agenda a reasonable amount of time before or certain investments of the bank. directors is evaluated in accordance The board of directors receive regular updates and discuss CSR the meeting convenes. Similar directives are set forth in Article 19A of the Articles of the Bank. with section 59 of Directive 301 and working plans, performances and future activities. These include Directors also have the right, in special cases, section 9 of the Board of Directors banking products that promote sustainability, clients service, Pursuant to section 2.14 of the Board of Directors Procedures, the board of directors shall hold to receive external professional counsel and/ Procedures. The effectiveness of responsible employment, community investment and mitigation of a discussion at the earliest possible time of the exceptional events listed therein (outside the or external professional assistance, at the the work of the board of directors environmental impacts of the bank, including those that influence regular scheduled reports). Sections 6.3.2, 6.3.5, 6.3.6., and 6.3.7 of the Board of Directors expense of the bank, if the coverage of the is evaluated every two years, for climate change Procedures establish the way to convene a meeting of the board of directors in exceptional expense is approved by the board of directors the board of directors' internal and urgent cases. Section 6.6.6 of the Board of Directors Procedures establishes directives (section 266 of the Companies Law and needs. The board of directors has The reports and discussions include both status reports on the bank's progress in this area, under for transmitting materials regarding an issue added to the agenda in an urgent meeting. Urgent section 53 of Directive 301). The plenum of the appointed an external attorney to its CSR plan, and discussion and approval of future work plans. In addition to the discussions by the matters are raised as necessary and/or at the request of the chairperson of the board of directors board of directors, or the appropriate board work with the secretary of the bank plenum of the board of directors, the activity of the members of the board of directors of the bank is / directors / CEO, according to need and the importance of the issue. As important and urgent committee, shall discuss and decide upon in overseeing this process and conducted through the committees. The bank examines and evaluates the quality of risk management matters are raised routinely, as described above, such occurrences are not counted separately. the need to engage an external consultant analyzing the findings, in order to on an annual basis, within the ICAAP. As part of the ICAAP, the bank also works to continually improve in order to receive professional assistance. evaluate the effectiveness of the the absorption and quality of the risk management process. The risk management and control committee Directors' rights to receive information and to consult with various parties in the course of Such a discussion shall address the questions work of the board of directors. of the board of directors receives annual and quarterly reports that are adequate in order to monitor, the fulfillment of their duties have been established in accordance with the law, including the of whether the counsel can be provided by The board of directors discusses control, and assess risks, as required by the Proper Conduct of Banking Business Directives. Selected Companies Law, 1999 (the Companies Law ); Proper Conduct of Banking Business Directive internal parties within the bank, the purpose the findings that emerge from the Indicators from the field of corporate responsibility are part of the bank's risk management perception. 301 of the Supervisor of Banks, Board of Directors ( Directive 301 ); and the procedures on the of the consultation, the extent of the work, evaluation process. This is reflected in their inclusion in audits and regular reports, such as BSC , SOX and more. The risk work of the board of directors, approved by the board of directors of the bank on November 26, and the schedule. CORPORATEINTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE 214-215 205 On February 11, 2014, the general meeting of shareholders of the bank assimilated the bank's remuneration policy for officers, in accordance with Amendment 20 to the Companies Law, 1999, and in accordance with Proper Conduct of Banking Business Directive 301A of 42 15 the Supervisor of Banks of November 19, 2013. On June 22, the bank approved another As of the end of 2014, the number of directors section of its remuneration policy, concerning its other employees, as well as remuneration with accounting and financial expertise plans based on its remuneration policy ( Remuneration Policy and Remuneration Plans, and professional qualification, based on meetings respectively, and as amended from time to time). Main objectives of the remuneration policy: meetings members their education, skills, and experience, in accordance with the requirements of the of the plenum of the As of the end of 2014, the Companies Regulations, is fourteen and of the board committees ■ To motivate officers to work for creating long-term economic value for the bank and board of directors and board of directors of Bank one of the directors is a director with were held in 2014 its stakeholders, in a manner that strengthens the connection between remuneration 205 meetings of the Hapoalim consisted of professional qualification . Six directors with and the creation of value for the stakeholders in general and for shareholders of the board committees were fifteen members, including accounting and financial expertise and bank in particular. In accordance with this objective, employees' pay is derived from held in 2014 (for further five external directors, as professional qualification are members of a scale of ranks, which offers the possibility of promotion and reflects the authority information regarding defined in Proper Conduct the audit committee of the board of directors, and responsibility of each level in the organizational hierarchy. Variable remuneration the activity of the board of Banking Business in accordance with the requirements of the shall consist, among other elements, of an annual bonus contingent upon the financial of directors and the Directive 301 of the Bank Companies Law, 1999, and the regulations. performance of the bank, based on risk-adjusted profit and the cost of capital of the change in the structure of Israel, and two additional Five women and ten men are on the board of the committees, see external directors, as of directors (for further information about the bank; the bonus shall also be determined according to the achievement of measurable the financial statements, defined in Section 240 of members of the board of directors, see the quantitative and qualitative individual performance targets. 50% of the annual bonus pp. 228-221) the Companies Law financial statements, pp.237-229). shall be spread over three years, in order to compensate for unsatisfactory performance during that period, if any, and paid in share-based instruments; ■ To adjust the remuneration to the bank's vision, to the overall strategic plan of the bank and of its secondary units, and to the work plan derived from the strategic plans. Accordingly, remuneration incentives shall also be matched to the long-term objectives Composition of the board of directors formulated in the strategic plan and in periodic work plans; 5 10 15 ■ To adjust total remuneration to the risk appetite of the bank. The annual and multi-annual work plans are constructed, among other matters, with reference to the volume and types of the risks that the bank is willing to undertake. The achievement of objectives of the work plan, including capital adequacy targets, and the achievement of a surplus return over the required cost of capital, set the threshold for the distribution of bonuses. Female Male Total This objective is also achieved through a ceiling on variable remuneration, and through postponement of the payment of part of the annual bonus, which is contingent on the bank's performance in future years, so that executives are exposed to the consequences of materialization of the risks that they take, and their remuneration decreases if or when risks materialize. In accordance with the new remuneration policy of the bank, the total cost of remuneration of the CEO shall exceed the median total cost of remuneration of other employees of the bank by a factor of no more than 33.5 (this calculation was performed in accordance with the principles of the remuneration policy, based on the return on equity for 2012 and data on employees of the bank for 2012). For further information regarding the remuneration of the bank's senior officers, see the financial statements, pp. 247-256,393. CORPORATEINTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE 216-217 96% In an annual learning process using tutorials on the Compliance and Prevention prohibition of money laundering, in accordance with the of Money Laundering and amendments required by law, 96% of the bank's managers and employees completed the tutorial and quiz. In Terrorist Activities managers and addition, 99% of managers and employees completed an The responsibilities of Bank Hapoalim's chief compliance officer are derived from Proper employees annual learning process using tutorials on compliance; Conduct of Banking Business Directive No. 308, the Prohibition of Money Laundering and Terrorism Financing Law, and Proper Conduct of Banking Business Directive No. 411. The Upon the establishment of the Chief Compliance Officer Unit, the bank's Board of Directors The following resources are available chief compliance officer unit encompasses the compliance department and the anti-money established a new group-level compliance policy for the bank. The new policy sets forth to employees who wish to consult or laundering department, as well as two additional units. The first is the international compliance rules regarding all of the component areas of the prohibition of money laundering and report on relevant matters: unit, which is responsible for ensuring compliance and the prohibition of money laundering compliance with consumer protection directives. The policy emphasizes corporate control at the bank's offices outside Israel. Compliance staff at the bank's overseas branches report and the interaction with subsidiaries and branches outside Israel, based on Proper Conduct ■ The network of branch/regional/ directly to this unit, on both the professional and the managerial level.The second unit is an of Banking Business Directive No. 308, the Money Laundering Prohibition Law, the Terrorism divisional/area compliance officers; administrative unit (operations, coordination, and control), which assists the chief compliance Financing Prohibition Law, and Proper Conduct of Banking Business Directive No. 411. ■ The Subjective Reporting System; officer with the execution of systemic and operational assignments. This policy took effect at the end of December 2010, and was updated in January 2015. ■ The compliance site on the banking portal; ■ A call center for American clients and The Chief Compliance Officer Unit's activity is supervised through three channels: In order to comply with the directives of the law and with the group-level compliance foreign residents; ■ The Board of Directors’ committee on risk management and control and Basel II policy, the Chief Compliance Officer Unit conducts activities including identification ■ A regulatory issues support center; implementation; of main exposures and risk areas; procedural, qualitative, and quantitative controls ■ A system for queries and feedback ■ The Board of Management committee on compliance, headed by the CEO; applied to compliance with directives that regulate the relationship between the bank on the banking portal; ■ Quarterly and annual reports to the bank's Board of Directors of the bank, the CEO, and and its customers and to the prohibition of money laundering and financing of terrorism; ■ Communication with the professional the heads of the areas. The reports include updates on the main exposures and risk operation of a structured system of controls applied to compliance with securities law; units by e-mail or telephone; areas in the group; progress on work plans and activities executed, including controls, development of training and knowledge management systems on the organizational portal; ■ A system for anonymous queries. mapping of knowledge gaps, organizational learning, technological and other projects infrastructure surveys; analysis of new products and services; and system development. in this field, reports submitted to the Israel Money Laundering Prohibition Authority, violations, and reports of exceptional events. Monitoring and Control Processes Compliance Training The control system at the bank group consists of three lines of defense, some of An internalized understanding of the which encompass more than one component of control, as detailed below: need for fair business conduct and the need to identify any unusual activity The Chief Compliance Officer Unit held visits No substantial fines or substantial non■ The first line of defense consists of the controls applied by the units themselves. These by customers is critical to compliance and training activities at 29 branches (10.5% monetary sanctions were imposed on the controls are applied on two levels: of the branches of the bank) and at relevant bank for noncompliance with laws and risk; a range of measures are therefore A. Controls by business functions, according to the relevant issue and process. Other bank units in 2014. During the visits, the chief regulations in the area of products and controls executed by the units are controls of processes related to existing customers used to promote this awareness, compliance officer reviewed activities relevant services (consumer protection directives) and these customers' activity, as well as internal processes at the bank; including instructional content and tools to these branches that pose a risk in the area during 2014 (for details of material legal B. Controls by compliance officers and enforcement trustees at the business units; integrated into bankers' training and of compliance. The visits also emphasized proceedings to which the bank is a party, ■ The second line of defense consists of controls applied by regional, divisional, and work processes (for a summary of the customers of the branches who pose a high see note 19D on pp. 439-422 of the financial area compliance officers and enforcement trustees at the business areas; main activities of the Chief Compliance risk of money laundering statements for 2014) ■ The third line of defense consists of controls applied by the Chief Compliance Officer Officer Unit in 2014, see the financial and Securities Enforcement Unit, and controls applied by the Control Unit in the statements, p. 198). Advising Division. BANK HAPOALIM CSR INTRODUCTION 218-219 PROFORMANCE Bank Hapoalim CSR performance Field Metric 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Field Metric 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 General data Investment Number of participants in activities of organizations At least At least Bank profile Total revenues (NIS M.) 12,827 13,088 13,637 13,664 14,022 in the supported by the bank in the area of culture and the arts 35,000 40,000 community Number of employees of the bank Number of recipients of treatment and assistance At least At least 9,983 10,206 10,124 9,745 9,283 through the activities of organizations supported by the 420,000 410,000 Number of branches of the bank 288 298 298 286 277 bank in the area of health care and welfare Best interests of the customer Number of participants in activities of organizations At least At least supported by the bank in other social areas 75,000 58,000 Credit Total credit for small businesses (NIS B.) 21.3 22.8 24.3 26.2 29.3 granted for Additional credit earmarked for small businesses 2 2.15 3.5 Employee Number of employees of the bank who volunteer 2,700 3,000 3,200 3,000 promotion beyond the ordinary course of business (NIS B.) volunteering Annual volunteering hours 160,000 110,000 125,000 124,000 of social/ Cumulative credit for environmental projects and 8.15 6.66 Employees' quality of life and well-being environmental products (NIS B.) causes Employment Employees under a collective agreement (%) 95.4% 93.5% 93.2% 93.1% 91.7% Promotion Number of businesses participating in Small Business 35,000 37,000 profile of small Day Diverse Percentage of women at the bank (%) 64.8% 64.6% 64.6% 65% 65% businesses Number of businesses in the CashBack Club 1,000 5,000 7,000 employment Percentage of female executives at the bank (%) 48.3% 49.6% 50.7% 51.7% 51.5% Financial Number of users of budget management 200,000 240,000 260,000 400,000 500,000 Percentage of women on the board of directors of the 43% 33% 33% 33% 33% freedom application (cumulative) bank (%) Funds under management – Dan the Saver – 0.7 1.2 1.5 2.7 3.1 Percentage of minorities at the bank (%) 5.7% 5.9% 5.2% 5.3% 5.1% cumulative (NIS B) Percentage of hires from under-employed sectors, of 17% 20% 17% Service in a Number of active online accounts 1,000,000 1,000,000 1,200,000 1,200,000 total annual hiring multi-channel Number of users of mobile banking services 49,300 600,000 600,000 650,000 650,000 world Training and Percentage of academic degree holders at the bank (%) 54.4% 56.6% 57.6% 59.5% 62.4% Number of users of the bank's applications 500,000 610,000 development Number of learning days at the bank 64,000 74,300 68,000 56,200 61,400 Number of active accounts at the call center 700,000 700,000 750,000 700,000 of human Average hours of learning per employee 51.2 54.6 54.1 46.1 43 capital Processing General percentage of justified queries – Bank of Israel 25.7% 23% 26.6% 27.3% 14.4% customer data (%) Channels for Dialogue sessions for employees with the CEO and 74 57 45 44 43 queries dialogue for members of management of the bank Percentage of justified queries concerning privacy and 15% 12% 13% 10% 0% employees Percentage of employees who received feedback (%) 99% 99% 99% 99% 99% banking confidentiality (%) Accessibility Number of branches serving the Arab-Israeli sector 35 37 36 36 38 Living with the environment of service Number of branches in towns with extensive 20 22 22 23 23 Energy Total electricity consumption (kWh) 96,982,405 94,058,465 93,600,417 90,616,904 86,567,004 to a diverse religious and ultra-orthodox populations consumption Electricity consumption per m (kWh) 2 318.6 300.7 299.7 294.1 284.6 range of and Number of accessible branches 112* 110* 107 116 155 customers Percent annual change in electricity consumption (year -3.0% -0.49% -3.2% -4.5% (* Branches with an Accessibility Seal from the Access efficiency on year, %) Israel organization) Diesel fuel consumption (L) 4,750 3,516 15,000 11,752 10,840 Number of ATMs accessible to blind users 70 65 316 316 Gasoline consumption (L) 3,586,759 3,574,235 3,440,152 3,448,047 3,537,444 Percentage of branches outside central Israel 45% 45% 45% 40% (beyond the area from Gedera to Hadera; in %) Consumption Paper consumption (tons) 2,087 1,919 1,791 1,668 1,458 of materials Annual savings in paper consumption (tons) 82 168 128 123 210 Empowerment of society and the community Consumption of ink and toner cartridges 19,724 23,399 28,003 21,700 21,370 Direct Economic value distributed by the bank group to 8,918 8,689 9,310 9,800 10,231 economic stakeholders (operational expenses, salaries and Recycling Paper recycling (tons) 2,017 1,067 1,380 987 1,352 value for related expenses, donations and sponsorships, and Cardboard recycling (tons) 2.6 14 20 18 40 stakeholders provision for taxes, dividends; in NIS M) responsible Recycling of electronic waste at the bank (tons) 17 15.8 44 removal of Promotion of Percentage of purchasing from Israeli sources 98% 98% waste Recycling of bottles and beverage containers (units) 130,000 150,000 110,000 108,000 responsible purchasing Percentage of purchasing from small and 30% 21% Collection of construction waste (m3) 3,564 3,820 3,298 2,526 2,168 micro-businesses Collection of batteries (kg) 1,520 470 800 960 280 Investment Community donations and investments (NIS M) 44 47 48 46 47 Collection of fluorescent bulbs (units) 10,320 8,000 14,000 18,560 6,740 in the Donations of computer systems (NIS M) 1.1 0.92 0.5 0.83 0.32 community Carbon Total emission of greenhouse gases (tons CO2eq) 106,757 106,593 101,696 94,342 81,747 Number of participants in activities of organizations At least At least footprint Percent annual change in greenhouse-gas emissions -0.2% -4.6% -7.2% -13.3% supported by the bank in the area of education 360,000 160,000 (year on year, %) INTRODUCTION GRI INDEX 220-221 GRI-G4 Content Index and General Standard Description Page External Assurance GC Principle Global Compact COP Report Disclosures Strategy and analysis G4-1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization 4 Done NR* see page 230 UNGC1: G4-2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities 4,20 Done NR The UN Global Compact initiative anchors international and corporate partnerships, therefore promoting Organizational profile developing markets, commerce, technology and finance in a beneficiary way for economies, communities G4-3 Name of the organization. 208 Done NR and future generations around the world. Joining the initiative is a statement of commitment to promote and G4-4 Primary brands, products, and/or services. 208 Done implement the ten principles of the UN universal act on human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. G4-5 Location of organization's headquarters. 208 Done Below is a list of the 10 principles : G4-6 Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries with either major 209 Done operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report. Human Rights G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form. 210 Done Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and G4-8 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of customers/ 209 Done beneficiaries). Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. G4-9 Scale of the reporting organization. 52,97,140 Done G4-10 Total workforce by employment type 143,150 Done Labour G4-11 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. 140 Done 1,2,6 Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to G4-12 Describe the main elements of the supply chain in relation to the organization’s primary activities, 99 Done NR collective bargaining; products, and services. Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; G4-13 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure, ownership or supply chain There is no Done NR Significant Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labour; changes Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. G4-14 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the 180-181 Done 7 organization Environment G4-15 Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to 26 Done 1-10 which the organization subscribes or endorses Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; G4-16 Memberships in associations (such as industry associations) and/or national/international advocacy 26 Done 1-10 Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and organizations in which the organization: * Has positions in governance bodies; * Participates in projects or committees; * Provides substantive funding beyond routine membership dues; or * Views Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. membership as strategic. Identified material aspects and boundaries Anti-Corruption G4-17 List all entities included in the consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents. 6 Done NR see page 230 Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery G4-18 Explain the process for defining the report content and the Aspect Boundaries 18 Done An organization which joins the initiative, agrees to act in accordance to the above principles. So far, business see page 230 organizations from more than 130 countries around the world have joined the initiative. Participating companies G4-19 List all the material Aspects identified in the process for defining report content. 20 Done are required to report annually on the progress made in promoting the universal principles in its operations. see page 230 G4-20 For each material Aspect, report the Aspect Boundary within the organization. 21 Done see page 230 1. http://www.unglobalcompact.org INTRODUCTION GRI INDEX 222-223 General Description Page External GC General Description Page External GC Standard Assurance Principle Standard Assurance Principle Disclosures Disclosures G4-21 For each material Aspect, report the Aspect Boundary outside the organization. 21 Done NR G4-43 Report the measures taken to develop and enhance the highest governance body’s collective knowledge 212 Done see page 230 of economic, environmental and social topics. G4-22 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided in earlier reports, and the 97 Done G4-44 Processes for evaluating the highest governance body's own performance, particularly with respect 212 Done reasons for such re-statement. see page 230 to economic, environmental, and social performance. G4-23 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary, or measurement 19 Done G4-45 Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organization's identification and 212 Done methods applied in the report. see page 230 management of economic, environmental, and social performance, including relevant risks and opportunities, and adherence or compliance with internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct, Stakeholders engagement and principles. G4-24 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. 16 Done NR G4-46 Report the frequency of the highest governance body’s review of economic, environmental and social 212 Done see page 230 impacts, risks, and opportunities. G4-25 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage. 14 Done G4-47 Report the frequency of the highest governance body’s review of economic, environmental and social 212 Done see page 230 impacts, risks, and opportunities. G4-26 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and by 16 Done G4-48 Report the highest committee or position that formally reviews and approves the organization’s 4 Done stakeholder group see page 230 sustainability report and ensures that all material Aspects are covered. G4-27 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the 16 Done G4-49 Report the process for communicating critical concerns to the highest governance body. 213 Done organization has responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting. see page 230 G4-50 Report the nature and total number of critical concerns that were communicated to the highest 213 Done Report profile governance body and the mechanism(s) used to address and resolve them. G4-28 Reporting period (e.g., fiscal/calendar year) for information provided. 6 Done NR G4-51 Linkage between compensation for members of the highest governance body, senior managers, and 214 Done executives (including departure arrangements), and the organization's performance (including social G4-29 Date of most recent previous report (if any). Q3,2014 Done and environmental performance). G4-30 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.). annual Done G4-52 Report the process for determining remuneration. Report whether remuneration consultants are 214 Done involved in determining remuneration and whether they are independent of management. Report any G4-31 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents. 6 Done other relationships which the remuneration consultants have with the organization. G4-32 Report the ‘in accordance’ option the organization has chosen In accordanceDone Report the GRI Content Index for the chosen option. Comprehensive G4-53 Report how stakeholders’ views are sought and taken into account regarding remuneration, including 214 Done the results of votes on remuneration policies and proposals, if applicable. G4-33 Report the organization’s policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for Board of Done the report. directors and G4-54 Report the ratio of the annual total compensation for the organization’s highest-paid individual in each 214 Done executive country of significant operations to the median annual total compensation for all employees (excluding managers are the highest-paid individual) in the same country. not involved in G4-55 Report the ratio of percentage increase in annual total compensation for the organization’s highest214 Done this process paid individual in each country of significant operations to the median percentage increase in annual Governance total compensation for all employees (excluding the highest-paid individual) in the same country. G4-34 Governance structure of the organization, including committees under the highest governance body 211 Done NR responsible for specific tasks, such as setting strategy or organizational oversight. Ethics and integrity G4-35 Report the process for delegating authority for economic, environmental and social topics from the highest 212 Done G4-56 Describe the organization’s values, principles, standards and norms of behavior such as codes of 25,206 Done 1-10 governance body to senior executives and other employees. conduct and codes of ethics. G4-36 Report whether the organization has appointed an executive-level position or positions with responsibility 212 Done G4-57 Report the internal and external mechanisms for seeking advice on ethical and lawful behavior, and 206,217 Done NR for economic, environmental and social topics, and whether post holders report directly to the highest matters related to organizational integrity, such as helplines or advice lines. governance body. G4-37 Report processes for consultation between stakeholders and the highest governance body on economic, 213 Done G4-58 Report the internal and external mechanisms for reporting concerns about unethical or unlawful behavior, 206,217 Done environmental and social topics and matters related to organizational integrity, such as escalation through line management, whistleblowing mechanisms or hotlines. G4-38 Report the composition of the highest governance body and its committees 215 Done Economic Performance G4-39 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an 211 Done executive officer. G4-DMA 97 Done NR G4-40 Process for determining the composition, qualifications, and expertise of the members of the highest 211 Done G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, operating costs, employee 97 Done compensation, donations and other community investments, retained earnings, and payments to governance body and its committees, including any consideration of gender and other indicators of capital providers and governments. diversity. G4-41 Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided. 211 Done G4-EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization's activities due to climate change. 86.90 Done 7 G4-42 Report the highest governance body’s and senior executives’ roles in the development, approval, and 212 Done updating of the organization’s purpose, value or mission statements, strategies, policies, and goals G4-EC3 Coverage of the organization's defined benefit plan obligations. 174 Done NR related to economic, environmental and social impacts. G4-EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government. 98 Done INTRODUCTION GRI INDEX 224-225 General Description Page External GC General Description Page External GC Standard Assurance Principle Standard Assurance Principle Disclosures Disclosures Indirect Economic Impacts Employment G4-DMA 98 Done NR G4-DMA 138,162 Done 1,2,6 G4-EC7 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services provided primarily for public 108,112,130 Done G4-LA1 Total number and rate of new employee hires and employee turnover by age group 143 Done 6 benefit through commercial, in-kind, or pro bono engagement. G4-LA2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees 162 Done NR G4-EC8 Understanding and describing significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of impacts. 46,53,98 Done G4-LA3 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave 142 Done 1,2,6 Procurement Practices Labor/Management Relations G4-DMA 99 Done NR G4-DMA 144,168 Done 2,3 G4-EC9 Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally-based suppliers at significant locations of 99 Done G4-LA4 Minimum notice period(s) regarding significant operational changes, including whether it is specified 168 Done 2,3 operation in collective agreements. Materials Training and Education G4-DMA 180 Done 7,8 G4-DMA 156 Done 6 G4-EN1 Materials used by weight or volume. 190,198 Done 7,8 G4-LA9 Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, and by employee category. 160 Done 6 G4-EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials. 195 Done 8,9 G4-LA10 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability of 158 Done 6 Energy employees and assist them in managing career endings. G4-DMA 182 Done 7,8,9 G4-LA11 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews, by gender. 146 Done 6 G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organization 184 Done 7,8,9 Diversity and Equal Opportunity G4-EN4 Energy consumption outside the organization Energy Done 7,8,9 G4-DMA 150 Done 1,6 consumption outside is not G4-LA12 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee category according 140,150 Done 1,6 to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity. material Equal Remuneration for Women and Men G4-EN5 Energy intensity 184 Done 7,8,9 G4-DMA 151 Done 1,6 G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption 184 Done 7,8,9 G4-LA13 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men by employee category, by significant 151 Done 1,6 G4-EN7 Reductions in energy requirements of products and services 35 Done 7,8,9 locations of operation. Emissions Supplier Assessment for Labor Practices G4-DMA 200 Done 7,8 G4-DMA 106 Done 1,2,6 G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas emissions (scope 1) 20 Done 7,8 G4-LA14 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using labor practices criteria 107 Done 1,2,6 G4-EN16 Energy indirect greenhouse gas emissions (scope 2) 200 Done 7,8 G4-LA15 Significant actual and potential negative impacts for labor practices in the supply chain and 106 Done 1,2,6 actions taken G4-EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas emissions (scope 3) 200 Done 7,8 Non-discrimination G4-EN18 Greenhouse gas emissions intensity 201 Done 7,8 G4-DMA 150 Done 1,2,6 G4-EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas emissions 201 Done 7,8,9 G4-HR3 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken 150 Done 1,2,6 G4-EN20 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) 200 Done 7,8 Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining G4-EN21 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions by type and weight Those Done 7,8 G4-DMA 168 Done 1,2,3 emissions are G4-HR4 Operations and significant suppliers identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and 168 Done 1,2,3 not relevant collective bargaining may be violated or at significant risk, and actions taken to support these rights PROCESS AUDIT FOR IMPLEMENTATION OF INTRODUCTION 226-227 THE CSR PLAN AT BANK HAPOALIM General Standard Disclosures Description Page External Assurance GC Principle Process Audit for Local Communities G4-DMA 108,112,130 Done NR Implementation of the CSR G4-SO1 Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, impact assessments, and development programs. 108,112,130 Done Plan at Bank Hapoalim G4-SO2 Operations with significant potential or actual negative impacts on local communities. 86 Done G4-FS13 Access points in low-populated or economically disadvantaged areas by type. 52,54,98 Done An external assurance process allows readers of this report to verify the bank's G4-FS14 Initiatives to improve access to financial services for disadvantaged people. 52,54 Done self-reporting, based on independent opinions from professionals. The bank Anti-corruption has decided to expand the control process with regard to the fairness of the G4-DMA 207 Done 10 report on sustainability and CSR. The expansion of these processes and the G4-SO3 Percentage and total number of business units analyzed for risks related to corruption. 216 Done 10 involvement of additional sources of assurance enable the bank to learn from G4-SO4 Communication and training on anticorruption policies and procedures 206,217 Done 10 the feedback received from those conducting the process and provide validation G4-SO5 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken 207 Done 10 of the reliability of the report for stakeholders. The current report underwent Compliance four assurance processes, each focusing on a different aspect of the report: G4-DMA 216 Done 1 G4-SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance 216 Done 1 ■ The CSR and Sustainability Group at BDO Ziv Haft performed routine process with laws and regulations. controls and examined the CSR implementation process at the bank; Product and Service Labeling G4-DMA 22,52,66 Done 8 ■ The firm Adalya performed a due-diligence examination of the report, in G4-PR3 Type of product and service information required by procedures 66 Done 8 accordance with GRI and AccountAbility directives; G4-PR4 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning 66 Done 8 product and service information and labeling G4-PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction 56 Done 8 ■ The Good Energy Initiative examined the quality of the report on the Compliance bank's carbon footprint; G4-DMA 216 Done 1 G4-PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning the 216 Done 1 ■ The report was submitted for the GRI Materiality Disclosures Service, provision and use of products and services. and GRI confirmed the correctness of the locations of the G4 materiality Compliance disclosures (G4-17 G4-27). The report is ‘In Accordance’ with the GRI G4-DMA 22,36,46,86,90 Done NR G4 Guidelines – Comprehensive option. G4-FS6 Percentage of the portfolio for business lines by specific region, size 52 Done (e.g. micro/SME/large) and by sector. G4-FS7 Monetary value of products and services designed to deliver a specific social benefit for each 47 Done business line broken down by purpose. G4-FS8 Monetary value of products and services designed to deliver a specific environmental benefit for each 86 Done business line broken down by purpose. Consultants in the group collected the data processed for this report. This opinion therefore focuses on the work process at the bank. In order to maintain independence, the examination for the purposes of assurance of the report in compliance with GRI requirements was performed by an independent * Not specifically required third party, Adalya. PROCESS AUDIT FOR IMPLEMENTATION OF INTRODUCTION 228-229 THE CSR PLAN AT BANK HAPOALIM BDO Ziv Haft: Process Control for CSR Plan Implementation at Bank Hapoalim This is the ninth year in which the Corporate Social Responsibility (B) Instilling CSR and sustainability values in core activities elements expanded during 2014. In 2014, the bank planned should continue, with implementation in additional units and and Sustainability Department of the BDO Consulting and and in the various units We examined the process of a first-of-its-kind strategic initiative to offer financial guidance areas. At the same time, we recommend working towards Management Group has accompanied Bank Hapoalim in organizational change emerging as part of the implementation and advice to the peri-retirement population; continued systematic, extensive study and knowledge of the content implementing its sustainability and CSR program. The group’s of CSR at the bank. In this context, we examined the relevance to expand business processes supporting the growth and areas of corporate responsibility by employees of the bank. activities focus on monitoring the process and progress of the and added value of the various issues for the activity of the stability of small businesses; and further extended its reach program for sustainability and social, economic, and environmental units. We also examined the manner in which these issues in serving the Arab-Israeli community. Concurrently, activities ■ Strengthening dialogue with stakeholders -During 2014, the responsibility. BDO consultants’ close work with the bank allows were being absorbed into the activity of the units of the bank, continued within the lateral Financial Freedom drive, described bank continued its dialogue with stakeholders. For example, a professional opinion to be provided based on an examination of and whether an ongoing learning process was occurring as a extensively in this report. This effort was expanded in 2014 additional innovative developments were introduced in the the processes performed by the bank throughout 2014 and up to result. The control process also encompassed an examination in order to benefit the bank's employees, as Bank Hapoalim direct banking channels, in order to improve the ability of retail the end of the first quarter of 2015. During this period, the bank of the method of development and implementation of new stakeholders. Through these actions, and others described and business clients to control their accounts; ethical rules, continued the implementation and absorption of sustainability issues arising from reports by the various units. in this report, the bank achieves shared value for itself and which suppliers of the bank are expected to uphold in their and CSR values. The results achieved by the activities reflect its stakeholders. dealings with the bank, were distributed to all of the suppliers; this progress. Our examination of processes and outcomes (C) E xamination of the results of implementation of the program and the bank was involved in a wide range of activities in the demonstrates that progress has been made in several key (effectiveness of absorption) In this stage, we examined ■ Promotion of implementation of aspects of corporate community, including special assistance to businesses and areas: developing data infrastructures and reporting; learning the ways in which the bank had improved its performance responsibility in additional core activities – Within the core residents in southern Israel during Operation Protective Edge. and instilling processes; and examining the results of activities. on the various metrics, led new initiatives at the various units banking activity, we recommend an in-depth examination of The bank also conducts continuous dialogue with Israeli and for activity in this area, developed new banking products, the integration of ESG elements with the bank's investment international analysts with regard to corporate responsibility. Description of the Process and created dialogue with stakeholders, while broadening its activity, as an additional investment channel for customers We recommend continuing this trajectory, which promotes The group performed process controls with regard to the areas influence to the Israeli public. The examination we conducted and as part of risk optimization in the management of the the bank and improves its performance in this field. We also of activity of the bank, designed to ascertain that progress is at this stage enables us to complete the circle of process bank's proprietary portfolio. recommend considering the establishment of a function at the being made in the implementation of the CSR and sustainability controls, in that it examined the relevance of the information bank to coordinate and monitor dialogue and expectations plan. As part of these controls, the bank's progress in three and metrics generated during the CSR program for each of ■ Learning and absorption Outcomes of learning have been with external stakeholders. strata of activity was examined, as the basis for feedback on the issues implemented at the units of the bank, and the absorbed in some units, on a long-term level, as part of their the implementation of the plan: effectiveness of the implementation relative to the goals core business operations. In 2014, the implementation of the In conclusion, additional progress is evident in the new initiatives set in advance. plan for inclusion of social and environmental criteria in the by the bank to embed corporate responsibility principles in its (A) Update and optimization of the information infrastructure purchasing system was expanded significantly; substantial interaction with customers, and with additional stakeholders and metrics for corporate social responsibility management Findings, Conclusion, and Recommendations improvements were introduced in the bank's service system, as well: suppliers, the community, and employees. The Consultants in the department examined the CSR The assurance process encompassed an examination of the as part of a long-term plan; implementation of the long-term measurement, reporting, and presentation of processes and management system at the bank, as an area in which bank’s conduct in the implementation and absorption of its diverse employment plan continued; systemic promotion data on an annual basis over the last eight years, in the CSR integrative management is essential. We examined the sustainability and CSR plan. The process controls allow the of the process of making the bank's services accessible to report, is commendable. The foregoing review contains several feedback and learning of the CSR Administration in connection bank to receive feedback and evaluation of its practices, and to people with disabilities continued; outcomes of community points which in our opinion should be maintained and reinforced with the activity of the various units, the summarization of delineate future objectives accordingly. The results measured in investments were examined; and more. In view of the learning in order to improve the implementation of the plan and preserve results, collection of information, and process optimization. In these activities reflect this progress. However, we would suggest and improved performance achieved, the promotion of learning the bank’s leadership in this area. addition, we reviewed the processes of deriving information four areas to be maintained and reinforced: and processing the information into current metrics for the Dr. Jonathan Menuhin examination of the bank's performance in the various areas ■ Achieving shared value The planning and development of Director of the Corporate Social Responsibility Department and in comparison to the goals and objectives set by the bank. banking products and services involving social or environmental BDO Consulting Group REPORT ASSURANCE INTRODUCTION 230-231 Report Assurance Introduction Findings ADALYA is a business and financial consulting company. Its team of advisors is experienced in a wide range This is the eighth report from Bank Hapoalim, continuing its tradition of reporting comprehensively and voluntarily at the of areas of expertise, including corporate social responsibility. In June 2015, ADALYA was asked by Bank most advanced reporting level available within the Global Reporting Initiative, GRI G4 ('In Accordance – Comprehensive'). Hapoalim to perform a due-diligence test of the bank's CSR report for 2014. ADALYA has no relationship with This advanced reporting structure emphasizes the identification of and reporting on the most material topics within the or dependence on Bank Hapoalim in its business. The process is independent. activity of the reporting organization, with details of its actions in these areas and their impact on all of its stakeholders. These topics were identified through the use of local and international research on the organization's field of activity, Methodology intra-organizational processes, and dialogue with its various stakeholders. Bank Hapoalim successfully identified and The examination of the report was performed based on due-diligence principles in accordance with the reported on these topics, as required by the various reporting and control standards. AccountAbility standard AA1000AS (2008), at the Type 2 (High) testing level. The goal of this examination was to verify the reliability of the data provided in the report through an inspection of the systems, processes, The following matters emerged from the external quality assurance performed by the ADALYA team: and fundamental data presented therein, and through a test of the alignment of the content with the declared reporting level and with the most advanced level of transparency according to the Global Reporting Initiative, ■ Scope of the report The report is comprehensive, and contains extensive information regarding the bank's activities GRI:G4 (In Accordance Comprehensive). in a wide range of areas of social responsibility. The report continues to follow the trajectory of the highest level of reporting, G4, while adding innovations such as a presentation of the achievement of objectives, and summaries of The external test examines the degree of compliance of the report with the principles of the reporting standard: the information in the report, in the introduction, in infographics at the end of each section and at the end of the report, inclusivity, materiality, and responsiveness. The process examines both information and the processes used and in a centralized table covering all of the content areas. In addition, the content areas have been expanded, and to collect and process information, as well as the manner of presentation and transparency of the information. long-term trends and changes are examined. At the same time, the report contains a large amount of data and text, and occasionally provides excessive details of various activities, which may overburden the reader with information. The three principles of the AccountAbility qu ality assurance standard AA1000AS are: We suggest considering a reduction of the volume of the report, in order to focus primarily on the information most relevant to the bank, reflecting its core activities, and specifically on innovations during the reported year. 1. Inclusivity The extent to which the report reflects the participation of the organization's stakeholders in ■ Response to public criticism Over the last few years, the Israeli banking sector has been exposed to a great deal the development and application of responses to strategic sustainability goals. of public criticism. The bank's CSR report is one of its key means of coping with such criticism. In our opinion, a 2. Materiality The extent to which the information reported regarding the company's activity constitutes the more extensive response to this criticism could have been included in the report, in order to allow readers to receive most material and relevant information for the organization's operations and for its stakeholders. A material answers to questions that have arisen in the public debate on these issues, such as bank fee rates, competition among topic is defined as one that affects the decisions, performance, and actions of the bank and of its stakeholders. banks, etc. Further, as part of the report's credibility, we recommend including information that is not necessarily 3. R  esponsiveness The extent to which the reported activity of the organization provides a response to positive, and providing explanations, to the extent possible – both in order to transparently set and present goals, topics raised by stakeholders as influential to the organization's performance in the area of sustainability. and in order to provide a balanced picture of the complex reality faced by the organization. ■ Expansion of the application of ESG (environment, society, and governance) considerations in granting credit and managing risks This report addresses the partial integration of environmental and social considerations into credit granting, in principle. This is a welcome announcement indicating a worthwhile direction; however, as a leader in corporate responsibility in Israel, we believe the bank could provide more details regarding the various criteria The report was also examined for compliance with the quality assurance standard AA1000AS (2008) Type 2 examined, the rating of different transactions, and the quantity and volume of credit transactions considered from High. This examination covered the reliability, clarity, and accuracy of the reported information, the comparability an ESG perspective, including those rejected within this process. of the information, and timetables related to the reported information. Sincerely, Sefi Kedmi As part of this process, the report was read by the ADALYA team; work meetings were held with consultants Corporate Responsibility Department Manager of the bank, in which the various findings of the examination were described; feedback was received, and in ADALYA Consulting & Management certain cases the report was amended according to the recommendations. July 2015 CARBON FOOTPRINT INTRODUCTION 232-233 Carbon Footprint The Good Energy Initiative (Registered Non-Profit Association) according to the prevalent international standards, effected during It should be noted that of the total carbon footprint data of the bank for is a social initiative devoted to climate change. The organization 2008-2013, and the reports to the Israel Greenhouse Gas Emission 2014, 12,700 tons are classified as non-mandatory reporting in scope works towards minimization of greenhouse-gas emissions, which Recording System beginning in 2010. Bank Hapoalim was one 3. Excluding this figure, the carbon footprint would total 69,047 tons. accelerate climate change, while raising public awareness of of the first organizations in Israel to report its carbon footprint. this issue. The initiative plans and operates projects aimed at Components in the Calculation of the Carbon Footprint of the Bank saving energy and integrating renewable-energy technologies, The total carbon footprint of Bank Hapoalim amounted to 81,747 with a community orientation. In addition, it assists public and tons CO2eq in 2014. Greenhouse-gas emissions from the bank's ■ The bank monitors and calculates greenhouse-gas emissions caused by electricity business organizations in reducing greenhouse-gas emissions routine operations mainly derive from electricity consumption at consumption, use of the vehicle fleet, consumption of paper and ink, emission of by gaining an understanding of their carbon footprint, providing the head-office buildings and branches (72.9%), the vehicle fleet coolant gases, purchases of electronic equipment, new construction and renovations, guidance regarding measures to reduce this footprint at source, (10%), construction work, and paper consumption (5% each). employee flights and hotel stays, and water consumption. and performing carbon offsets. The initiative was founded with The carbon footprint decreased by 12,595 tons CO2eq between ■ The bank monitors and measures the reduction of greenhouse-gas emissions at source the assistance of the Heschel Center for Environmental Learning 2013 and 2014. The reduction of greenhouse-gas emissions in achieved by recycling paper, cardboard, ink, electronic waste, and soft-drink bottles. and Leadership, motivated by the ongoing escalation of climate the bank's activity continued for a third consecutive year, with an ■ The preceding reports of the bank presented the reduction of greenhouse-gas emissions and energy crises. impressive decrease of an additional 13.3% in 2014. at source as a result of direct banking; however, a decision was made not to include this information in the presentation of the bank's carbon footprint in this report. This Work Method Summary of Findings component is difficult to quantify, due to the lack of thorough research on this subject Our work is based on prevalent principles for carbon calculation Certain emission sources were reduced, in absolute terms. and the inability to measure and assess the true savings in paper consumption, and marking, developed by the technical work group of the Some emission sources showed a decrease due to a change in transporting of paper through the entire supply chain to the online-banking customer, British government. The data were adapted to Israel based the emission coefficient, while greenhouse-gas emissions from emissions resulting from customers’ use of the Internet, and in particular the reduced on the Israel Greenhouse Gas Emission Recording System – other sources increased in 2014. Significant changes in the number of visits to the bank using private vehicles. Furthermore, emission cutbacks Operating Rules and Reporting Guidelines, issued by the Samuel composition of the emissions: are based on the principle of additionality – i.e., an addition relative to the ordinary Neaman Institute and the Ministry of Environmental Protection business scenario. Given that the use of electronic banking today is a business as in April 2015. Emission coefficients used for these calculations ■ Electricity consumption – Decreased by 4.5% for the year, in usual scenario, it does not have the property of additionality. are national figures published by professional entities such as addition to a 2.1% decrease in the emission coefficient, due ■ It should be noted that extensive activities with environmental and social significance the Public Utility Authority – Electricity, the Central Bureau of to the increasing use of natural gas. described in this report are not reflected in quantitative terms in the calculation of Statistics, and the Samuel Neaman Institute, which is linked to ■ Refrigerant gases – A 73% decrease in emissions, mainly the reduction of the bank’s carbon footprint. The collection of fluorescent light bulbs, the Technion. Emission coefficients for imported products or due to a change in the method of calculation of the emission including mercury removal and safe disposal, as well as the separate collection and products not specific to Israel are congruent with the directives coefficient for the coolant 410; a few percentage points are disposal of batteries, contribute to the reduction of various pollutants and toxins of the World Resources Institute and the Department for the attributed to the continued gradual transition from the more in employees’ environment, in waste-disposal facilities, and in the environment in Environment in the UK, through the professional organization harmful coolant 22 to the coolant 410. general, but do not reduce the emission of greenhouse gases. appointed on its behalf. Consumption data were supplied by ■ Gasoline consumption – A negligible increase of 2.5% ■ The bank does not measure greenhouse-gas emissions from employees' travel in private the bank, and under its responsibility. ■ New construction – An absolute decrease of 50% resulting vehicles, production of solid waste, advertising, travel by suppliers and customers, from construction work. consumption of disposable plastic, gardening services, and cleaning services. Calculation and Reporting of the Carbon Footprint ■ Sewage – The responsibility for emissions resulting from the ■ Beyond the activities within the bank, a noteworthy effort is the significant expansion of Bank Hapoalim treatment of sewage for the bank's employees was transferred of the project for separation of electronic waste, initiated and operated by the bank, In 2014, the bank continued to improve its carbon monitoring and to the purification plants this year, in accordance with the to additional Israeli towns; there is no doubt that this worthwhile project contributed reporting, further to the transition to analysis of its carbon footprint directives of the Emissions Reporting System. to higher public awareness and more accessible recycling in this area. Graphic Design: Studio Merhav
