Communication on Progress 2014 1 HL Display’s corporate responsibility programme is ­established and decided by the Board of Directors. The work is headed by the Company’s Product Development Director with the support of other members of Group management. The Group’s local entities have a high level of responsibility for day-to-day sustainability work, particularly with regard to environmental issues at the production facilities. Participant in UN Global Compact HL Display has been a participant in the UN Global Compact since 2010. “ At HL Display, we are engaged in ­ ontinuous improvement work in the area c of corporate responsibility. Through our membership in the UN Global Compact, Corporate responsibility we demonstrate that we support the UN’s ­fundamental values and that we integrate their ten principles on human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption into our strategy, culture and day-to-day programme ” business. Gérard Dubuy President and CEO HL Display Human rights UN Global Compact principles Policy documents Principle 1 HL Display has developed clear guidelines for corporate Businesses should support and respect the protection of responsibility work. The two most important documents internationally proclaimed human rights; and are HL Display’s Corporate R ­ esponsibility policy and the Company’s Code of ­Conduct, which are reviewed by the Principle 2 Board each year. make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses. The Code of Conduct is a key policy document and a culture carrier that ­HL Display wants to permeate the Company. It is linked to other ­principles, including HL Display’s Code of Conduct expresses clear statements of those enshrined in the UN Global Compact. The Code position ensuring that the Company supports and respects the of ­Conduct clarifies the ­fundamental ­principles that protection of human rights and that the Company is not complicit HL Display expects every employee to follow. It in human rights abuses. ­contains ­information about how the Company views its Making sure all employees are aware of the contents of the ­responsibility in terms of social and ethical, as well as Code of Conduct and that they agree to comply with it is an environmental issues. The areas of responsibility described important part of the work to secure that HL Display is not include human rights, employee rights, environment, complicit in human rights abuses. All employees within the anti-corruption, conflicts of interest and competition. The Group have the Code of Conduct explained to them and then ­Corporate Responsibility Policy and the Code of Conduct sign it. A reminder of the Code is provided each year in the interact with other policies governing the C­ ompany’s annual performance review between employee and manager. corporate responsibility work. These include HL Display’s Suppliers that HL Display engages must sign the Company’s external and internal environmental policy, purchasing purchasing policy, thereby undertaking to comply with areas policy and common operational policy for the production such as respect for human rights. See also the Cooperation with facilities. suppliers section on page 3. Historically, HL Display has a very low risk related to human rights. No incidents related to human rights were reported during 2014 (2013: 0). 2 Corporate responsibility programme Labour Cooperation with suppliers UN Global Compact principles HL Display has clear requirements for its suppliers of production inputs and products. A central component Principle 3 of work in this area is that all suppliers must sign Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the HL Display’s purchasing policy. By signing the document effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; suppliers agree to meet defined requirements in several areas. These include compliance with ILO (International Principle 4 Labour Organization) conventions and other principles the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; related to human rights and labour. In addition, there are clear guidelines on business ethics (corruption) and Principle 5 environment. Failure to comply with the purchasing the effective abolition of child labour; and policy can lead to the contract being cancelled. Principle 6 HL Display regularly makes site visits and audits of the the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and company’s most important suppliers. These will be occupation. audited at least once every other year, but the majority gets a visit from HL Display every year. HL Display is a multicultural company. It therefore goes without The audit is made up of two parts. The first part concern saying that the Company will endeavour to give all its employees if suppliers fully understand and apply HL Display’s equal opportunities for professional development, promotion and requirements in accordance with the purchasing policy. pay growth, regardless of background, gender, ethnicity or age. The second part relates to the production organisation. Representatives from HL Display perform a review of Working conditions and standards the workshop based on a number of p ­ redefined criteria, basically making sure that the workshop is at the level The working conditions and standards that HL Display follows required to produce for HL Display. are clearly defined in the Code of Conduct. In brief, these include a clear statement of position in favour of freedom of The result of the audit is a rating from A, which is the association and the right to collective bargaining, and an equally rating of a top supplier, to D, which is the worst rating clear position against forced labour, child labour and all forms leading to an immediate cancellation of the cooperation. of discrimination. In addition, HL Display will offer a working The B and C ratings imply that improvements are environment that is healthy, safe and in accordance with internaneeded in various degrees. tional standards and local laws for all employees. HL Display is keen to follow collective agreements in countries where such agreements are in place. In general, the terms of employment that HL Display applies are in accordance with local laws and applicable collective agreements, whether the employees Whistleblower function choose to be unionised or not. There is a further emphasis on the working environment in A whistleblowing function has been in operation at HL Display’s working environment policy. The policy states, HL Display since 2013. The function enables e ­ mployees for example, that HL Display will respect European health and to report malpractice to a central unit. This will safety standards in its factories, respect employees’ freedom of ­complement the natural dialogue that takes place ­association at all workplaces in accordance with the principles of between employees and managers about malpractice the ILO and UN, and work systematically to ensure compliance at the Company. with legal requirements. HL Display also expects its suppliers to adhere to the same During 2014 an additional whistleblowing channel was standards in these areas. Suppliers are required to sign the added. It is a global and secure whistleblowing service ­Company’s purchasing policy, thereby undertaking compliance called Whistleblowing Centre, which is part of TripleB, with ILO conventions and similar principles on working ­conditions. a Swedish sustainability consultancy. By using the site See also the Cooperation with suppliers section to the right. the employee is guaranteed anonymity when reporting malpractice. Employee development Examples of malpractice that HL Display wants to pick The basis of HL Display’s efforts to develop employees and create up by introducing whistleblowing channels include a talent base in the Company consists of two processes – HL Plus non-compliance with local laws or breaches of ­ and the Annual Employee Review. All HL Display employees are HL Display’s Code of Conduct in areas such as human covered by these processes. rights, labour and anti-corruption. Within these processes, performance appraisals are conducted, in which employees are given clear targets for their work. During Information that comes through the whistleblowing the appraisals, employees also receive clear guidance through channels will be investigated centrally. If the malpractice discussion of the work priorities for the coming year. A long-term proves to be well founded and correct, it will result development plan is also produced. More information about in disciplinary and, where applicable, legal action. HL Display’s employees can be found on page 6-7. 3 Corporate responsibility programme Employee facts 2014 2013 Number of employees as of December 31 970 1,155 Gender structure, % Male 62 60 Female 38 40 Education level, % University 37 37 Upper secondary school 34 37 Compulsory school 28 26 Investment in staff training Total, MSEK 0.6 1 Per employee, KSEK 1 1 Costs related to health promotion activities Per employee, KSEK 1 1 Number of workplace accidents leading to absence or sick leave 38 45 Health and safety in the workplace guarantee that they comply with all applicable environmental laws and ­regulations in the country where they operate. They Health and safety is monitored ­continuously at HL Display’s must also sign a written undertaking with regard to REACH facilities. Health risks at the Company are mainly associated with (the EU’s chemicals legislation). HL Display’s major suppliers production. By carrying out preventive work, HL Display aims to are large international producers of plastic raw materials, which ensure safe workplaces with a good working environment. The have their own comprehensive environmental programmes Company regularly updates its safety procedures and examines in place. different risk factors. HL Display has established processes which are designed to provide local managers, mainly at the production ISO 14001 Certification facilities, with methods for optimal management of sickness absence. Certification under the ISO 14001 environmental ­management The number of workplace accidents leading to absence or sick standard has been an important part of HL Display’s leave in 2014 was 38 (2013: 45). No fatal accidents occurred. ­environmental work. The majority of HL Display’s factories were certified under the standard as long ago as the late 1990s. Changes in the production structure in recent years mean that the proportion of factories with ISO 14001 certification has fallen to Environment 50 percent. The factories in Sweden and China have ISO 14001 certification. This is a temporary decline and it is HL Display’s UN Global Compact principles aim that its factories in Poland and the UK will be certified as soon as this is practicable. Principle 7 Businesses should support a ­precautionary approach Raw materials to environmental challenges; HL Display’s main raw material is plastic, notably PVC. See the Principle 8 table below for more details about raw materials use. undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental HL Display complies with REACH, the EU’s chemicals responsibility; and ­legislation, and this is taken into account in the Company’s approval of new materials. No substances classified as SVHC Principle 9 (Substances of Very High Concern) may be used, and the presence encourage the development and ­diffusion of of phase-out substances is also checked. environmentally friendly technologies. Raw materials and HL Display’s Corporate Responsibility Policy and Code of input goods 2014 % (2013) Conduct define the fundamental guidelines that the Company follows with regard to environmental impacts. PVC 43.2 (40.5) HL Display has four production ­facilities, which are located PET 14.7 (14.1) in Sweden, Poland, the UK and China. The main environmental Polystyrene (PS) 4.8 (7.7) impacts of HL Display’s production are related to plastic waste, ABS 7.5 (6.1) Other plastic materials 4.6 (5.3) use of plastic raw materials and energy ­consumption. The Packaging materials 11.2 (12.9) ­Company has a presence in approximately 40 markets, which Aluminium, steel and wire 8.9 (8.3) means that shipments of products also represent a source of Other materials 5.1 (5.1) environmental impacts. HL Display also defines environmental requirements for its suppliers in the Company’s purchasing policy. Suppliers must 4 Corporate responsibility programme Waste management, metric ton Packaging Mixed Other safe Total safe Hazardous Total Plastic Metal material material waste waste waste Re-use own production 133 – – – – 133 – Recycled externally 1,286 325 131 148 2 1,892 1 Recycled for heating – – – 273 – 273 – Deposit – – – – 102 102 7 Waste management The waste generated at HL Display’s factories consists largely of plastic. HL Display addresses the problem of waste in production in two ways. The first is to reduce plastic waste generated in production by streamlining production processes where possible. The second is to recycle plastic and other waste as far as possible. HL Display’s goal is that all waste from production will eventually be recyclable. Total waste at the Company’s production facilities in 2014 was 2,408 tonnes (2013: 2,551 tonnes), and 95.5 percent of this was recycled (2013: 94.9 percent). Energy consumption HL Display’s direct electricity consumption in production was 25.5 GWh in 2014 (2013: 26.6 GWh). Various measures for reducing electricity consumption are being implemented at the factories. These range from heating the premises using waste heat from machinery to installing time-controlled lighting. Under an energy agreement signed with the electricity supplier Vattenfall in 2010, HL Display’s Sundsvall factory and logistics centre in Falkenberg run entirely on hydrogenerated electricity. This is a conscious choice on HL Display’s part and the Company pays a somewhat higher electricity fee for using its transport and requires these suppliers to have environmental renewable energy. programmes in place. Water is used primarily for cooling in certain of HL Display’s The majority of shipments are by truck, for example from the production processes, in particular the cooling of extruded European factories to the European hubs, and from the hubs to and injection moulded plastic products in waterbaths. In 2014, the customers. Sea transport is the primary shipping method for 344,163 m3 of water were used at the Group’s production ready-made goods from Asia as well as tools bought in Asia for facilities (2013: 347,346 m3). Several of HL Display’s factories use in the European factories. use closed cooling water systems for injection ­moulding in order HL Display constantly endeavours to improve transport to reduce water consumption. efficiency by increasing the number of products per package and reducing package size. The ability for a product to be efficiently packaged is taken into consideration already in the product development phase. Energy consumption 2014 The Company’s fleet of vehicles Electricity “green” (MWh)* 15,773 Electricity (MWh) 4,566 It is HL Display’s aim to gradually reduce CO2 emissions from its fleet of vehicles. The Company has four different categories of Gas (MWh) 5,157 vehicles and there are limits on CO2 emissions for each category. Water (m3) 344,163 These limits are reviewed every 12-18 months to see if they can * Electricity from renewable sources. be lowered. Respect for the environment in all our operations Transport HL Display endeavours to promote a high level of environmental awareness in everyday activities at its offices around the world. HL Display has sales companies and ­distributors in Western and This means collecting and sorting paper, packaging material and Eastern Europe, Asia, the Middle East and South Africa. This old electronic equipment and ensuring they are sent for recycling. means that transport is a major part of HL Display’s environ­ HL Display has been using telephone and video conferences mental impacts. HL Display engages third-party suppliers for as an alternative to travel between offices for many years now. 5 Corporate responsibility programme With technological development and the launch of services such as Skype, Google Hangout and others, the use of video conferencing at HL Display has increased further. This means HL Display’s lower travel costs for the Company and a reduction in the environmental impacts of business travel. HR work Anti-Corruption HL Display is an international company that strives to occupy a market-leading position in its areas of operation. This in turn UN Global Compact principles places great demands on employees’ skills and abilities, as it is ultimately their expertise, motivation and drive that enables ­ Principle 10 HL Display to continuously strengthen its market position. Businesses should work against c ­ orruption in all its forms, including ­extortion and bribery. Employee development HL Display has two processes – HL Plus and the Annual HL Display’s Code of Conduct demonstrates the Company’s Employee Review – which form the basis of efforts to develop strong position against corruption. HL Display will maintain a employees. All HL Display employees are covered by these efforts. good reputation for honesty, integrity and taking responsibility. HL Plus is a performance review process, with associated online This means that HL Display will not tolerate involvement in tools, where employees are given clear work targets that are bribery, extortion or corruption in any form. followed up twice a year. For employees with a variable salary – typically those in the sales organisation – the HL Plus targets are Corruption identified as a risk area linked to key ratios that show performance against the targets and are used to determine the size of the variable salary. The risk analyses that HL Display has conducted have identified During the review, employees also receive clear guidance in corruption as the area where the Company has the greatest the form of a discussion on work priorities for the coming year. risks. Risks are mainly associated with purchases made in local A long-term development plan is also produced. markets. The risk is lower for large purchases of raw materials Within the framework of the Annual Employee Review, for ­production, for example. This is because the counterparties the immediate supervisor makes an overall assessment of the are large international suppliers which share HL Display’s high employee’s performance and results. The assessment is validated standards in the area of anti-corruption. by the manager’s own immediate supervisor. Employees are also The risk of corruption also exists in customer relationships. assessed on parameters such as motivation and potential to take HL Display operates in some risk markets, where some parties on new challenges and positions. try to facilitate deals by making direct payments to individuals The Annual Employee Review work is important for several in the client company. reasons. It makes it possible to establish relevant activities to strengthen employees in their professional roles. It is also an Several measures in place important tool for identifying and creating a talent base of against corruption individuals with the potential to make a career at HL Display. To combat corruption, all employees must sign HL Display’s Employee survey conducted Code of Conduct, which contains clear rules of practice with regard to corruption. This is also followed up each year in Towards the end of 2014, work began on a global employee the annual performance review. The whistleblowing function survey; Organisational Health Index, which was conducted across has given HL Display an additional tool for detecting possible the organisation at the beginning of 2015. corruption in the Group. The aim was to determine how the organisation is performing Increased centralisation and control of purchasing activities in nine defined areas that affect how HL Display performs as a also plays an important part in the Company’s anti-corruption company, and to identify and implement improvements based on efforts. Any local suppliers that HL Display wishes to engage the results. in the regions must be validated centrally. This ensures that the HL Display has achieved good results in areas related to prices and other terms are in line with the Company’s other Accountability and Control and coordination. This indicates collaborations. Under the local purchasing procedures, the that employees know what is expected of them and how their individual placing a purchase order is not the one who identifies performance is monitored and measured. HL Display sees this as and selects a supplier. evidence that the Company’s efforts on performance management In the selling activity, agreed prices are entered into have had a positive impact on the organisation. The survey also HL Display’s ERP system. Invoicing and customer payments shows a generally high level of motivation and commitment to the relating to each order are controlled by the Company’s back-office company success, among employees. function and are completely separate from field sales. HL Display On the other hand, HL Display’s result regarding the Direction had one (1) corruption-related incident that led to disciplinary of the company was not so good, indicating that employees do action in 2014 (2013: 1 incident). not have a sufficiently clear picture of the Company’s overall strategies and direction. To act on the result, HL Display has implemented a number of measures. These include a road show, at which HL Display’s goals and strategies, new vision, mission and core values have been presented to all employees of the 6 Corporate responsibility programme Company. At the same time, the Company has started work to Number of employees Age distribution develop a new global intranet that will support improved internal 600 400 communications. 500 Learning at work 224 300 79 400 50 125 A natural part of efforts to develop employees involves 20 300 200 ­strengthening their skills, and in doing so supporting their 199 ­professional development. It is HL Display’s aim for this 200 69 ­development to be achieved through learning at work. This 343 100 73 3 involves employees being given positive challenges, such as 100 183 3 through new tasks and coaching from their manager, which 78 0 65 continuously increase their skills. 0 0 Sweden Other Asia <20 21-30 31-40 This is complemented by targeted training for different Europe employee groups. Training in 2014 included concept selling Women Asia for parts of the sales organisation. Other examples are product Men Other Europe training, language and technical training. Sweden Quality-assured recruitment Number of employees Age distribution During 2014, HL Display developed the recruitment process in 600 400 all markets, adding several assessment criteria to the process. All HR representatives around the world500 have been licensed in the use of test methods for testing and evaluating candidates’ 224aptitude 300 79 50 14 and personality. This provides extra 400 support to ensure that the 125 candidates selected have the right skills and qualities for the 300 200 20 position. The tests are used in all recruitment for senior positions 151 and the role of key account manager. 199 200 69 4 It is HL Display’s aim (for 2015) to increase the proportion 343 100 1 3 72 of the recruitment needs filled through100internal 183 recruitment. 73 17 3 110 9 HL Display has therefore started efforts to further encourage 78 65 48 0 internal mobility and strengthen internal0 recruitment. Maintaining 0 Sweden Other Asia <20 21-30 31-40 41-50 51-60 >60 a high proportion of internal recruitment would reduce both Europe costs and risks associated with recruitment. A high proportion Women Asia of internal recruitment also means that the corporate Men culture Other Europe is maintained. Sweden 7 HL DISPLAY AB (publ) BOX 1118, Cylindervägen 18 info@hl-display.com SE-131 26 Nacka Strand www.hl-display.com Phone: +46 8 683 73 00 Fax: +46 8 683 73 01 8
