annual report 2014 2 2014 Annual Report Introduction G4-18; G4-22; G4-23; G4-24; G4-25; G4-26; G4-28; G4-29; G4-30; G4-32; G4-33 Embraer is pleased to present its 2014 Annual Report, which reflects the importance attach to corporate values play within the business strategy. This in turn is focused on the constant pursuit of ever-higher levels of excellence. The Company’s activities are oriented towards sharing value with its stakeholder groups. This report has been therefore structured around Embraer’s principal stakeholders — shareholders, clients, people (including employees), partners (including suppliers), society and the environment — while presenting the corporate values that relate to each. th For the 7 consecutive year, the report follows Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) guidelines, in line with version GRI G4 Guidelines under the in accordance – option Core. The indicators presented here cover the period from 1st January to 31st December 2014. The report also takes into account the requirements of the Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI) and the Brazilian Corporate Sustainability Index (ISE), as well as the ten principles of the United Nations Global Compact, of which the Company has been a signatory since 2008. KPMG Independent Auditors audited the financial statements, which were compiled in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). The socio-environmental data was compiled and verified internally. Significant data changes that affect comparability from one year to the next are highlighted in footnotes or text throughout the report. A Model to Create More Value 3 A Model to Create More Value Materiality Matrix G4-19; G4-27; G4-37; G4-43; G4-45 consultation entailed interviews with internal and external stakeholders, an assessment of expectations regarding sustainability With the aim of positioning sustainability issues more squarely issues and an evaluation of best practices in other companies, both within the strategic framework and channeling resources to areas within and outside the industry in which Embraer operates. that create the greatest value for the company and its main stakeholder groups, Embraer carried out a consultation process to The resulting matrix was endorsed by the company’s top identify the most important corporate social responsibility issues to directors and an identified the key areas for management focus: be addressed in its Materiality Matrix. governance; environment; people; value chain; and products, services and customers. The consultation was carried out through the course of 2012 and revised in 2013. As the issues can alter over time due to changes in Managing Sustainability G4-20; G4-21 societal concerns as well as in the business, the Materiality Matrix must be a dynamic tool. The company envisages its revision every Sustainability in its economic, social and environmental dimensions three years as an aid to business decision-making. forms part of Embraer’s strategic objectives and is fundamental for good business and the Company’s long-term future. The Matrix was designed with the assistance of an external consultancy. Along with business and strategy analysis, the The Materiality Matrix provides the basis for the Sustainability Master Plan, which seeks to establish strategic directives and longterm goals, adhering to relevant legal norms and Embraer’s own • Natural resources and • Ethics sustainability directives. waste management • Attraction, development • Atmospheric emissions • Noise and retention of talent • Human rights and • Product safety The Sustainability Master Plan spans three years (2015-2017) worker rights • Health and safety and is comprehensive, with the exception of water, energy, waste and atmospheric emissions indicators, which are initially derived Importance for stakeholders • Transparency and • Chemical substances communication management from Faria Lima, Eugênio de Melo, Taubaté, ELEB, Gavião Peixoto • Environmental life• Supply chain • Preventing cycle management management and Botucatu. Together these units account for 89% of Embraer’s inappropriate use of product • Socio-economic development of • Export controls • New sustainable workforce. In future, the collection and consolidation of global local community business activities, environmental indicators will enable the Plan’s second cycle, • Research, development products and services and innovation beginning in 2018, to define whole strategies for the whole company. An annual review will identify possible adjustments needed to the • Biodiversity • Engagement with • Crisis management • Philanthropy and official bodies • Data privacy Plan, taking into account growth strategies and always in line with volunteering • Local production chain and security •Dematerialization Embraer’s core value ‘We build a sustainable future’. The Sustainability Committee is an integral part of the Company’s Influence on business strategy governance structure and is charged with assessing and proposing Governance Environment People Value Chain Products, Services and Clients relevant strategies, indicators and goals to top leadership. 4 2014 Annual Report SUSTAINABILITY MASTER PLAN: MAIN GOALS G4-2 Issue Indicator Goal Ethics % Adherence to compliance policies and procedures 100% Attraction, development % Favorability rating on organizational climate survey 80% and retention of talent No. Hours of training per year 500,000 hours/year Retention of type approval certificates for 100% of relevant accreditations commercial and executive aircraft Product safety Retention of appropriate company accreditations across all 100% of relevant accredited sites Embraer premises identified as relevant by Business Units. Development of new system for managing chemical Phase I – definition and structure: through February 2015 Chemical substances substances, to ensure adequate knowledge of chemical Phase II – platform design and data entry: through December 2016 management composition of product line in order to conform to Phase III – full system operation by December 2017 current and future environmental legislation % Suppliers classified as ‘highly environmentally Supply chain management 0% risky’ in risk assessments Export controls % Adherence to export control policies and procedures 100% of areas covered by compliance assessment survey New sustainable Number of new business activities, products and business activities, Launch project demonstrating incorporation of sustainability principles each year services that incorporate Sustainability precepts products and services Energy consumption (MWh) per aircraft equivalent 3% reduction in electricity consumption per aircraft equivalent, using 2014 as base year 3 Water consumption (m ) per head 4% reduction in water consumption per head, relative to 2014 base year 3% reduction in generation of overall waste per US$1m of revenue Generation of waste solids/net revenue 3% reduction in generation of toxic waste per US$1m of revenue; using 2013 as base year for both Management of natural resources and waste % Of industrial (manufacturing) units and Embraer 100% of industrial units and service centers operating in 2014 hold ISO certification service centers with ISO 14001 certification 14001. New facilities to achieve certification within three years of inauguration 100% of industrial units and service centers operating in 2014 mapped for environmental % Of industrial (manufacturing) units and Embraer liabilities (with respective action plans). New building acquisitions, new installations and business service centers assessed for environmental liabilities activities must be preceded by environmental liability due diligence assessment, with a view to ensuring Company gains access to relevant information required for decision making 3% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions (scopes 1+2) per Greenhouse gas emissions (scopes 1+2)/net revenue* * Atmospheric emissions US$1m of revenue; using 2013 as base year VOC emissions/net revenue 3% reduction in VOC emissions per US$1m of revenue, using 2014 as base year Human rights and % Of individual suits and cases arising from Standard of excellence in the market, below the national average for companies worker rights employee complaint per employee of similar size according to individual country regulatory authorities Lost Time Injury Rate (LTIR) 30% reduction in LTIR relative to 2014 Worker health and safety % Of industrial (manufacturing) units and Embraer 100% of industrial units and service centers operating in 2014 have OHSAS 18001 service centers with OHSAS 18001 certification certification. New facilities to be certified within three years of inauguration Transparency and % Of indicators addressed in company’s Global Annual GRI report – comprehensive level communication Reporting Initiative (GRI) report. Incorporate environmental standards, beyond those addressing Environmental requirements in product development noise and emissions, in 100% of new products launched Environmental life-cycle Use DfE Matrix to assess 100% of new products launched; for existing products, management of product Use of simplified life cycle assessment (DfE Matrix) assess products equivalent to at least 50% of Embraer’s revenue Client-oriented at end of product life cycle Create document containing strategic directives for end of life cycle for Embraer’s products Balanced Score Card (BSC) average for results of projects Score 4 (on a scale of 0 to 5) supported each year by Social Partnership Program Number of Embraer volunteers engaged in Local socioeconomic Entrepreneurship, Social Partnership and other 20% increase in number of employee volunteers, relative to base year of 2014 development programs supported by Embraer Institute Pass rate of Embraer School Students Maintain pass rate above 80% for Embraer School students in university entrance exams Continuous increase in percentage of annual investment in technology Research, development Share of annual investment in technology development development applied to projects yielding environmental gains, reaching at and innovation applied to environmentally beneficial projects least 50% of the total by 2017 (for resources to be invested in 2018) * For the purpose of setting goals for reducing GHG emissions, development flights and flights related to certification applications and new products will be excluded TABLE OF CONTENTS 5 TABLE OF CONTENTS Message from the President & CEO 6 Company profile 8 Innovation 14 Clients 16 Commercial Aviation 19 Executive Aviation 21 Defense & Security 23 Shareholders 28 Strategy and management 30 Entrepreneurial Excellence Program 32 Governance 32 Financial highlights 45 People 48 Partners 64 Society and the environment 68 Social responsibility 70 Environmental responsibility 73 GRI Index 80 Acknowledgements 86 6 2014 Annual Report Message from the President & CEO G4-1; G4-2 Dear Shareholders, In 2014 we saw significant challenges as well as commercial the US and Europe. The other model in the family, the Legacy 450, triumphs, advances in product development and an expansion was presented for the first time in the US and is expected to achieve of manufacturing operations. Thanks to all our professionals’ certification during 2015. commitment to continuous improvement within the framework of our Entrepreneurial Excellence Program (P3E), we achieved solid We also had a good year in Embraer Defense & Security, with the financial results. production of the first prototype of the KC-390 cargo carrier, which made its maiden flight in February 2015, along with the signing of a contract During the year we generated 14.9 billion reals in revenue and an for its serialization. We unveiled the first A-29 Super Tucano light attack operational profit of 1.3 billion reals. In addition, during the third aircraft manufactured in Jacksonville, Florida (USA) and made headway quarter the value of our firm order backlog reached an historic high with the Integrated Border Monitoring System and Strategic Defense of US$22.1 billion. From the cash flow standpoint, longer effective and Communications Geostationary Satellite programs in Brazil, all in line payment cycles on the part of some clients impinged on the outturn, with their planned timetables and budgets. resulting in a negative balance of 824m reals at year-end. It is also relevant to note the great effort applied to new product development We mustn’t forget to highlight Embraer’s winning of the National and productivity improvements, entailing investments in excess of Quality Prize. Conferred by the Brazilian National Quality Foundation, 1.2 billion reals during the year. this is one of the most prestigious awards for managerial excellence. Embraer’s recognition in 2014 largely reflects its high employee Performance in 2014 has reinforced our confidence in Embraer’s satisfaction ratings; these reached 86% in 2014 and contributed to continuing soundness and strong competitive position. The planned the Company being declared one of the Best Places to Work in Latin launch of five new product lines over the next six years will provide America (Great Place to Work Institute) and receiving special mention significant leverage for business results during the next two decades in the Best Places to Start a Career prize (Você S/A magazine). In Commercial Aviation, which totaled 92 deliveries in the year, we In 2014 we maintained our focus on innovation and created the made headway in developing the second generation of E-Jets (E2), Aerospace Investment Fund (FIP), the first of its kind in Latin maintaining our leadership position in the market for 70-130 seat America. The idea for the fund started with our Innova Program, aircraft. In October, our unit in Évora (Portugal) turned out the first which encourages Embraer’s teams to constantly develop innovative E190-E2, which we envisage will be certified and in service by the end projects. Another highlight was the inauguration of the Engineering of 2018. The E195-E2 and E175-E2 will complete the family, entering and Technology Center in Melbourne, Florida (USA), modeled on the service in 2019 and 2020 respectively. one already operating in Belo Horizonte (Minas Gerais). In Executive Aviation, which closed 2014 with 116 deliveries, a We renewed our commitment to the UN’s Global Compact and milestone achievement was the Legacy 500’s certification in Brazil, retained our listings on the Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI), the Message from the President & CEO 7 “Performance in 2014 has reinforced our confidence in Embraer’s continuing soundness and strong competitive position. The planned launch of five new product lines over the next six years will provide significant leverage for business results during the next two decades.” New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) and the Corporate Sustainability Index of the BM&FBovespa (ISE). In the social sphere, the Embraer Institute invested in developing quality education programs, community partnerships and activities oriented towards volunteering, entrepreneurship and preserving the history of the aeronautics industry. Finally, I’d like to emphasize that all strategic decisions are guided by a set of beliefs expressed by our corporate values: “Our people are what make us fly”; “We are here to serve our customers”; “We strive for company excellence”; “Boldness and innovation are our hallmarks”; “We build a sustainable future”; and “Global presence is our frontier”. Together, these values establish the foundation for the Company’s long-term success. In 2015 we will continue our evolution from being a Brazilian company that exports to the world to a global company headquartered in Brazil. We will remain committed to investing in our people and to maintaining ethical and professional relationships with our clients, shareholders, partners, the local community and the environment. On behalf of Embraer’s management team, I would like to thank everyone for their contribution towards our accomplishments and financial results in 2014. At the same time, I would like to reinforce our commitment to building the business’s future and longevity with integrity, passion and knowhow. Frederico Fleury Curado President & CEO profile 10 2014 Annual Report A BRAZILIAN COMPANY WITH GLOBAL OPERATIONS With its focus on entrepreneurial excellence, Embraer is one of the leading players in the global aviation industry G4-3; G4-7; G4-9 E mbraer is a Brazilian company that is a global leader in the 19,167 aerospace sector. Its areas of operation are the design, development, manufacture and sale of aircraft and systems, in addition to after-sales services. The Company seeks to deliver full satisfaction to its clients and generate shareholder value through a focus on talent, organizational directly employed, in Brazil and elsewhere excellence and innovation, supporting sustainable operations of 215 worldwide reach. aircraft delivered in 2014 ADDITIONAL HIGHLIGHTS OF 2014: R$ R$ »» Market leader for commercial jets with up to 130 seats »» More than 5,000 aircraft delivered on all 3.81 14.9 continents (as of 2014) billion billion »» 2,073 employees abroad »» US$20.9 billion firm order backlog reals in exports reals in net in 2014 revenue in 2014 profile 11 Business philosophy “We are here to serve our customers” Customer is earned by delivering full satisfaction and by building OUR VISION strong and enduring relationships. Partnerships are based on genuine commitment and flexibility. Embraer will further consolidate its position as one of the leading forces in the global aeronautics and defense and security industries. “We strive for company excellence” Embraer is a market leader in the segments in which it operates and The Company’s activities are conceived with simplicity, agility, flexibility, commands a reputation for excellence. and safety in mind, along with a sustained pursuit of continuous improvement and excellence. An entrepreneurial outlook based on OUR VALUES coordinated planning, wise delegation, and disciplined execution. Embraer’s values unify and guide its employees’ attitudes, “Boldness and innovation are our hallmarks” maximizing potential and ensuring the Company’s long-term Company in the technological vanguard, with a capacity for future. These values are a set of beliefs that guide the business and continuous learning; transforming from within and influencing the strategic decision-making at all levels of the hierarchy on a daily markets in which it operates. A strategic vision and an ability to basis. Legitimized by collective formulation, Embraer’s values are a overcome challenges with creativity and courage. genuine part of the culture and daily routine, creating a solid ethical foundation. “Global presence is our frontier” Global presence and local actions underpin the Company’s competitive “Our people are what make us fly ” advantage, leveraging the best of each of the locations in which it Happy, capable, valued, and fulfilled people who are committed to operates. A vision of a borderless world that values diversity. what they do. People who work as teams and who act with integrity, coherence, “We build a sustainable future” trust in each other and respect for diversity. A constant striving to consolidate the foundations for long-term success, delivering profitability to shareholders and heedful of quality of life, the environment and the community in general. 12 2014 Annual Report Embraer’s business is to create shareholder value by fully satisfying its clients, securing the company’s long-term future in an ethical and socio-environmentally conscious manner. BUSINESS UNITS G4-4 Brazil’s defense and security systems, besides providing products and The Company is focused on four business areas, outlined below: solutions to more than 50 armed forces around the world. It makes aircraft for light attack and training, tactical military transport, and Commercial Aviation conveyance of official personnel as well as special missions. It is Serves the needs of airline companies, helping them maintain a also active in aircraft modernization; radar manufacturing; air traffic competitive edge. Embraer counts more than 90 airlines among its control systems and intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance customers, across more than 60 countries and with more than 1,600 systems. Either directly or through fully controlled companies, aircraft in service. The Company leads the market segment for 70-130 Embraer Defense & Security participates in national strategic seat aircraft, accounting for more than 50% of accumulated global projects such as the F-X2 program, the Strategic Defense and sales and 60% of deliveries worldwide. In 2014, as it commemorated Communications Geostationary Satellite (Satélite Geoestacionário the tenth anniversary of the first E-Jet’s entry into service, Embraer de Defesa e Comunicações Estratégicas SGDC) and the Integrated celebrated a fresh milestone with the delivery of the 1,100th E-Jet. Border Monitoring System (Sistema Integrado de Monitoramento de The second generation of the E-Jets family (E-Jets E2) captured Fronteiras Sisfron). 210 firm orders and 380 commitments to buy, including Purchase Options, Purchase Rights and Letters of Intent. Embraer Systems Operates in the development and integration of complex systems for Executive Aviation sectors other than aviation and defense. These entail intelligent and Since entering this segment of the market in 2002 with the launch integrated systems for critical and regulated operations that require of the Legacy Jet in its Shuttle and Executive versions, Embraer has high-technology management and control tools of exceptional consolidated a position as one of the world’s leading manufacturers strength, reliability, safety and efficiency. of executive jets. In 2005, Embraer formalized its long-term commitment to this segment with the creation of Embraer Executive ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT G4-EC8 Jets. Its portfolio is the most extensive in the industry and comprises the Phenom 100E, Phenom 300, Legacy 450, Legacy 500, Legacy Embraer contributes to economic development via export of its 600, Legacy 650 and Lineage 1000E. Embraer’s executive jets offer products and the creation of new technologies and processes. As clients unique advantages in terms of comfort, operational costs, Brazil’s leader in the aircraft production value chain, Embraer’s maintenance and cutting-edge technology. After ten years in the activities—from conception through development, manufacture market for Executive Aviation, there are more than 850 Embraer and after-sales service—have helped to generate (both directly and executive jets in service in more than 60 countries. The Company indirectly) thousands of jobs for skilled workers, strengthen the supports its clients through a global network of 75 proprietary and national supply chain and stimulate local economies. authorized service centers, in addition to spare-part distribution For the year, Embraer’s exports totaled US$3.81 billion, ranking it centers and a world-class client service center, available 24/7. seventh among Brazilian exporters and making it the country’s Embraer Defense & Security leading exporter of high value added goods. Embraer Defense & Security plays a strategic role in strengthening profile 13 United Kingdom Netherlands Farnborough Amsterdã Ireland Dublin Portugal Évora USA France Alverca – China Nashville Villepinte Ogma Beijing Fort Lauderdale Le Bourget Harbin – Heai Melbourne United Mesa Arab Windsor Locks Emirates Jacksonville Dubai Singapore Singapura Brazil São José dos Campos Gavião Peixoto Botucatu Taubaté Brasília Belo Horizonte São Paulo Rio de Janeiro Sorocaba Campinas GLOBAL PRESENCE G4-5; G4-6; G4-8; G4-9 HISTORY Headquartered in São José dos Campos (São Paulo state), where it Founded in 1969 as a state-controlled, mixed-capital company, has two production facilities and a wholly owned subsidiary (ELEB, Embraer was created with the objective of building Brazil’s which makes landing gear systems and hydraulic and electroengineering science and technology knowhow and transforming the mechanical components for the aeronautics industry), Embraer also country’s industrial base. has production units in Botucatu and Gavião Peixoto (SP); a Service Center for Executive Aviation in Sorocaba (SP); logistical centers in Privatized in 1994, Embraer now has a pulverized structure of share Taubaté and Campinas (SP); a Center for Engineering and Technology ownership. In the past 20 years it has become a leading actor in the in Belo Horizonte; and offices in Brasilia (Federal District), São Paulo world market. and Rio de Janeiro The first aircraft Embraer designed and built was the Bandeirante, Abroad, Embraer has offices and production facilities in the US, suitable for civilian and military use with capacity for 15 21 Portugal, France, Ireland, the UK, the Netherlands, the UAE, passengers. Singapore and China. In China Embraer also owns 51% of Harbin Embraer Aircraft Industry (HEAI), in association with a local partner, the Aviation Industry Corporation of China (AVIC). In Portugal it owns 65% of OGMA (which builds and services aerostructures). As a global company, Embraer follows local hiring practices while exporting its values and visions from its home country. Find out more about the history of Embraer at www.embraerhistoricalcenter.com– Timeline 14 2014 Annual Report Innovation G4-4; G4-8 Delivering excellence to each and every Embraer customer means Green Light staying at the cutting edge, deploying the most innovative and safe Launched in 2012, this program enables employees who successfully technology and keeping ahead of market trends. So it is only natural put forward innovative proposals to step aside from their usual that one of Embraer’s core values should center on stimulating duties (up to 100%, or full-time) in order to develop their ideas with innovation: “Boldness and innovation are our hallmarks”. financial support from Embraer. Ideas are presented to a panel of company executives. In 2014 a total of 88 ideas were proposed and This value is reflected not only in an innovation-friendly environment 12 were approved. that is open to new ideas but also in the Company’s staffing itself. Part of the team is dedicated exclusively to studying new technologies STIMULATED INNOVATION and ways of doing things and making them viable for incorporation This takes place in departments whose primary role is to generate, into new product lines. The engineering and technology team is develop and implement innovative ideas that align with Company 6,000-strong and of these 250 are working on pre-competitive strategy. technology development. The others are focused on product development and support, with projects based on periodic analysis of The Innova Challenge program is one of the mechanisms that market needs and the global technological environment. The results support stimulated innovation. Throughout the year, managers from of this continuous effort can be seen in the 2014 results: 46% of net all different departments propose problems in need of solutions— revenues were attributable to innovations launched between 2010 such as process improvements, cost reductions and product and 2014. In another striking outcome of these innovation efforts, the optimization, among others. past five years saw 271 patents applied for and 115 granted. The Innova management team selects one of the problems, which INNOVA EMBRAER becomes the monthly challenge. The challenge is circulated around the company and all employees are invited to submit ideas, provide Designed with a view of creating an innovative culture and feedback and even vote on the best suggestions. The originating harnessing spontaneous and stimulated innovation, Innova Embraer manager, in conjunction with the Innova team, selects the best provides physical environments and mechanisms that favor idea solution and the area that put forward the problem implements the generation and development solution. The 8 challenges posed during 2014 generated 660 ideas In each of them, the numbers testify to the extent to which the and resulted in 17 prototypes. search for innovation is embedded in employees’ day-to-day lives, As a complement to Innova, regular kaizens are aimed at identifying ensuring innovation it remains rooted in the Company’s culture. significant changes that produce rapid high-return impacts on the SPONTANEOUS INNOVATION Company’s procedures. The 9,485 kaizens carried out in 2014 yielded gains of US$31m and a US$47m reduction in inventories. The Good Idea and Green Light programs provide incentives for spontaneous innovation. AWARDS FOR INNOVATION Good Idea In 2014 we bolstered the reward system for innovation, on the This program, introduced in 1988, centers on generating ideas, principle that all successfully implemented internally generated suggestions, new tools, methods or creative and innovative innovations should be recognized and celebrated. In all, 970 techniques for getting work done more efficiently or inexpensively. employees were rewarded for 153 innovations. In addition, eight In 2014 Embraer achieved a milestone of 10,000 ideas implemented, departments showing more propitious innovation climates were generating economic returns of US$30m. In the 15 years since the recognized for their innovations as well as for their pro-innovation Company has been measuring results from the program, a total of environment of co-operation between team members and leaders. 60,000 ideas have been implemented. PERFIL 15 ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY CENTERS In 2014 the Company unveiled the expansion of the Engineering and Technology Center in Minas Gerais (Cete-MG). The center’s workspace has more than doubled from 700m2 to 1,550m2. With room for 200 employees, it closed the year with 150, including engineers, technicians and administrative personnel. The center is focused on designing and developing products and services for the aeronautics and defense and security sectors. In the US, Embraer also inaugurated a new Engineering and Technology Center in Melbourne, Florida, modeled closely on Cete-MG. CLIENTS 18 2014 Annual Report “WE ARE HERE TO SERVE OUR CUSTOMERS” Focused on quality and entrepreneurial excellence, we work to deliver tailored solutions that exceed customer expectations DMA market presence E ntrepreneurial excellence makes no sense if it doesn’t SATISFACTION LEVELS G4-PR5 delight the client. Superior quality wins customers and their satisfaction becomes a strong ally in selling new For the second consecutive year in 2014, customers expressed their products. Embraer jets set the standard in the market approval of Embraer’s products, services and after-sales support segments in which the brand competes. This reflects a constant through the Spontaneous General Satisfaction Index compiled by pursuit of the highest levels of customer satisfaction, with our client support team. Embraer ranked second, with an 87.4% continuous investment in developing and perfecting innovative client satisfaction rating, keeping it right on the threshold of products and services that exceed customer expectations. excellence. The Company retained its third-place position in the Overall Favorability Index, reinforcing the company’s excellent Features of Embraer aircraft shape development of the aviation standing in its sector. These results reflect both Embraer’s ongoing industry globally, setting ever-higher standards of excellence, commitment to delivering excellence and the market’s recognition performance and quality. Consequently, in recent years Embraer’s of the quality it provides. client relationship rating on the Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI) has been a reference point for the industry. In 2014 Embraer achieved its goal of attaining first place in a ranking of executive aviation firms for after-sales service as voted by the readers of Aviation International News, one of the world’s most prestigious publications covering the sector. These results constitute additional market approval of the quality of Embraer’s client services, the result of the Company’s utmost commitment to delivering excellence. To measure customer satisfaction and Embraer’s position relative 87.4% to its benchmarks and competitors, both Commercial Aviation and Executive Aviation use survey platforms (the Customer Satisfaction Survey and the Customer Experience Survey) that regularly gauge levels of satisfaction with product lines, services, after-sales support rating on the and customer relation interfaces. The results enable comparison with Spontaneous General other companies operating in the same sector. Satisfaction Index CLIENTS 19 Commercial Aviation The Commercial Aviation business closed 2014 with 92 jets Commercial Aviation maintained a diverse base of clients in 2014, delivered, most of which were of the E-Jet 175 model (76 to 88 leading to confirmed orders for new planes from airlines such as seats). Healthy sales of 70 to 130 seat aircraft kept Embraer at AZAL (Azerbaijan), Azul Linhas Aéreas (Brazil), ICBC Financial Leasing the forefront of this segment, accounting for more than 50% of (China), Tianjin Airlines (China), Republic Airways (USA), SkyWest accumulated global sales and 60% of deliveries. (USA), United Airlines (USA), Air Costa (India), Fuji Dream Airlines (Japan), JAL (Japan), Royal Air Maroc (Morocco), Aurigny Air Services Net profits for the commercial aviation sector as a whole were (UK), Borajet (Turkey) and Trans States Holdings. around US$10 billion in 2013. In 2014, they doubled, according to the International Air Transport Association (IATA). North American Commercial Aviation closed 2014 with a confirmed order backlog of airlines accounted for US$12 billion of the total, providing a US$13.5 billion. favorable backdrop for Embraer’s sales during the year. LOOKING AHEAD North American clients were the biggest buyers of the E-Jet 175, which has undergone various improvements to passenger comfort The role played by leasing companies in the sale of aircraft to airlines and aircraft aerodynamics, resulting in fuel consumption savings has become increasingly important to the global market for both new of up to 6.4% compared to the original model. Some of the sales to and used aircraft. Currently, these companies deliver 40% of aircraft the US market reflect a new dynamism in that country’s regional manufactured worldwide. air-travel market, increasing demand for 76-passenger jets to replace 50-seat aircraft. This trend led to Embraer capturing 80% of new sales in the US. 20 2014 Annual Report E2: the new generation In 2018 the first of the new generation of E-Jets will enter service. E-jets: A DECADE OF SUCCESS The Évora (Portugal) facility in 2014 cut metal on the first prototype. This constitutes an important milestone, in which the aircraft passes An emblem of Embraer’s excellence in aircraft, the from the design phase to production. In addition, the new model E-Jets family in 2014 celebrated the tenth anniversary gained its first certification in the US. of the first E-Jet delivery. A total of 1,100 E-Jets have been delivered since then; these have accumulated During 2014, Embraer also held its third Advisory Board in the US. The more than 10m hours of flying time and transported event, which helps ensure that the end product fulfills key customer more than 50m passengers all over the world. requirements, brings together clients from all over the world and presents them with details of the development project. Customer The maturity of the E-Jet line, gained through involvement at early stages fed through to the sales figures: since continuous improvement both of the product and the program launched, there have been 210 firm orders and 380 after-sales services, illustrates Embraer’s commitment commitments to buy, including Purchase Options, Purchase Rights to generating value not just for airlines but also for and Letters of Intent. their clients, the passengers. This sales success is justified by the new aircraft’s unique cutting-edge According to the schedule reliability indicator—which features: a more spacious and comfortable cabin, along with increased measures airlines’ punctuality—the E-Jets registered flexibility for reconfiguring seats, thereby reducing costs; latest 99.3% reliability. This means that for every thousand generation engines that are more efficient; and full 4th generation flights, only seven departed the gate behind schedule. fly-by-wire flight controls, improving flight quality and increasing fuel efficiency – and thus reducing environmental emissions. In July a full-sized mock-up of the E2 passenger cabin was exhibited at the Farnborough International Air Show in the UK. US$ 60 % 13.5 billion of deliveries firm order backlog globally in in 2014. the 70 to 130 seats segment. CLIENTS 21 Executive Aviation With their unique features, Embraer’s Executive jets always offer passenger cabin, similar to that of some aircraft in the category high standards in their respective categories, providing clients with immediately above. It accommodates eight to twelve passengers, excellent levels of comfort, performance, technology and innovation with chairs that convert into beds for complete relaxation at a at a low operational cost, in addition to peace of mind and flexibility relatively high cabin altitude equivalent to 6,000 feet. The model in the after-sales period, with high quality customer service and is further distinguished by the fact that it requires a shorter sized simplified maintenance procedures. runway than its competitors for takeoff and landing. The on-board entertainment system includes high-definition video, surround In 2014 the Executive Aviation business unit accounted for US$1.6 sound; multiple audio and video input options, a cabin management billion in revenues. A total of 116 units were delivered, of which 92 system and three communication and data transmission options, were light jets and 24 large ones. At end-year the accumulated firm including Internet access. order backlog stood at US$1.9 billion. Embraer accounts for 16.2% of the world market for executive jets in terms of the volume of units The Legacy 500 is now ready for operation, having gained delivered and 7% of sales revenue, according to the General Aviation certification in 2014 from the Civil Aviation Agency (Agência Nacional Manufacturers’ Association report. de Aviação Civil ANAC) in Brazil, the European Aviation Safety Agency (EASA) in the EU and the Federal Aviation Administration Focused on delivering value, Executive Aviation concluded (FAA) in the US. development of the Legacy 500, a midsize jet with performance and features typical of bigger aircraft, developed with fly-by-wire The Legacy 450, in the mid-light category, continues in the testing technology and precepts, bringing a new standard of cabin comfort phase for entry into the market during 2015. and flight quality, along with a low pilot workload. Equipped with a digital flight control system, the Legacy 500 has a 1.82m high 22 2014 Annual Report LOOKING AHEAD Embraer aims to be one of the world’s top three manufacturers of PHENOM FAMILY REACHES MILESTONE: executive jets. The brand is becoming ever stronger in the market 500 JETS DELIVERED and aims to further increase its desirability. The sterling performance of the Phenom 300, the launch of the Legacy 500 and outstanding The Prime Fraction Club’s purchase of a Phenom after-sales service and support are some of the tools that will help 300 marked the 500th delivery for the executive turn this vision into reality. jet family. It is a significant milestone only five and a half years after the first jet’s launch. (The Growth of the market for executive jets is expected mainly to follow Prime Fraction Club is a company that markets, trends in the US, where air travel expanded during 2014, indicating a administers and coordinates the sharing of luxury healthier economy and clear recovery from the 2008 economic crisis. goods such as private jets in Brazil.) The indications are that companies have resources available for this kind of investment. Moreover, the US has more millionaires than any Phenom jets are being flown by 400 clients in 37 other country; mostly they are entrepreneurs who see the benefit of countries, serving corporations, public officials, shared private jets as tools to speed up deal making and maximize business or chartered flights, aviation schools, aeromedical potential by increasing scheduling flexibility. transport and owner-pilots. In total, the fleet of Embraer executive jets in operation has accumulated New service center for executive jets more than 370,000 flying hours. In March 2014 Embraer inaugurated a new service center at the Bertram Luiz Leupolz (SOD) airport in Sorocaba (São Paulo state). The Winning a range of prizes for innovation and design, facility is the fruit of more than 50m reals in investment. Extending the Phenom 100E and Phenom 300 are the leaders to 20,000 m2, the service center has two hangars, one focused on in their respective classes and have redefined the maintenance and repair of components and the other focused on notion of excellence in the light jet segment, using executive jet operations. the latest generation technology and providing superb performance and safety, as well as comfort and style. Currently, there are more than 30 companies installed in the facility, reflecting its convenient location near the city of São Paulo, good municipal infrastructure with favorable meteorological and air traffic conditions and the prospect of improvements to airport infrastructure. This service center is expected to directly generate up to 250 specialized jobs in the coming years. 116 executive jets delivered in 2014 CLIENTS 23 Defense & Security Embraer Defense & Security plays a crucial role in strengthening Brazil’s parts. Moreover, other countries expressed interest in acquiring a defense and security systems. As it invested in expanding operations further 32 aircraft. in Brazil and abroad, the business unit closed 2014 with annual revenue of 3.4 billion reals, a 32% improvement over the 2013 result. In Super Tucano addition, it logged a historic record of US$5.5 billion in firm orders. The year also saw Embraer unveil the first A-29 Super-Tucano, In 2014 the chief highlight was the rollout of the KC-390 military manufactured at Embraer’s Jacksonville facility in Florida. This transport aircraft, a joint project between Embraer and the Brazilian followed Embraer’s success, in partnership with the US’s Sierra Nevada Air Force (FAB). The KC-390 is a multi-mission military aircraft Corporation, in winning a competitive bid for the supply of 20 aircraft that offers low operational costs and the flexibility to execute to the US Air Force (USAF) for its Light Air Support (LAS) program. a wide range of operations, including cargo and troop transport Embraer delivered 7 Super Tucanos during 2014. In all, the company and launching, in-flight refueling, search and rescue and aerial has manufactured and delivered nearly 200 aircraft to various air firefighting, among others. It is equipped to fly in diverse climatic forces all over the world. conditions, for example in the Antarctic. It completed its maiden flight in February 2015. Other highlights In 2014 the Gavião Peixoto facility saw the inauguration of a hangar Important projects such as the Integrated Border Monitoring System (more than 30,000m2 in size) and the installation of a production (Sistema Integrado de Monitoramento de Fronteiras Sisfron) and line for the new cargo carrier. The year also saw the signing of a 7.2 the Strategic Defense and Communications Geostationary Satellite billion real contract for the FAB’s purchase of 28 units over the course (Satélite Geoestacionário de Defesa e Comunicações Estratégicas of a ten-year period, plus logistical support, maintenance and spare SGDC) continue on track and in line with their original timetables. 24 2014 Annual Report SISFRON got underway in 2013 when the Tepro consortium, made Aircraft deliveries by business unit up of two companies controlled by Embraer Defense & Security, Savis Technology & Systems and Bradar (Bradar Indústria e 2014 2013 2012 COMMERCIAL AVIATION Aerolevantamento), won the bid to develop the program. E170 1 4 1 E175 62 24 20 The initial phase of Sisfron will monitor 650km of Brazil’s land border E190 19 45 62 along the boundary between Mato Grosso do Sul, Paraguay and E195 10 17 23 Bolivia. As a whole, Sisfron envisages the monitoring and protection Total 92 90 106 of all Brazil’s land borders, totaling 16,886 km. EXECUTIVE AVIATION The geostationary satellite is being developed under the supervision Phenom 100 19 30 29 of Visiona Space Technology Ltd., an association between Embraer Phenom 300 73 60 48 and Telebras. The satellite aims to supply the Brazilian Government’s Legacy 500 3 satellite communications requirements, including the National Legacy 600/650 18 25 19 Broadband Program and a broad spectrum of strategic defense Lineage 1000 3 4 3 transmissions. The satellite is expected to launch in 2016. Total 116 119 99 In its capacity as FAB’s strategic partner, Embraer signed an DEFENSE & SECURITY agreement with Saab for joint delivery of Brazil’s F-X2 project. Super Tucano 7 6 14 Embraer will have an important role in general management of EMB 145 AEW&C 2 Total 7 6 16 the program and will carry out a good share of the development, manufacture and delivery to FAB of the latest generation Gripen NG TOTAL AIRCRAFT 215 215 221 fighter aircraft in its single-seat and dual-seat versions. st 1 OTHER OPERATIONS Agricultural aviation The Ipanema agricultural airplane is the only Embraer model to have been in production since the company’s foundation. Since Ipanema, the world’s first certified 1971, when the first units were delivered, Embraer has sold a total ethanol-powered aircraft. of 1,365 Ipanema aircraft. An important milestone was achieved in 2004 when Ipanema became the world’s first aircraft to achieve certification as an ethanol-fueled airplane. Since then, 280 units Ipanema sales of the ethanol-fueled model have been delivered, along with 204 conversion kits that convert aircraft powered by aviation gasoline (avgas) into ethanol-powered units, taking the total number of 2014 38 ethanol-powered aircraft to 484. Following the ethanol innovation, two Ipanema models are now offered: the EMB 202 (Avgas) and the 2013 66 EMB 202A (Ethanol), with the latter leading sales. 2012 56 CLIENTS 25 SALES SUPPORT SALES FINANCE ECC Leasing is an Embraer subsidiary responsible for providing sales Currently, leasing structures cover 40% of the global commercial support and reducing financial risks relating to the buying and selling jet fleet, and their share is expected to rise to 50% by the end of of aircraft. Since its creation in 2002, it has supported 153 units the decade. Capital market financing remains firm, as new banking manufactured by Embraer. In 2014, it handled 66 aircraft, including regulations and the worldwide adoption of the Cape Town Treaty Embraer planes and other manufacturers’ aircraft that were acquired combine to increase its efficiency relative to other structures. via trade-in during the sale of new Embraer units. Of this total, 10 were sold, 22 are under operational leases, and 34 are available for Although Brazil’s export credit agency, BNDES-Exim, has increased its release onto the market, being either under negotiation or in the role during the past year, it has accounted for only 20% of financing for process of being delivered to ECC Leasing customers. E-Jets since their launch. Official financing is expected to continue to play an important role in the aeronautic sector, filling gaps left by the private sector and providing more significant support for Embraer’s future exports to the North American market. 26 2014 Annual Report PORTFOLIO COMMERCIAL AVIATION Standard capacity – single class ERJ 145 E170 E175 E190 37 to 50 70 to 78 78 to 88 98 to 114 E195 E175-E2* E190-E2* E195-E2* 108 to 124 80 to 88 97 to 106 118 to 132 EXECUTIVE AVIATION Phenom 100E Phenom 300 Legacy 450* Legacy 500 6 to 8 8 to 11 7 to 9 8 to 12 Legacy 600 Legacy 650 Lineage 1000E 13 to 14 13 to 14 13 to 19 clientes 27 Embraer aircraft contain features that shape development of the aviation industry globally, setting ever-higher standards of excellence, performance and quality. DEFENSE & SECURITY A-29 Super ISR Tucano Special KC-390* ** Missions Aircraft modernization • Aircraft Maintenance, Repair and Overhaul (MRO) • Unmanned Aerial Vehicles (UAV) • Training and Operational Support (TOS) • Surveillance Systems***/C41**** • Air Traffic Control Systems • Remote Sensing • Air Surveillance Radars • Satellites. AGRICULTURAL AVIATION EMBRAER SYSTEMS Ipanema Development and integration of complex systems for sectors beyond aviation and defense. *Under development. **Transport of official personnel, MEDEVAC, in-flight inspection (FIS). *** Application for defense & security. ****Command, Control, Communication, Computation and Intelligence. SHAREHOLDERS 30 2014 Annual Report EXCELLENCE WITH A FOCUS ON VALUE CREATION A management model centered on quality and transparency inspires confidence and delivers value for shareholders w ith the constant pursuit of entrepreneurial excellence constituting one of its core values, Embraer has built a reputation for efficient, independent and transparent management, and this lays the foundations for its long-term success. Credibility is central to Embraer’s relations with its shareholders. SUPPORTS FOR IMPLEMENTING THE EMBRAER BUSINESS SYSTEM »» Embraer Entrepreneurial Excellence Program (P3E): Based on lean management precepts, the P3E consists of four pillars: For this reason the company is constantly investing in perfecting its enhancing Embraer’s organizational culture, developing people, ethical and reliable governance standards, creating value streams ongoing training of leaders and a pursuit of efficiency and through actions that meet these expectations, as envisaged in the excellence in all processes. Embraer Entrepreneurial Excellence Program (P3E). »» Certification of Environmental, Health and Safety Systems of all Brazil-based operations: such as the ISO 14001 (environmental management) and OHSAS 18001 (occupational health and safety) that Embraer has held since 2002. Strategy and management »» Sustainability indices: listings on Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI), New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) and BM&FBovespa’s The Embraer Business System (SEE in its Portuguese acronym) Corporate Sustainability Index (Índice de Sustentabilidade defines the Company’s management model and is geared to Empresarial ISE). creating value for all stakeholder groups (shareholders, clients and »» Management Excellence Model (MEG): a systematic organizational suppliers, employees, society and the environment). Based on the management model developed by the FNQ (National Quality Management Excellence Model (MEG) developed by the Brazilian Foundation). Since adopting the MEG in 2010, Embraer has Fundação Nacional da Qualidade (National Quality Foundation, FNQ), sustained annual improvements in the quality of its management the SEE envisages the formulation and implementation of longunder this model, winning an FNQ award in 2014. term plans (as specified in the Company’s Strategic Plan) along with short-term projects (as defined in the Action Plan). The first sets out macro strategies and projects for the next 15 years, while the second focuses on operational, economicfinancial and sustainability targets for the next two years. Both are fully aligned with each other Our people — innovative and and together ensure the creation of shareholder value and lay the foundations for the business’s longevity. committed to excellence — are the keys to our business success and the creation of shareholder value. SHAREHOLDERS 31 EMBRAER’S STRATEGIC PLAN Embraer’s long-term Strategic Plan centers on five main areas: »» Commercial Aviation – Solidify Embraer’s leadership position in its NATIONAL QUALITY AWARD 2014 segment, expanding the customer base, perfecting the E-Jets, and pursuing excellence in the customer support model. In 2014 the National Quality Foundation (Fundação »» Executive Aviation – Consolidate Embraer’s position as one of Nacional da Qualidade) recognized Embraer’s the world’s leading manufacturers of executive jets, increasing its management excellence by awarding it the National market share, developing new products and sustaining high levels Quality Prize (PNQ). It is a major accomplishment in of customer satisfaction with client services and support. the Company’s ongoing pursuit of excellence. »» Defense & Security – Be a key player in Brazil’s national defense and security system, diversify product and service offering and Each year, the National Quality Foundation identifies expand its international presence, while pursuing excellence in the best management practices in Brazilian customer support. organizations. Its awards recognize business »» Diversification – Invest effort in diversifying Embraer’s business improvements and efforts to achieve excellence, via a focus on synergies with the Company’s core competencies. helping boost the competitiveness of Brazilian firms. »» People, sustainability, organization and processes – Keep advancing as a global organization committed both to delivering . customer satisfaction and valuing its people; a Company that grows sustainably and serves as reference in the market for innovation and corporate excellence. 32 2014 Annual Report Embraer entrepreneurial excellence program (p3e) DMA Economic performance DMA Market presence Governance G4-34 Embraer’s corporate governance is aimed chiefly at ensuring the Launched in 2007, the Embraer Entrepreneurial Excellence Program Company’s long-term future via an efficient, holistic and ethical (P3E) is a centerpiece of the company’s management model. It aims management approach that adheres to the highest international to elevate the Company’s management, processes and products norms. This model is founded on transparency, independence and to the highest level of excellence. During the past seven years, the accountability; it aims to uphold and maximize the Company’s value program has helped the Company achieve ever-greater efficiency in in the eyes of all its stakeholders. In 2014, for the 16th consecutive its process execution, with productivity gains and cost reductions year, the Company was one of the top-placed in the Transparency throughout its operations. Trophy in recognition of the quality of its financial statements. The The program registered an important evolution during 2014. The first Trophy is awarded jointly by Anefac (National Association of Finance, step entailed tightened alignment with Company strategy, improving Administration and Accountancy Executives)/Fipecafi (Institution/ the program’s focus on creating value for Embraer’s stakeholders. Foundation for Accounting, Actuarial and Financial Research)/Serasa New excellence targets were disseminated via value streams Experian (research and investment data). throughout the program’s improvement cells. In this way, day-to-day Embraer’s shares are listed on the New Market (Novo Mercado) employee management became local without losing its direct link to of the São Paulo Stock Exchange (Bolsa de Valores de São Paulo company-wide strategy directives. BM&FBovespa). It also has shares listed on the New York Stock The value streams permeate the improvement cells and these Exchange (NYSE) in addition to being listed on the Dow Jones are awarded bronze, silver or gold classifications depending on Sustainability Index (DJSI) and the Corporate Sustainability Index achievements. The classification system will be reviewed during (Índice de Sustentabilidade Empresarial – ISE), which are comprised 2015 such that promotion—for example from bronze to silver—will be of companies with recognized sustainable management practices. contingent on the measurement of stakeholder value creation. These listings identify the world’s top-performing companies in terms of sustainable management; retaining Embraer’s inclusion therefore The P3E deploys Lean Management concepts and consists of the constitutes one of top management’s goals within the Action Plan. following four pillars: »» Organizational culture »» People development »» Leadership development »» Business efficiency As envisaged in the P3E’s pillars constant engagement takes place with business leaders to ensure they remain aligned and 16 years committed to ensuring the Company’s operational efficiency and competitiveness. As part of the P3E, kaizens aim at process review and optimization, with a focus on achieving productivity gains and reducing waste. In on Transparency Trophy’s 2014, 9485 kaizen projects were completed. More than the numbers, list of best companies the kaizens are about making advances and reaching targets. SHAREHOLDERS 33 ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE Embraer Embraer – Indústria Aeronáutica Embraer Aircraft Embraer Netherlands Embraer Spain Eugênio de Melo Neiva Ltda. subsidiary Holding Inc. B.V. subsidiary Holding Co. SL branch office subsidiary subsidiary Botucatu Nossa Senhora Embraer Asia Pacific Embraer – Gavião de Fátima – branch office Embraer Services PTE Ltd. subsidiary Harbin Embraer Peixoto branch office Inc. subsidiary Aircraft Industry ECC do Brasil Participações Co. Ltd. S.A. subsidiary Embraer Aircraft Representative Office China subsidiary Escritório Brasília Customer Services Nova Délhi branch office Embraer GPX Ltda. Inc. subsidiary Embraer Asia Pacific subsidiary ECC Investment ECC – Leasing Company Embraer Aircraft Switzerland, AG subsidiary Ltd. Ireland subsidiary Embraer – Pq. Branch office Gavião Peixoto Maintenance Services Tecnológico Inc. subsidiary ECC Insurance & Branch office São José Embraer CAE Training branch office Financial Company dos Campos Services (UK) Ltd. subsidiary Embraer Executive Limited – Cayman Embraer – Taubaté Jet Services, LLC Islands subsidiary Eleb Equipamentos Embraer China Aircraft Technical branch office subsidiary Ltda. subsidiary Service Co. Ltd. subsidiary Embraer Finance Embraer – Campinas Ltd. – Cayman Branch office Taubaté Embraer Executive Representative Office Hong Kong branch office Islands subsidiary – São Paulo Aircraft Inc. subsidiary Escritório – EZ Air Interior Limited subsidiary (50%) Belo Horizonte Representative Embraer Training Embraer Merco S/A– branch office Office Beijing Services, LCC subsidiary EMS subsidiary Air Holding SGPS S.A. Portugal subsidiary Escritório São Embraer Representations Embraer CAE OGMA – Indústria Aeronáutica Paulo – Iguatemi LLP subsidiary Training Services, de Portugal S.A. subsidiary branch office LCC subsidiary Escritório São Embraer Credit Limited Embraer Embraer Portugal SGPS S.A. subsidiary Paulo – Nações – ECL, LLC subsidiary Engineering Unidas & Technology Embraer Portugal Estruturas Embraer Defesa & Center USA, Metálicas S.A. subsidiary Segurança Participações Inc. subsidiary Botucatu – S.A. subsidiary Embraer Portugal Estruturas Alcides Cagliari Aero Seating em Compósitos S.A. subsidiary branch office Technologies, Atech Negócios em Tecnologia S.A. LLC subsidiary Botucatu – N. subsidiary Embraer Aviation Europe Sra. de Fátima Embraer Defense and – EAE subsidiary branch office Atech Branch office SP Security, Inc. subsidiary Embraer Aviation Embraer – Faria Embraer Overseas International – EAI – France Atech Branch office SJK Lima branch office Ltd. Cayman Islands subsidiary Embraer Europe Embraer – Sorocaba Bradar Indústria S.A. SARL subsidiary branch office Bradar Aerolevantamento Ltda. subsidiary Embraer – Rio de Embraer Europe’s Janeiro branch office AEL Sistemas S.A. subsidiary Representative Office Dubai Harpia Sistemas Inglaterra branch office S.A. subsidiary Embraer Europe SARL Visiona Tecnologia Espacial Embraer Austrália Pty S.A. subsidiary Limited subsidiary Visiona International, BV subsidiary Savis Tecnologia e Sistemas S.A. subsidiary 34 2014 Annual Report CORPORATE STRUCTURE G4-34 Board of Directors G4-38; G4-39; G4-40; G4-42; G4-44 The Board of Directors defines the Company’s directives, goals, Embraer’s pulverized structure of share ownership extends voting budgets, and investment plans and approves the Strategic and Action rights to all shareholders, without distinction; a single stockholder Plans. It also monitors the Company’s performance against goals, or group of stockholders is allowed to exercise the vote for up to appoints independent auditors, decides on stock issues and bonuses, a maximum of 5% of shares. Company statutes entail further elects and dismisses members of the Board of Executive Officers, and provisions to discourage concentration of shareholdings or American oversees management. Depositary Receipts (ADRs) negotiated on the NYSE, such as a stipulation that no shareholder is allowed to own 35% or more of With a two-year mandate, the Board is elected by assembly and the Company’s capital, except with the express authorization of the comprises 11 active members, seven of them independent. The Federal Government, and subject to a public share offering. Brazilian Government nominates one advisor and employees put forward two: a representative of the Embraer Employee Investment The tag-along mechanism guarantees all shareholders – including Club (Clube de Investimentos dos Empregados Embraer CIEMB) and minority shareholders – the right to the same conditions of sale in another elected directly by non-shareholding employees. the event of an offer to buy the Company. However, the Brazilian Federal Government retains a special class of share, the golden share, Internal rules establish parameters aimed at ensuring the Board which gives it veto powers over certain issues of strategic importance includes a range of knowledge and skills, to ensure maximum to the Company and the Brazilian State. efficiency and the incorporation of diverse viewpoints. GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE G4-34; G4-46 Evaluation of the Board’s and its members’ performance assesses individual and group contributions to achieving established objectives. General Meeting Each year an external consultancy assists with annual 360o The General Meeting is the Company’s highest deliberative evaluations in which all advisors evaluate each other. assembly, its remit defined by relevant legislation and Company statutes. Decisions are taken by majority vote, with foreign Advisors and the board Chairman are paid a fixed monthly sum, with shareholders restricted to 40% of the votes present, in order to additional remuneration payable for service on Committees. ensure national considerations prevail in light of the strategic nature of the aerospace sector. Composition of Board of Directors – elected on April 25th, 2013 Alexandre Gonçalves Silva Chairman The corporate structure aims to Sergio Eraldo de Salles Pinto Vice-chairman integrate the Company’s activities, Antonio Franciscangelis Neto Arno Hugo Augustin Filho expediting business management and Ernani de Almeida Ribeiro Junior client satisfaction and always adapting Israel Vainboim João Cox Neto Board Members to the specific circumstances of the Josué Christiano Gomes da Silva Paulo Roberto de Oliveira countries in which Embraer operates. Samir Zraick Vitor Paulo Camargo Gonçalves SHAREHOLDERS 35 Composition of Board of Directors Elected in General Assembly on April 25th 2013 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 08 »» 01 Alexandre Gonçalves Silva Chairman »» 02 Sergio Eraldo de Salles Pinto Vice-chairman »» 03 Antonio Franciscangelis Neto 10 11 »» 04 Arno Hugo Augustin Filho »» 05 Ernani de Almeida Ribeiro Junior »» 06 Israel Vainboim »» 07 João Cox Neto »» 08 Josué Christiano Gomes da Silva »» 09 Paulo Roberto de Oliveira »» 10 Samir Zraick »» 11 Vitor Paulo Camargo Gonçalves 36 2014 Annual Report 35 Auxiliary Committees G4-14; G4-46 Three committees report directly to the Board of Directors: »» Strategy Committee: monitors Company’s management and results and is responsible for assisting the Board of Directors in formulating % the Strategic Plan and the Action Plan, focusing on objectives, macro projects, and evaluation of potential new business opportunities. »» Audit and Risk Committee: assists in identifying and managing ceiling on business risks inherent to the Company’s activities; ensuring shareholding the appropriateness of risk management models, directives, and policies, and verifying managerial and accounting information released to the public and to regulatory agencies; this includes supervising the quality of financial reporting and compliance with legal and regulatory requirements. In addition, the Committee 5% makes recommendations for the selection of the external auditors and supervises their activities, among other functions. »» Human Resources Committee: supports the Board of Directors in selecting and dismissing Company directors, defining their respective functions, setting remuneration and human resources policies, administering the Company’s share option and purchase programs and recommending the allocation of funds to employee associations and charities, and to recreation and private retirement plans maximum voting Fiscal Board share at General This comprises a minimum of three and a maximum of five active Meeting members along with an equal number of alternates (shareholders or otherwise). Members are elected to one-year terms in an Ordinary General Meeting. The Fiscal Board reports directly to the Company’s shareholders and is charged with overseeing administrative management, through regular quarterly meetings or extraordinary meetings to review the financial statements. 11 active members on Composition of Fiscal Board – elected on April 16th 2014 Ivan Mendes do Carmo President Board of Directors, Eduardo Coutinho Guerra Vice-President seven of them Nelson de Menezes Filho independent José Mauro Laxe Vilela Taiki Hirashima FB Members SHAREHOLDERS 37 Board of Executive Officers Composition of Board of Executive Officers The Board of Executive Officers is responsible for managing the – with effect from February 28th 2014 Company in accordance with the Strategic Plan and the Action Plan. Appointed by the Board of Directors to a two-year mandate, it is Frederico Pinheiro Fleury Curado President & CEO supported by several management committees (Sustainability, Artur Aparecido Valério Coutinho Executive Vice President, Operations (COO) Ethics, Financial Management and Environmental Risks) along with Jackson Medeiros de Farias Schneider Executive Vice President, Defense & Security external consultancies and audit firms. It is evaluated by the Board of Executive Vice President, Finance José Antonio de Almeida Filippo Directors and rewarded in line with market benchmarks and according (CFO) and Investor Relations to performance against the economic-financial, operational, and Marco Tulio Pellegrini Executive Vice President, Executive Aviation Executive Vice President, socio-environmental goals set out in the Action Plan. Mauro Kern Junior Engineering and Technology Paulo Cesar de Souza e Silva Executive Vice President, Commercial Aviation Terena Penteado Rodrigues Executive Vice President & General Counsel Vice President, Human Resources and Mauricio Aveiro Organizational Development Vice President, Institutional Nelson Salgado Relations and Sustainability 38 2014 Annual Report Composition of Board of Executive Officers with effect from February 28th 2014 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 »» 01 Frederico Pinheiro Fleury Curado President & CEO »» 02 Artur Aparecido Valério Coutinho Executive Vice President, Operations (COO) »» 03 Jackson Medeiros de Farias Schneider Executive Vice President, Defense & Security »» 04 José Antonio de Almeida Filippo Executive Vice President, Finance (CFO) and Investor Relations »» 05 Marco Tulio Pellegrini Executive Vice President, Executive Aviation »» 06 Mauro Kern Junior Executive Vice President, Engineering and Technology »» 07 Paulo Cesar de Souza e Silva Executive Vice President, Commercial Aviation »» 08 Terena Penteado Rodrigues Executive Vice President & General Counsel »» 09 Maurício Aveiro Vice President, Human Resources and Organizational Development »» 10 Nelson Salgado Vice President, Institutional Relations and Sustainability SHAREHOLDERS 39 RISK MANAGEMENT G4-14; G4-46; G4-EC2 Internal Audit: this department is responsible for all auditing activities. It acts independently and reports directly to the Risk and Through a process overseen by its Risk and Internal Controls Audit Committee of the Board of Directors. department, Embraer identifies, maps, categorizes and monitors risks and business opportunities. Risk and Internal Controls reports External Audit: Company norms governing the contracting of to the Executive Vice President for Finance and Investor Relations, services unrelated to the external audit carried out by its independent with a dotted line to the Audit and Risk Committee (CAR), as well as auditors ensures there are no conflicts of interest or impairment of supporting the Company’s chief executives. independence and objectivity. Following the conclusion of a review carried out during 2013 risk KPMG Independent Auditors are responsible for the external audit management was integrated more closely into the activities of the of Embraer’s financial statements. In 2014, Embraer retained KPMG Internal Audit and Compliance Directories in 2014. for services unrelated to the external audit (these consisted of tax reviews). Its fees totaled 102,800 reals, equivalent to around 1.3% CATEGORIZATION G4-41 of the consolidated honorariums incurred for the external audits of Embraer and its controlled companies. Given the restricted scope and Risks are classified into strategic, operational, financial and specific nature of the procedures carried out, these services did not regulatory/legal. A brief explanation of each category follows: impinge on the External Auditors’ independence or objectivity. 1. Strategic: related to senior management decisions that have The Company has been fully cooperating with the US Securities and the potential to affect the Company’s economic value and based Exchange Commission (SEC) and the US Department of Justice (DOJ) on continuous monitoring of market trends. Through the Investor in the ongoing investigation into possible noncompliance with the US Relations Directory, Embraer provides stakeholders with advance Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA). Outside attorneys were hired to notice of any issues that could present a risk to the Company’s conduct the process independently. They are in regular contact with operations and brand. both agencies, and ensure they receive all requested documentation and information. 2. Operational: these involve possible losses (of production, assets, customers or income) resulting from faults, shortcomings or inadequacies of internal processes, people and systems, as well as external events such as natural disasters. 3. Financial: risks associated with exposures from financial operations. The Company takes steps to ensure cash flows are administered in a manner that maximizes operational cash flow, generates returns from financial transactions, and raises financial resources for application in the business. Guided by the Financial Management Policy approved by the Board of Directors, the Financial Committee analyzes and issues positions on trends with the potential to cause financial exposure. In alignment with Embraer’s 4. Regulatory/legal: Embraer adheres to relevant regulations Strategic Planning, the Risk governing the aerospace sector (in all stages of the aircraft manufacturing process, from project development to after-sales department identifies, maps, support) as well as to environmental laws and any other legislation categorizes and monitors risks and relevant to its areas of operation. business opportunities 40 2014 Annual Report COMPLIANCE G4-SO3 In addition to the Board of Directors and the Board of Executive Officers, more than 11,000 staff received anticorruption training in DMA Anti-corruption 2014, along with more than 500 suppliers, both Brazilian and foreign. The ethics and compliance program aims to ensure Embraer adheres During the year, 100% of Embraer units and subsidiaries were continuously to the highest standards of integrity and international best practices, monitored by the company’s anticorruption risk control system, via as well the legislation of all the countries in which it operates, mechanisms such as risk assessment and internal and external auditing, especially in matters of anti-corruption and export controls. This is along with periodic tests based on the anticorruption matrix and its an issue of fundamental importance for Embraer, as expressed in its associated internal checks, as carried out by the Internal Audit Directory. Materiality Matrix. Internal controls and anticorruption measures cover risks related The Compliance Directory reports directly to the Audit and Risk to procurement and contracting of third party intermediaries, sales Committee, which in its turn is linked to the Board of Directors. It processes and analysis of clients, patronage transactions and donations, is focused on promoting and upholding an ethical culture, ensuring as well as expenditure on corporate gifts, travel and entertainment. ongoing efforts to improve corporate governance and its supporting mechanisms, such as the Code of Ethics and Conduct, internal checks Anticorruption Training – Code of Ethics and Conduct SO4 and audit procedures; while continually drawing attention to the importance of the issues, including through training sessions for all 2013 2014 stakeholders, internal and external. Managers 100% (1,152) 100% (1,171) Non-managers 51.05% (9,520) 77.80% (14,000) SHAREHOLDERS 41 ETHICS, CONDUCT AND TRANSPARENCY Canal Helpline G4-56; G4-57; G4-HR3; G4-HR10 G4-49; G4-58 Embraer’s Code of Ethics and Conduct reflects a commitment to DMA Non discriminatio achieving business objectives in a socially responsible manner, valuing relationships with shareholders, employees and suppliers, In 2014 the Helpline logged no internal or external incidents of protecting the environment and contributing to the development of discrimination on the grounds of ethnic origin, skin color, sex, religion, local communities in which the Company operates. ideology, national origin or social background. During 2014 the Code underwent its third revision, ensuring it keeps The Helpline is a confidential channel through which employees and pace with the highest standards of accounting, transparency and other interested parties can report ethical and behavioral issues integrity. The revision emphasizes and reinforces areas such as related to possible violations of Embraer’s policies or national laws compliance with anticorruption legislation (in Brazil and elsewhere), and regulations. All information is directed to an independent and adherence to anti-trust and international trading laws, as well company for processing before being channeled to the Compliance as monitoring of conflicts of interest, in addition to reaffirming department. Embraer’s commitment to the principles of the UN’s Global Compact. All information is treated confidentially and the complainant is Since 2013 Embraer has also been an active member of the World provided with the ability to monitor the status of his or her case on Economic Forum’s Partnering Against Corruption Initiative (PACI) and the Helpline’s website. in 2014 it became a member of the International Forum on Business Ethical Conduct (IFBEC). The independent company that processes complaints submitted to the Helpline does so in accordance with its own policies, procedures The Company’s ethics and compliance program, along with its main and labor instructions, following a defined methodology. mechanisms for ensuring business probity, were also highlighted in the new Code of Ethics and Conduct, which enumerates the Embraer does not tolerate retaliation against any party reporting a monitoring mechanisms and available channels for the resolution of concern in good faith. possible violations. The Code of Ethics and Conduct can be viewed at www.embraer.com.br by clicking on the “Ethics and Compliance” icon. »» www.embraer.com.br, Helpline icon, or »» www.embraerhelpline.com »» Helpline numbers: Brazil: 0800-721-5968 Portugal: 800-180-118 USA: 1-877-900-8779 Singapore: 800-130-2122 China: 400-120-4946 France: 0805-080608 Complaints through the Helpline channel more than TOTAL INCIDENTS FILED 184 11,000 Disciplinary measures 64 Warnings and suspensions 12 Dismissals 12 Other* 40 *Coaching, monitoring, training, awareness-raising and improvement to policies and processes workers trained on anti-corruption policies 42 2014 Annual Report 100 COMPANY POLICIES G4-56 Embraer’s corporate policies are distributed widely and all employees are familiar with them. They are created by the Company’s own values as well as leading practices in the market. Some of them are % as follows: »» Export Control Policy: revised in 2014, this addresses Embraer’s increase in procedures for dealing with international suppliers and clients compliance staff and includes information on international trading laws and embargos. This year, more than 120 staff—those deemed agents of compliance —received advanced training in preventing business risks relating to exports. »» Anticorruption Policy: approved in 2013, this entails training programs, awareness-raising sessions on anticorruption laws and due diligence procedures, including for suppliers and companies with which Embraer is interested in partnering. The aim is to ensure the highest level of integrity, impeding 500 corruption in all its forms. »» Risk Management Policy: provides the directives that will guide the work of the Risk Management and Internal Controls Directory for the next few years. The directives are created by suppliers trained on ethics the best market practices as well as the guidelines issued by the and compliance program Brazilian Institute of Corporate Governance (Instituto Brasileiro de Governança Corporativa IBGC), the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO II), and ISO 31000, among others. »» Financial Management Policy: approved by the Board of Directors, the Policy sets out the guidelines for administering Company finances relating to cash flow and capital structure. Key indicators THE QUALITY POLICY: MAIN DIRECTIVES are monitored and reported to the Financial Management Committee, the Board of Executive Officers, the Audit and Risk »» Design, produce, and support high-quality and safe Committee and the Board of Directors. products; »» Human Resources Policy: aims to transmit the Company’s »» Focus on preventive measures; thinking and position on the proper treatment of its greatest asset: »» Ensure that all employees are familiar with, understand, its people. Across all the countries where the Company operates, and adhere to the quality standards in a responsible anyone with responsibility for managing people must ensure manner during the course of their work; the Human Resources policy is applied in all business-related »» Ensure the continuous improvement of all business situations. processes with customer satisfaction in mind by »» Environmental and Occupational Health and Safety policy: involving employees and teams at all levels. updated in 2013, Embraer’s Environmental and Occupational Health and Safety Policy aims to ensure that all Company operations are environmentally sustainable, safe and healthy (read more about this in the “People” and “Community and the Environment” chapters). Its directives envisage ongoing employee training, SHAREHOLDERS 43 continuous improvement, compliance with environmental and PARTICIPATION IN INITIATIVES occupational health and safety legislation; and the adoption of AND ASSOCIATIONS G4-15; G4-16 preventive practices, corrective actions and innovative solutions. »» Flight Safety Policy: encourages a rigorous commitment to Embraer contributes to the formulation of public policies through its building ever-safer aircraft that exceed national and international participation in associations, multilateral organizations and voluntary certification standards. Employees are encouraged to report risk initiatives, always in keeping with its Compliance Program and Code situations, ensure that results data get to the relevant people, and of Ethics and Conduct. guarantee that necessary changes needed to keep step with safety recommendations are implemented. Some of the highlights of Embraer’s involvement in associations and »» Intellectual Property Management Policy: Embraer is conscious voluntary initiatives in 2014 are as follows. of the need to protect the rights and results of its intellectual »» Signing of UN Global Compact’s Call to Action, an appeal from the creations, such as inventions, industrial drawings, brands, private sector to governments to promote anticorruption measures processes, systems, software and products. In its Intellectual and implement related policies aimed at establishing good Property Management Policy, the Company commits itself to, governance systems; for example: Incentivizing innovation and creativity to promote »» Publication of the book Roadmap for Sustainable Aviation Biofuels technological development and ensure the Company’s products for Brazil – A Flightpath to Aviation Biofuels in Brazil, product of and services retain their competitive edge; Ensuring the protection the Sustainable Aviation Biofuels for Brazil (SABB) program carried and registration of intellectual property resulting from knowledge out in partnership with Boeing, Fapesp and Unicamp. The book and innovation generated in the Company; Extracting the economic offers an extensive evaluation of the technological, economic value embodied in intellectual property, with a focus on increasing and sustainability opportunities and challenges related to the the competitiveness of its distinctively different and innovative development and sale of aviation biofuels in Brazil; and products, processes, and services, as well as exploring new »» The signing by Embraer and Boeing of a cooperation agreement business opportunities. aimed at jointly establishing a center for research and »» Quality Policy: Embraer is certified under ISO 9001 and AS 9100 development into the formulation and evolution of sustainable (international standards for Quality Management Systems for biofuels for aviation. Aviation, Space, and Defense Organizations). The implementation of the Embraer Entrepreneurial Excellence Program (P3E) since Main associations and initiatives 2007 has also resulted in a further tightening of these standards. In Brazil »» Brazilian Association of Public Companies (ABRASCA in Portuguese) »» Brazilian Defense And Securities Industry Association (ABIMDE) »» General Aviation Association of Brazil (Associação Brasileira de Aviação Geral (ABAG) »» Aerospace Industries Association of Brazil (AIAB) »» Brazilian Foreign Trade Association (AEB) New standards were introduced »» São José dos Campos Technology Park Association to keep step with the regulatory »» National Association for Research and Development of Innovative Companies (Anpei) environment, notably via the 3rd »» Paulista Eastern Cone Innovation and Competitiveness Center Edition of Embraer’s Code of Ethics (CECOMPI) »» National Industry Confederation (CNI) and Conduct, which reinforces »» The Brazil-US Business Council anticorruption measures. »» São Paulo State Industries Federation (FIESP) »» Associação Brasileira de Ciências Mecânicas (ABCM) 44 2014 Annual Report »» Brazilian Institute of Corporate Governance (IBGC) INTANGIBLE ASSETS »» Industrial Development Studies Institute (IEDI) »» Movement for Business Innovation (MEI) Part of the annual review cycle for Embraer’s Strategic Plan entails a »» Brazil GHC Protocol Program process of identifying intangible assets and assigning them priorities. All »» Sustainable Aviation Biofuels for Brazil (SABB) the Company’s actions, based on its six core values, are geared towards strengthening these same assets: brand value, people (employees and Internationally leadership) and the intellectual property and knowledge generated by »» Aerospace Industries Association (AIA) the Company’s innovations. The following table sets out the methods »» Air Transport Action Group (ATAG) used for the periodic evaluation of these assets. »» Aviation Working Group (AWG) Asset Evaluation method »» Brazil Industries Coalition (BIC) MONITORING POSITIVE AND NEGATIVE MATERIALS »» American Chamber of Commerce (Amcham) RELATING TO EMBRAER BRAND Brand FAVORABILITY INDEX OF ORGANIZATIONAL ENVIRONMENT »» Portuguese Chamber of Commerce in Brazil (CPCB) INCLUSION IN BOVESPA AND DOW JONES SUSTAINABILITY INDICES (ISE AND DJSI) »» Brazilian Center for International Relations (CEBRI) MONITORING ACTIVITIES INDEX IN PRACTICE COMMUNITIES »» China Brazil Business Council (CEBC) Knowledge MATURITY OF PRACTICE COMMUNITIES INDEX OF KNOWLEDGE RECYCLING »» Brazil-US Business Council (CEBEU) PORTFOLIO OF INVENTION PATENTS »» European Policy Center (EPC) Intellectual Property PORTFOLIO OF INDUSTRIAL DESIGN PATENTS PORTFOLIO OF TRADE SECRETS »» Foundation for the Global Compact ORGANIZATIONAL climate SURVEY »» Foundation Center for the Study of Foreign Trade (FUNCEX) RANKING OF BEST PLACES TO WORK People ANNUAL COMPETENCY EVALUATIONS »» General Aviation Manufacturers Association (GAMA) TRAINING PROGRAMS FEEDBACK EVALUATION OF RESULTS »» Initiative Towards Sustainable Kerosene for Aviation (ITAKA) ANNUAL LEADERSHIP CYCLE »» International Aerospace Environmental Group (IAEG) EXTERNAL EVALUATIONS Leadership 360º ASSESSMENTS »» National Aeronautic Association (NAA) ASSESSMENT COMMITTEE »» Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) »» International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO) »» World Trade Organization (WTO) MAIN AWARDS AND RECOGNITIONS Awarding organization »» Sustainable Aviation Fuel Users Group (SAFUG) National Quality Prize National Quality Foundation (FNQ) »» US Chamber of Commerce Época Negócios 360º Vehicles and Auto parts sector Época Negócios Magazine »» Woodrow Wilson Center Most Admired Companies in Brazil Carta Capital magazine »» World Economic Forum (WEF) Você S/A magazine and Institute 150 Best Places to Work1 of Management Foundation (FIA) Você S/A magazine, FIA and Cia de Best Places to Start a Career2 Talentos (recruitment company) Época magazine, Great Best Places to Work in Brazil1 Place to Work Institute Best Companies to Work for in Latin America Great Place to Work Institute 3 Florida’s Best Companies to Work For Florida Trend magazine (US) Valor Carreira magazine, Valor Serving 4 Best Company in People Management Econômico newspaper, AON Hewitt Company that Communicates Best with Journalists Negócios da Comunicação magazine more than Brazil’s Most Valuable Brands ISTO É DINHEIRO 100 Product Support Survey AIN magazine Product Support Survey ProPilot magazine Valuable Executive – Frederico Curado Valor Econômico newspaper – Vehicles and Parts Category 1 For sixth consecutive year; 2Identity Category; 3For fourth consecutive airline companies 4 year; Companies with more than 16,000 employees in 60 countries SHAREHOLDERS 45 Financial highlights G4-EC1 Embraer’s net revenue totaled 14,935.9m reals (US$ 6,288.8m) in 2014, according to estimates and 10% above the 13,635.8m reals (US$ 6,235.0m) outturn for 2013. Taking into account Commercial and Executive Aviation and Defense & Security, Embraer delivered 215 aircraft during the year, the same number as delivered in 2013. 10 % 48 % Revenue grew as a result of several factors, including an growth of net of sales were exchange rate movement of almost 9% that boosted income in revenue in the US reals and spurred growth of revenue in the Defense & Security market business unit, which rose by 32% relative to 2013. 14.9 As a result of these trends, the gross margin was 19.8%. This was 2.9 percentage points below the 2013 outturn, principally owing to a change in the product mix in Commercial Aviation—which increased deliveries of E175 aircraft, that sells at a lower price point than the E190 and E195—and a decline in the number of billion reals in net revenue large jets sold by Executive Aviation. REVENUE BY BUSINESS UNIT AND GEOGRAPHICAL REGION OPERATIONAL RESULTS AND In 2014 Commercial Aviation’s net revenue reached 7,475.6m reals, operating MARGIN (EBIT) 4% higher than in 2013. Executive Aviation recorded revenue of 3,847.3m reals, up 5% on the previous year. Defense & Security In 2014 Embraer recorded an operational result and margin of 1,303.8m achieved net revenue of 3,428.8m reals, a 32% increase on the reals (US$ 543.3m) and 8.7% respectively. The operational outturn previous year. Other activities generated revenue of 184.2m reals. was in line with our expectations but the margin fell somewhat short, shrinking by 19% relative to 2013. The decline is largely attributable to The North American market remains Embraer’s largest, accounting the change in the aircraft mix delivered by Commercial Aviation and the for 48% of revenue. In an ongoing reflection of the economic crisis in fall in sales of large jets on the part of the Executive Aviation business, Europe, the European market’s revenue continued to decline, falling as explained earlier. to 14%. The share of revenues generated in the Brazilian market remained stable at 21%, while the share of revenue earned in Latin NET PROFIT AND EARNINGS PER SHARE America, China and Asia Pacific fell to 3%, 4% and 4% respectively while Africa and the Middle East rose to 6% of the total. Embraer’s net profit in 2014 was 796.1m reals, up 2% on 2013. Earnings per share were 1.09 reals. During the year, Embraer’s export sales totaled US$3,811.6m, making the Company Brazil’s seventh largest exporter and a CASH POSITION substantial support to the foreign trade balance. Contrary to projections, Embraer ended fiscal 2014 with a negative net cash position of 823.8m reals (US$403.6m). This was chiefly due to revenue falling short of expectations and an increase in the value of accounts receivable, reflecting longer payment cycles on the part of some clients. 46 2014 Annual Report VALUE-ADDED STATEMENT (VAS) G4-EC1 TAXES AND SOCIAL CONTRIBUTIONS The purpose of the VAS is to demonstrate the wealth Embraer The taxes, social contributions, and municipal, state and federal generates and distributes to different sectors of the community fees that measure part of Embraer’s contribution to the wider represented by shareholders, employees, financial institutions and community totaled 1,058.1m reals in fiscal 2014. the municipal, state and federal governments. Added value totaled 4,940.7m reals and represented 33% of net revenue in 2014. CAPITAL MARKET Embraer’s shares have been listed on the New Market (Novo Consolidated – million reals 2014 2013 2012 Mercado) of the São Paulo Stock Exchange (BM&FBovespa) since Revenue 16,343.0 15,163.1 13,094.6 1989 and on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) via American Inputs Acquired from Third Parties (11,144.2) (9,968.8) (8,774.6) Depositary Receipts (ADRs), level III, since 2000. Gross Value Added 5,198.8 5,194.3 4,320.0 Depreciation and Amortization (676.8) (633.3) (545.7) In 2014, Embraer maintained its listing in the theoretical portfolios of Net Value Added Produced by the Company 4,522.0 4,561.0 3,774.3 the Brazil Index (IBrX) as well as in the Special Corporate Governance Value Added Received in Transfer 418.7 345.3 276.8 Stock Index (Índice de Ações com Governança Corporativa – IGC), Distribution of Value Added 4,940.7 4,906.3 4,051.1 the Special Tag Along Stock Index (ITAG), the Industrial Sector Index Staff 2,502.3 2,368.5 2,089.5 (INDX), the Bovespa Value Index 2nd Tier (IVBX-2) and the Brazil 50 Government (taxes, levies and contributions) 1,058.1 1,126.0 977.8 Interest payments and rents 553.7 625.4 284.8 Index (IBrX50). Interest on own capital and dividends 214.3 202.1 182.5 Retained profits/losses 581.8 575.6 515.3 Embraer’s shares (EMBR3) were trading on the BM&FBovespa at Participation of non-controllers 30.5 8.7 1.2 R$24.44 at the end of 2014, 29% higher than at the close of the previous year, while the overall index was down 3% over the same period. The American Depositary Shares (ADS) of the Company (ERJ) listed on the NYSE traded at US$36.86 at the end of 2014, up 15% year-over-year, compared to an 8% rise in the Dow Jones index. Embraer’s market capitalization reached US$6.8 billion at the end of 2014, up from US$5.9 billion a year earlier. 796.1million reals 29%rise in share price on BM&F Bovespa in net profit in 2014 SHAREHOLDERS 47 Embraer’s shares are listed on BM&FBovespa’s Corporate Sustainability Index (ISE) and the Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI). DISTRIBUTION OF CONTROLLING COMPANY Distributed dividends RESULTS AND SHAREHOLDER REMUNERATION 116% In 2014, Embraer distributed 214.4m reals to its shareholders, comprising 198.3m reals of interest on own capital and 16.1m reals 26% 26% 27% in dividends. This represented a payout of 27% of consolidated net profits of 796.1m reals. Earnings per share were 1.09 reals. 202 214 181 182 Million reals % change 2011 2012 2013 2014 Share performance: ERJ-NYSE (01/01/2014 = 100) EMBR3BM&FBOVESPA Performance (01/01/2014 = 100) Embraer Embraer 120 120 100 100 80 Nyse 80 BM&FBovespa 60 60 40 40 20 20 jan 14 feb 14 mar 14 abr 14 may 14 jun 14 jul 14 aug 14 sept 14 oct 14 nov 14 dec 14 jan 14 feb 14 mar 14 abr 14 may 14 jun 14 jul 14 aug 14 sept 14 oct 14 nov 14 dec 14 PEOPLE 50 2014 Annual Report “OUR PEOPLE ARE WHAT MAKE US FLY” Our professionals’ commitment to excellence is the key to our business success E mbraer’s professionals are the main reason for the Company’s achievement of excellence in its financial results and other objectives, including the creation of stakeholder value. More than that, it is they who help turn the dream of flying into a reality. PROUD TO BE EMBRAER Embraer’s commitment to its internal stakeholders is reflected not only in an array of formal projects and programs but also in a sense of pride among employees in being part of Embraer and working through its values. Embraer made a push to globalize people management processes in 2014, with a view of supporting professional development and The workplace environment survey carried out at the end of 2013 continuous training of leaders. The mechanisms offered by My yielded a favorability score of 83.7%. Another survey carried out during Embraer, the online people management tool introduced in 2013, have 2014 with the aid of an external company resulted in an even higher developed in this regard, a good example being its training module. score of 86%. The goal is to reach 90% by 2020. The favorability score is a focus of action plans at all levels of leadership. Other solutions implemented during the year were the employee competency evaluation module; the recruitment and selection Embraer’s working environment also resulted in the Company winning module; the succession module and the training and development various quality awards presented by relevant organizations and the module. The Employee Central (EC) module, which will bring media during 2014 (see prizes on p. 42). together information on employees from all over the world, is set for completion in 2015. PORTRAIT OF OUR PEOPLE G4-10 Embraer’s work force consists of 19,167 employees, of whom 17,094 are based in Brazil and 2,073 abroad. For the sixth year, Embraer was ranked 17,094 employees among the best places to work by Great Place to Work Institute/Época magazine and for the fourth year by in Brazil Florida Trend magazine. PEOPLE 51 Number of employees 20131 2014 20133 2014 functional level Male Female Male Female Type of contract Male Female Male Female Director2 84 7 79 8 Full time 15,247 2,674 16,219 2,916 Manager 364 55 234 43 Part time 0 6 27 5 Supervisor 670 68 726 81 Total by gender 15,247 2,680 16,246 2,921 Pilot 104 0 106 0 Overall total 17,927 19,167 Engineer 3,642 526 3,708 576 Professional 1,263 956 1,271 961 20134 20144 Number of employees Technician 2,940 258 3,013 277 by region Male Female Male Female Administrative 526 425 490 386 Southeast region 14,791 2,506 14,569 2,520 Operational 6,800 590 6,619 589 Center-west region 2 3 2 3 Total by gender 16,393 2,885 16,246 2,921 Total by gender 14,793 2,509 14,571 2,523 Overall total 19,278 19,167 Overall total 17,302 17,094 1 In 2013 trainees and interns were listed separately. Trainees are now categorized under operational. 2013 2014 Some interns are trainees with disabilities and categorized under administrative; others are National Contract type Male Female Male Female Service for Industrial Apprenticeship (SENAI) apprentices and categorized as operational. 2 Director level includes President &CEO, Vice-presidents and Directors. Note: the change Fixed term 264 90 226 67 in leadership numbers between 2013 and 2014 reflects the fact that in 2014 hierarchy Permanent 16,129 2,795 16,020 2,854 classifications were harmonized across domestic and international operations. 3 In 2013 some information from overseas operations was not Total by gender 16,393 2,885 16,246 2,921 available so figures only reflected Brazil operations. total 19,278 19,167 4 Brazil. 52 2014 Annual Report 85 EXCELLENCE IN PEOPLE Of the four pillars of the P3E, three are intrinsically linked to people: evolution of the organizational culture, talent development and continuous training of company leadership. The fourth value—the search % for excellence and efficiency in all processes—intersects with the other pillars. of leadership The Blue Day is the flagship project focusing on organizational culture. positions filled Every two months employees are invited to come to work wearing a blue internally shirt, symbolizing the conclusion of a reflection period focusing on one of the Company’s values. 86 For people development and continuous training of the Company’s leadership, Embraer works on attracting, retaining and developing its staff, and this social aspect is accorded great importance in the Materiality Matrix. Most open positions are filled internally: this is the case for 85% of leadership positions and 50% at other levels. Embraer’s success in attracting, retaining and developing talent are important differentiating % features shaping the business’s ability to retain its competitive edge. DIVERSITY favorability rating in workplace Launched in 2012, the Embraer On The Path to Diversity program environment survey aims to increase the employability of individuals with disabilities by offering them high-quality technical training courses. To this end, Embraer developed a two-year apprenticeship program in partnership with the Center for Business-Schools Integration (Centro de Integração Empresa-Escola — CIEE) and the National Service for Industrial Apprenticeship (Serviço Nacional de Aprendizagem Industrial — SENAI). 100,000 The program offers professional qualification courses in IT, mechanical and electrical subjects, as well as coaching in workplace behaviors. Practical training takes place at Embraer, in the departments most relevant to the subjects being taught. training session attendances RELATIONS WITH LABOR UNIONS G4-11; G4-LA8; G4-HR4 Embraer fully respects its employees’ freedom to associate in a labor union. At the Company’s Brazil operations, 8.3% of personnel are unionized and salary adjustments and other clauses agreed in collective bargaining meetings between the Company and the unions are extended to everyone, with the result that 100% of employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements. Collective bargaining agreements signed with the unions cover workplace safety issues such as: individual protective equipment; health and safety committees made up of leadership and employees; PEOPLE 53 participation of employee representatives in health and safety During technical training, the employee is always accompanied by inspections and accident investigations; and education and training, a tutor (a colleague who must have at least four years’ experience complaint procedures and periodic inspections. at Embraer). Enrollment in behavior-related courses is determined individually, based on the competency evaluations that form the PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENt basis for the employee’s Personal Development Plan. DMA training In 2014 there was an overall increase in the number of employees attending training courses and a reduction in the overall number of Keeping the workforce up to date and equipped to deliver maximum hours owing to the increased preponderance of shorter courses. efficiency, innovation and excellence requires Embraer to invest continuously in training. During 2015, the training department will give greater focus to developing online courses, to provide employees with greater Training sessions are divided into technical subjects (around 300 flexibility. The aim is to devise new training formats via the Learning such sessions are available) and behaviors (40 courses). During 2014 Management System (LMS), applying the principles and precepts set employees in Brazil took part in courses amounting to a total of out in Embraer’s educational model. 100,000 sessions. G4-LA9 2012 2013 2014 Male Female Male Female Male Female Total hours 1,327 262 803 270 1,101 297 Director Total employees at functional level 60 6 84 7 79 8 Hours per employee at functional level 22 44 10 39 14 37 Total hours 6,618 1,389 6,244 1,390 4,512 1,692 Manager Total employees at functional level 212 33 364 55 234 43 Hours per employee at functional level 31 42 17 25 19 39 Total hours 28,454 2,707 42,731 4,279 31,266 3,901 Supervisor Total employees at functional level 592 56 670 68 726 81 Hours per employee at functional level 48 48 64 63 43 48 Total hours 730 0 1,160 0 1,332 0 Pilot Total employees at functional level 85 104 0 106 0 Hours per employee at functional level 9 0 11 0 13 0 Total hours 156,432 23,465 158,778 27,585 133,344 23,180 Engineer Total employees at functional level 3,083 416 3,642 526 3,708 576 Hours per employee at functional level 51 56 44 52 36 40 Total hours 48,564 33,890 44,047 27,723 31,691 21,669 Professional Total employees at functional level 1,026 774 1,263 956 1,271 961 Hours per employee at functional level 47 44 35 29 25 23 Total hours 121,090 16,413 115,267 21,893 98,781 14,151 Technician Total employees at functional level 2,088 181 2,940 258 3,013 277 Hours per employee at functional level 58 91 39 85 33 51 Total hours 33,186 14,587 20,002 19,118 16,108 13,558 Administrative Total employees at functional level 503 333 526 425 490 386 Hours per employee at functional level 66 44 38 45 33 35 Total hours 187,077 11,111 242,002 17,779 197,431 14,677 Operational Total employees at functional level 6,393 484 6,800 590 6,619 589 Hours per employee at functional level 29 23 36 30 30 25 Total hours 583,478 103,824 631,033 120,038 515,565 93,126 Total Total employees 14,042 2,283 16,393 2,885 16,246 2,921 Hours per employee 42 45 38 42 32 32 Note: there was a change in the data in 2014, when Embraer’s own functional categorizations were used. Consolidated training hours per capita, which had factored in all training participants, was adjusted to focus on numbers of Embraer employees. Data for 2013 and 2014 are global; 2012 data cover only Brazil operations. 54 2014 Annual Report In 2014 Embraer passed the threshold of 17,700 employees in training courses, totaling more than 600,000 hours of training and investment of around 10m reals. tuition reimbursement RETIREMENT PLAN COVERAGE G4-EC3; G4-EC5 The Study Bursary program offers another option for certain training Embraer offers all its Brazil-based employees and those of some courses. It provides help with costs for employees to take courses subsidiaries and majority-owned companies the EmbraerPrev plan, outside the Company, for instance language training, graduate and a defined-contribution complementary pension plan. Participation post-graduate courses. The courses must align with the individual’s is voluntary, in accordance with Brazilian legislation. There are no Personal Development Plan. restrictions on joining the plan; benefits take into account length of service. Embraer offers employees in its overseas operations similar POST-CAREER G4-LA10 benefits adapted to local laws and market conditions. Embraer also has a Post-Career Program to support employees HARNESSING INTERNAL TALENT planning a new life phase. Participation is voluntary and in 2014 numbers of those enrolled as well as funds invested increased In keeping with the Company’s Human Resources Policy and Values, relative to 2013. the process of identifying candidates for open positions gives priority to internal harnessing of talent, through promotion (vertical growth) or sideways transfer (horizontal growth). Vacancies are advertised externally only once internal possibilities have been exhausted. With employees’ quality of life in mind, Embraer gives preference to Internal courses and pre-retirement planning candidates living close to the Company’s premises—although there are no explicit policies or local agreements governing this issue. 2012 2013 2014 Participants 147 80 116 Sum invested (in reals) 280,010 170,476 190,820 Number of bursaries 176 80 116 Note: Numbers are for Brazil operations only PEOPLE 55 TRAINING PROGRAMS G4-EC7 DMA indirect economic impacts During 2014 Embraer invested 5m reals in two major programs that Lowest salary paid at Company’s operational units provide training relevant to working within the Company or a career relative to official minimum wage by gender G4-EC5 outside: the Embraer Designer Program (PPE) and the Engineering Specialization Program (PEE). Reference % over The Embraer Designer Program is carried out in partnership with Country Gender Lowest salary paid wage reference 2013 2014 the São Paulo Faculty of Technology (FATEC) and trains young Male BRL 1,155.00 BRL 1,337.60 BRL 724.001 84.75 professionals to work as aeronautical designers. The trainees take Brazil Female BRL 1,148.62 BRL 1,337.60 84.75 part in a full cycle of technical training and personal development Male US$ 2,621.41 US$ 1,733.33 US$ 1,374.53 2 26.1 monitoring, working at Embraer as technical apprentices with good USA Female US$ 2,588.42 US$ 2,080.00 51.32 prospects of a permanent position at the end of their training. Male CNY 9,500.00 CNY 12,000.00 CNY 1,560.003 669.23 China Female CNY 7,000.00 CNY 6,117.52 292.15 The Engineering Specialization Program is carried out in partnership with Male SGD 1,943.00 SGD 2,413.00 NA Singapore the Technological Institute of Aeronautics (ITA) and enables successful Female SGD 2,207.00 SGD 2,742.00 NA participants to gain a professional master’s degree in aeronautical Male EUR 700.00 EUR 700.00 EUR 565.834 23.71 Portugal engineering. Based on a systematic study of Embraer’s product lines, the Female EUR 821.54 EUR 700.00 23.71 trainees develop hands-on familiarity with technical and practical procedures Male EUR 1,890.00 EUR 1,891.99 EUR 1,455.005 30.03 France as well as receive personal (and inter-personal) development training. Female EUR 1,475.23 EUR 1,891.99 30.03 Though there are no obligations, the trainee may have the possibility of 1 Brazilian minimum wage; 2minimum wage in Florida; 3minimum wage in securing employment at Embraer upon completion of the course. Beijing; 4minimum wage in Portugal; 5minimum wage in France. Note: there are important differences between basic pay in different operational units because pay levels are affected by local country legislation. In China, the especially large Embraer employees (including technicians, specialists and business gap between Embraer’s minimum salary and the local minimum wage reflects the fact that the Company’s activity in this country is largely administrative. Data take into leaders) participate in these courses in terms of content development, account key operating units. Data do not cover representative offices in Ireland and the teaching, mentoring and the technical team, thereby prompting an st Netherlands (whose payroll on Dec 31 2014 comprised 0.04% of the Company’s total). interchange between experienced generations and those who will determine future potential. 56 2014 Annual Report TRAINING PROGRAMS G4-EC8 PERFORMANCE EVALUATION G4-LA11 Embraer is involved in several partnerships focused on professional During 2014, via My Embraer (the online people management tool) the training, education and development. Company rolled out its competency assessment program across all its operations in Brazil and abroad. The program generates Personal Indirectly, Embraer’s involvement supports external Engineering Development Plans (PDPs) that help employees reach their goals and courses such as those run by the Technological Institute of help align these with Embraer’s values. Aeronautics (ITA), a renowned research institute in São José do Campos to which Embraer has been linked since its foundation. The three assessment models are as follows: Embraer’s operation in Gavião Peixoto also indirectly supports the Aeronautical Engineering program (USP/São Carlos), SENAI’s Leadership evaluations Aircraft Maintenance technical course and the advanced course in the Identifies strengths and development opportunities against Embraer Technology of Aircraft Maintenance, both of them in São Carlos (São Business Leader competencies. Evaluation is a combination of Paulo state). self-assessment and feedback from immediate superiors and subordinates, peers and clients (360º model). Embraer’s role in stimulating learning and capacity building in the aerospace sector contributes to increasing Brazil’s international Competency assessment competitiveness in the international market for high-technology This evaluates all employees, including those in leadership manufacturers. positions. It promotes excellence and professional development using organizational competencies. Consisting of five stages A highlight of 2014 was a partnership with FlightSafety, through (self-assessment, manager’s assessment, consensus meeting, which Embraer developed training programs specific to the Legacy development of PDP and signature) the evaluation is performed on and Lineage executive jets and the E-Jets commercial aircraft. The an annual basis, with the support of My Embraer. program’s first class of Legacy 500 pilots trained in the FlightSafety training center in Missouri (US) in 2014. Classrooms are equipped Automatic Salary Progression Assessment with advanced technology, including a flight simulator. This has decision-making power. Assuming satisfactory performance, the employee receives an automatic pay increase. In cases of unsatisfactory performance, employment is terminated. This assessment is for early operational staff at the start of their career and with up to a maximum of 84 months of tenure in the organization. During 2015 the competency evaluation system will enable managers to sign subordinates up for relevant courses as soon as the PDP is developed, with the help of the My Embraer tool. 99.5 % 5 million Performance assessment and career development of employees reals invested 2014 are on full-time in engineering Male Female contracts training Total employees 16,246 2,921 partnerships Employees evaluated 14,616 2,570 % By gender 90 88 % OVERALL 90 PEOPLE 57 Hiring in 2014 – by region, age group and gender (and as % of workforce) G4-LA1 Region Age group Male Female Overall total Under 30 19 0.1% 11 0.1% 30 0.2% Belo Horizonte (MG) 30 to 50 3 0.0% 2 0.0% 5 0.0% Belo Horizonte Total 22 0.1% 13 0.1% 35 0.2% Under 30 38 0.2% 8 0.0% 46 0.2% Botucatu (SP) 30 to 50 8 0.0% 1 0.0% 9 0.0% Botucatu Total 46 0.2% 9 0.0% 55 0.3% Brasília (DF) 30 to 50 0.0% 1 0.0% 1 0.0% Brasília Total 0.0% 1 0.0% 1 0.0% Under 30 92 0.5% 26 0.1% 118 0.6% Gavião Peixoto (SP) 30 to 50 20 0.1% 5 0.0% 25 0.1% Gavião Peixoto Total 112 0.6% 31 0.2% 143 0.7% Under 30 251 1.3% 128 0.7% 379 2.0% São José dos Campos (SP) Over 50 6 0.0% 1 0.0% 7 0.0% 30 to 50 74 0.4% 37 0.2% 111 0.6% São José dos Campos Total 331 1.7% 166 0.9% 497 2.6% Under 30 2 0.0% 1 0.0% 3 0.0% São Paulo (SP) 30 to 50 3 0.0% 2 0.0% 5 0.0% São Paulo Total 5 0.0% 3 0.0% 8 0.0% Under 30 5 0.0% 3 0.0% 8 0.0% Sorocaba (SP) 30 to 50 9 0.0% 0.0% 9 0.0% Sorocaba Total 14 0.1% 3 0.0% 17 0.1% Under 30 9 0.0% 10 0.1% 19 0.1% Taubaté (SP) Over 50 1 0.0% 0.0% 1 0.0% 30 to 50 6 0.0% 6 0.0% 12 0.1% Taubaté Total 16 0.1% 16 0.1% 32 0.2% Under 30 3 0.0% 2 0.0% 5 0.0% China 30 to 50 4 0.0% 1 0.0% 5 0.0% China Total 7 0.0% 3 0.0% 10 0.1% Under 30 59 0.3% 16 0.1% 75 0.4% USA Over 50 70 0.4% 11 0.1% 81 0.4% 30 to 50 181 0.9% 23 0.1% 204 1.1% USA Total 310 1.6% 50 0.3% 360 1.9% Under 30 7 0.0% 1 0.0% 8 0.0% France Over 50 4 0.0% 0.0% 4 0.0% 30 to 50 9 0.0% 0.0% 9 0.0% France Total 20 0.1% 1 0.0% 21 0.1% Under 30 42 0.2% 4 0.0% 46 0.2% Portugal 30 to 50 36 0.2% 11 0.1% 47 0.2% Portugal Total 78 0.4% 15 0.1% 93 0.5% Holanda 30 to 50 1 0.0% 1 0.0% 2 0.0% Holanda Total 1 0.0% 1 0.0% 2 0.0% Singapore 30 to 50 4 0.0% 2 0.0% 6 0.0% Singapore Total 4 0.0% 2 0.0% 6 0.0% Total geral 966 5.0% 314 1.6% 1.280 6.7% Total Geral 966 5.0% 314 1.6% 1.280 6.7% 58 2014 Annual Report Staff turnover in 2014 – by region, age group and gender (and as % of workforce) Region Age group Male Female Overall total Under 30 6 0.0% 1 0.0% 7 0.0% Belo Horizonte (MG) 30 to 50 1 0.0% 0.0% 1 0.0% Belo Horizonte Total 7 0.0% 1 0.0% 8 0.0% Under 30 55 0.3% 12 0.1% 67 0.3% Botucatu (SP) Over 50 1 0.0% 0.0% 1 0.0% 30 to 50 35 0.2% 8 0.0% 43 0.2% Botucatu Total 91 0.5% 20 0.1% 111 0.6% Brasília (DF) 30 to 50 0.0% 1 0.0% 1 0.0% Brasília Total 0.0% 1 0.0% 1 0.0% Under 30 28 0.1% 4 0.0% 32 0.2% Gavião Peixoto (SP) Over 50 7 0.0% 0.0% 7 0.0% 30 to 50 60 0.3% 7 0.0% 67 0.3% Gavião Peixoto Total 95 0.5% 11 0.1% 106 0.6% Under 30 165 0.9% 80 0.4% 245 1.3% São José dos Campos (SP) Over 50 100 0.5% 21 0.1% 121 0.6% 30 to 50 274 1.4% 87 0.5% 361 1.9% São José dos Campos Total 539 2.8% 188 1.0% 727 3.8% Under 30 1 0.0% 0.0% 1 0.0% São Paulo (SP) Over 50 1 0.0% 0.0% 1 0.0% 30 to 50 6 0.0% 1 0.0% 7 0.0% São Paulo Total 8 0.0% 1 0.0% 9 0.0% Sorocaba (SP) 30 to 50 3 0.0% 0.0% 3 0.0% Sorocaba Total 3 0.0% 0.0% 3 0.0% Under 30 2 0.0% 6 0.0% 8 0.0% Taubaté (SP) Over 50 2 0.0% 0.0% 2 0.0% 30 to 50 6 0.0% 4 0.0% 10 0.1% Taubaté Total 10 0.1% 10 0.1% 20 0.1% Under 30 1 0.0% 3 0.0% 4 0.0% China Over 50 1 0.0% 0.0% 1 0.0% 30 to 50 7 0.0% 3 0.0% 10 0.1% China Total 9 0.0% 6 0.0% 15 0.1% Under 30 55 0.3% 9 0.0% 64 0.3% USA Over 50 69 0.4% 3 0.0% 72 0.4% 30 to 50 142 0.7% 22 0.1% 164 0.9% USA Total 266 1.4% 34 0.2% 300 1.6% Under 30 7 0.0% 4 0.0% 11 0.1% France Over 50 10 0.1% 0.0% 10 0.1% 30 to 50 27 0.1% 6 0.0% 33 0.2% France Total 44 0.2% 10 0.1% 54 0.3% Under 30 4 0.0% 0.0% 4 0.0% Portugal 30 to 50 7 0.0% 1 0.0% 8 0.0% Portugal Total 11 0.1% 1 0.0% 12 0.1% Over 50 1 0.0% 0.0% 1 0.0% Singapore 30 to 50 5 0.0% 3 0.0% 8 0.0% Singapore Total 6 0.0% 3 0.0% 9 0.0% Total Geral 1,089 5.7% 286 1.5% 1.375 7.2% PEOPLE 59 REMUNERATION AND BENEFITS G4-LA2 A decline in accidents and incidents in the past year may be attributable to ongoing preventative initiatives such as the DMA Employment Communication and Educational Initiatives Plan, the Behavioral Program, the Occupational Therapy Program (PERTO), Managing Embraer provides all its employees with life insurance, a health plan Ergonomic Risk Factors and Prevention through Design (PtD). and incapacity or invalidity benefits (through the life insurance plan), Embraer’s meticulous approach to safety management saw it ranked maternity and paternity leave (180 days and 5 days respectively), a top in its sector, for the fifth consecutive year, in the health and safety retirement plan (Embraer Prev – the private plan is optional) and a leadership category of the Dow Jones Sustainability Index. share purchase plan (CIEMB – optional). In its overseas operations, the Company follows local legislation. Educational Initiatives and Communications Plan: launched in 2012 with the backing of senior leadership, this aims at instilling habits HEALTH AND SAFETY G4-LA6 of prevention. The Five Golden Rules for Health and Safety were formulated on the basis of employee feedback on health and safety DMA Health and Safety issues, including barriers to overcome and suggestions for how to Embraer attaches great importance to the pursuit of excellence in its implement policy. Each year sees the launch of fresh initiatives aimed occupational health and safety program. It undertakes continuous at deepening adherence to each rule, the last of which is to share educational and preventative initiatives under its Environmental and best practices with visitors and third parties. Health & Safety Policy (MASS in Portuguese). Revised in 2013, MASS Behavioral Program: created in 2008, this has now trained is a holistic directive that sets goals in keeping with the Company’s more than 5,000 staff. Having already been rolled out to standards of excellence. production, logistics, planning and quality areas, in 2014 it was For the past 13 years Embraer has also retained its OHSAS 18001 extended to administrative departments and included in the international occupational health and safety certification, having cockpitemb electronic portal developed internally for managing implemented all the measures envisaged in this standard in areas operational activities. such as health and safety, planning, implementation and operation, Embraer Occupational Therapy Program (PERTO in Portuguese): led verification and corrective measures, critical review by leadership by physiotherapy specialists, since its start in 2010 PERTO has worked and continuous improvements; all these areas are described the on reeducating employees on appropriate workplace postures, with the Management System handbook. Each year, the Company sets Goals goal of minimizing injury risks. In 2014, the program expanded its scope and Objectives for the Management System, aimed at preventing and reach in terms both of operational units and technologies. mishaps and improving working conditions. Performance indicators are presented monthly to the Board of Directors and the Board of Managing Ergonomic Risk Factors: since 2001 this has worked on Executive Officers and discussed in Critical Analysis meetings that identifying ergonomic risks at workstations and developing solutions review the Management System. to address them. Having begun as a pilot initiative in one operational unit, it now covers all premises throughout Brazil. In 2014 work began on developing proprietary software to address ergonomics in the Excellent accident prevention aeronautics industry. requires continuous attention: Prevention through Design (PtD): as a result of a kaizen in 2013, the Board of Directors and the Board this program implanted health and safety requirements into the of Executive Officers review indicators development stages of new product lines. The newest aircraft, the E2 and the KC-390, had already undergone ergonomic assessment every month with the goal of preventing accidents and illnesses and reducing the incidence of re-workings. 60 2014 Annual Report HEALTH AND SAFETY IN NUMBERS EMBRAER EMPLOYEES 2012 2013 2014 Total accidents 221 196 184 1, 2 Incident frequency rate with and without absence from work 7.75 6.47 6.00 Workdays lost (to injury + illness) 1,018 1,221 982 3 Severity Rate (injury + illness) 35.71 40.29 32.05 4 Occupational illness rate 0.67 0.92 0.49 Absenteeism Rate (excluding maternity/paternity leave) 5 4.7 Fatalities 0 0 0 HEALTH AND SAFETY IN NUMBERS – CONTRACTORS 2012 2013 2014 Incident frequency rate with and without absence from work6, 7 8.85 9.23 7.20 Fatalities 0 0 0 1 The frequency rate corresponds to the total number of work accidents whether or not they result in time off work, 2 divided by hours actually worked (HAW) and multiplied by a million. Severity and frequency rates take into account 3 HAW, including 8hr 36min work day plus overtime. Data from the Sorocaba unit were inrporated in 2014. Severity rate 4 corresponds to number of lost workdays divided by HAW and multiplied by a million. Illness rate corresponds to total number of work-related illnesses whether or not they result in time off work, divided by HAW and multiplied by a million. 5 Information not available. 6 The frequency rate for contractors corresponds to the total number of work 7 accidents whether or not they result in time off work, divided by HAW and multiplied by a million. The HAW for contractors was estimated assuming 220 hours per month per individual contractor at Faria Lima, Eugênio de Melo, Taubaté, Gavião Peixoto, Botucatu units, and from 2014 including Sorocaba. Note: Data cover all Brazil operations. They do not cover travel accidents, whether or not they result in loss of workdays. Total days lost in consecutive days. Work accident data was computed according to NBR 14280 (Brazilian regulation), which translates ILO resolution, in which total number of work accidents is divided by HAW and multiplied by a million. Recording of accidents and illness is carried out via a system that facilitates accident investigation and the creation of an action plan to develop preventative and/or corrective measures. PEOPLE 61 Embraer has held OHSAS 18001 certification for more than ten years as a result of its rigorous approach to environmental health and safety. Supporting Quality of Life G4-LA7 Based on its health and safety policy, Embraer implements Well-Being on the Scales: offers to help employees and their a series of preventative initiatives that focus on employees’ direct dependents, as well as interns, achieve healthy weight loss. occupational health, quality of life and wellbeing. The Company’s One of the programs is based on the methodology developed by wellness programs are based on an epidemiological profile Weight Watchers. developed through periodic medical check-ups that attract 100% of employees. Well-Being and Maternity: offers the option of extending maternity leave from 120 to 180 days along with a pre-natal The highlight is the Well-Being program launched in 2009 and course for expectant mothers. During the course, doctors, focused on improving quality of life and wellbeing for employees and nutritionists, psychologists, pediatric orthodontists and obstetric their families, and interns. nurses help the expectant parents to support each other, and provide useful guidance on pre-natal readiness and care of the The program encourages the adoption of good habits, with support newborn baby. to help individuals achieve a healthier daily lifestyle, reducing health risk factors, improving the quality of the work environment, and Well-Being and You: entails a range of initiatives to help improve underpinning productivity and business excellence. the health of employees struggling with excess weight and/ or obesity, as well as related ailments such as hypertension, Well-Being Bulletin: a weekly publication about health, quality cholesterol problems and diabetes. The program is carried out of life and wellbeing, distributed by email and intranet. within Embraer and led by a multi-disciplinary team of doctors, Articles cover a range of themes related to physical, mental nutritionists and psychologists. and emotional health as well as offering cultural and leisure recommendations and tips. Well-being and Physical Activity: offers employees and their direct dependents incentive programs and facilities to encourage them to Well-Being without Cigarettes: offers employees and their engage in physical activity and sport, providing infrastructure at the direct dependents treatment to help quit smoking, combining Embraer Sports Association, in addition to various exercise programs individual and group therapy. Treatment and medications are including the 30-Minute Gym. covered 100% by Embraer. Lecture Program: offers awareness raising, discussion and guidance Well-Being without Drugs: provides support to employees and their for making quality-of-life improvements through the adoption of direct dependents, as well as interns, to treat chemical dependency. healthy daily habits. The lecture topics focus on improving health and The program entails specialized treatment for the drug user, as well preventing problems. as support for his/her family and manager. 62 2014 Annual Report Health Week: this aims to encourage employees, their families and JOINT REPRESENTATION G4-LA5 contractors to take better care of their health and wellbeing. Health Week took place in 2014 in conjunction with the Internal Accident An Internal Accident Prevention Committee (Comissão Interna Prevention Week (SIPAT). Employees throughout Embraer’s Brazil para Prevenção de Acidentes CIPA) has been in operation at received guidance on how to make behavioral changes and take Embraer since 1971. Currently Embraer has active CIPAs covering preventive measures to minimize health, safety and environmental all its manufacturing operations. The number of members in CIPA risks; along with instruction on creating a precautionary environment, is defined by regulatory norm NR-05 of Administrative Ruling no. familiarizing employees with corrective measures they can request to 3124/78 issued by Brazil’s Labor Ministry. make the working environment more sustainable—thus contributing to continuous improvement. CIPA is made up of employees elected annually by secret ballot, along with an equal number of representatives appointed by Embraer’s Vaccination Program: with a focus on prevention, Embraer’s vaccination management. The employer appoints CIPA’s president and the program is extended to all employees and their direct dependents. It elected and serving employees elect the Vice-president. CIPA meets carries out various vaccination campaigns, for example flu. once a month to discuss issues relating to employee health and safety and circulates meeting minutes to relevant trade unions. Reinsertion Program: led by a multidisciplinary team, this aims to increase safety as well as minimize problems caused by prolonged Once a year, CIPA organizes a week of activities focused on accident absences from work, encouraging the absentee to adopt healthy habits, prevention, with the participation of most Embraer employees. thus improving their wellbeing for the return to work. Employees undergo monitoring during their absence and upon their return. Each operating unit has its own CIPA, its size proportionate to the number of employees. Any Embraer employee, whatever his or her level, can take part in a CIPA. Support programs for serious illnesses Note: during 2014 the number of employees serving on CIPA increased due to CIPA’s extension to the Belo Horizonte premises. Program Education/ Prevention/ beneficiary training Counseling risk control Treatment Employees X X X X Employees' families X X X Percentage of employees represented on Contractors X X formal health and safety committees Committee 2012 2013 2014 Share of employees represented by CIPA 100% 100% 100% No of CIPA delegates (all Embraer 140 140 148 manufacturing premises) 100% of employees are represented on formal health and safety committees. PEOPLE 63 In the spotlight INTRA-COMPANY COMMUNICATIONS The Excellence in Communications Program, which seeks to instill habits of continuous and high-quality internal communication, leverages modern electronic internal media. Embraer’s Internal Communications department provides major support to programs being carried out in other departments and in the business units, helping with awarenessraising and informational campaigns as well as development of the organizational culture. PARTNERS 66 2014 Annual Report VALUE-SHARING STRATEGY Embraer works to develop high-quality relationships with its business partners, sharing with them its values and vision G4-12; G4-13 I n order to fully achieve excellence, Embraer needs to secure its suppliers’ engagement with its quality standards and corporate values. This is because commercial partnerships, whether for procurement, innovation, development or training, will remain fundamental to keeping the Company on the path to a sustainable financial, business, production, quality, after-sales, foreign trade, supply chain, engineering and environment. Embraer’s supply-chain management deploys tools such as: a scorecard for monthly monitoring of indicators; a joint action long-term future. plan in which Embraer executives and suppliers discuss strategic issues that might impinge on operations; and a risk assessment to Embraer disseminates the management and governance principles it monitor supply risks and conduct in-person audits of the supplier’s adopts internally throughout its value chain, both to share knowledge factory floor. about the most efficient practices and ensure suppliers and partners also achieve excellence. Currently 68 Brazilian companies provide products and services for aircraft manufactured by Embraer. This supply chain produced 48,000 different parts in 2014, representing a 12.5% increase on SUPPLY CHAIN G4-EN32; G4-EN33 the previous year. DMA environmental assessment of suppliers INTEGRATED DEVELOPMENT In selecting its suppliers, Embraer considers issues such as price Occasionally, suppliers are also involved in product development. competitiveness, quality, reliability, technical and productive capacity, This helps promote a collaborative environment, entailing socio-environmental responsibility, financial health, logistics, risks, discussion of suppliers’ ideas and suggestions and their certifications and experience. incorporation into aeronautics development projects. This process, Embraer ensures its suppliers’ compliance with environmental and known as Integrated Product Development (IPD), connects health requirements by means of contract clauses that are based on suppliers and Embraer to work jointly on aircraft design. After the Company’s Code of Ethics and Conduct and risk analysis process. initial meetings, all parties can continue to collaborate on the Applicable to 100% of suppliers contracted by Embraer, these clauses project in a virtual (online) environment. establish the supplier´s obligation to comply with sector-specific This close working relationship with its suppliers resulted in legislation as well as socioenvironmental standards and human Embraer ranking in first place--for the second consecutive year—in rights norms. the supply chain category of the Dow Jones Sustainability Index. During 2014 most of Embraer’s suppliers underwent an environmental impact assessment. This consists of completing a risk analysis questionnaire containing a specific section on environmental, health, safety and social legislation and assessing nine dimensions: partners 67 Embraer requires its suppliers to comply with norms for handling and disposing of potentially hazardous substances. SUPPLY CHAIN DEVELOPMENT Embraer created its Supplier Development Program (PDF) in 2011 to help promote the development of its supply chain in Brazil. FIRST AEROSPACE INVESTMENT FUND Carried out through the classroom, the program entails modules such IN LATIN AMERICA as: business leadership, strategic planning, financial management, project management, inventory management and people In 2014 Embraer launched the Aerospace Investment management, as well as kaizen weeks. Fund (Fundo de Investimento em Participações Aeroespacial – FIP), the first in Latin America to At the end of 2014 the PDF was reformulated and is now called focus exclusively on the aerospace sector. It is a joint the Program to Develop the Aeronautics Value Chain (PDCA in initiative with the Brazilian National Development Bank Portuguese). It is currently being developed in partnership with the (BNDES), FINEP (the federal government’s Funding Brazilian Industrial Development Agency (ABDI). Authority for Studies and Projects) and Desenvolve SP, a development agency for the state of São Paulo. The Practical capacity building takes place via kaizen weeks for suppliers. FIP’s chief objective is to support small and medium Suppliers are also encouraged to carry out their own kaizens —in sized companies (SMEs) involved in developing 2014, there were 668 kaizens, a significant improvement on 2013, aerospace systems and to help them collaborate, with when there were 399. Suppliers are encouraged to cultivate lean a view of strengthening the aerospace, aeronautics, management precepts using a tool based on SAE J4000 and J4001 defense and security supply chain. The FIP Aeroespacial standards, which outline best practices and highlights improvement will have an initial capital of 131.3m reals. areas, transmitting lean management thinking to suppliers as envisaged in the Embraer Entrepreneurial Excellence Program (P3E). Through 2014, there have been 11 kaizen weeks. And a survey of R$ 131.3 suppliers in 2014 showed a 95% favorability rating. As a thank you for their work, the company holds an annual event for suppliers, awarding a prize for the company that has made the best use of P3E concepts and achieved significant changes. million in initial capital for Aerospace Investment Fund (FIP) SOCIETY AND THE ENVIRONME NT 70 2014 Annual Report WE BUILD A SUSTAINABLE FUTURE Entrepreneurial excellence is intrinsically linked to community engagement and respect for the environment E ngagement with civil society and respect for the environment constitute standards of conduct to which Embraer adheres in all its activities. Listening to the local community and managing the environmental impacts of Embraer’s products throughout their life cycle are among the key foundations to Social responsibility DMA local community G4-EC7; G4-SO1 Embraer’s social investment prioritizes education on the basis that this building a sustainable future and generating shareholder value. is the most efficient means of creating an inclusive and just society. Embraer Institute for Education and Research (IEEP), responsible for The sustainability value is constantly being reinforced through the managing the Company’s social investments, has a brief to create value Embraer Entrepreneurial Excellence Program (P3E), which sets out in the local community through different kinds of social projects (local goals and action plans for all departments at all levels. socioeconomic development; research, development and innovation; and ethics). During 2014 Embraer invested nearly 20m reals in social programs The Company also has a Sustainability Master Plan centered linked to the Embraer Institute’s six pillars: educational excellence; social on issues of key importance to the business as identified by top partnership programs, entrepreneurship programs; socio-environmental leadership in conjunction with groups of stakeholders. Indicators, responsibility; volunteering programs and historical preservation. strategies and goals are specified for each individual topic. Through public consultations, the local community actively participates in defining the scope of social programs. The needs and expectations of the different regions involved are thus factored in, incorporating them into the Company’s strategic priorities for R$ 84 21 social investment and thus adding value to Embraer’s image in the communities where it operates. EMBRAER HIGH SCHOOLS % million The Juarez Wanderley and Casimiro Montenegro Filho high schools, located in São José dos Campos and Botucatu respectively (both in the state of São Paulo) offer the three high school years on a full time basis of students invested to students from the public school system. In the 12 years since it began, taught at by Embraer the Embraer High School project has become a reference point in its Embraer Schools in social field, with high pass rates on entrance exams for both public and private gained entry to programs in public universities Brazil universities. In all, 2,200 students have been educated at the São José dos Campos school and in 2015 the school in Botucatu will see its first class. The schools are fully financed by Embraer and in addition to study grants they provide free uniforms, school meals and transportation. SOCIETY AND THE ENVIRONMENT 71 A University Preparation Program (PPU) developed with the Embraer and more than 800 individual supporters. Former fund beneficiaries Schools aims to transmit the main principals of university study and help are responsible for refunding the assistance received once they are students choose their courses. The PPU encourages students to develop established in the labor market and following the expiry of a grace research projects in areas that interest them. In 2014 they carried out period. In 2014, the program benefited 267 students. projects in electrical engineering, robotics, clean energy generation and biofuels, topics also relevant to Embraer. PARTNERSHIP WITH CIVIL SOCIETY During 2014 Embraer Institute instigated a review of the Embraer The Social Partnership Program (Programa de Parceria Social PPS) Schools’ selection criteria, with the goal of ensuring they stay reflective provides financial support for educational projects developed by of local community realities. From 2015, the selection procedure will civil society organizations with the active participation of the local start to factor in socioeconomic criteria, in addition to extending the community. During 2014, more than 6,700 people benefitted from the requirement for a minimum of nine years’ attendance in public schools. program, with initiatives incorporating Embraer employees as volunteers. Scholarship Fund With the objective of encouraging students from low-income families to continue their studies, the Embraer Institute developed the Scholarship Fund program, targeted at top performing students with limited financial means who have passed entry exams for admission to public or private universities with full exemption of tuition. The fund is compound by donations from partner corporates 72 2014 Annual Report 267 university students helped by the Scholarship Fund 4,370 Embraer employees involved in volunteer activities in Brazil and abroad EMBRAER HISTORICAL CENTER VOLUNTEERING AT EMBRAER The Embraer Historical Center was created in 2006 Volunteering is an important facet of Embraer’s engagement with with the aim of recovering, preserving and raising the local community. The Shining Wings company portal aims to spur awareness about Embraer’s history and that of the a culture of volunteering such that it permeates Embraer Institute’s Brazilian aeronautical industry, the uniqueness and other activities. In 2014, more than 4,370 employees took part in significance of which interests scholars both in Brazil volunteer activities in Brazil and abroad. and abroad. Available documentation sheds light on the time before Embraer was founded and covers ENTREPRENEURSHIP the history of aeronautical initiatives as a whole. Since 2012, Embraer Institute has been running entrepreneurship Material is accessible on the Center’s website, at programs aimed at young students. Embraer employees share www.embraerhistoricalcenter.com. their knowledge and experience with students from the public school system in programs such as Let’s Talk About Ethics, which addresses ethical conduct in personal and professional life. In 2014 the Mini-Enterprise initiative received an award from the State of São Paulo’s Junior Achievement chapter. OVERSEAS INITIATIVES Embraer also implements social responsibility programs outside Brazil. During 2014 the Company supported 15 such projects, involving more than 170 employee volunteers in the US and Portugal. These initiatives are aligned with the social partnership, entrepreneurship and preserving history pillars of Embraer Institute. SOCIETY AND THE ENVIRONMENT 73 The effectiveness of Embraer’s initiatives to reduce consumption of water, energy and materials and greenhouse gas emissions (GHG) are reflected in its ISO 14001 certification (since 2002). Environmental responsibility DIPAS takes part in design meetings with the engineering and DMA environmental products and services sustainability teams and contributes to the planning process, analyzing components and materials used. Its work also extends Embraer’s environmental approach is governed by the principles to the supply chain, to ensure that procurement practices fulfill and directives entailed in the MASS Policy (Meio Ambiente, Saúde environmental requirements. e Segurança no Trabalho Environment, Health and Safety at Work). The MASS Policy helps guide the Integrated System for Regarding the end of a product’s life cycle, Embraer is affiliated to Environmental, Health and Safety at Work and Quality Management. the Aircraft Fleet Recycling Association (AFRA), headquartered in Lema, an external consultancy, transmits legislative updates and Washington DC, which works with the aerospace industry on recycling Embraer Normative Systems (ENS) ensures they are applied, and disposal. guaranteeing full adherence to environmental norms. In coming years, one of DIPAS’s challenges will be to further develop In addition to legal compliance, the MASS Policy advocates impact the system for managing chemical substances, a fundamental issue mitigation and risk management initiatives, with a focus on eco for Embraer’s business. It is also planning the creation of a tracking efficiency (ensuring procedural optimization and resource economy), system for airplane parts, something that is expected to become a engaging the supply chain, product development (Design for the legal requirement in the future. Environment) and climate change. With the goal of encouraging the spread of DfE practices through DEVELOPMENT WITH SUSTAINABILITY G4-EN27 Brazil’s manufacturing sector, for the second consecutive year Embraer organized a workshop, Design for the Environment: From the outset, Embraer’s aircraft are designed with an emphasis opportunities and challenges for Brazilian manufacturing in on incorporating innovations and adhering to environmental norms. partnership with the National Service for Industrial Apprenticeship The Integrated Development of Environmentally Sustainable (SENAI), the National Industry Confederation (CNI), the Technological Products Program (DIPAS in Portuguese) incorporates Design for the Institute of Aeronautics (ITA), and representatives from Brazilian and Environment (DfE) methodologies. DIPAS acts in three areas: noise foreign business, academia and consultancies in 2014. and emissions certifications, to guarantee adherence to legal norms and harness environmentally responsible opportunities to add value; monitoring environmental legislation of all Embraer’s international markets; and product life cycle—from the manufacture of parts to the aircraft’s end-of-life dismantling. 74 2014 Annual Report NOISE INITIATIVES TO REDUCE CO2 EMISSIONS Aircraft noise is a priority theme for the aerospace industry, which »» Installation of occupancy sensors to turn lighting off, increasing has been achieving significant progress in recent decades. light bulb lifespan. Expected reduction in GHG emissions: 188.92 tCO2e With respect to noise certifications, Embraer’s aircraft fall within norms stipulated by the UN’s International Civil Aviation Organization »» Boiler conversion to direct fired, resulting in a 30% reduction in (ICAO). consumption of liquefied petroleum gas (LPG). Within Embraer, the noise issue is focus of a specialized engineering »» Optimization of external transport, with review and adjustment of team and the Silent Aircraft (Aeronave Silenciosa) program, which routes and the creation of a freight management system. researches and develops tools and mechanisms to reduce noise 1,920km a year reduction in road travel in urban areas emissions at take off and landing. 39,840km a year reduction in road travel in interior areas Expected reduction in GHG emissions: 18.97 tCO2e ATMOSPHERIC EMISSIONS »» Reduction in lighting use time in two buildings dedicated to final DMA Emissions assembly of the KC-390. Expected reduction in GHG emissions: 43.38 tCO2e The aeronautics industry’s fuel consumption, and resulting emissions of greenhouse gases (GHG), account for approximately 2% of all »» Replacement of sodium vapor lamps with LED lighting. global emissions. Expected reduction in GHG emissions: 22.65 tCO2e In 2012, Embraer signed an aeronautics industry sustainability »» Natural lighting and ventilation project in F30 building. pact, an initiative of the Air Transport Action Group (ATAG) and an Expected reduction in GHG emissions: 22.08 tCO2e extension of a commitment signed in 2008, which pledged a 50% reduction of GHG emissions by 2050, using 2005 as the base year. »» Heating of restaurant’s kitchen water using solar panels, for a 69% reduction in natural gas consumption. During 2014 Embraer’s inventory of GHG emissions achieved ISO Expected reduction in GHG emissions: 119.62 tCO2e 14064 Part 1 certification for the fourth consecutive year. This standard establishes norms for quantifying, monitoring, verifying and »» Saving of of 27 tons of fuel per year. validating GHG emissions. Expected reduction in GHG emissions: 84.77 tCO2e »» Reduction of pre-flight (production flight) engine turnover and review of procedures. Saving of 9.9 tons of fuel per year Expected reduction in GHG emissions: 31.08 tCO2e per year 40% reduction in direct emissions between 2013 and 2014 SOCIETY AND THE ENVIRONMENT 75 Direct GHG emissions by source (scope 1) – in tCO2e Other relevant indirect GHC emissions G4-EN15 (scope 3) in tCO2e G4-EN17 -43% 9% 9% -41% 2% 32,409 -10% 33,474 31,324 -15% 22,344 28,680 51,910 49,567 19,109 9,493 29,289 20,949 8,864 30,276 570 28,165 7,569 705 2,150 771 2,343 2,111 Transport of Business Other Total Combustion Fugitive Total employees travel emissions processes emissions and materials (waste management) 2012 2014 2012 2014 2013 % change 2013 % change Note: gases included in calculations and global warming potential (or GWP source): carbon dioxide (CO2) -1; methane (CH4) -25; nitrous oxide (N2O) -298; hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs) -140 to 11,700; perfluorocarbons (PFCs) -8,830. Indirect GHG emissions by source (scope 2) in tCO2e G4-EN16 Electricity, heat or steam 8,117 11,603 16,693 43% generation 2012 2014 2013 % change NOx, SOx and other significant atmospheric emissions (t) Emissions reduction (tCO2e) 2014 G4-EN21 G4-EN19 Weight 2012 97 36 25 77 47 120 22 (tCO2e) 1 Total 2013 153 39 28 avoided 266 2 emissions 2014 103 27 36 2 Process redesign – scope 1 Changes in employee behaviors Equipment modernization and Total direct and indirect emissions NOX Volatile organic compounds (VOC) conversion scope 2 SOX Particulate matter Equipment modernization and conversion scope 1 Note: Emissions data relate to SJK, EGM, TTE, ELEB, GPX and BOT units. 76 2014 Annual Report Total weight of waste G4-EN23 Data from São José dos Campos (SJK), Eugênio de Melo (EGM), Taubaté (TTE), ELEB, Gavião Peixoto (GPX) and Botucatu (BOT) units Non-hazardous wastes (tons ) 2012 2013 2014 % change Compost 1,108 1,223 1,295 6% Recycling 10,325 10,643 10,368 -2% Recovery (including recovery of energy) 240 577 853 47%1 Sanitary landfill 1,179 1,219 1,190 <1% Co-processing 15 19 4 -79%² Biological treatment 534 432 557 29% Total 13,401 14,113 14,267 1% Hazardous wastes (tons) Recycling Recovery (including recovery of energy) Incineration (burning of mass) 2012 2,296 26 38 2013 75 2,005 9 2014 103 1,997 2 % change 38%³ <1% -78% 763,353 m 3 Sanitary landfill 25 Co-processing 971 1,028 1,067 4% in water consumption: baseline Total 3,356 3,117 3,169 1% for consumption reduction target in Sustainability Master Plan ¹Change reflects increased use of abrasive at TTE; ²Change reflects reduced compost material at TTE; ³Change reflects increased soluble oil at TTE; 4Change reflects reduced mask and tetracloroethylene waste at TTE. WASTE MANAGEMENT ENERGY EFFICIENCY DMA waste DMA energy Embraer has a systematic approach to waste management. At all In 2013, Embraer contracted a company that specializes in route the Company’s premises, there are designated collector receptacles; planning in order to optimize the efficiency of transporting these are subsequently transported to “intermediate areas” and employees, based on studies carried out in 2012. Initially focused on from there are immediately dispatched to relevant sorting depots, the Faria Lima facility in São José dos Campos, the project has made depending on the type of waste. headway at all Brazilian premises and is expected to be implemented during the first half of 2015. An outsourced company transports the waste to partners that perform waste co-processing, decontamination, repurposing, recycling, and disposal. All these companies are properly accredited and undergo periodic audits. Embraer does not import or export Embraer incorporates environmental hazardous wastes. The goal established in 2014 of not sending requisites into product development hazardous wastes to land fills was met. through its Environmentally Sustainable Products Program (DIPAS). SOCIETY AND THE ENVIRONMENT 77 Total energy purchased and consumed (GJ) G4-EN3 Electricity consumption in 2014 by operating unit (GJ) 2012 439,920 473,872 913,792 sjk 231,156 2013 437,364 737,593 1,174,957 EGM 52,956 2014 454,290 425,696 879,986 TTE 17,388 ELEB 38,811 Electrical energy GJ Fuel consumption GJ Total GPX 51,156 Note: it is not possible to determine primary energy consumption in the production of indirect energy. Brazilian utilities (hydroelectric, thermoelectric, etc.) are not BOT 62,823 legally obliged to disclose information on sources of energy production. 78 2014 Annual Report Total water withdrawal by source (m³) G4-EN8 Data relating to SJK, EGM, TTE, ELEB, GPX and BOT units 2012 552,930 649,860 96,930 645,080 WATER MANAGEMENT 2013 541,900 103,180 DMA Water 2014 647,616 763,353 115,737 Embraer uses water supplied by local utilities as well as drawing it directly from the water table, on the basis of prior concession and Underground water Water utility grant in accordance with prevailing federal and state requirements. Total The water table source is periodically monitored in accordance with parameters established by Ordinance 2914/11 (Brazilian legislation). Water reuse and recycling* Embraer measures and monitors both industrial and human G4-EN10 consumption on a monthly basis. All effluents are treated in accordance with relevant environmental 2012 8,532 1% legislation. Only two Embraer operating units discharge effluents into bodies of water (Gavião Peixoto, which discharges into the Mulada 2013 8,637 1% stream, and Taubaté, discharging into the Boçoroca stream). They do so only after proper processing at a wastewater treatment plant. The 2014 7,106 1% volume of effluents is well below the absorption capacity of these bodies of water, neither of which is located in located in a designated Total volume of recycled water (m³) environmental conservation area. Recirculation (%) *At GPX unit Total water discharges G4-EN22 Volume (m³) 2013 2014 Treatment Destination Domestic 442,602 372,878 Faria Lima 292,078 213,196 Sabesp Public sewage network Botucatu 46,551 54,435 Sabesp Public sewage network Eugênio de Melo 56,249 46,867 Sabesp Public sewage network Gavião Peixoto 36,650 38,009 BIOLOGICAL TREATMENT Corpo d’água – Córrego da Mulada Taubaté 11,074 20,371 BIOLOGICAL TREATMENT Body of water Industrial 79,472 72,233 Faria Lima 28,627 23,708 PHYSICAL/CHEMICAL TREATMENT Public sewage network Botucatu 39,716 37,702 PHYSICAL/CHEMICAL TREATMENT Public sewage network Eugênio de Melo 4,161 4,160 PHYSICAL/CHEMICAL TREATMENT Public sewage network Gavião Peixoto 920 615 PHYSICAL/CHEMICAL TREATMENT Body of water Mulada stream ELEB 6,048 4,923 PHYSICAL/CHEMICAL TREATMENT Public sewage network Note: Taubaté (SP) emits no industrial effluents SOCIETY AND THE ENVIRONMENT 79 BIODIVERSITY AND PROTECTION OF THE ENVIRONMENT Embraer’s industrial facility in Gavião Peixoto has a 356.71-hectare moderate environmental risks. The municipality’s urban population is Permanent Conservation Area (APP in Portuguese) where, prior to not directly affected by the Company’s activities, nor does the latter Embraer’s arrival, sugar cane and oranges had been cultivated. Of cause substantial environmental impacts, since building the facility the recovered area, 32.38 hectares are designated as an APP and required little change to the topography in this extensive terrain. 328.74 hectares as a legal reserve. This environmental compensation initiative promotes regeneration of the ecosystem and encourages Embraer’s new facilities are being built using materials that aim the return of wildlife to the area. to reduce environmental impacts. The two most recent, in Évora (Portugal) and the Service Center in Sorocaba, São Paulo, Brazil, This facility’s industrial processes are high technology and low adhere to sustainable construction and green design precepts. environmental impact, classifying the Company as posing light to 80 2014 Annual Report GRI Index GENERAL CONTENT External Correlation with Aspect Description Page/response Verification Global Compact G4-1 message from the president & CEO 6, 7 No Strategy and analysis G4-2 description of main impacts, risks and opportunities 4, 6, 7 No G4-3 organization name 10 No G4-4 main brands, products and/or services 12, 14 No G4-5 location of organization’s headquarters 13 No G4-6 countries where main operations located, or those 13 No most relevant for sustainability aspects of report G4-7 organization’s nature and juridical status 10 No G4-8 markets in which organization operates 13, 14 No Organizational G4-9 organization’s size 10, 13 No profile G4-10 profile of employees 50, 51 No Principle 6: Labor G4-11 % of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements 52 No Principle 3: Labor G4-12 description of organization’s supply chain 66 No G4-13 significant changes in size, structure, shareholdings and supply chain 66 No G4-14 description of organization’s precautionary approach 36, 39 No G4-15 externally developed charters, principles, or other initiatives 43 No G4-16 membership of associations and organizations 43 No This annual report covers all Embraer units. All G4-17 entities included in consolidated financial units of the Embraer included demonstrations No accounts and entities not addressed in report consolidated financial, are part of the scope of this report. G4-18 process for defining report content 2 No Identified G4-19 list of material aspects 3 No material aspects G4-20 aspect boundary within organization 3 No and boundaries G4-21 aspect boundary outside organization 3 No G4-22 change in formulation of data presented in previous reports 2 No G4-23 significant changes in scope and aspect 2 No boundaries relative to previous reports G4-24 list of stakeholder groups engaged by organization 2 No G4-25 Criteria for identification and selection of Stakeholder 2 No stakeholder groups to be engaged engagement G4-26 Approach to stakeholder engagement 2 No G4-27 Main issues raised during stakeholder engagement 3 No G4-28 Reporting period 2 No G4-29 Date of most recent previous report 2 No Outline of report G4-30 Reporting cycle 2 No G4-31 Contact information for queries on report and its content 86 No G4-32 GRI application level applied and where to find GRI table 2 No GRI Index 81 G4-33 Current policy and practices with respect to 2 No seeking external verification for the report G4-34 Organization’s governance structure 32, 33, 34 No Governance G4-35 Highest governance body’s process for delegating 3 No authority for economic, environmental and social matters G4-36 Executive-level positions responsible for 86 No economic, environmental and social matters G4-37 Processes for consultation between stakeholder groups and highest 3 No governance body on economic, environmental and social matters G4-38 Composition of highest governing body and its committees 34 No G4-39 Chair of highest governing body 34 No G4-40 Nomination and selection procedures for positions 34 No on highest governing body and its committees G4-41 Processes for preventing and managing conflicts of interest 39 No G4-42 Highest governance body’s role in setting 34 No policies on goals and impact management G4-43 Initiatives to improve highest governing body’s 3 No understanding of economic, environmental and social issues G4-44 Highest governing body’s performance evaluation procedures 34 No G4-45 Allocation of responsibilities for implementing 3 No economic, environmental and social policies G4-46 Highest governing body’s role in evaluating efficiency 34, 36, 39 No of organization’s risk management processes G4-47 Frequency with which highest governing body 34 No evaluates risks, opportunities and impacts G4-48 Highest governing body responsible for formally approving President and CEO No sustainability report and ensuring coverage of all material aspects G4-49 Procedures for communicating critical 41 No concerns to highest governing body Principle 10: G4-56 Organization’s values, principles, standards and behavioral norms 41, 42 No Anti-Corruption Ethics and G4-57 Internal and external guidance mechanisms Principle 10: 41 No integrity on ethics and adherence to standards Anti-Corruption G4-58 Internal and external mechanisms to communicate Principle 10: 41 No concerns about unethical behavior Anti-Corruption SPECIFIC CONTENT ECONOMIC CATEGORY External Correlation with Aspect Description Page/response Verification Global Compact G4-Disclosure on Management Approach (DMA) 32 No G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 45, 46 No Economic performance G4-EC2 Financial implications and other risks and Principle 7: 39 No opportunities relating to climate change Environment G4-EC3 Coverage of pension plan benefits 54 No G4Disclosure on Management Approach (DMA) 18, 32 No Market Performance G4-EC5 Ratio of local minimum wage to lowest 54, 55 No Principle 6: Labor salary paid by the organization, by gender G4Disclosure on Management Approach (DMA) 55 No Indirect economic G4-EC7 Impact of infrastructure investments for benefit of public 55 No impacts G4-EC8 Description of significant indirect economic impacts 12, 56 No 82 2014 Annual Report Environment Category External Correlation with Aspect Description Page/response Verification Global Compact G4-Disclosure on Management Approach (DMA) 76 No Energy Principles 7 and G4-EN3 Energy consumption inside organization 77 No 8: Environment G4-Disclosure on Management Approach (DMA) 78 No Principles 7 and G4-EN8 Total water withdrawal by source 78 No Water 8: Environment Principle 8: G4-EN10 Volume and percentage of water recycled and reused 78 No Environment G4-Disclosure on Management Approach (DMA) 74 No Principles 7 and G4-EN15 Direct GHG emissions 75 No 8: Environment Principles 7 and G4-EN16 Indirect GHG emissions 75 No 8: Environment Emissions Principles 7 and G4-EN17 Other indirect GHG emissions 75 No 8: Environment Principles 7 and G4-EN19 Reduction of GHG emissions 75 No 8: Environment G4-EN21 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions 75 No G4-Disclosure on Management Approach (DMA) 76 No Principle 8: G4-EN22 Total water discharge by quality and destination 78 No Environment Effluents and waste Principle 8: G4-EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method 76 No Environment Principle 8: G4-EN24 Number and volume of significant spills There were no significant spills or notification of spills in 2014 No Environment G4-Disclosure on Management Approach (DMA) 73 No Products and services Principles 8 and G4-EN27 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts 73 No 9: Environment G4-Disclosure on Management Approach (DMA) 66 No Environmental Principle 8: G4-EN32 % Of new suppliers screened using environmental criteria 66 No assessment Environment of suppliers G4-EN33 Significant actual and potential negative Principle 8: 66 No environmental impacts in supply chain Environment SOCIAL CATEGORY – LABOR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK External Correlation with Aspect Description Page/response Verification Global Compact G4-Disclosure on Management Approach (DMA) 59 No G4-LA1 Total number and rates of new employee 57, 58 No Principle 6: Labor Employment hires and employee turnover G4-LA2 Comparison of benefits provided to 59 No full time and temporary employees G4-Disclosure on Management Approach (DMA) 59 No G4-LA5 % Of employees represented on formal 62 No health and safety committees Occupational G4-LA6 Rates of injury, occupational illness and work days lost 59, 60 No health and safety G4-LA7 Employees with high incidence or high 61 No risk of illness related to their occupation G4-LA8 Health and safety issues addressed 52 No in formal agreements with unions GRI Index 83 G4-Disclosure on Management Approach (DMA) 53 No Training and G4-LA9 Average hours of training per year 53 No Principle 6: Labor education G4-LA10 Competency management and continuous learning programs 54 No G4-LA11 % Of employees receiving performance evaluations 56 No Principle 6: Labor 100% of suppliers reviewed were hired and adhere G4-LA14 % Of new suppliers screened using labor practices criteria to labor clauses specified in contracts; they are No also monitored through risk assessments Assessment Embraer ensures its suppliers comply with social, economic of suppliers for and environmental norms through contract clauses applicable labor practices G4-LA15 Significant actual and potential negative to 100% of contractors and Risk Analysis assessment No environmental impacts in supply chain in developing new suppliers. Any verified violation of Code of Ethics and Conduct expressed in contract clauses is liable to lead to rescinding of supplier contract. SOCIAL CATEGORY – HUMAN RIGHTS External Correlation with Aspect Description Page/response Verification Global Compact G4-HR1 Significant investment agreements and 100% of our contracts contain clauses Principles 1 and 2: Investments No contracts that include human rights clauses addressing human rights. Human rights Non-discrimination G4-Disclosure on Management Approach (DMA) 41 No 41; No internal or external incidents of discrimination G4-HR3 Total number of incidents of discrimination on the grounds of ethnic origin, skin color, sex, religion, No Principle 6: Labor and corrective actions taken ideology, national origin or social background were reported to the Company’s official Helpline in 2014. Freedom of G4-Disclosure on Management Approach (DMA) 52 No association and G4-HR4 Degree of application of right to freedom of association collective bargaining 52 No Principle 3: Labor and operations and suppliers identified as at risk 100% of suppliers reviewed were hired and adhere G4-HR5 Operations and suppliers identified as at risk for Child labor to labor clauses specified in contracts; and they No Principle 5: Labor having incidents of child labor and actions taken are monitored by means of risk assessments 100% of suppliers reviewed were hired and adhere Forced or G4-HR6 Operations and suppliers identified as at risk for having to labor clauses specified in contracts; and they No Principle 4: Labor compulsory labor incidents of forced or compulsory labor and actions taken are monitored by means of risk assessments Screening of suppliers using Principle 2: G4-HR10 % Of new suppliers screened using human rights criteria 41 No human rights Human rights criteria Grievance G4-Disclosure on Management Approach (DMA) No mechanisms relating to human G4-HR12 Number of grievances and complaints relating to No rights issues human rights issues filed, addressed and resolved SOCIAL CATEGORY – SOCIETY External Correlation with Aspect Description Page/response Verification Global Compact G4-Disclosure on Management Approach (DMA) 70 No Local communities G4-SO1 % Of operations entailing local community engagement, Principle 1: 70 No impact assessments, and development programs Human rights G4-Disclosure on Management Approach (DMA) 40 No Principle 10: G4-SO3 Units undergoing anti-corruption risk assessments 40 No Anti-corruption Anti-corruption Principle 10: G4-SO4 % Of employees trained in anti-corruption policies and procedures 40 No Anti-corruption Screening of 100% of suppliers were engaged on the basis of social impact suppliers using G4-SO9 % Of new suppliers screened using social impact criteria No clauses in contracts, with which they are in compliance social impact criteria SOCIAL CATEGORY – PRODUCT REPONSIBILITY External Correlation with Aspect Description Page/response Verification Global Compact Product and G4-PR5 Results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction 18 No service labeling 84 2014 Annual Report ANNUAL SOCIAL BALANCE SHEET – CONTROLLING COMPANY 1 – Basis for Calculation 2014 (000 reals) 2013 (000 reals) Net Revenue (NR) 10,846,351 10,662,935 Operational Result (OR) 796,085 777,689 Gross Payroll (GP) 2,058,643 1,920,119 2 – Internal Social Indicators 000 reals % of GP % of NR 000 reals % of GP % of NR Meals 29,724 1.44% 0.27% 26,713 1.39% 0.25% Compulsory social contributions 359,781 17.48% 3.32% 317,980 16.56% 2.98% Private pension 63,106 3.07% 0.58% 57,390 2.99% 0.54% Health 113,678 5.52% 1.05% 111,097 5.79% 1.04% Occupational health and safety 15,643 0.76% 0.14% 24,101 1.26% 0.23% Education 498 0.02% 0.00% 426 0.02% 0.00% Culture 186 0.01% 0.00% 107 0.01% 0.00% Professional training and development 12,160 0.59% 0.11% 19,539 1.02% 0.18% Crèches or related support 1,144 0.06% 0.01% 1,087 0.06% 0.01% Share in revenue and/or profits 97,475 4.73% 0.90% 81,092 4.22% 0.76% Other 48,663 2.36% 0.45% 41,529 2.16% 0.39% Total – Internal social indicators 742,058 36.04% 6.83% 681,061 35.48% 6.38% 3 External Social Indicators 000 reals % of GP % of NR 000 reals % of GP % of NR Education 19,945 2.51% 0.18% 21,040 2.71% 0.20% Culture 0 0.00% 0.00% 0 0.00% 0.00% Health and sanitation 0 0.00% 0.00% 0 0.00% 0.00% Sport 0 0.00% 0.00% 0 0.00% 0.00% Food security and fighting hunger 51 0.01% 0.00% 51 0.00% 0.00% Other 745 0.09% 0.01% 793 0.10% 0.01% Total contributions to society 20,741 2.61% 0.19% 21,884 2.81% 0.21% Taxes (excluding compulsory social contributions) 412,829 51.86% 3.81% 319,148 41.04% 2.99% Total External social indicators 433,570 54.47% 4.00% 341,032 43.85% 3.20% 4 – Environmental Indicators 000 reals % of GP % of NR 000 reals % of GP % of NR Investments related to business output/operations 12,806 1.61% 0.12% 15,405 1.98% 0.14% Investments in external projects and/or programs 0 0.00% 0.00% 66 0.01% 0.00% Total environmental investments 12,806 1.61% 0.12% 15,471 1.99% 0.14% In terms of establishing “annual goals” for minimizing waste, reducing general consumption during the course doesn’t set goals meets 51 to 75% doesn’t set goals meets 51 to 75% of manufacture/operation and increasing the efficiency meets 0 to 50% meets 76 to 100% meets 0 to 50% meets 76 to 100% of the use of natural resources, the company ANNUAL SOCIAL BALANCE SHEET – CONTROLLING COMPANY 85 5 – Staffing Indicators 2014 2013 Nº of employees at end-period 17,094 17,302 Nº of new hires during period 788 1,660 Nº of outsourced personnel 3,227 2,897 Nº of interns 337 404 Nº of employees aged over 45 3,055 2,964 Nº of women employees 2,523 2,509 % Leadership positions held by women 10.58% 9.77% Nº of black employees 829 793 % Leadership positions held by black employees 2.67% 2.57% Nº of people with disabilities or special needs 709 771 6 – Relevant information pertaining 2014 Goals for 2015 to corporate citizenship Ratio of highest to lowest compensation paid 49 No goal set Total number of work accidents 184 166 leadership leadership all employees) leadership leadership all employees) The company’s social and environmental projects were defined by: and managers and managers leadership all employees all plus Cipa leadership all employees all plus Cipa Occupational safety and sanitation standards were defined by: and managers and managers Concerning freedom of union association, right to collective is not involved follows ILO encourages will not be will follow ILO will incentivize bargaining and internal representation of workers, the company: guidelines and follows ILO involved guidelines and follow ILO leadership leadership all employees leadership leadership all employees Private pension plan encompasses: and managers and managers leadership leadership all employees leadership leadership all employees Profit or revenue sharing encompasses: and managers and managers In selecting suppliers, the same ethical norms and standards of not considered suggested required will not be wll be suggested will be required social and environmental responsibility adopted by the company: considered As regards employee participation in does not get supports organizes and will not get will support will organize volunteering projects, the company: involved incentivizes involved and incentivize Total number of customer complaints and criticisms: to company ______ to Procon ______ in court of law ______ to company ______ to Procon ______ in court of law ______ % of complaints and criticisms addressed or resolved: to company ______% to Procon ______% in court of law ______% to company ______% to Procon ______% in court of law ______% Total added value for distribution (000s reals) In 2014: 3,969,878 In 2013: 3,887,246 18.46% government 49.99% employees 22.98% government 48.18% employees Distribution of Value Added (DVA): 5.40% shareholders 11.49% third parties 14.66% retained 5.20% shareholders 8.83% third parties 14.81% retained 7 – Other information 86 2014 Annual Report ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS Overall co-ordination Vice-presidency for Institutional Relations and Sustainability Corporate Sustainability Management Consultancy, editorial co-ordination and design Report Sustentabilidade Revision Assertiva Produções Editoriais English version Justine Barrett Thody Photography Banco de Imagens Embraer Font Klavika, Eric Olson, 2004 Contact us G4-31 Any questions, comments, or suggestions regarding the 2014 Annual Report may be emailed to investor.relations@embraer.com.br. Other information can be obtained on Embraer’s Investor Relations site (http://ri.embraer.com.br).
