UN GLOBAL COMPACT Communication on Progress 2015 STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT Introduction Beirholm activate the full potential of I am pleased to confirm that Beirholms Væverier A/S reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the entire value creation network to the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. develop and deliver the most profitable textile solutions on the market to In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its leasing laundries, leasing laundry cusprinciples into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using tomers, and the consumers. our primary channels of communication. Beirholm was founded in 1870 and is Kind regards a family-owned business with a strong heritage and culture. It is an integrated Peter Beirholm aspect of our culture to work and beChief Executive Officer have responsibly in our dealings with our customers and producers – and produce products that live up to our high standards – products we can be proud of, also with regard to ethical, social and environmental considerations. We continue to develop our work with sustainable textile solutions, which our implementation of DS 49001 (the Danish equivalent of the international ISO 26001 standard on CSR) exemplifies. This certification dedicates the principles, subjects and processes our company works under and will assist our continued advances in this area and supplement our other management standards. HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLE 1 Business should support and respect the protection of international Aim proclaimed human rights. Beirholm adheres to the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Our overall approach to working with business partners is based on our core values: openness, dialogue, commitment, honesty and being pro-active. This underlines the company’s dedication to the Human PRINCIPLE 2 Rights principles. Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuse. Progress Beirholm continues to review and update policies and procedures to ensure fully compliance with national and international laws. Our CSR strategy, implementing of our Code of Conduct and our membership of BSCI (Business Social Compliance Initiative) includes a set of rules that ensure compliance with and protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Results Beirholm has made inspections at all key producers and does not source from production sites that have not been visited. Our Code of Conduct and BSCI is implemented by us in cooperation with our key producers. More than 80% of our turnover results from producers who have been in a close relationship with Beirholm for more than 10 years. We have a preference for producers who are certified according to international standards as SA8000 and/or Sedex. In 2014, more than half of our turnover was produced at SA8000 certified producers. LABOUR PRINCIPLE 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective Aim recognition of the right to collective It is important to Beirholm that our products are produced ethically, under safe working and environmental conditions. We base our bargaining. work on our CSR strategy as well as on our Code of Conduct and BSCI, which our producers commit to following. PRINCIPLE 4 Progress Businesses should uphold the eliminaIn the implementation phase of BSCI, Beirholm makes sure that all our producers are aware and committed to the code of conduct, tion of all forms of forced and compulwhich abide to national legislation and labour laws. sory labour. We continue to make visits to all key producers to encourage improvement of health and safety procedures. PRINCIPLE 5 Beirholm has an integrated management system that is certificated in accordance with OHSAS 18001 and DS 49001 (equivalent to ISO Businesses should uphold the effective 26001) which assures continuous advancements in the area of human rights and health and safety. abolition of child labour. Results PRINCIPLE 6 All producers are committed, by contract, to our code of conduct and BSCI, which ensure promotion of continuous improvements within the areas of health and safety. Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. ENVIRONMENT PRINCIPLE 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental Aim challenges. Beirholm is focused on bettering the environment in and around its company as well as in the supply network. PRINCIPLE 8 We have taken into consideration both the product’s total environmental impact during its life cycle and at the same time focused on the elimination of harmful substances from our products to the end users and our customers. Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmenFurthermore, it has been important to secure the best possible environmental conditions at the factories. tal responsibility. Progress PRINCIPLE 9 We have chosen to produce as many of our products as possible under the EU Ecolabel criteria and with cotton produced according to Businesses should encourage the deBCI (Better Cotton Initiative) principles. velopment and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Our mission is to raise the demand for sustainable textile solutions. We expect that by continuously promoting sustainable solutions by focusing on the entire supply chain from cotton field to laundry to end-user, we can minimize our environmental impact. We have joined CDP (Carbon Disclosure Project) whose purpose is to decrease carbon emissions. Results More than 95% of all Beirholm’s textiles are currently Oekotex 100 labelled. At present, we have obtained the EU Ecolabel certification on a range of our most important products and continue to work with the objective that the majority of our products, over time, will live up to these conditions. In 2014, 17% of our turnover was from products produced with EU Ecolabel certificate, and 15% was produced with BCI cotton. We are seeing an increased demand for these products and we are following the development closely. To reduce the impact on the environment associated with electricity consumption, Beirholm has installed solar power, which is expected to produce approximately 150,000 kWh annually. In 2014 the solar production was 162,000 kWh. In 2014 Beirholm achieved a position on the CDP Supplier Climate Performance Leadership Index. The index showcases 121 supplier companies around the world who are making the greatest progress towards mitigating climate change. ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLE 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extorAim tion and bribery. Our values are the guiding elements intended to regulate our conduct at all times. We maintain high standards of integrity, honesty and openness. We do not tolerate any form of bribery or other forms of corruption. Implementation It is clearly stated in the Beirholm Code of Conduct and BSCI that no employees or producers will make use of corruption or bribery, whether direct or indirect. Result The values incorporated in Beirholm’s business approach mean that we have not experienced any cases of corruption in recent years. To ensure that no corruption should take place in any form, the company has ensured a steadfast zero-tolerance policy on bribery. RELEVANT DOCUMENTS Following documents can be downloaded by following links: Beirholm Code of Conduct http://www.beirholm.dk/en/code-of-conduct Beirholm CSR Strategy http://www.beirholm.dk/en/beirholm-csr-strategy Beirholm & Sustainability http://www.beirholm.dk/en/beirholm-sustainability Quality, Environmental, Work environmental and Corporate Social Responsibility Policies http://www.beirholm.dk/en/ds-49001-social-responsibility To learn more about CDP https://www.cdp.net/en-US/Pages/HomePage.aspx
