.B. DRAFT – DO NOT DISTRIBUTE ENACT SUSTAINABLE STRATEGIES GROUP AB UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS LETTER FROM OUR CEO H.E. Ban K-moon Secretary-General United Nations New York, NY 10017 USA Dear Mr. Secretary-General, Enact Sustainable Strategies Group AB (Enact) has been a signatory to UN Global Compact since May, 2014. I am pleased to endorse our continued support for the ten principles of the Global Compact on human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. This is our first Communication on Progress. Enact is a values-led consultancy specialised in the area of sustainable business development and corporate responsibility. Driven by our vision – a sustainable, global development, in which the business sector is a responsible driving force. Our mission is to assist companies in becoming more successful by behaving in a more responsible way, thereby earning trust and reputation. Responsible business summarises our efforts towards our vision and integrates marketplace, workplace, environment and community concerns with business operations in interaction with the stakeholders. In business, Enact’s commitment to sustainability and corporate responsibility is demonstrated and continuously improved by emphasising the importance of values, business ethics and good working conditions for sustainable growth. Our contribution to the implementation of the ten principles of Global Compact is the work we deliver to our clients and our stakeholders. Since the company was established, we have used the Global Compact and its principles as a guiding star in our work. Enact support public accountability and transparency, and therefore commit to report on our progress. The following Communications on Progress describes activities undertaken by Enact on human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption during the fiscal year July 2014 – June 2015. Yours sincerely, Mattias Iweborg Managing Director Enact Sustainable Strategies Group AB Enact Sustainable Strategies, Norrtullsgatan 6: 5tr, SE-113 29 Stockholm, Sweden Phone: +46 8 522 03 450 E-mail: mail@enact.se Web: www.enact.se Twitter: EnactSwe Facebook: Enact-Sustainable-Strategies N.B. DRAFT – DO NOT DISTRIBUTE OUR IMPACTS Our main contribution to the implementation of the ten principles of Global Compact is the work we deliver to our clients and our stakeholders, most often in specific consultancy assignment with a close link to sustainability. At Enact, our ambition is to promote global development by becoming an internationally recognised spearhead within our field of competence. Our team has a broad mix of competence, focusing on business development through corporate responsibility. Our knowledge within the field of sustainability encompasses environmental as well as social issues such as human rights, labour conditions and diversity. An important part of our impact is the results of training efforts. Our training topics cover and cross-cut human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption issues. For example, Enact supports the Swedish government agency the Swedish Institute in the planning and execution of management programmes for China, India, Africa and Northern Europe with a special focus on responsible business. The three weeks long programme provides business leaders from these regions with a combination of theory and practice, including advanced business-related problemsolving, seminars and meetings with prominent experts in the commercial, political and cultural fields, as well as company visits. During the programme, Enact supports the Swedish institute with training business leaders in topics related to responsible business. During 2014-2015, Enact supported the Swedish Institute with training 60 business leaders from three different parts of the world. Since 2012 we are one of two certified Global Reporting Initiative training partners in the Nordics. In combination with other trainings where the topic has been raised, we have trained more than 300 people how to report nonfinancial aspects of their business. In this context, the ten principles of the Global Compact are always mentioned and very often explicitly referred to in the reports produced by the reporting organisations. The following are few examples other activities we have conducted during 2014-2015 in which the ten principles of Global Compact have been promoted and pursued. HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1: Businesses OUR IMPACTS should support and Human rights issues have moved quickly to the forefront of corporate responsibility. respect the protection Today, companies are expected to respect all human rights, including people’s right to of internationally water, food, health and more. This means that all companies need to be able to detect and proclaimed human avoid adverse impacts on human rights. During our last fiscal year, Enact has supported rights; and clients and stakeholders in a number of projects ranging from facilitating the Swedish Network for Business and Human Rights to delivering in-house human rights training and Principle 2: make sure strategy support. that they are not complicit in human Swedish Network for Business and Human Rights rights abuses. In 2012, Enact launched the Swedish Network for Business and Human Rights. The purpose of the network is to provide a safe space for multinational Swedish companies to build knowledge and exchange experiences with regards to the corporate responsibility to respect human rights. Network meetings are arranged once every quarter around a specific theme, providing a mix of expert-led discussions and exercises. The network consists of 11 companies, including H&M, Electrolux and Volvo Cars. Members of the network empathise that the network meetings are pivotal to their ability to build knowledge and inspire their organisations to improve human rights performances. N.B. DRAFT – DO NOT DISTRIBUTE Stora Enso human rights workshops In 2014, Enact Sustainable Strategies was commissioned by Stora Enso to assist with the planning, development and delivery of human rights workshops for selected Stora Enso personnel as part of a corporate wide human rights impact assessment effort. Stora Enso is a Swedish-Finnish pulp and paper manufacturer. The Group has some 27 000 employees in more than 35 countries in Eastern and Northern Europe, Asia and Latin America. The objective of the workshops was to increase the participants’ knowledge of human rights and due diligence, and capacitate them to carry out human rights impact assessments in their respective country units. In total, over 80 managers from various Stora Enso functions and divisions in more than 10 countries participated in either of three one and a half day workshops arranged in Helsinki, Shanghai and Düsseldorf. Participants of the training were introduced to international human rights and the practical implementation of the corporate responsibility to respect human rights according to the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. To prepare the participants for the forthcoming company-wide human rights impact assessment, the training curriculum was built on diligent process facilitation, knowledge transfer, skills and capacity building, role playing games, reflection exercises, group discussions, real company experience of human rights challenges and practically solving particular company dilemmas. Participants were also introduced to specific tools and methods that are important elements of Stora Enso’s human rights due diligence. This project was a first phase in Stora Enso’s group-wide human rights impact assessment process. In the preparation and delivery of the workshops, Enact functioned as a strategic advisor in the planning and successful implementation of the assessment. A report of the full project is available here. Workshops and meetings in Helsinki on human rights due diligence and risk management In April 2015, Enact arranged a series of meetings and workshops in Helsinki with internationally recognized expert on the topic of human rights due diligence and risk management, Mr Roger Branigin, Co-Founder of Acuity Human Rights Advisors, and Executive Director of the Global Corporate Community of Practice, a UN-sponsored initiative to develop best practices in human rights due diligence and risk management. The workshops gathered high-level representatives from selected large Finnish corporations, including six major Finnish brands. Some of the discussion points include: Emerging practice on integrating due diligence into traditional risk management practice; Overlaps and gaps between human rights risk , human rights impact and business risk; Difference and similarities between human rights due diligence, commercial due diligence and traditional risk management. N.B. DRAFT – DO NOT DISTRIBUTE LABOUR Principle 3: Businesses OUR IMPACTS should uphold the During the last fiscal year, we have helped clients develop Code of Conducts, face-to-face freedom of training and train-the-trainer concepts as well as computer based training (e-learning) on association and the Code of Conduct, Ethics and Integrity. effective recognition of the right to ParkenZoo collective bargaining; Parken Zoo is one of Sweden’s most visited recreational attractions. In 2014, Enact was commissioned by Parken Zoo to develop a Code of Conduct for Suppliers. After its Principle 4: the completion, Parken Zoo is working actively to implement the Code among its suppliers to elimination of all improve working conditions and other sustainability aspects. forms of forced and compulsory labour; Instrumenta Instrumenta is a Swedish company that distributes and markets exclusive surgical and Principle 5: the diagnostic instruments and medical technical equipment. Enact has supported Instrumenta effective abolition of since 2009 in the implementation of responsible business practices in the supply chain. child labour; and More specifically, Enact has coordinated several audits at a Pakistani supplier, as well as managed follow-up actions and improvement efforts. These efforts have resulted in Principle 6: the significantly improved social and environmental conditions at the supplier, which have also elimination of been endorsed by Swedish watchdog organisations. discrimination in respect of ICT company employment and In 2015 Enact has supported a leading business partner of Nordic and international occupation. telecom operators to develop and implement a sustainability strategy. This particular client has as its core business idea to promote and pave the way for more sustainable and responsible practices within the ICT sector as a whole, and engaged Enact to assist them in developing the road map. Within this project, we also assisted the client with developing KPI’s for the sustainability work (including labour issues) as well as a small-scale sustainability report. An important part of the work was to assist the client with developing internal processes and controls regarding labour conditions and employee development. N.B. DRAFT – DO NOT DISTRIBUTE ENVIRONMENT Principle 7: Businesses OUR IMPACTS should support a At Enact, we believe in providing our clients with a holistic perspective of responsible precautionary business which extends beyond compliance. We work with climate and energy, approach to biodiversity and ecosystem services (natural capital). environmental challenges; Västmanland County Administrative Board Enact provides support to the Västmanland County Administrative Board in a Government Principle 8: undertake assignment within the area of climate change. The project is about informing and guiding initiatives to promote all sectors of society to adapt to the climate changes that are coming in the future. greater environmental Specifically, the project aims to identify climate and energy-related risks in banks' lending responsibility; and practices. Principle 9: encourage Partnerships and Networks the development and Enact has had a formalised partnership with, among many others, the Dutch organisation diffusion of CREM since 2012. CREM is a leading and pioneering consultancy on the issue of environmentally biodiversity and ecosystem services. They have more than 20 years of experience in the friendly technologies. field, including policy development, communication strategies and training. CREM's team consists of 30 dedicated consultants with a multidisciplinary background and a broad international experience. They are commissioned by companies, international organisations, governments, NGOs and certification institutes. ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle 10: OUR IMPACTS Businesses should Business ethics and anti-corruption is one of our knowledge competence areas. We believe work against that the questions raised by ethics, integrity coupled with anti-corruption practices are the corruption in all its starting point for business responsibility. forms, including extortion and bribery. Anti-Corruption Training In May 2014, Enact has developed, launched and conducted a one day training workshop on anti-corruption training called Protect your organization against corruption and fraud . This training workshop focuses on how to prevent, identify and respond to corruption and fraud within companies and organizations. The focus is also on the conditions for an ethical climate and how anti-corruption measures are integrated into business strategies. 10 participants from different organisations attended the training in May 2014. Open Seminars Enact organises open seminars on various responsible business issues often with specially invited guest to share their insights on their work in this area. In 2015, Enact organised a breakfast seminar on ethics and sustainability with 30 participants. The topic of this breakfast seminar was “Using leverage to enhance ethics and sustainability – experiences and inspiration from South Africa” with specially invited guest, Mrs. Driekie at Nedbank, a leading human rights and anti-corruption actor in southern Africa.
