CSR Report YOKOGAWA CSR Policies Organizational Governance Human Rights With Employees Fair Operation Practices With Customers Environmental Reporting Community Involvement About this Site The Yokogawa Group's thoughts and initiatives concerning CSR are presented on this website. The information on this website is also available in PDF documents that can be downloaded from the yearly archives. ▶ CSR Reports In addition to our Annual Report for shareholders and investors, from fiscal 2015 we are further enhancing CSR information and non-financial information that is deeply connected to our management plans and business strategy, and are issuing the YOKOGAWA Report, a report based on integrated thinking. As such, we ask that you also view the YOKOGAWA Report. The YOKOGAWA Report is available at the web address below. (Date of release: September 1, 2015) ▶ Investor Relations Website We hope that readers will gain a better understanding of the CSR activities of the Yokogawa Group through CSR information. Period covered by this report April 1, 2014 through March 31, 2015 Where appropriate, information on events occurring outside this period may be included. Scope of data This report covers Yokogawa Electric and its Group companies. When data having a different scope is provided, that is noted. Intended readership This information is intended for a wide range of stakeholders including customers, shareholders and investors, business partners, employees, communities, NPOs, NGOs, and government. Company names In this report, “Yokogawa” and “Yokogawa Group” refer to the entire organization, “Yokogawa Electric” is only used with reference to Yokogawa Electric Corporation. Reference Guidelines ●E nvironmental Reporting Guidelines (Fiscal year 2007 Version), published by the Ministry of the Environment, Japan ●E nvironmental Accounting Guidelines (Fiscal year 2005 Version), published by the Ministry of the Environment, Japan ●S ustainability Reporting Guidelines 2006, published by the Global Reporting Initiative 1 Index ● Environmental milestones‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥ 48 ● 2014 Goals and Achievements‥‥‥‥‥‥ 52 About this Site‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥ 1 ● Environmental Impact‥ ‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥ 55 ● Environmental Accounting‥ ‥‥‥‥‥‥ 56 ● Environmental Activity Data of Executive Summary‥ ‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥ 3 the Past 5 years‥ ‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥ 58 ● Environmentally Friendly Products‥ ‥‥‥ 61 ● Green Procurement‥ ‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥ 63 Yokogawa CSR Policies‥ ‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥ 6 ● LCA Label‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥ 64 ● Global Warming Prevention‥ ‥‥‥‥‥‥ 66 ▶ Corporate Philosophy‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥ 10 ● Chemical Substance Reduction, Waste Reduction and Resource Conservation‥ ‥ 69 ▶ Global Initiative‥ ‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥ 13 ● Water Resource Conservation‥ ‥‥‥‥‥ 70 ● Promoting Biodiversity‥ ‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥ 71 ▶ External Ratings and Recognitions‥ ‥‥‥‥ 17 ▶ Fair Operation Practices‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥ 74 ▶ Creating New Value for Society ● Anti-corruption and Compliance‥‥‥‥‥ 75 with our Customers‥ ‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥ 19 ● Supply Chain Management‥ ‥‥‥‥‥‥ 78 ● Investor Relations‥ ‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥ 81 Responsibility to Stakeholders‥ ‥‥‥‥‥ 20 ▶ With Customers‥ ‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥ 82 ● Customers and Quality First‥ ‥‥‥‥‥‥ 83 ▶ Organizational Governance‥ ‥‥‥‥‥‥‥ 21 ● Information Security‥ ‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥ 84 ● Corporate Governance‥ ‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥ 22 ▶ Community Involvement‥ ‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥ 86 ● Internal Control System‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥ 23 ● Corporate Citizenship in Japan‥‥‥‥‥‥ 87 ● Risk Management‥ ‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥ 25 ● Supporting to Develop ▶ Human Rights‥ ‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥ 27 Next-Generation Talent‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥ 88 ● Collaborative Efforts with External ● Initiatives on Human Rights‥ ‥‥‥‥‥‥ 29 ● Employment of People with Disabilities‥‥ Organizations to Solve Social Issues‥ ‥ 93 30 ● Corporate Citizenship in North and ▶ With Employees (Labor Practice)‥ ‥‥‥‥‥ 31 South Americas‥ ‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥ 99 ● Corporate Citizenship in Asia‥ ‥‥‥‥‥ 100 ● Human Resources Development‥‥‥‥‥ 33 ● Corporate Citizenship ● Occupational Safety and Health‥ ‥‥‥‥ 34 in the Middle East and Africa‥‥‥‥‥‥‥ 102 ▶ Environmental Reporting‥ ‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥ 38 ● Corporate Citizenship in Europe‥ ‥‥‥‥ 104 ● Personnel-related and Social Data of ● Improvement at Office and Factories‥ ‥‥ 40 ● Environmental Policy of the Yokogawa Group‥ the Past 5 years‥ ‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥ 105 43 ● Improving Environmental Management System‥ ‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥ 45 ● ISO 14001 Certification at Yokogawa Group‥ 46 2 Executive Summary （August 31, 2015） 1． Outline of CSR information The CSR information on this website is released for the purpose of conveying to our stakeholders how the Yokogawa Group addresses various societal issues through business and social activities, and how we contribute to achieving a sustainable society. The reporting primarily covers activities during fiscal 2014 (April 1, 2014 to March 31, 2015). It also contains some information on earlier major activities, updates from fiscal 2015, and other information considered beneficial to stakeholders. This report covers Yokogawa Electric and its Group companies. 2. Main contents （1）YOKOGAWA CSR policies The Yokogawa Philosophy, which states, “As a company, our goal is to contribute to society through broad-ranging activities in the areas of measurement, control, and information . Individually, we aim to combine good citizenship with the courage to innovate.” provides the underlying basis for our efforts to fulfill our corporate social responsibility (CSR). Yokogawa has established a department at its head office to oversee CSR activities throughout the Yokogawa Group. Group companies around the world are promoting CSR initiatives to meet expectations by each country and region. Through these means, we are making every effort to contribute to the sustainable development of local communities and economy. We have also established the Yokogawa Group Compliance Guidelines, which provide employees with a roadmap for conduct in such areas as human rights, legal compliance, and occupational safety and health. （2） Contributing to society through our business（Creating new value for society with our customers） Yokogawa's products solutions are in use in major industrial plant facilities around the world, including in emerging countries. Many Yokogawa products are in operation constantly in customers' plants in a broadrange of industries such as urban infrastructure (including electricity, gas/LNG and water), petroleum, petroleum chemistry, chemical, iron and steel, paper, and pharmaceutical, as well as food production. Yokogawa products not only increase the productivity and quality of plants through automation of field operations, but also provide features which increase safety and automate dangerous work. With these features, we help prevent accidents or trouble from occurring by comprehensively monitoring plants to ensure stable and optimum operations. Also, Yokogawa provides advanced applications which contribute to the efficient use of energy and resources, reducing environmental impact and preventing air pollution. Many Yokogawa products are also effectively used with vital water resources and the development of natural energy. Yokogawa will continue to create new value together with our customers and will contribute to achieving a sustainable society. （3）Responsibility to Stakeholders The Standards of Business Conduct for the Yokogawa Group call for the realization of the Yokogawa 3 Philosophy, enhancement of customer satisfaction, observation of laws and regulations, respect for human rights, and maintenance of the order and safety of communities and society. We have also outlined our basic stance on environmental conservation and stakeholder relations. Based on these standards, we promote activities to meet to stakeholders expectations, such as employees, customers or shareholders. （4）Corporate governance, risk management and compliance The Yokogawa Group recognizes that the basic mission of corporate management is to secure sound and sustainable growth, and to earn the trust of its shareholders and other stakeholders. Accordingly, the Group is implementing measures to enhance corporate governance in order to achieve a sound and profitably run organization. To enhance companies' sustainable growth and improve midto long-term corporate value, Japan's Corporate Governance Code has been applied to listed companies in Japan from June 2015. The Yokogawa Group will work to further enhance its corporate governance. Yokogawa promotes compliance management strongly throughout its entire group, with the slogan, compliance above everything else . It aims to be a healthy and open business with two pillar foundations: corporate culture that prevents misconduct and systems that prevent unethical conduct. Performing the roles of risk management departments, departments in charge of internal audits advise Group companies on the identification, analysis, and remediation of risks, and report to the Board of Directors and corporate auditors on major matters. In the evaluation of risks, the departments evaluate strategic business risks and internal control risks, in terms of degree of impact and possibility of occurrence. In making evaluations, the departments take into account not only financial and human aspects, but also societal and environmental impacts. Responses to crisis situations involving events with a potentially material impact on the Group's management are set forth in the Group Policy for Crisis Management. （5）Human rights / With employees We at Yokogawa have established a compliance guideline that requires us to comply with the international standards on human rights; consider the different geographical and cultural backgrounds of other employees when working with them; refrain from discrimination on the basis of race, nationality, sex, religion, age or disability of any kind; and drive home these principles to all our Group companies. Under the belief that our employees are our most valuable asset, the Yokogawa Group aims to create workplace environments conducive to work, we have prepared a variety of programs through which we address occupational safety and health, work-life balance, human resource development (including global education), promotion of active participation by female employees, and other matters. （6）Environment We at Yokogawa regard conservation of global environment, including climate change or energy/resources issues, as an important management task and strive to implement the environmental management needed to address it. Specifically, we help our customers be green by, for example, developing products that allow for harmonious coexistence of mankind with nature and providing environmental solutions that help analyze/improve environmental impact generated through their business activities, just as we actively endeavor to reduce the environmental impact in our business operations. 4 （7）Community involvement and development Recognizing that companies are also members of society, Yokogawa strives to exist in harmony with communities as a good citizen. Going beyond making contributions to society through our business and working to resolve societal issues and achieve the goals we share with our regions and with society, we carry out initiatives together with local communities in areas including environmental preservation and support for next-generation education. 5 Yokogawa CSR Policies The Yokogawa Philosophy, which states, “As a company, our goal is to contribute to society through broad-ranging activities in the areas of measurement, control, and information. Individually, we aim to combine good citizenship with the courage to innovate.” provides the underlying basis for our efforts to fulfill our corporate social responsibility (CSR). Yokogawa has established a department at its head office to oversee CSR activities throughout the Yokogawa Group. Group companies around the world are promoting CSR initiatives to meet expectations by each country and region. Through these means, we are making every effort to contribute to the sustainable development of local communities and economy. We have also established the Yokogawa Group Compliance Guidelines, which provide employees with a roadmap for conduct in such areas as human rights, legal compliance, and occupational safety and health. Contributing to Society through our Business Yokogawa, since its inception, has been to provide the measurement, control and information technologies that are essential to various industries and thereby contribute to the sustainable growth of society. Many Yokogawa products and solutions are in operation constantly in customers' plants in a broadrange of industries such as petroleum, petrochemical, chemical, iron and steel, paper, gas/LNG, electricity, pharmaceutical, water and environment as well as food production. By providing solutions which enhance energy efficiency and support the creation of next-generation energy technologies, we are helping to solve a variety of social issues. In this manner, and by positioning the business to business to community (B to B to C) concept at the heart of our CSR activities, we will contribute to the sustainable development of society. 6 Supporting the United Nations Global Compact Initiative The Standards of Business Conduct for the Yokogawa Group call for the realization of the Yokogawa Philosophy, enhancement of customer satisfaction, observance of laws and regulations, respect for human rights, and maintenance of the order and safety of communities and society. Yokogawa is committed to fulfilling its various fundamental responsibilities as a company, including maintaining compliance and contributing to society though its businesses. Yokogawa has participated in the Global Compact Initiative, an international undertaking advocated by the United Nations, since 2009. Accordingly, the Company endeavors to support and practice the Compact’s ten principles relating to human rights, labor, the environment, and anti-corruption. Yokogawa strives to ensure that its global network of Group companies and suppliers shares the same commitment to these principles. Looking ahead, every effort will be made to fulfill our corporate responsibilities as a globally operating company. Yokogawa Electric Corporation President and CEO Takashi Nishijima CSR Promotion Structure We have established a dedicated CSR group within the Audit and Compliance Headquarters, whose functional scope also includes overseeing internal controls. With this CSR group, which drives the activities aimed at CSR, environmental conservation, occupational safety and health, and social contribution (citizenship), we have put in place a system for the implementation of more comprehensive CSR activities throughout the entire group. Adapting to the Corporate Governance Code To enhance companies' sustainable growth and improve midto long-term corporate value, Japan's Corporate Governance Code has been applied to listed companies in Japan from June 2015. The Corporate Governance Code stipulates the appropriate response to societal and environmental problems and other issues. The Yokogawa Group will work to further enhance its corporate governance as we tackle such sustainability issues. Communication with Our Stakeholders YOKOGAWA will help solve the unique challenges such as energy conservation, the reduction of environmental impact and improved plant safety by utilizing our solutions. In addition, we are working to strengthen corporate governance, abide by compliance, and promote human resources strategy. In 7 promoting all CSR activities, it is required to incorporate fully the expectations and demands of society as well as promote the business strategy of our mid-term business plan. We therefore value feedback, concerns and other input obtained through communication with our stakeholders. ● Interaction through regular sales activities ● Calls to our Global Response Center Customer ● Conversation/interaction with customers at trade shows and customer meetings ● Provision of information via websites ● Interaction through IR activities such as the General Meeting of Shareholders and presentations to investors Shareholders and Investors ● Communication through financial reports and annual reports ● Response to research conducted by SRI rating agencies ● Interaction through regular procurement activities Supplier ● Organization of presentations on our procurement policy ● Interaction through labor-management consultations Employee ● Communication through the company newsletter and intranet ● Employee-awareness surveys ● Conversation/interaction with nearby residents/communities Communities ● Participation in community activities Governments/ ● Participation in economics organizations and industry bodies Industry organization NGOs/NPOs ● Conversation/interaction through various cooperative activities The United Nations Global Compact In January 2009, Yokogawa participated in the United Nations Global Compact, an international initiative that promotes 10 principles concerning human rights, labor standards, environment, and anti-corruption. As of June 2014, 12,401 groups are participating in the world, and Yokogawa is the 76th Japanese company to participate in it. An effort has been ongoing to share the ethos and the standard of the Global Compact with all workers within the Group and all the customers and suppliers connected through its supply chains. ISO 26000 ISO 26000, issued by the International Standardization Organization in November 2010, is an international standard for the social responsibilities of corporate entities, presenting seven core subjects including organizational governance, human rights, labor practices, environment and fair operating practices. The standard serves as a guidance manual instead of defining and requiring conformity assessment or thirdparty certification such as in the case of ISO 9000 and ISO 14000. Yokogawa, as a company active in the global marketplace, observes ISO 26000 and upholds corporate 8 governance as a key principle of CSR in running the company. As such, we are committed to CSR activities designed to contribute to society through our business operations, conserve the environment and protect human rights, to meet the expectations of stakeholders. 9 Corporate Philosophy The Yokogawa Philosophy Introduction to Yokogawa's corporate symbol and standards of business conduct As a company, our goal is to contribute to society through broad-ranging activities in the areas of measurement, control, and information. Individually, we aim to combine good citizenship with the courage to innovate. Published in January 1988 Standards of Business Conduct for the Yokogawa Group Ⅰ．Basic Principles of the Yokogawa Group 1. Realizing The Yokogawa Philosophy This Company Code imparts the principles of good business for the Yokogawa Group members who aspire to fulfill the Yokogawa Philosophy. As a group, our goal is to contribute to society through broadranging activities in the areas of measurement, control and information. Individually, we aim to combine good citizenship with the courage to innovate. We, as members of the Yokogawa Group, conduct business activities according to the Yokogawa Philosophy and carry out duties with integrity. We observe the Standards of Business Conduct. 2. Customer Satisfaction From the viewpoint of customer satisfaction, we provide valuable products and services that are useful to society. Winning customer satisfaction is the start to gaining the trust of shareholders and all concerned people in the community and society. 3. Observance of Laws and Regulations We observe the laws, regulations, and other rules of society, and conduct business activities with ethical conscience. We accept different cultures and respect the laws and social mores of the international community. 4. Respect for Human Rights We value and respect the dignity of each individual and all basic human rights. 5. Order and Safety of Community and Society We do not develop or foster any relationship with any people or groups that threaten the order and safety of the community and society. 10 Ⅱ．Basic Attitude of the Yokogawa Group 1. Customers We conduct activities with integrity to gain the approval and trust of customers. We provide accurate and ample information to customers so that they can use our products and services in safety and with satisfaction. 2. Shareholders We use, maintain and enhance corporate assets efficiently and effectively to win the trust of our shareholders. We openly and accurately disclose corporate and management information to our shareholders. We maintain a sound and clear relationship with our shareholders. 3. Community and Society We strive to achieve the common goals of the community and society, including protection of the global environment and the building of prosperous societies. We endeavor to be a friendly and cooperating member of society and participate positively in the activities of society. 4. Suppliers and Vendors We work sincerely and soundly with suppliers and vendors and treat them fairly and equally. We refrain from making any contacts with the suppliers or vendors that may be misinterpreted as abuse of a special relationship, and we maintain sound and open relationships. 5. Competitors We compete fairly, openly and freely with other suppliers. 6. Politicians and Governmental Agencies We maintain sound and open relationships with politicians, public servants and people related to them. Ⅲ．Guideline of Conduct for Yokogawa Group Members 1. Workplace We maintain an active, bright, safe and sound company atmosphere that we can take pride in. We pay careful attention so that none of us would suffer from harassment, unfair treatment, or infringement of privacy. 2. Group Assets We use the assets of the Yokogawa Group only for Group-related business activities. 3. Management of Information We fully recognize the value of the knowledge within the Yokogawa Group and that of business partners, and maintain strict records and guardianship of this information. We use information obtained through business activities only for business purposes. 11 4. Avoidance of Conflict of Interest We conduct our business activities neither for personal gain nor to take advantages of business positions. Furthermore, we conduct our activities in such a way that the Yokogawa Group suffers no losses or damage. 5. Prudent Personal Activities We act responsibly, in private and on business, so as not to impair the Yokogawa Group's credibility or reputation or cause any losses or damage to the Group. 12 Global Initiative UN Global Compact The United Nations has put forward a set of ten principles, The UN Global Compact, relating to human rights, labor, the environment, and anti-corruption. On January 5, 2009, Yokogawa signed on as a participating company. Kofi Annan, former Secretary-General of the UN, first proposed the Global Compact at the World Economic Forum in 1999; the UN officially launched it in 2000. Participating companies are expected to uphold and practice international standards relating to human rights, labor, the environment, and anti-corruption. Today, Yokogawa does business around the world and its actions affect economies, societies, and the environment. Recognizing its role as a global company, it abides by international norms and actively works to address urgent international issues such as the environment and human rights. Below are the ten principles of the UN Global Compact, followed by Yokogawa's efforts in each area: Human Rights Principle 1: Yokogawa's Efforts: Businesses should support and respect the protection of ▶︎ Human Rights internationally proclaimed human rights; and ▶ Supply Chain Management Principle 2: ▶ Community Involvement make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labor Standards Principle 3: Yokogawa's Efforts: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the ▶︎ Employees effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; ▶ Employment of People with Disabilities Principle 4: ▶ Occupational Safety and Health the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labor; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. 13 Environment Principle 7: Yokogawa's Efforts: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to ▶︎ Environmental management environmental challenges; ▶ Energy management solutions Principle 8: ▶ Renewable energy undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Yokogawa's Efforts: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, ▶︎ Anti-corruption and Compliance including extortion and bribery ISO 26000 ISO 26000, issued by the International Standardization Organization in November 2010, is an international standard for the social responsibilities of corporate entities, presenting seven core subjects including organizational governance, human rights, labor practices, environment and fair operating practices. We at Yokogawa, as a company active in the global marketplace, adhere to ISO 26000 and uphold corporate governance as a key principle of Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR), which forms the foundation of corporate management. As such, we are committed to the implementation of socially responsible programs/activities designed to contribute to society through business operations, environmental conservation and the assurance of human rights in order to meet our shareholders' expectations. The core subjects of ISO 26000 and our key efforts in regard to these subjects are explained below. Core Subjects Issues References 6.2 1. Organizational governance Corporate Governance Organizational Internal Control System governance Risk Management YOKOGAWA CSR Policies 14 6.3 Human rights 1. Due diligence Human Rights 2.Human rights risk situations Initiatives on Human Rights 3.Avoidance of complicity Supply Chain Management 4. Resolving grievances Corporate Philosophy 5. Discrimination and vulnerable Anti-corruption and Compliance groups 6. Civil and political rights 7. Economic, social and cultural rights 8. Fundamental principles and rights at work 6.4 Labour practices 1. Employment and employment With Employees relationships Human Resources Development 2. Conditions of work and social Occupational Safety and Health protection 3. Social dialogue 4. Health and safety at work 5. Human development and training in the workplace 6.5 The environment 1. Prevention of pollution Improving Environmental 2. Sustainable resource use Management System 3. Climate change mitigation and Environmental Impact adaptation Environmentally Friendly 4. Protection of the environment, Products biodiversity and restoration of natural LCA label habitats Global Warming Prevention Chemical Substance Reduction, Waste Reduction and Resource Conservation Water Resource Conservation Promoting Biodiversity 6.6 Fair operating 1. Anti-corruption Corporate Philosophy practices 2. Responsible political Involvement Anti-corruption and Compliance 3. Fair competition Supply Chain Management 4. Promoting social responsibility in the value chain 5. Respect for property rights 15 6.7 Consumer issues 1. Fair marketing, factual and unbiased Quality Assurance information and fair contractual Customers and Quality First practices Risk Management 2. Protecting consumers’ health and Information Security safety LCA label 3. Sustainable consumption Corporate Philosophy 4. Consumer service, support, and Contact Us complaint and dispute resolution 5. Consumer data protection and privacy 6. Access to essential services 7. Education and awareness 6.8 Community 1. Community involvement Community Involvement involvement and 2. Education and culture Corporate Citizenship in Japan development 3. Employment creation and skills Corporate Citizenship in North development and South Americas 4. Technology development and access Corporate Citizenship in Asia 5. Wealth and income creation Corporate Citizenship in the 6. Health Middle East and Africa 7. Social investment Corporate Citizenship in Europe LCA Label 16 External Ratings and Recognitions Socially Responsible Investment Stock Index by Morningstar (Japan) Yokogawa Electric Corporation, as of January 2015, is one of 150 companies constituting the MS-SRI (Morningstar Socially Responsible Investment Index), which is an SRI stock index established by Morningstar (Japan). Yokogawa Selected as Constituent Stock of the JPX-Nikkei Index 400（Japan） Yokogawa Electric Corporation has been selected to the JPX-Nikkei Index 400, a stock price index jointly established by Nikkei Inc., Japan Exchange Group, Inc. (JPX), and Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc. Stocks in this index are selected as companies that are attractive to investors for their return on investment (ROI), market capitalization, and other attributes. ProSafe-RS Safety Instrumented System Receives Award from the China Instrument and Control Society（China） Yokogawa Electric Corporation's ProSafe-RS safety instrumented system was named the recipient of the China Instrument and Control Society's Excellent Product Award, one of the science and technology awards issued by the China-based society for automated measurement control. ProSafe-RS is the first safety instrumented system to receive this award, which recognized the product's high reliability and its contribution to improving the safety of plants through solutions integrated with the CENTUM VP integrated production control system. ProSafe-RS Safety Instrumented System Receives President's Award, Technology Management & Innovation Awards, from the Japan Techno-Economics Society（Japan） Yokogawa Electric Corporation's ProSafe-RS safety instrumented system was awarded the President's Award at the 3rd Technology Management & Innovation Awards sponsored by the Japan TechnoEconomics Society (JATES). An award conferred on new businesses originating in Japan, the President's Award recognized the contribution made by the launch of ProSafe-RS, which achieves efficient and safe operation, in transforming the mature market for safety instrumented systems into a growth market. Precision Power Scope PX8000 Named in EDN Hot 100 Products of 2014（Japan） The PX8000 precision power scope from Yokogawa Meters & Instruments Corporation (Japan) was included among the 11 product models selected by technology information site EDN for inclusion in the EDN Hot 100 Products of 2014 (Test & Measurement category). The award recognized the advance in precision of the PX8000's innovative functions, compared with previous models. 17 Yokogawa Marex Wins International Business Award（The United Kingdom） In recognition of contributions to the local community and economy, Yokogawa Marex (YMX) was awarded the International Business Award by the Isle of Wight Chamber of Commerce. Yokogawa Saudi Arabia Receives Employer Excellence Achievement Award for Human Resources Development in Region（Saudi Arabia） In recognition of long-running contributions to regional human resources development in the Middle East, Yokogawa Saudi Arabia Ltd. (YMA-KSA) was awarded the Employer Excellence Achievement Award at the 2nd Annual Talent & Diversity Leadership Forum. Green Packaging Contest（South Korea） Yokogawa Electronics Manufacturing Korea (YMF-K) received the grand prize in the 4th annual Green Packaging Contest, which is sponsored by the Korean Ministry of Environment and the Environmental Packaging Promotion Institute. This award was given to YMF-K for a design improvement that reduced the amount of cardboard used in the packaging for the FA-M3V PLC. Yokogawa Kofu Workplace and Plant Commended as Excellent Workplaces (Japan) The Yokogawa Kofu workplace and Plant received commendation as excellent workplaces from the Minami-Kofu Police Station and Minami-Kofu Safe Driving Managers' Association. The commendation was in recognition of daily efforts in traffic safety initiatives, including the regular performance of safe driving workshops and seatbelt checks and instruction. 2014 Energy Conservation Award (Japan) Yokogawa Manufacturing Corporation's Kofu Factory received the Judging Committee Special Prize of the 2014 Energy Conservation Grand Prizes (Successful Case of Energy Conservation Category) for reductions in power consumption and wastewater. The award recognized the productivity improvements and the significant reductions in power consumption, wastewater, and space requirements that the plant achieved under the theme of conserving power through innovation in hole-boring methods at control device production plants. Winning the 2014 Good Design Award (Japan) Yokogawa Electric Corporation's CQ1 confocal quantitative image cytometer was awarded the Japan Institute of Design Promotion's 2014 Good Design Award. 18 Creating New Value for Society with our Customers Yokogawa's products solutions are in use in major industrial plant facilities around the world, including in emerging countries. Many Yokogawa products are in operation constantly in customers' plants in a broad-range of industries such as urban infrastructure (including electricity, gas/LNG and water), petroleum, petroleum chemistry, chemical, iron and steel, paper, and pharmaceutical, as well as food production. Yokogawa products not only increase the productivity and quality of plants through automation of field operations, but also provide features which increase safety and automate dangerous work. With these features, we help prevent accidents or trouble from occurring by comprehensively monitoring plants to ensure stable and optimum operations. Also, Yokogawa provides advanced applications which contribute to the efficient use of energy and resources, reducing environmental impact and preventing air pollution. Many Yokogawa products are also effectively used with vital water resources and the development of natural energy. Yokogawa will continue to create new value together with our customers and will contribute to achieving a sustainable society. The contributions we make to society through our various solutions can be viewed on our website. ▶ Success Stories 19 Responsibility to Stakeholders The Standards of Business Conduct for the Yokogawa Group call for the realization of the Yokogawa Philosophy, enhancement of customer satisfaction, observation of laws and regulations, respect for human rights, and maintenance of the order and safety of communities and society. We have also outlined our basic stance on environmental conservation and stakeholder relations. Based on these standards, we promote activities to meet to stakeholders' expectations, such as employees, customers or shareholders. We view all Yokogawa employees as valuable assets, and work proactively to maintain a sound work environment and provide opportunities for skill development. We also respond to our customers by putting quality first. Moreover, in accordance with our principle of good citizenship, we interact with the community, encourage employees to participate in volunteer activities, and engage actively in other activities to contribute to society. Organizational Governance Yokogawa has prepared frameworks for corporate governance, risk management, internal control, and compliance, spanning the entire Group. In major areas, including environment, health and safety, quality, labor management, corporate ethics, and risk management, we have prepared internal control systems and engage in risk management and compliance. Human Rights With Employees Employees are a valued Yokogawa resource. We Yokogawa provides employees with undertake a variety of initiatives in the area of opportunities to develop their capabilities respect for human rights, and promote diversity and creates environments conducive to work. within the company. We also continually work to reduce risks and improve the level of our occupational health and safety activity. Environmental Reporting Fair Operation Practices Yokogawa promotes environmental management All of our employees observe laws, regulations, while providing solutions that will help our and our corporate ethics as they work to ensure customers reduce their energy consumption and compliance. At the same time, we promote CSR protect the environment. throughout our supply chain. With Customers Community Involvement We are engaged in activities that maintain high Around the world, the Yokogawa Group is quality in every aspect of our business from working to benefit local communities and product sales to maintenance and take the address specific needs. customer perspective to ensure high satisfaction with our products and services. Environmental Activity Data of the Past Personnel-related and Social Data of 5 years the Past 5 years 20 Organizational Governance Yokogawa has prepared frameworks for corporate governance, risk management, internal control, and compliance, spanning the entire Group. In major areas, including environment, health and safety, quality, labor management, corporate ethics, and risk management, we have prepared internal control systems and engage in risk management and compliance. To enhance companies' sustainable growth and improve midto long-term corporate value, Japan's Corporate Governance Code has been applied to listed companies in Japan from June 2015. The Yokogawa Group will work to further enhance its corporate governance. 21 Corporate Governance The Yokogawa Group recognizes that the basic mission of corporate management is to secure sound and sustainable growth, and to earn the trust of its shareholders and other stakeholders. Accordingly, the Group is implementing measures to enhance corporate governance in order to achieve a sound and profitably run organization. The Company employs a corporate auditor system and has a Board of Directors that monitors directors in the execution of their duties and a Board of Corporate Auditors that monitors the Board of Directors. We are enhancing this system by utilizing independent outside directors and corporate auditors. Through these systems, the Company is bolstering the effectiveness of its corporate governance. Speedy decision making and transparency are ensured through deliberations between directors who are well versed in the Group's business and outside directors who maintain a high degree of independence. Through audits by the corporate auditors, the legality, efficiency, and rationality of the directors' activities and the appropriateness of their decisions are rigorously examined. The Yokogawa Group has set forth its basic compliance policies in the Standards of Business Conduct for the Yokogawa Group, and directors take the lead in working to see that business ethics are upheld and embraced throughout the Group. In addition, the Yokogawa Group Internal Control Systems, which are intended in part to ensure the reliability of financial statements and the propriety of decision making, guarantee the appropriateness and efficiency of Group operations. Corporate Governance Structure 22 Internal Control System At Yokogawa, internal control is a management process in which business resources, such as human resources, assets, and budgets, etc., are allocated appropriately and moved functionally to increase the corporate value. An internal control system is constructed as a means to achieve internal control; this is used to control both the positive and negative aspects. By doing this, Yokogawa aims at improving the corporate value of the entire Group. The Structure of the Internal Control System The internal control system of the Yokogawa Group consists of 10 control systems and 4 subsystems as shown in the table below: Each control system sweeps across all divisions that are conducting business activities. Internal Control Subsystems Primary laws (excerpt) Systems Business Ethics General law, Whistleblower Protection Act, etc. Decision Making Corporate law etc. Laws concerning products, such as Product Liability Act Quality Management and Measurement Act, etc. Labor Standards Act, Act on Securing, Etc. of Equal Labor Management Opportunity and Treatment between Men and Women in Employment, etc. Environment, Safety & Health General environmental laws, Occupational Safety and Management Health Act, etc. Unfair Competition Prevention Act, Act on the Protection Information Security Management of Personal Information, etc. Export Control Foreign Exchange Law, etc. Sales Management Financial Instruments and Exchange Act, etc. Purchasing Financial Instruments and Exchange Act, Act against Financial Management Delay in Payment of Subcont Reporting Prevention of Insider Financial Instruments and Exchange Law Control Trading Disclosure Corporate law, Financial Instruments and Exchange Law, Management etc. Crisis Management General laws Corporate Auditing Infrastructure Corporate law 23 As for each internal control system, the relevant key result indicators and action indicators are clearly defined and the PDCA cycle is applied according to the evaluations of the respective indicators' achievement levels. 24 Risk Management The Yokogawa Group has in place a risk management system to control the likelihood of events that might prevent its organizational units from achieving their goals, as well as a crisis management system with which to respond promptly to any event that could have material impact on the company's operations. Risk Management System The Yokogawa Group has a risk management system in place for the purpose of controlling the likelihood of events that might prevent its organizational units from achieving their goals. Based on the risk management activities carried out autonomously by the respective organizational units, Yokogawa's management gains a comprehensive understanding of risks surrounding the Group from the two standpoints of business activities and internal control, and thereby deals with such risks. Risk Management Procedure Performing the roles of risk management departments, departments in charge of internal audits advise Group companies on the identification, analysis, and remediation of risks, and report to the Board of Directors and corporate auditors on major matters. In the evaluation of risks, the departments evaluate decision-making, the severity of market risks and other strategic business risks, and the severity of quality, environmental, health and safety, labor, corporate ethics, risk management, and other internal control risks, in terms of degree of impact and possibility of occurrence. In making evaluations, the departments take into account not only financial and human aspects, but also societal 25 and environmental impacts. Risks deemed to be of high severity and high importance to the Group based on evaluations are designated as priority risks, and the status of management of these risks is reported to management every quarter. Priority Risks for Fiscal 2015 For fiscal 2015, the following five risks have been designated as priority risks : ● Crisis management ● Divulge of confidential information and malfunction of information system ● Country risk ● Global tax risk ● Vulnerability of Yokogawa products and services to cyber-attacks Escalation of Information In the event of a disaster, accident, or incident that can seriously impact the Yokogawa Group companies’ management and/or the lives of their officers and employees, the concerned organization must take prompt action to minimize the damage by gathering information and reporting back to the Group’s top management. To address this issue, we have created the “Guidelines for Reporting Disasters, Accidents, and Incidents”. These guidelines have been prepared to advise all departments and affiliates in the Yokogawa Group on the reporting procedures to follow in the event of such disasters. Business Continuity Plan (BCP) Our control business, which is a core segment of the Company, is deeply tied to social infrastructures such as electricity, gas and water supply. To continue with our business activities as much as possible in the event of a disaster and quickly help maintain and restore social infrastructure, we developed the Yokogawa Group Business Continuity Plan (BCP) in case of a Major Earthquake in Tokyo Metropolitan Area . We also have developed response plan and guideline which assume the specific risks such as huge earthquake or epidemic of contagious diseases. We have collaborated with all group companies worldwide to improve the plans. Additionally, we conduct company-wide evacuation drills and simulation drills under the supervision of the Crisis Management Committee (including members of the management team), all on a regular basis, to ensure that these plans will function effectively in the event of a disaster. Subsequent to the Great East Japan Earthquake in March 2011, we revised the emergency/initial action procedure to be followed immediately after an earthquake hits. We readjusted the organizational structure of the crisis management headquarters, and we made various revisions to the existing procedures by adding steps to respond to overseas sites and overseas customers, among others. We at Yokogawa will continue to review the details of our BCPs so as to be more prepared to handle possible disasters and various risks. 26 Human Rights Yokogawa has explicitly defined respect for human rights as part of the group's overall goals, in its Philosophy, Standards of Business Conduct, and Group Management Standards. The company has also set up compliance hotlines for everyone working at Yokogawa as a way to avoid human-rights violations before they happen. Yokogawa Group Management Standards The Yokogawa Group Management Standards, which states in writing the basic policies required of group management, applies to every branch of the Yokogawa group. It gives clear rules and guidelines relating to human rights, obedience to the law, workplace safety, hygiene, etc. The Yokogawa Group Compliance Guidelines make the following statement regarding human rights. 03 Respect for basic human rights The Yokogawa Group always respects the basic human rights and personal dignity of every person with whom we are involved. 27 Equal Opportunity Thanks to our fair and impartial personnel system operating under the basic policy of the Yokogawa Group, each employee is afforded equal opportunities in hiring, placement, promotion, pay rises, training, etc. An employee in a position of management or leadership must have a basic knowledge of the labor laws of the country in question, and must have a thorough knowledge of labor contracts and work regulations. It is important that he or she work on the basis of this knowledge to maintain a workplace free of unfair discrimination, engaging in ample communication with his or her subordinates and ensuring that day-to-day personnel management goes smoothly. 28 Prohibition of forced labor/child labor Forced labor in any form whatsoever is not to be allowed; nor is any person to be made to work against their will; nor is it acceptable for children below the minimum working age of each country to be employed. Care must be taken to ensure that we do not support inhumane conduct even indirectly, for example through the actions of business partners. 29 Ensuring health and safety In addition to observing the laws relating to occupational safety and health, we have established our own independent standards and are striving to improve safety and health. We are working on a program of improvements to ensure the safety of every employee working for the Yokogawa Group, promote better health, and create a pleasant working environment. Each and every employee must act to cooperate with the safety and health measures that have been decided upon. 27 30 Prohibition of harassment No form of harassment whatsoever is acceptable, whether it be sexual harassment, stalking, or power harassment. We respect each other as individual human beings, and have built up a corporate atmosphere in which harassment is not accepted. Philosophy Yokogawa's corporate philosophy defines contributing to society as a corporate mission, and calls for its employees to be good citizens. Based on this philosophy, Yokogawa uses measurement, control and information as tools to contribute to social infrastructures that support people's daily living such as energy, communications, waterworks, etc, and to contribute to industry infrastructures, to make them run more efficiently and to help people work more safely. This philosophy is practiced by every employee and in all of the countries where Yokogawa operates, its employees have been willing volunteers, helping out when natural disasters occur. Standards of Business Conduct One of the five pillars in our Standards of Business Conduct explicitly states that the company will uphold respect for human rights and respect the dignity of all. Some of the particular courses of action that follow from this are preventing harassment, discrimination, privacy intrusions and maintaining an overall healthy workplace. UN Global Compact Yokogawa has declared its support for the UN Global Compact. The company respects the human-rights guidelines proclaimed in the Global Compact, and upholds international human-rights standards. ISO 26000 ISO 26000 is an international standard for an organization's social responsibility which the International Organization for Standardization (ISO) published in November 2010. It provides seven core subjects, such as Organizational Governance, Human Rights, Labor Practices or The Environment. Yokogawa respects the ISO 26000 guidance in our CSR actions as a global company and pay attention to the human rights in our all business conduct. 28 Initiatives on Human Rights Employees are valuable as Yokogawa's Human Assets . We at Yokogawa have established a compliance guideline that requires us to comply with the international standards on human rights; consider the different geographical and cultural backgrounds of other employees when working with them; refrain from discrimination on the basis of race, nationality, sex, religion, age or disability of any kind; and drive home these principles to all our Group companies. Initiatives to Promote Diversity The diversification of ethnic backgrounds and nationalities One of the strengths — actually a requirement — of Yokogawa is the ability to maintain and utilize a pool of diverse talents as we carry forth our global expansion. We make use of human resources of diverse ethnic backgrounds and nationalities, not only overseas but also at the head office in Japan. By increasing the acceptance of overseas Group employees into Japan, we advance the career paths of overseas Group employees and the globalization of Yokogawa Electric in Japan. Accordingly, within the Yokogawa Electric Personnel Department we have established an expert team to handle the acceptance of foreign employees and to assist their lives in Japan. We have prepared infrastructure within the company for foreign employees and offer appropriate information to support their livelihood, such as by providing internal broadcasts, work-related notices, and cafeteria menus in both Japanese and English. We hold expectations that this promotion of diversity will allow us to fuse a wealth of differing perspectives and generate new ideas and ways of thinking. In addition to the above, every year from 2010 we have hired new graduates from universities and graduate schools in Japan, actively diversifying the ethnic backgrounds and nationalities working within the Yokogawa Electric head office. Promoting active participation by women To create new value and enhance our business competitiveness, Yokogawa Electric actively promotes participation by female employees. Specifically, we support career development for women through programs including mediumand long-term education plans, and also conduct training aimed at transforming awareness among managers. We will continue to ready programs that facilitate work by women, and will actively promote the hiring of new female graduates. Initiatives on Human Rights Yokogawa Engineering Asia (Singapore) Yokogawa Engineering Asia (YEA) has signed the employer's pledge for the Tripartite Alliance for Fair Employment Practices (TAFEP). YEA strives to eliminate discrimination in employment and endeavors to maintain fair employment practices, such as hiring and providing appropriate terms and conditions of employment based on individuals' skills and experiences regardless of their age, race, sex, religion and family 29 status, and offering equal training opportunities. Yokogawa South Africa (South Africa) South Africa has adopted Black Economic Empowerment (BEE) as a program to put racial equality into practice, thus encouraging the employment of blacks and other historically disadvantaged South Africans (HDSAs). Yokogawa South Africa (YMA-SA) is compliant in this regard and has striven to promote the employment of blacks and other peoples of color. YMA-SA has increased the percentage of such employees in these years. (1% increase in 2013 and 2% increase in 2014) Attention to human rights in the supply chain Following its Group Management Standards, Yokogawa upholds their philosophy for human rights throughout its supply chain. The Supply Chain CSR Guidelines include guidelines prohibiting forced labor, inhumane treatment and infringements of human rights, child labor, and discrimination, while ensuring appropriate wages, regulated working hours, and the right to freedom of association, and vendors are asked to follow these guidelines. Employment of People with Disabilities Employing and developing people with disabilities Yokogawa has hired persons with disabilities since the establishment of its Normalization Project in 1992 and our skilled employees with disabilities are engaged in all areas of our business, from engineering and manufacturing to administration. The Yokogawa Group promotes the employment of disabled persons, with each company hiring and promoting active participation by people facing different physical and mental challenges who can better contribute to the specific business of the company. Yokogawa will continue to provide employment and career opportunities for people with disabilities. 30 With Employees (Labor Practice) Under the concepts of our employees are our most valuable assets and the growth of employees means growth for the company, we make efforts toward long-term human resources development and offer a variety of opportunities for career development. In addition, with the aim of creating environments more conducive to work, we support employees through a variety of programs. Human Resource Development to Enable Employees and the Company to Grow Together Yokogawa Electric has prepared exhaustive training programs matched to each level of human resources. By focusing our efforts on the growth of employees, we enable employees and the company to grow together. Supporting Work-Life Balance and Raising the Awareness of Employees To aid employees in working with enthusiasm and motivation and in achieving self-realization through work, Yokogawa Electric has prepared work programs such as flexible working hours, specialized work discretionary labor system, and flexible holidays. Through these, we aim to improve work productivity and create a rich work environment for employees. We make an effort to provide a work environment where the employees are able to gain satisfaction while maintaining a good balance between their work and private life. For instance, the employees are able to utilize work hours for child-care and nursing of elderly family members, in additions to the hours specified under the statutory benefit. We have also introduced a system to provide financial support to our employees who are raising children. Employees under such conditions are able to receive 100,000 yen annually per child. Many of our employees, both male and female, are making full use of other company supports such as flexible working hours or paid maternal leave. These systems are helping increase employees' motivation. In September 2006, we opened a day care center near Yokogawa Headquarters. The center is contributing to the local communities as it can be utilized by both the employees of Yokogawa and the people living in the vicinities. In fiscal year 2007, Yokogawa was certified by the Chief of the Tokyo Labor Bureau as an Enterprise Supporting Balanced Work and Family life . 31 Employee Assistance Program (EAP) Promotion of EAP for a healthy, rewarding company life We have introduced the Employee Assistance Program (EAP), which is designed to help employees more fully demonstrate their skills instead of being too stressed to conduct their work as effectively as possible. Yokogawa's EAP, in particular, provides a comprehensive set of mental-health support programs, such as those for the prevention and early detection of stress, early care and treatment, and assistance for returning to work after a leave of absence for recuperation. It is our goal to ensure a healthy, fulfilling work environment for all our employees. Key activities under EAP Utilize e-mail and web pages to provide relevant information that will help employees Education/PR gain a better understanding of mental health. Conduct company-wide training programs (based on voluntary participation) and Group level-specific training programs to promote the prevention and early detection of training stress. Based on the results of the stress check, identify causes of stress in the workplace. Implement employee-led programs and activities, with the Company's support, in Stress check order to prevent, contain and remove these causes so as to ensure a more comfortable workplace. To care for the employee who suffers from mental health problems or takes a leave Assistance for of absence for recuperation, and to ensure the smooth reinstatement of those returning to who return to work after recovery so as to prevent them from falling into the same work problems again, we have implemented a system to provide proper support for each individual or workplace depending on the seriousness of the condition or situation. We have a system to help our employees seek consultation within the company or Consultation from external institutions specialized not only in mental health but also in various areas of concern including career issues. 32 Human Resources Development Yokogawa Electric offers a variety of measures for developing and making the best use of human resources, as mechanisms by which employees and the company can grow together. Human Resource Development to Enable Employees and the Company to Grow Together Human resources development structure Yokogawa Electric conducts its human resources development with a focus on three activities: character and values training to build relationships of trust with customers; development of engineers who can connect high technical ability to the creation of customer value; and development of human resources who can take action in a global business environment. In terms of programs, we conduct training at four levels: common education on topics such as compliance and information security; global education and other basic skill education; expert skill education matched to the content of work at each workplace; and management skill education aimed at managers. Through these education programs, we are developing human resources rich in expertise, global adaptability, and a spirit of challenge. By focusing our efforts toward the growth of employees, we enable employees and the company to grow together. Furthermore, through regular interviews between employees and superiors, we are readying mechanisms by which employees can declare their short-term and their midto long-term career plans to superiors. By deepening communication between employees and superiors to create mutual understanding, we foster a challenge-oriented mindset and support career development . Global Human Resources Development In the active performance of global business development, Yokogawa Electric places a particular focus on the development and enhancement of global human resources. Toward that end, we have prepared detailed training programs matched to individual levels of human resources. The first among these is our Global Leadership Development Program training to develop the next generation of managers. This training targets employees of Manager level or higher overseas and in Japan, performing the leadership development required of global leaders. The next one is our Global Talent Development Program aimed at young human resources. In addition to abilities in logical communication, presentation, and negotiation in English, participants undergo training in the sense of values expected of them as members of Yokogawa, and also gain the ability to understand differences in history and culture from a global perspective. Beyond these, we are also increasing opportunities for employees to gain experience in global work, including an expansion of the destinations for our overseas practical training aimed at all new employees. By offering full support for employees who proactively take on such challenges, we are widening the reach of our global human resource development. 33 Occupational Safety and Health In 2006, the Yokogawa Group established the Yokogawa Group Safety and Health Policy and began implementing the Occupational Safety and Health Management System (OSHMS). Since 2007, the Yokogawa Group has implemented the OSHMS in each of its companies to promote a higher level of safety and health by making continual improvements through risk assessment and other methods. 34 Operation of the Occupational Safety and Health Management System (OSHMS) Recognizing that occupational safety and health are a basic responsibility of the management, the Yokogawa Group implements OSHMS to ensure the occupational safety and health of all of its employees and its sub-contractors. Improvements are made in phases, with constant assessments to eliminate or minimize potential risks. Regular evaluations and reviews of the activities are also done through audits. The effectiveness of the system has improved by combining conventional activities, such as safety patrols, and countermeasures against occupational incidences and near misses. The Yokogawa Group companies in and outside Japan share the same occupational safety and health objectives for all workers, including subcontractors. Moreover, 32 Yokogawa Group companies have acquired certifications in compliance with OHSAS18001*1, which is internationally recognized. *1. Occupational Health and Safety Assessment Series. A certification standard for Occupational Safety and Health Management System. 35 OSHMS Structure Chart Yokogawa Global QHS (Quality, Health & Safety) Meeting Yokogawa Global OSH Meeting is basically organized with participants from Yokogawa group companies as a part of Global QHSE Meeting. In the meeting kinds of themes are shared and discussed in order to promote safety awareness to employees and to improve OSH quality level in Yokogawa Group: Risk Assessment, Training/Education and their material, Case Study, etc. Discussion at the meeting Occupational Safety and Health Education To ensure that the Yokogawa Group Occupational Safety and Health Policy is adhered to across the entire Yokogawa Group, the Safety and Health Handbook, which contains basic information and day-to-day rules regarding occupational safety and health, has been created and distributed to all staff and engineers at every Yokogawa Group company. To maintain and improve all levels of activities throughout, persons in charge, committee members and newly appointed personnel are educated through safety and health committee workshops, as well as on-site safety training at customer plants and factories. The group companies also conduct first-aid/lifesaving training courses, commuter-accident response drills, etc. Occupational Incident and Accident Data The Yokogawa Group has been gathering and analyzing information on occupational accidents experienced by Group companies in and outside Japan on a quarterly basis since 2007, when it introduced OSHMS, as part of an effort to eliminate/reduce occupational accidents and improve the quality of activities thus implemented. A few major account customers, globally active, require their vender OSH monitoring. 36 Yokogawa provides Occupational Incident Index of Yokogawa group companies quarterly for their analysis. Yokogawa group companies being responsible for their projects, conduct project safety program including Risk Assessments at various milestones of project engineering and services. Frequency Rate of Occupational Accident Frequency Rate of Occupational Accident=(No. of workers having occupational accident with lost days / total working hours) × 1,000,000 37 Environmental Reporting We at Yokogawa regard conservation of global environment as an important management issue and strive to implement the environmental management needed to address it. Specifically, we help our customers be green by, for example, developing products that allow for harmonious coexistence of mankind with nature and providing environmental solutions that help analyze/improve environmental impact generated through their business activities, just as we actively endeavor to reduce the environmental impact in our business operations. Improvement at Office and Factories −Construction of a new building with energy-saving measures −Restructuring of the manufacturing process that won the Energy Conservation Grand Prize −LPG conservation by utilizing exhaust heat New building within Yokogawa Electric Headquarters Promoting Efforts to conserve Environmental Environmental resources through Performance Management products −Environmental Policy of −Environmental Friendly −2014 Goals and the Yokogawa group Products achievements −Improving Environmental −LCA Label −Environmental impact Management System −Environmental accounting −Environmental milestones −Environmental Activity data over the past 5 years （CO2, Water, Waste, Natural energy） 38 Efforts to conserve resources in our own factories ● Global Warming Prevention −Graph of the plan and actual result of CO2 by the domestic group in 2014 −Scope3 CO2 emission ● Chemical Substance Reduction, Waste Reduction and Resource Conservation −PRTR data ● Water Resource Conservation ● Promoting Biodiversity Building a Sustainable Society 39 Improvement at Office and Factories The following introduces several cases which Yokogawa is improving its environmental performance in its office and factories. Construction of a new building with energy-saving measures Yokogawa Electric In November 2014, construction of a new building was completed in the premise of Yokogawa Electric Corporation headquarters in Musashino City, Tokyo, Japan. The new building not only serves as an office building, but also has facilities such as a restaurant. Throughout the new building, various energysaving measures such as LED lighting facilities in the entire building, special window glass with heat insulation and thermal barrier, and adoption of a system that reduces the load of solar radiation heat, have been adopted, contributing to reduction of New building within CO2 emission significantly. The design of the building also make Yokogawa Electric Headquarters consideration to reduce the effects on the environment into the future by reduction of water usage using water-saving sanitary equipment and use of eco-cables that don't generate harmful gas. ■ Energy and water saving measures and their reduction effect Reduction effect Content of implementation /estimation, annually Special glass (low-E pair glass) insulate and make barrier against solar 6,234（kWh） radiation heat (east, west, and north sides). The heat barrier system (double skin) reduces the load of solar Windows radiation heat (south sides); power-operated blinds are installed in 1,859（kWh） the blocking system and automatically controlled to reduce the load of solar radiation heat. LED lighting facilities are adopted throughout the building. 58,295（kWh） Lighting Initial illuminance correction control and daylight utilization control 50,810（kWh） systems are adopted for the office area. 40 Air-conditioning system that satisfies the latest energy-saving 46,098（kWh） standards is adopted. Total heat exchanger is installed to recover heat from ventilation 35,182（kWh） facilities. CO2 concentration is measures to control the air volume of the Equipment 7,818（kWh） ventilation facilities. items Switching the ventilation air volume in the restaurant and kitchen between high and low (air volume is reduced by 40% for half the 21,400（kWh） entire time). Heat pump technology is adopted for water heater in the kitchen. 83,721（kWh） Use of water-saving sanitary fixtures. 1,972（㎥） Utilization of daylight in the north and south stairs, etc. ― Other Use of eco-cables (no harmful gas is generated when discarding). ― Restructuring of the manufacturing process that won the Energy Conservation Grand Prize Yokogawa Manufacturing, Kofu Factory Power consumption and waste fluid reduction case realized by improving the manufacturing process received the “Jury’s Special Awards of the Energy Conservation Grand Prize 2014 (Energy conservation case section) held by The Energy Conservation Center, Japan. We made fundamental changes to the boring process of the hermetic body, a sensor part of differential pressure / pressure transmitter, which is one of Yokogawa's leading products, and significantly reduce power usage as well as improving production efficiency, reducing waste fluid, and reducing space. To enhance the production capacity of the differential pressure / pressure transmitter, it was necessary to review the hermetic body processing line that significantly affected the line efficiency. To avoid increase in space, waste fluid, power consumption, and manpower, we worked on restructuring and Differential pressure / changed the small-diameter deep hole processing from electric spark forming pressure transmitter to drilling. The new processing line was realized by establishing a new elemental technology of boring process as well as utilizing the automation technology using robots. This led to significant achievement of 50% reduction of the processing line area, 25% reduction of power consumption, 95% reduction of waste fluid. In addition, we horizontally spread this result to the capsule body processing line of the same product, and achieved reduction of power consumption by 128 MWh and CO2 emission by 58t-CO2. In the future, we plan to further improve the processing technology to reduce the boring time, prolong the drill life, and try further small-diameter deep hole processing. 41 LPG conservation by utilizing exhaust heat Yokogawa Manufacturing, Komagane Factory Some devises used in the clean room are cooled to control temperature. The water warmed after cooling devices were cooled again in the air-cooled chiller, and the heat was discharged to the atmosphere. In Komagane Office, where it gets very cold in the winter, we discussed how to utilize this heat and decided to recover the heat using a heat pump and use it to heat the building. Traditionally, steam generated by the LPG boiler was used for this purpose, and LPG consumption was reduced by utilizing the heat recovered by the heat pump. Traditional heat pump installation tends to be large and heavy, so the foundation construction and adjustment take time and cost. Therefore, we introduced an extremely compact water source heat pump to reduce initial cost and maintenance cost. The LPG reduction effect by this was 1% (crude oil equivalent of 7k ℓ), but it proved to be effective anyway, so we applied it to heat the raw water for ultrapure water. It was deployed in May 2015 and currently in operation. The energy conservation effect is estimated to be 67 kℓ of reduction (crude oil equivalent) annually (reduction of LPG by about 10%). ■ Operation after introducing a heat pump 42 Environmental Policy of the Yokogawa Group Based on the Yokogawa philosophy which states, Our goal is to contribute to society through broadranging activities in the areas of measurement, control, and information, and recognizing that environmental conservation of the precious earth is a critical issue for the whole of humanity, each site of the Group shall strive, in all its activities, to: 1. Establish, maintain, and improve its environmental management system. Each site promotes and continuously improves its global environmental conservation activities, strives to prevent environmental contamination, and establishes an environmental management system. To maintain and improve the system, each site accurately evaluates the burden of its activities on the environment including climate change, biodiversity and water resources, sets environmental objectives and targets that are technically and economically viable, and carries out environmental audits. 2. Provide environmental training. Each site actively provides training for global environmental conservation to ensure that employees understand the Environmental Philosophy, Code of Conduct for Environmental Conservation, and Environmental Policy of the Yokogawa Group to improve their environmental awareness, and to act autonomously with consideration of the environment in both their work and life in the local community. 3. Abide by legal regulations. Each site abides by laws, legal regulations, and other requirements applied to environmental aspects, in order to proactively conserve the global environment. 4. Carry out resource recycling-based operations. Throughout its activities, each site endeavors to utilize energy and resources efficiently, to prevent global warming, to reduce waste, and to promote the reuse and recycling of resources with the aim of eliminating emissions. 5. Minimize environmental pollution. Each site strives to eliminate the use of substances that adversely impact the environment, such as toxic chemicals, and ozone-destroying substances, by using safe substitutes or employing safe technologies to avoid the risk of environmental pollution. 6. Create environmentally friendly products. Each site develops and produces environmentally friendly green products in consideration of the environmental burden throughout the products' lifecycles, from material purchase, manufacture, and distribution to their use and disposal. 7. Supply society with environmental solutions. Each site supplies society with value-added products and services for conserving the earth's environment through measurement, control, and information technologies. 43 8. Contribute to local communities. Each site encourages its employees to participate in environmental conservation activities under their own initiative as good corporate citizens. 9. Make environmental information available to the public. Each site actively makes environmental information, including its environmental policy and conservation activities, available to the general public. Hajime Watanabe Environmental Officer Yokogawa Electric Corporation Organization To promote the environmental management principle of the Yokogawa Group, we established the Yokogawa Group Green Promotion Committee with the aim of stepping up group-wide efforts to conserve the global environment and prevent climate change. The Committee, chaired by the Yokogawa Group's Environmental Officer, provides leadership the Yokogawa Group companies throughout inside and outside Japan in order to drive environmental management and implement various measures designed to conserve the global environment and prevent climate change. Organization of Environmental Management Promotion 44 Improving Environmental Management System The Yokogawa Group is implementing an Environmental Management System in its group companies in an effort to ensure full compliance with the laws, regulations, agreements, etc., that are designed for the prevention of environmental pollution. Moreover, to conserve energy and reduce environmentally hazardous substances, the Group is encouraging a shift to alternative technologies to the greatest extent possible and is leading an effort to mitigate its environmental impact. Yokogawa achieved ISO 14001 certification at its major offices and manufacturing sites as part of its effort to improve the Environmental Management System. Compliance with laws In 2014 we again endeavored to ensure full compliance with the environmental laws, regulations, agreements, etc., and had no major violations. Conserving Water and Soil The Yokogawa Group has conducted soil and water studies at former production sites in accordance with its proprietary control standards, starting before the enactment of Japan’s Soil Contamination Countermeasures Law. Environmental Auditing Internal Audits The environmental internal audits for ISO14001 consist of systems, legal compliance, and performance audits. Internal audits were conducted at all departments at least once during the year. Internal audit findings have been promptly addressed and corrected. Internal Audit Inspection Items Audit of organizations/systems, target management, education, operations Systems audit management/corrections, and other data to check whether the system is functioning effectively Audit of the operation and monitoring of regulated values (qualifications, Legal compliance notice submissions, and measurement data) and other data to check whether audit legal and other requirements are being followed Audit of targets and actual results, regulated values, and other data to check Performance audit whether the self-determined operation items are being implemented properly 45 Annual Surveillance Regular inspections (renewal inspection or surveillance) were conducted at each of Yokogawa’s ISO14001certified group companies by an ISO14001 certifying organization in order to maintain ISO14001 certification. ISO 14001 Certification at Yokogawa Group The Yokogawa Group has achieved ISO 14001 certification primarily at its major offices and manufacturing sites in Japan and abroad. ISO14001 As of the end of April 2015 Factories Date Certified Yokogawa Electric Corporation Headquarters & Main Factory July 1997 Yokogawa Manufacturing Corporation July 1997 (Komine, Kofu and Headquarters Factories) Yokogawa Meters & Instruments Corporation July 1997 Yokogawa Solution Service Corporation February 2000 Yokogawa Denshikiki Co., Ltd. November 2000 Suzhou Yokogawa Meter Company China (Suzhou) May 1998 Yokogawa Shanghai Instrumentation Co., Ltd. China (Shanghai) March 2000 Yokogawa Sichuan Instrument Co., Ltd. China (Chongqing) December 2000 Yokogawa Electric China Co., Ltd. China (Suzhou) May 2004 Yokogawa Electric Asia Pte. Ltd. Singapore October 1998 Yokogawa Engineering Asia Pte. Ltd. Singapore August 2001 P.T. Yokogawa Manufacturing Batam Indonesia April 2000 Yokogawa Corporation of America USA June 2005 Yokogawa Electronics Manufacturing Korea Co., Ltd. South Korea December 2004 Yokogawa Philippines, Inc. Philippines June 2007 Rota Yokogawa GmbH & Co.KG Germany August 2011 Yokogawa Middle East & Africa B.S.C. (c) Bahrain June 2013 46 Environmental Week Yokogawa Electric Corporation The Yokogawa Environmental Week is undertaken in November of each year, during which time environmental events are held in order to increase employee awareness. We have organized events such as screening of a movie about the environment, “Nature”; a campaign to promote the so-called “Environmental Housekeeping Books”; the event to call for “Photographs of blessings of nature that should be saved for the future”; and a crossword puzzle event with environmental keywords, among others. Environmental Week Poster Participation in Five Million GPN Members' Green Purchasing Campaign Yokogawa Electric Corporation Yokogawa Electric took part in the Five Million GPN Member Action Campaign sponsored by the Green Purchasing Network, and advertised the campaign on posters and in the environmental newsletter as a means to call on its employees to take action for that cause. 47 Environmental milestones Various global environmental conservation activities had been carried out before Yokogawa Kofu office was certified with the ISO14001 certification in 1997 followed by officially implementing the environmental management system across the entire Yokogawa group. The environmental practices of Yokogawa group since 1971 are listed below in chronological order. History of Environmental Practices of Yokogawa (in time series) 1971 Yokogawa establishes a pollution prevention organization 1974 July Yokogawa completes construction of wastewater treatment facilities to comply with ordinance of Tokyo compliant with municipal bylaws 1987 May Yokogawa begins environmental assessment studies 1989 October Yokogawa establishes a chlorofluorocarbon (CFC) reduction committee 1991 April Yokogawa sets up an organization to promote an Environment management August Yokogawa starts Save the Earth campaign 1993 February Yokogawa appoints a Vice President of Environmental Management and forms a Global Environment Committee July Yokogawa establishes a voluntary environmental activities plan 1994 August Yokogawa reports the results of voluntary environmental activities in fiscal year 1993 December Yokogawa completely eliminates specific CFCs and trichloroethane for cleaning 1995 June Yokogawa Board of Directors decided to obtain ISO14001 certification and merge a voluntary environmental activity plan into ISO14001 plan. October Yokogawa reorganize a Global Environment Committee 1996 March Yokogawa establishes corporate rules for environmental management May Yokogawa forms a Global Environment Committee at Yokogawa Electric Headquarters & Main Factory, Kofu Office (current Yokogawa Manufacturing Kofu Factory), and Komine Factory (current Yokogawa Manufacturing Komine Factory). Solar power generators for disaster use installed at Yokogawa Electric Headquarters & Main Factory. Yokogawa signs a disaster prevention accord with Musashino City. 1997 April Issued Green Times , a company newsletter July The Kofu Office (current Yokogawa Manufacturing Kofu Factory) obtains ISO14001 certification 48 1998 February Yokogawa Electric Headquarters & Main Factory and the Komine Factory (current Yokogawa Manufacturing Komine Factory) obtain ISO14001 certification May Two co-generation power generators (585 kw,2 units) go online at the new main building of Yokogawa Electric Headquarters & Main Factory June Yokogawa begins publishing Yokogawa Environmental Catalogue 1999 September Yokogawa publishes Yokogawa Environmental Report 1999. Also the company introduces environmental accounting and makes data available to public. November Yokogawa introduces environmental labeling (Type Ⅱ ) 2000 July Yokogawa Electric Headquarters & Main Factory reached its goal of generating zero landfilled waste August Yokogawa introduces Japan’s first returnable container recycling service for customers September Yokogawa publishes Yokogawa Group Environmental Report 2000 and introduces third-party verification system November Suzhou Yokogawa Meter Co. joins the China-Japan 3E (Energy, Environment, and Economy) Research Project and is selected as a model company for environmental accounting study 2001 March Yokogawa establishes The principles of Yokogawa Group Environmental Management Standards. July Yokogawa publishes Yokogawa Group Environmental Report 2001 September Three Yokogawa sites receive comprehensive ISO14001 certification November The Kofu Office (current Yokogawa Manufacturing Kofu Factory) reached its goal of generating zero landfill waste 2002 February The Yokogawa Manufacturing Akiruno Office (current Yokogawa Manufacturing Komine Factory) accomplishes its goal of generating zero landfill waste. The Kofu Office (current Yokogawa Manufacturing Kofu Factory) installs a light through type solar power generating system July Yokogawa publishes Yokogawa Group Environmental Report 2002 August Four Yokogawa sites receive comprehensive ISO14001 certification 49 2003 February The Econo-Pilot energy-saving system for water pumps receive the Agency of Natural Resources and Energy Director-General’s Award at the Energy Conservation Award ceremony. The Kofu Office (current Yokogawa Manufacturing Kofu Factory) receives award from the Director-General of the Kanto Bureau of Economy, Trade and Industry in recognition of its achievements in reducing energy consumption. July Yokogawa publishes Yokogawa Group Environmental Report 2003 October The Plant of newly established Yokogawa Electric China starts operations in Suzhou as an environmentally aware manufacturing site 2004 March New environmentally optimized facilities at the Yokogawa Manufacturing Komine Factory and Kofu Factory start operations June Yokogawa publishes Yokogawa Group Environmental Management Report 2004 August Yokogawa Electric Headquarters & Main Factory obtain a separate ISO14001 certification 2005 March Energy Conservation Guided Tours start at the Yokogawa Manufacturing Kofu Factory April Yokogawa joins the Team Minus 6% national campaign June Yokogawa publishes Yokogawa Group Environmental Management Report 2005 2006 March Yokogawa Manufacturing Kofu Factory and Komagane Factory attain zero CO2 emissions September Yokogawa publishes Yokogawa Group Sustainability Report 2006 October Yokogawa introduces the Green Power Certification System (300,000kwh) The Kanazawa Office receives the New Office Promotion Award, Environment Award and Good Design Award for architectural design 2007 June Yokogawa publishes Yokogawa Group Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2006 September Yokogawa Group establishes the Energy Conservation and Environment Protection Solution Division in order to promote environmental management solutions to customers 2008 June Yokogawa publishes Yokogawa Group Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2007 2009 May Yokogawa completely abolishes the usage of HCFC June Yokogawa publishes Environmental Report 2009 on its website. October The Kofu Office receives Green IT Award 2009 Minister of Economy, Trade and Industry Award for its energy-saving activities 50 2010 February The ESCO business receives the 2009 Energy Conservation Grand Prize September Yokogawa established the Yokogawa Group Green Promotion Committee with the aim of stepping up group-wide efforts to conserve the global environment and prevent climate change. 2013 April Joined the Keidanren (Japan Federation of Economic Organizations)'s Commitment to a Low-Carbon Society. 2015 January Yokogawa Manufacturing Corporation's Kofu Factory received the Judging Committee Special Prize of the 2014 Energy Conservation Grand Prizes for reductions in power consumption and wastewater. 51 2014 Goals and Achievements Goals and Achievements in Fiscal Year 2014 Environmental Fiscal Year 2014 (main sites) Self Policy of the Target/Goal Results Evaluation Yokogawa Group Confirm and achieve the ● 143 themes closely integrated environmental conservation action with business operations EMS action targets that are closely ● An internal audits conducted establishment, integrated with our business and effective environmental maintenance, practices. *1 Good system confirmed and improvement Promote 51 useful environmental 51 useful environmental activities in line with existing activities promoted business. *2 ● Provide all employees with basic 100% achieved environmental education that can be applied to activities undertaken Implementation on their own initiative. *3 of environmental ● Provide specialized environmental Good education education to those who are engaged in business activities that have a particularly significant impact on the environment. *3 Conduct inspection of wastewater ● Inspection of tanks, pipework, treatment facilities. *2 and plating lines etc. required by Legal compliance law conducted. Good ● Inspection of basement ceiling conducted. 52 Reduce energy consumption and Reduced energy consumption CO2 emissions (domestic group and CO2 emissions (domestic companies) . group companies) . Total CO2 emissions: 52,601 t-CO2/ Total CO2 emissions: 34,064 Good year t-CO2/year (Reduce emissions by 7% from the average of reference years from 2005 to 2007.) Promotion Reduce total waste Reduce total waste No of resource ● by 37% compared to fiscal year 2003 ● 31% reduction compared to Good recycling-based (479 t/year in total generation) *1 fiscal year 2003 (524 t/year in management ● Reduced to 2,494t/year *2 total generation) Good ● Reduced to 2,267 t/year Resource saving Resource saving Achieve 8 resource-saving Achieved 8 resource-saving improvements, including on improvements, including on manufacturing lines and for manufacturing lines and for Good equipment *2 equipment (Waste reduction, power consumption, system improvement, etc.) Reduce toluene and xylene by 2,990 3,438 kg reduction kg. *2 Minimization of ● Promote lead-free soldering and ● Application to all planned products environmental achieve 100% application in planned achieved Good pollutants products. *2 ● Survey conducted ● Review installation of lead-free soldering equipment Apply the assessment standards to Registered 10 product models to reduce CO2 emissions of developed which the assessment standards products by more than 25%. *1 are applied, and conducted their Development of design reviews according to the environmentally respective schedules. Good friendly products Conduct survey of and promote ● Returnable containers of two green purchasing *2 companies implemented ● Achieved unified ordering Provision of Increase sales of environmentally Achieved environmental friendly products *1 Good solutions 53 Promote contributions to society Participated in community through participation in nature clean-up activities etc. Contribution to conservation and social and society through community activities. *1 Good environmental Carry out at least 12 social contribution A total of 14 social contribution conservation activities. *2 activities carried out by each factory. Promote information disclosure and Published CSR report, Web Disclosure of enhance efforts to communicate edition environmental with communities. *1 Good conservation Improve the corporate website and Updated information posted information intranet. *2 on the corporate website and intranet. Main sites: Yokogawa Electric Corporation Headquarters & Main Factory and Yokogawa Manufacturing Corporation *1: Goals of Yokogawa Electric Corporation Headquarters & Main Factory *2: Yokogawa Manufacturing Corporation *3: Common goals 54 Environmental Impact The Yokogawa Group calculates the annual volume of the energy and material inputs for its business activities (including manufacturing, sales, and service) as well as their annual output of waste and other matter into the air and water. This analysis helps the Group effectively use resources, improve energy efficiency, and improve the waste recycling rate. Overview of Environmental Impact (FY2014) 55 Environmental Accounting In accordance with the Ministry of the Environment’s Environmental Accounting Guidelines (2005 edition) , Yokogawa calculates the costs of its environmental activities and quantifies their economic impact. Environmental Conservation Costs Capital Related Category Item Main Initiatives Investment Costs Pollution prevention Monitoring and 93.4 135.3 Costs for costs measurement reducing Global environmental environmental Energy savings 464.0 275.6 impact of conservation costs factories (areas of operation) Resource recycling Minimize generation 14.9 111.7 costs of waste matter Costs for reducing environmental impact of Green procurement 0 2.3 procurement and logistics Environmental conservation costs in EMS EMS updates, 0 150.0 activities education Environmental conservation costs in Environmental events 0 15.4 community activities Costs for correcting damage to the Soil recovery 0 424.0 environment Total 572.3 1,114.3 * Data was taken from ISO14001-certified manufacturing sites. (Millions of yen) 56 Environmental Conservation Effects Category Description of Effect (unit) FY2013 FY2014 Effect Total amount of energy consumed (108MJ) 8 8 0 Resource expenditure Total amount of water resources 567 486 -81 consumed (km3) Global CO2 emissions (t) 5,455 5,378 -77 warming CO2 emissions on unit sales (t-CO2/100 prevention 2 2 0 million yen) Air NOx emissions (t) 9 9 0 pollution SOx emissions (t) 2 2 0 * Data was taken from ISO14001-certified manufacturing sites. Economic Effects of Environmental Conservation Measures Intrinsic Effect Description of Effect Amount Reduction in expenditure due to recycling 70.2 (sale of valuable resources, etc.) Reduction in expenditures due to energy savings 3.9 (power, etc.) Reduction in expenditures due to resource savings 2.5 (reduced use of paper and water, etc.) Total 76.6 * Data was taken from ISO14001-certified manufacturing sites. (Millions of yen) 57 Environmental Activity Data of the Past 5 years Total CO2 emissions Total CO2 Emission and unit-sales-basis CO2 emissions for Yokogawa Group data coverage: Yokogawa companies in Japan and outside Japan Total CO2 emissions 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 In Japan 48,079 42,044 41,266 36,231 34,064 Outside Japan 23,962 27,122 27,722 28,877 29,303 Total 72,041 69,166 68,988 65,108 63,367 (unit: t-CO2) Unit basis (Unit-sales-basis CO2 emissions) 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 In Japan 16.71 14.56 15.37 12.90 12.08 Outside Japan 11.47 11.97 11.07 9.16 8.47 Total 14.5 13.42 13.29 10.92 10.09 (unit: t-CO2/100M¥) 58 Water consumption volume Water consumption volume and sales-unit-basis water consumption for Yokogawa group data coverage: Yokogawa companies in Japan and outside Japan Amount consumed、Total emissions 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Amount consumed 599 555 541 444 351 In Japan Total emissions 521 404 355 382 305 Outside Amount consumed 179 178 228 239 253 Japan Total emissions 131 90 108 101 112 Amount consumed 778 733 769 683 604 Total Total emissions 652 494 463 483 417 (unit: kilo m3) Unit-basis (Unit-sales-basis water consumption volume) 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 In Japan 0.21 0.19 0.20 0.16 0.12 Outside Japan 0.09 0.08 0.09 0.08 0.07 Total 0.16 0.14 0.15 0.11 0.10 (unit: kilo m3/100M¥) 59 Waste emissions Total waste emissions and unit-sales-basis waste emissions for Yokogawa group data coverage: Yokogawa companies in Japan and outside Japan Total waste emissions and final waste volume 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Total emissions 4,536 4,356 3,796 3,355 3,607 In Japan Final waste volume 156 170 166 159 109 Outside Total emissions 1,845 2,350 2,547 1,788 1,932 Japan Final waste volume 449 405 851 782 1,139 Total emissions 6,381 6,706 6,343 5,143 5,539 Total Final waste volume 605 575 1,017 941 1,248 (unit: ton) unit-basis (Unit-sales-basis total waste emissions) 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 In Japan 1.58 1.51 1.41 1.19 1.28 Outside Japan 0.88 1.04 1.02 0.57 0.56 Total 1.28 1.30 1.22 0.86 0.88 (unit: ton/100M¥) Natural energy Natural energy consumption for Yokogawa group data coverage: Yokogawa Electric and Yokogawa manufacturing 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Solar power generation 81,601 89,066 96,856 86,442 85,480 Green electricity certificates 300,000 300,000 300,000 300,000 300,000 （unit: kWh） 60 Environmentally Friendly Products Yokogawa actively develops environmentally friendly products through the implementation of its own strict standards of design and assessment for longterm usability, energy-saving performance and other aspects. New products are evaluated for energy consumption as well as the emission of carbon dioxide (CO2), nitrogen oxide (NOx) and sulfur oxide (SOx) based on our Lifecycle Assessment (LCA) standards . Guidelines for Environmentally Friendly Design (1) Environmental Assessment Standards for Product Design We have established assessment standards in eight areas: ease of recycling and treatment, resource conservation, energy conservation, long-term usability, ease of collection and transport, safety and environmental protectiveness, information disclosure, and packaging. These standards are used in conducting assessments during each inspection (initial design, intermediate design, and final design). (2) Lifecycle Assessment (LCA) Standards The LCA standards are used for preliminary assessments of energy use, CO2 emissions, NOx emissions, SOx emissions, and the like throughout the lifecycle of a product. These standards are used in conducting assessments during each inspection (initial design, intermediary design, and final design). (3) Environmentally Friendly Product Design Guidelines These guidelines establish design and machining and assembly methods that incorporate long-life design, energy conservation design, resource conservation design, and materials and parts selection guidelines, as well as standards for the recycling and disposal of products. (4) Criteria for hazardous substances contained in products The following criteria are provided to ensure that environmentally friendly parts and materials are selected during the design phase. Controlled substances are classified into five different levels: Banned Substance 1: Any substance that is banned from inclusion in a product Banned Substance 2: Any RoHS command regulated substance Controlled Substance 1: Any SVHC (substance of very high concern) under the REACH regulation Controlled Substance 2: Any substance that is banned at certain concentrations, bound by the limited purposes of use or restricted in any way Controlled Substance 3: Any substance for which the amount contained in a product must be identified (5) Recycled Product Design Standards These standards encourage the three Rs: the reduction of waste and the reuse and recycling of used products. 61 (6) Energy-saving Design Guidelines These guidelines state that energy is to be conserved in the manufacturing and product use stages. They introduce energy conservation design technologies for products and manufacturing. Environmentally Friendly Design and Assessment Standards Environmental Assessment Standards for Product Design (1) When Initial design inspection/intermediate design inspection/ final design inspection (2) Assessment Twenty-nine items in eight fields; ease of recycling and treatment, resource items conservation, energy conservation, long-term usability, ease of collection and transport, safety and environmental protectiveness, information disclosure, and packaging. (3) Evaluation Score is zero points if legal regulations are not satisfied, four points if legal criteria regulations are satisfied and an improvement of 30% or more is achieved, three points for an improvement of 15% or more, two points for an improvement of 5% or more, and one point for an improvement of less than 5%. 62 (4) Pass/fail In order to pass, there must be no assessment items with a score of zero points, judgment criteria and the total score must be greater than that of the old model. A failed judgment is given if any of the assessment items has a score of zero points or if the total score is the same as or lower than that of the old model. The improvement guidelines target an improvement of 25% or more, and more than anything seek to incorporate environmental-burden reduction into design. Green Procurement Various laws and regulations have been put in place, such as the Home Appliance Recycling Law and Law for Promotion of Effective Utilization of Resources in Japan, as well as the Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment (WEEE) and Restriction of Hazardous Substances in EEE (RoHS) Directives outside Japan. With this background, Yokogawa aims at building a sustainable society in various areas of its business activities. Based on the principle Resource procurement with less environmental load = Offering environmentally friendly products , Yokogawa proactively promotes green procurement activities that are environmentally friendly. Green Procurement Guidelines Under the philosophy to contribute to building a sustainable society in various areas of business activities, Yokogawa has created the Green Procurement Guidelines to promote green procurement activities. 63 LCA Label Yokogawa began to conduct the life cycle assessment (LCA) in 1999 in the design phase of all new products as part of efforts to minimize our products' environmental impact. Some of the results of the LCA are disclosed on our website. When LCA data is disclosed for a product, the applicable product is LCA-labeled in the product webpage and/or sales brochure . Requirements for LCA Labeling A product will be LCA-labeled if it meets all the requirements described below: 1. Life cycle assessment has been conducted according to Yokogawa’s engineering specifications. 2. The results of life cycle assessment are disclosed on the Yokogawa website according to the company's internal rules. Concept/Implementation of the LCA Yokogawa has set its unique LCA standards based on JIS Q 14040 Environmental management -Life cycle assessment -Principles and framework. We compare a new product with its previous product for assessment purposes. The results of the LCA of the previous product are multiplied by the functional factor to compare the environmental impacts based on the equivalent functionality of the new product. When the results of the LCA on the previous products clearly suggest how these products would impact the environment, we may only conduct LCA on the elements significantly affecting the environmental impact. List of LCA-Labeled Products Model Products Integrated Production Control System CENTUM CS3000 Compared to the reference product CENTUM CS, CO2 emission was reduced by Model System about 11％ . Safety Instrumented System Prosafe-RS Compared to the reference product ProSafe-PLC, CO2 emission was reduced by Model System about 23％ . Network-based Control Systems STARDOM Compared to the reference product CENTUM CS1000, CO2 emission was reduced Model System by about 55％ . Pressure Transmitter (DPharp EJA-E Series) EJA110E Compared to the reference product EJA, CO2 emission was reduced by about 30%. 64 Confocal scanner unit CSU-X1 Compared to the reference product CSU22 ＋ Filter Wheel, CO2 emission was reduced by about 40%. Precision DC Calibrator 2553A Compared to the reference product 2553, CO2 emission was reduced by about 66％ . AC Voltage Current Standard 2558A Compared to the reference product, CO2 emission was reduced by about 50％ . AQ1200 MFT-OTDR Optical Time Domain Reflectometer AQ 1200A/B/C Compared to the reference product OTDR AQ7270 series, CO2 emission was reduced by about 40％ . AQ2200-131 Grid TLS Module AQ2200-131 Compared to the reference product AQ2200 － 111, CO2 emission was reduced by about 10％ . AQ2200-342 DUAL ATTN Module AQ2200-342 Compared to the reference product AQ2200-331, CO2 emission was reduced by about 45％ . AQ6370D OPTICAL SPECTRUM ANALYZER AQ6370D Compared to the reference product AQ6370C, CO2 emission was reduced by about 17％ . AQ7280 series OTDR AQ7280 Compared to the reference product AQ7270, CO2 emission was reduced by about 25％ . Mixed Signal Oscilloscope DLM4000 Series DLM4038/ Compared to the reference product DL7480, CO2 emission was reduced by about DLM4058 25％ . WT310/WT310HC WT300 Series Digital Power Meters WT332/WT333/ Compared to the reference product WT210, CO2 emission was reduced by 18%. 65 Global Warming Prevention The Yokogawa Group Green Promotion Committee was formed to step up our efforts to preserve the global environment and enhance our programs to counter global warming. We have set CO2 emission reduction targets for the Yokogawa Group (Japan) for the phases 2010-2014, 2015-2019 and 2020, and are implementing emission reduction programs to achieve those targets. Our ongoing CO2 emission reduction programs include the improvement of production lines, the introduction of high-efficiency heating/cooling equipment, the installation of inverter-driven lights, LED lights and the use of green power. For our offices and factories, we have employed InfoEnergy, Yokogawa's proprietary energy conservation support system designed to visualize energy data, in order to reduce CO2 emissions. Yokogawa Electric and Yokogawa Manufacturing participate in the Keidanren's Commitment to a Low-Carbon Society (an industry action policy established subsequent to the first commitment period of the Kyoto Protocol). Specifically, the companies are working on improving their production processes in order to realize greater energy efficiency in production processes, such efficiency being a common goal of the electrical and electronics industry. (Our target is to improve the average annual energy consumption rate by 1% by 2020.) CO2 Emission Reduction Targets and Performance for Yokogawa Group (Japan) The Yokogawa Group (Japan) has set its CO2 emission reduction targets toward 2020, and is directing its efforts to achieve the targets. By using the annual average of emissions measured over the 2005 to 2007 period as the baseline (56,560 tons of CO2), we have set different reduction targets for three phases with the ultimate objective of achieving the goal set for 2020. Specifically, we are implementing a range of activities to achieve the reduction targets described below: 2010 to 2014 period: A 7% reduction in total emissions (263,005 tons of CO2, with an annual average of 52,601 tons of CO2) 2015 to 2019 period: An 18% reduction in total emissions (231,895 tons of CO2, with an annual average of 46,379 tons of CO2) 2020: 20% reduction (45,248 tons of CO2) The Yokogawa Group (Japan) produced 34,064t-CO2 of carbon dioxide emissions in 2014, achieving its CO2 emission reduction target. The target of the first phase (from FY 2010 to FY 2014) was 263,005t-CO2 (gross emissions) and the result was 201,684t-CO2. The target of the first phase was achieved. Overseas, each of our group companies overseas sets its voluntary reduction target and is working to achieve the target. 66 Graph of CO2 Emission Reduction Targets and Performance for Yokogawa Group (Japan) Scope 3 CO2 Emissions In addition to the direct CO2 emissions generated from our use of fuels and manufacturing processes (Scope 1) and indirect CO2 emissions generated through the use of purchased electricity, heat and other sources of energy (Scope 2), we also track and calculate other indirect CO2 emissions (Scope 3). Emissions Category (t-CO2) Upstream 1 Purchased Goods & Services － 2 Capital Goods － 3 Fueland Energy Related Activities Not Included in Scope 1 or 2 5,259 4 Transportation & Distribution － 5 Waste Generated in Operations 34 6 Business Travel 6,049 7 Employee Commuting 2,143 8 Leased Assets － Downstream 9 Transportation & Distribution － 10 Processing of Sold Products － 11 Use of Sold Products － 12 End-of-Life Treatment of Sold Products － 67 13 Leased Assets － 14 Franchises － 15 Investments － Total 13,485 (The above figures apply to Yokogawa Electric and Yokogawa Solution Service.) (-) indicates that the calculation method is still being examined or the figure is not included. General Guidelines on Supply Chain GHG Emission Accounting （Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry and the Ministry of the Environment） Introduction of the Green Power Certificate System Yokogawa Electric A portion of the electricity used by the headquarters building of Yokogawa Electric come from Green Power harnessed through biomass power generation (300,000 kWh/year). Biomass power generation 68 Chemical Substance Reduction, Waste Reduction and Resource Conservation The Yokogawa Group is thorough in managing chemicals that are harmful to humans and the global environment. Also, Yokogawa is developing and introducing alternative processes in an effort to reduce chemical use and waste as well as to conserve resources.Furthermore, to comply with RoHS directives restricting the use of certain chemicals in electrical and electronic equipment in Europe, as well as with the REACH Regulation (Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and restriction of CHemical substances), we are implementing efforts for the reduction and management of such chemical substances. PRTR Substances The amount of substances reported under PRTR* requirements (1,000 kg/year or more handled) is shown in the table. *PRTR System: The PRTR, or Pollutant Release and Transfer Register, was established to enable society as a whole to manage chemical substances through the disclosure of toxic chemical emissions data and other information. Fiscal Year 2014 PRTR Data Amount emitted Amount transferred Amount (kg) (kg) Factory Factory used Public substance Sewage Outside (kg) Air water Soil Landfill system site area Hydrogen Yokogawa fluoride and 1,098 0 110 0 0 0 990 Manufacturing its waterKomagane soluble salt Factory Ferric 1,358 0 0 0 0 0 0 chloride Yokogawa Toluene 831 750 0 0 0 0 83 Manufacturing Ferric Kofu Factory 8,820 0 0 0 0 0 0 chloride Yokogawa Manufacturing Toluene 1,046 650 0 0 0 0 400 Komine Factory 69 Water Resource Conservation The Yokogawa Group is implementing resource-saving/energy-saving measures and initiatives designed. Specifically, we are working to reduce the amount of water usage by improving our production processes and by introducing water-saving systems to our office water supplies. Efforts in the Middle East and Southeast Asia In regions where securing water resource is a serious challenge, the companies of YOKOGAWA group are promoting efforts regarding water resource through measures such as monitoring water usage and securing alternative water resource. Yokogawa Electric Asia / Yokogawa Engineering Asia（Singapore） To support the measures by the Singaporean government such as maintaining drinking water resource and utilizing alternative water resource, Yokogawa Electric Asia and Yokogawa Engineering Asia implement the following measures: ● Strictly comply with the guideline set by PUB (Public Utilities Board) to avoid excess use of water. ● Join the national measure, NEWater (recycled water) project and have switched to use NEWater for air conditioning systems instead of normal tap water. ● Install water-saving devices to lavatories and water utilities. ● Regularly check water consumption to find water leakage early. Yokogawa Middle East & Africa（Bahrain） In Middle Eastern countries, shortage of water is becoming a serious problem. Yokogawa Middle East & Africa is contributing to the government's water protection measures through efforts as follows: ● Sets the target value for reduction of water consumption per employee per year, and manages the progress. ● Restricts drinking water consumption and use normal tap water for non-drinking purposes. ● Has obtained the building safety authentication that includes water protection from an independent organization. ● During the HSE (Health, Safety and Environment) inspection tour, all facilities are checked for water leakage, and if any abnormality is detected, corrective action and preventive measures are taken immediately. Adopting Water-Saving Systems for Office Water Supplies Yokogawa Electric Corporation (Japan) Water-saving systems have gradually been introduced at Yokogawa Electric head office to reduce the amount of water usage. 70 Promoting Biodiversity In line with the environmental policy of the Yokogawa Group, all group companies are working to preserve biodiversity. Tokyo Greenship Action : A Collaborative Effort Between Local NPO and Residents to Protect the Woodlands Yokogawa Electric Since 2009, Yokogawa has been a participant in Tokyo Greenship Action, a collaborative effort among the city of Tokyo, local NPOs, and businesses to conserve and revive the woodlands in the hills of Tokyo, and contribute to their biodiversity. Tokyo Greenship Action Participation in the Tenryu River Water Quality Survey Yokogawa Electric Komagane Factory At our Komagane factory, situated along the Tenryu River in Nagano Prefecture, employees and their families are participating in the Family Water Quality Survey organized by the Nagano Techno Foundation. The survey was initiated under two themes: Restoring the Tenryu River where we can swim and Building a recycling-oriented society . Every participating family uses a simple water quality analyzer called Pack Test to study the water quality at a nearby area of the river and submit Water Quality Survey List a report. 71 Protecting Large Trees in the City of Musashino Yokogawa Electric In the city of Musashino, where Yokogawa Electric's headquarters is located, there are approximately 2,000 large trees in the city designated as environmentally protected. It is under a program called 2000 Large Trees/Symbolic Trees Plan , which has been in place since 1994. Fifty large trees within the premise of Yokogawa Electric's headquarters have been designated under this program and are protected as such. Protected Large Trees Participation in the Tenryu River Eco Picnic Yokogawa Electric The employees of Yokogawa's Komagane Factory and their families participated in the cleanup activities along the Tenryu River in Nagano Prefecture, as hosted by the Nagano Techno Foundation. This event is organized as part of an environmental beautification campaign intended to teach the significance and importance of waste sorting, encourage a first-hand view of the current state of the Tenryu River and help achieve a recyclingbased society. Tenryu River Eco Picnic 72 Installing vending machine to assist Borneo Yokogawa Solution Service Corporation, Semiconductor Service Center in Tachikawa Office Vending machines are installed in Tachikawa Office to assist Borneo. A part of the money raised through sales from these vending machines are donated to the specified non-profit corporation Borneo Conservation Trust Japan and used for activities to conserve the rain forest and wild animals in Borneo. Vending machine to assist Borneo Cleanup at the Uchikawa dam Yokogawa Electric The employees of Yokogawa's Kanazawa Office participated in the cleanup activities around the Uchikawa Dam, which were sponsored by the Kanawaza Water and Energy Center. This cleanup event is designed to preserve water environments through the cleanup of the Uchikawa Dam, which is an important local water supply and an area designated for preservation of water source. Cleanup at the Uchikawa dam Activities to protect the woods of the forests in Kanazawa Yokogawa Electric The employees of Yokogawa's Kanazawa Office participated in the activities to protect the woods in Kanazawa City's Forests of the Kanazawa Techno Park (approximately 2 hectares) . The activities are organized as part of the community contribution and environmental preservation programs, in which underbrush is cleared and trees are thinned, paths are maintained, among others. Activities to protect the woods of the forests 73 Fair Operation Practices All Yokogawa employees comply with laws and business ethics in addition to working to ensure compliance according to the Standards of Business Conduct. Also, we are promoting CSR activities across the supply chain and engage in fair and equitable transactions. 74 Anti-corruption and Compliance Yokogawa promotes compliance management strongly throughout its entire group, with the slogan, compliance above everything else . It aims to be a healthy and open business with two pillar foundations: corporate culture that prevents misconduct and systems that prevent unethical conduct. Provision of Compliance Promotion Structure To build a corporate culture that prevents misconduct and systems that prevent unethical conduct, a compliance promotion structure has been set in place globally. In Japan, compliance facilitators, who are advisors in the workplace, drive activities designed to communicate and entrench compliance awareness. Also, representatives from the compliance offices and key compliance facilitators in each organization are required to participate in the regular Compliance Committee meetings in order to share information and monitor the progress of activities. 75 Anti-bribery Guideline Yokogawa has established and managed a specific guideline, as an internal bylaw, on bribery prevention, not only with respect to public servants but also to private citizens inside and outside Japan. It is intended to ensure compliance with the anti-bribery law in each country where the Yokogawa Group conducts business and prevent bribery while engaging in corporate activities in a fair, appropriate manner. Enlightenment Activities Yokogawa conducts compliance education and training to foster employees' awareness of compliance and a corporate culture that emphasizes fair, clear and open business conducts. Compliance Training/Education Yokogawa conducted a number of training/education programs again in 2014 in order to imbue all group companies with the concept of compliance awareness. All employees of our group companies inside and outside Japan received compliance training, while Japanese associates were given opportunities to learn about compliance in different circumstances, such as when being promoted to a manager position, before starting a new post as expatriate or upon joining the company. Use of the Compliance Guidelines Our Compliance Guidelines--which spell out the specific requirements for the Standards of Business Conduct and items the employees must observe in carrying out their duties--are currently published in English, Chinese and Portuguese. In 2014, compliance facilitators at our subsidiaries outside Japan again relied on these guidelines to step up their training programs. Compliance News Issued The Compliance News is issued bimonthly to all Group employees. It raises awareness of compliance among all employees through timely discussions of topics such as sexual harassment and international cartels. Revision of the Misconduct Case Studies We have a handbook called Misconduct Case Studies for the purpose of preventing compliance violations. The handbook is updated each year with the addition of new examples that serve as real-life lessons collected from inside/outside the group. The revised editions are issued and made available to all employees. Compliance Week Aimed at all employees of Group companies in Japan, Compliance Week was held for the purpose of further instilling awareness of compliance. Activities carried out during the week included e-learning programs and solicitation of compliance slogans. Some companies used the Compliance Week to take extra steps toward greater compliance in addition to 76 taking part in the group-wide programs. For example, Yokogawa Solution Service uploaded write-ups for better communications and a simple diagnostic check sheet on workplace openness to their intranet with the goal of building an open workplace environment. Performing of Global Awareness Survey An awareness survey regarding compliance is conducted for all Yokogawa Group employees every year. After analyzing the results by workplace and function in order to visually track how the compliance awareness of employees changes over time, the results are then used to facilitate the planning of the following year's activities. Use of Consultation and Reporting System To quickly identify and address compliance issues, a channel for reporting and inquiries has been established. In Japan, two hotlines are available: the internal hotline and the external hotline, which is staffed with lawyers. An employee can contact the internal hotline anonymously or with his/her real name in order to report or consult on a compliance issue. The personal information of the employee who has contacted the external hotline will not be made available to the company. Both the internal and external hotline can be contacted by e-mail, over the phone or in writing. Each case will be investigated by keeping the identity of the reporting employee in strict confidence and in an expedient manner, in compliance with the manual on investigation. Strict Prohibition of Insider Trading To prevent insider trading, we have established the Regulations on Prevention of Insider Trading as an internal regulation and have included a section on prohibition of insider trading in our Compliance Guidelines. Additionally, we have established a group-wide compliance structure and provided education, etc., to strictly prohibit insider trading. Actions to be taken to counter anti-social forces Yokogawa's policy is to conduct business in compliance with laws, ordinances, commercial and social practices and other social norms while maintaining high moral values in the spirit of the Standards of Business Conduct for the Yokogawa Group. We are doing the following to achieve this objective: ● We state the specific Dealing with anti-social forces that pose a threat to safety and order in the Yokogawa Group Compliance Guidelines. ● Through the use of compliance training and the company newsletter, we bring home to all employees our basic stance on unreasonable demands and how to deal with such demands. ● We incorporate the provision on exclusion of anti-social forces in the text of our Master Transaction Agreement in compliance with the Organized Crime Exclusion Ordnance of Tokyo, and also execute a Memorandum on Exclusion of Anti-social Forces with our existing suppliers, contractors and customers. 77 Supply Chain Management Improvement of the Management Structure as Part of Internal Control As part of the Yokogawa Group's internal control, Yokogawa's management structure governs the overall business processes, including its relationship with customers and suppliers. For the procurement processes in the supply chain, Yokogawa Group's Group Procurement Code has been defined based on its Corporate Philosophy and Standards of Business Conduct, to ensure fair and equitable transactions. Yokogawa observes the local ordinances of the country and regions with whom we do business, began working on the issue of conflict minerals, and focuses on establishing a supply chain that considers environmental protection. The Yokogawa Group Supply Chain CSR Guideline, which is compliant with JEITA*, was created and published. In addition, Yokogawa's basic procurement policy, which is summarized in three points, is used as a set of principles to guide its every day operations. A network of responsible parties of Yokogawa Group's sales and procurement processes was built as a foundation for all supply chain CSR activities. Three Basic Procurement Principles 1. Create an ethical, clear, and open corporate culture and establish ourselves as a company that can be trusted by society. 2. Promote socially responsible procurement activities throughout the supply chain, including not only the Yokogawa Group, but also the suppliers of Yokogawa. 3. Comprehensively evaluate and select suppliers, giving priority to our commitment to being a good corporate citizen. Strengthening of Partnerships with the Suppliers Yokogawa Electric, in order to reinforce its partnerships, is actively organizing events on a regular basis to promote discussion and deepen trust with key suppliers and their management teams. For example, each year we host the Supplier Policy Presentation Meeting , in which we explain our management policy, business plan, purchasing strategy, etc., to the suppliers. Supplier Policy Additionally, we organize Component Exhibitions and Presentation Meeting Technical Seminars through the Purchasing Department in order to introduce the products of suppliers, along with market trends, component trends and other relevant information, to the product development teams of companies within the Yokogawa Group. 78 Reinforcement of Compliant Procurement Yokogawa regularly organizes education programs for group companies in Japan so that they can learn about the Act Against Delay in Payment of Subcontract Proceeds, Etc., to Subcontractors as it applies to purchasing processes. Furthermore, we have a chapter on compliance to the Master Transaction Agreement in order to reinforce compliant procurement. As part of this effort, we are working to build greater ties/ partnerships with the suppliers and prevent the establishment of ties with antisocial forces in order to eliminate such forces from society. We have set up a help line as a channel for reporting and inquiry that can be contacted by suppliers, should they find an actual or potential violation of compliance. Promotion of Green Procurement Under the philosophy to contribute to building a sustainable society in various areas of business activities, Yokogawa has created the Green Procurement Guidelines to promote green procurement activities. Specifically, we have established a system for promoting the control of chemical substances contained in our products and are also investigating/controlling chemical substances in materials/components. Initiatives on Conflict Minerals Certain minerals (tin, tantalum, tungsten and gold) produced in the Democratic Republic of the Congo and nearby nations, and distributed via supply chains might be used to fund armed forces engaged in illicit activities involving human-rights violations, acts of violence, etc., and consequently such materials are referred to as conflict minerals. We at the Yokogawa Group consider it a group-wide challenge to cut off such funding of armed forces at every point and stage in our supply chain, and thus we aim to become conflict-free by not using conflict minerals in any of our products. To meet the aforementioned challenge, the Yokogawa Group has carried out the following efforts: ■ Dedicated structures were put in place in the relevant departments in 2011, through which we took appropriate action. ■ As a member of the Responsible Minerals Trade Working Group run by the JEITA (Japan Electronics and Information Technology Industries Association) we coordinate our efforts with those of other corporations and obtain the latest information. ■ From 2013, we have been cooperating with our suppliers to investigate the use of conflict minerals in certain products. Additionally, our procured gold and tantalum investigated after 2013 has been confirmed as conflict-free. The Yokogawa Group plans to implement the following initiatives as we move forward: ■ Conduct individual investigations on the parts and processed components used in our products by reflecting the requests and other requirements of our customers. ■ If the findings of an investigation raise a concern about the investigated mineral as a possible funding source for armed forces, we will immediately take steps to avoid using the mineral. 79 In July 2013 we added our requirements on conflict minerals to the Yokogawa Group Supply Chain CSR Guidelines and the guidelines are freely available and accessible to the public on our website. The Yokogawa Group will continue its utmost efforts to ensure the responsible procurement of minerals. *JEITA: Japan Electronics and Information Technology Industries Association 80 Investor Relations Our relationship (communication) with shareholders and investors is described in IR information and Annual Report. . ▶ Investor Relations ▶ 2015 Yokogawa Report 81 With Customers We emphasize to value the relationship with our customers in the Transformation 2017 mid-term business plan. We pursue the improvement of quality, reliability and information security, and take the customer perspective to ensure high satisfaction with our products and services. 82 Customers and Quality First Activities to Improve Customer Satisfaction We at Yokogawa strive to achieve greater customer satisfaction at our offices and factories around the world. Yokogawa Electric (Japan) has conducted a customer satisfaction survey since 2008 on all customers who have received a product seminar at our training centers in Japan. In 2014, 1,198 questionnaires were collected, and the results were compiled and analyzed. Concurrently, a system was put in place to share the survey responses and comments among all employees on the company's intranet in order to help improve product functions and services. The Group companies are also obtaining feedback from customers through e-mailed surveys, customer visits, mailed questionnaires and conversations at product seminars, so as to provide more satisfactory products and services. Quality First Approach Since the establishment, we have implemented our quality management system across all processes, as we are convinced that Quality First Approach is the basis of customer satisfaction. All the main Group companies have attained ISO9001 certification starting with Yokogawa Electric in 1992 and working on delivery of the same quality worldwide. In addition, we always heed the voices of our customers to offer high-quality products and solutions, and aim to solve problems and create values with our customers. The basic quality policy 1. Quality management is carried out in order to implement customer focus based on Quality First, which is the spirit of foundation, and Healthy and Profitable Management through improvements in management quality. 2. Products that meet statutory and regulatory requirements as well as customer requirements are supplied. 3. Appropriate quality management systems conforming to the International Standard ISO 9001 requirements are established and implemented. In addition, the effectiveness of those systems is continually improved. 4. Customer requirements are fulfilled and customer satisfaction is increased through the results of quality activities in all organizations and personnel. For this purpose, each employee must feel that the quality of his or her work has a direct bearing on product quality, and that the company believes in Quality First . 5. The head of each organization is responsible for the quality of the relevant businesses. The responsibilities include ensuring that adequate resources are made available. 83 Information Security The Yokogawa Group works together with customers to provide them with solutions. To protect important information entrusted to us by our stakeholders, we implement information security measures to address three aspects: people, equipment, and information technology (IT). People: Information Security Training An important way to protect information is to raise the security awareness of each employee by training them on how to handle information. To ensure that Yokogawa's employees appreciate on the importance of information security and keep their knowledge up to date, the Yokogawa Group uses an e-learning system to annually provide training to all employees. Based on the belief that a good beginning makes a good ending, the Group provides training to new employees who are entering straight out of university or in mid-career to familiarize them with the rules of their new workplace. We also review the details and results of the training through information security audits. Image from ISMS text In addition, we provide more practical education and trainings regarding targeted e-mail attacks, and for line managers, information security education. Equipment: Continuous Improvement We implement anti -theft, fire-prevention, and other security measures to protect locations where information is stored. Our facilities and equipment are kept under continual surveillance, and efforts are made to replace obsolete facilities and equipment with state-of-the-art ones. For R&D facilities that require advanced security, we implement a variety of security measures including the introduction of iris authentication for facility access control and the use of storage cabinets that can only be unlocked with an employee ID card. Opening a locked cabinet with an employee ID 84 Information Technology (IT): Protection Behind the Scenes The most vulnerable point with regards to information security breaches is people. People can leak information by mistake and misuse information out of ignorance. IT systems provide ways to prevent such human errors. 1. Measures to prevent data leakage from PCs We create a more secure environment by installing antivirus software, implementing biometric authentication, using data encryption, and more. 2. Anti-spam measures We have implemented an anti-spam filtering system, because spam mail is not only bothersome but also includes malicious mail that may cause data leakage and virus infection. 3. Network connection device management To protect against unauthorized access and data leakage, we prevent unregistered PCs and related devices from being connected to the network. Organization In Yokogawa Group, information security activities have been developed based on the idea of ISO27001, and information security measures and policies are notified to the Group’s headquarters, business headquarters and each Group company by the general administrator of confidential information. The head office checks the operations if they follow the rules and implements necessary reforms. In addition, there is an information security department or section for each of the Yokogawa Group’ s headquarters and business headquarters, as well as for each Group company. A PDCA, or Plan-Do-Check-Act, cycle is implemented to ensure information security activities are implemented smoothly. Information security organization of Yokogawa Electric Corporation 85 Community Involvement The Yokogawa Group is tackling challenges that affect the global environment and society to contribute toward the realization of a thriving global society. Yokogawa's corporate citizenship Yokogawa, with awareness of its responsibilities as a good citizen , strives for harmonious coexistence with the communities it serves. We not only contribute to society as a whole through business activities but also implement wide-ranging community programs. We at Yokogawa are committed to cooperating with the communities and governments in all countries and regions in which we do business, to thereby achieve their goals and contribute to growth. Finding solutions to social issues, We also encourage our employees to participate Helping build a sustainable society in community programs as good citizens . Specifically, we drive and participate in skill-development programs and environmental conservation activities in local communities. We also provide volunteer programs designed to let our employees make use of their various skills and competences for the community. Corporate citizenship by Yokogawa group companies The following are some of the community programs in which our group companies are involved: 86 Corporate Citizenship in Japan Supporting to Develop Next-Generation Talent Yokogawa Science Classes addressing the fundamental technologies that are the basis for Yokogawa's business-optics, electrics, radio, etc. As members of their community, our employees are engaged in various programs designed to support school education as well as to help children with disabilities and students to be selfsupporting and participate in society. Collaborative Efforts with External Organizations to Solve Social Issues Yokogawa is committed to fulfilling its responsibilities as a global company by finding solutions to various social issues. 87 Supporting to Develop Next-Generation Talent As a member of our local communities, Yokogawa is conducting activities to support the development of nextgeneration talent. Yokogawa Science Classes As a company engaging in business on the strength of its technology in the areas of measurement, control, and information, Yokogawa holds the YOKOGAWA Science Classes to support science education for elementary school students. List of Programs Program Content Becoming a Discerner of Light Construct illuminance meters and measure the brightness of light Construct an optical transceiver and experiment with optical Communicating Via Light communication Construct a germanium radio that requires no batteries and listen Capturing Radio Waves to radio broadcasts Forming a Temperature Constructing a radiation thermometer and measure temperatures Investigation Team without contact Construct rainbow-colored flashlights and experiment with colors Discovering the Secrets of Light made from the three primary colors Measuring Electricity with a Construct a meter that makes practical use of magnets and check Magnet remaining battery power Yokogawa launched the YOKOGAWA Science Classes in 2006. We now conduct the classes several times a year, primarily in Tokyo. The themes of the classroom are related to light, electricity, radio waves, and other topics related to the basic technologies that support Yokogawa. Employee volunteers act as instructors and provide personal instruction during hands-on construction projects. After the employee volunteers have explained the mechanisms of light or electricity according to the theme, the participating children begin the construction tasks, including soldering. Afterward, the employees provide an introduction to technology jobs. Drawing on the children's interest in technology, they teach the children the importance of thinking and making improvements. This interaction with children leads to the growth of the employees as well. Through such activities, Yokogawa deepens its interactions with communities and contributes to the development of human resources that have an interest in science and technology. Our wish is to nurture these people who will support the earth in the future. 88 Date Venue Program Musashino City and Mitaka City, July 19, 2014 Capturing Radio Waves Tokyo August 20, 2014 Kanazawa City, Ishikawa Communicating Via Light Musashino City and Mitaka City, March 7, 2015 Capturing Radio Waves Tokyo Yokogawa Science Classes Comments by Children： ● I want to try making something more difficult. ● I want to take part again and perform experiments. ● It was my first time to make a radio. That was fun. Comments from children's guardians: ● I hope the class will lead to opportunities in the children's futures. ● I'm glad to learn more about the work that nearby companies are doing. ● I think that it's a good experience for children to interact with adults other than their parents. Comments from employee volunteers: ● It's a joy to see the children's happy faces. ● When the children have fun, so do I. Participation in Musashino Science Festa Each year Yokogawa participates in the Musashino Science Festa, an annual event held by the city of Musashino. It's a comprehensive event for scientific experimentation in which elementary and junior high school teachers, businesses, volunteer organizations, etc., in the city set up booths to exhibit their experimentation. There are approximately 1,000 visitors to the event each year. 89 The theme of Yokogawa's booth was Discovering the Secrets of Voice. Visitors to our booth observed what their voices looked like, using a hand-made microphone amplifier and oscilloscope. The children seemed really interested as they watched the waveform change according to the loudness of their voices and the frequency, or pitch, of the sound. Yokogawa staff, who participated in the event as volunteer staff, enjoyed themselves as they instructed the visitors how to observe their voices using the oscilloscope. Observing child’s own voice on the oscilloscope Support for Events at a nursery and Elementary School Concerts at a Nursery and Elementary School Upon request from a nursery and elementary school, the Ensemble Yokogawa orchestra club held concerts for the children and students. −A concert was held at Poppins Nursery School June 10, 2014 −A concert was held at Chofu City's Tamagawa Public Elementary School on September 27, 2014. −A concert was held at the Faculty of Nursing, Toho University January 24, 2015 Concert at nursery Interacting with Children through Basketball at a Senior Care Facility On October 4, 2014, at the invitation of the Sawayaka Welfare Foundation, Yokogawa's basketball team traveled to a special nursing home for the elderly in Musashino City and enjoyed playing basketball with elementary school children from the Kyuden Shooting Stars in Tokyo's Setagaya Ward. Interacting with Children through Basketball at a Senior Care Facility 90 Support for Classes, Events and Recreational Activities at Special Schools As a member of the Tokyo Metropolitan Council for Community Education Promotion Network, Yokogawa supports classes provided at special schools and is contracted under the Tokyo Metropolitan Government's After School Children's Class program to support recreational activities at special schools, including the Akiruno Club, which is organized mainly by the PTA of the Tokyo Metropolitan Akiruno Gakuen Special School. The Yokogawa employees work as volunteers and interact with children with disabilities, increasing their awareness as good citizens. -FY2014Date Organization to support Program Participant Let's Play with a Foreign Volunteer June 21, 2014 Akiruno Club Language! employee Flower June 21, 2014 Akiruno Club Let's Decorate with Flowers! arrangement club members Tea ceremony August 23, 2014 Akiruno Club Tea Ceremony Workshop club members Total of Five days Support for the “Opening of Tokyo Metropolitan Swimming club in July and August school's swimming pool to Nanao Special School members 2014 the Public Mountaineering club members, Hiking at Tokyo metropolitan Yokogawa October 18, 2014 Akiruno Club Komine Park Musashino Atlastars(rugby team) Tokyo Metropolitan Community interaction Orchestra club October 24, 2014 Akiruno Gakuen School events for special schools members January 24 and Volunteer Akiruno Club Hip-hop dance event February 21, 2015 employee Invitation to the official Yokogawa Official games in Tokyo Metropolitan games of Japan Football Musashino 2014 season Special Schools League Football Club Yokogawa December 20, A Christmas Event Held at a Akiruno Club Musashino 2014 Special School Football Club Yokogawa January 24, 2015 Akiruno Club Let’s Play with a Soccer Ball! Musashino Football Club 91 Let's Play with a Foreign Language! Support for the Opening of school's Hip-hop dance event swimming pool to the Public Let's Decorate with Flowers! Hiking at Tokyo metropolitan Tea Ceremony Workshop Komine Park Comments from children: ● I was able to make tea on my own, which was great. ● Please bring lovely flowers again next year. ● I got good at swimming and received lots of praise. That was fun. Comments from employee volunteers: ● We, too, were encouraged by the children's smiles and playfulness. ● The kids felt that sports are fun, which really made me happy. ● If we're invited again, I hope to make the activities even better suited to the students' feelings. Akiruno Club The Akiruno Club is an organization that plans and organizes community and recreational activities designed to help children with disabilities live rich, fulfilling lives and to promote their lifelong learning, and thereby supports such children and their families. The club and its activities were launched in June 2004, primarily by the parents and families of students of Tokyo Metropolitan Akiruno Gakuen School. The Akiruno Club has, since 2004, been contracted by the Ministry of Education, Culture, Sports, Science and Technology of Japan and the Tokyo Metropolitan Government to sponsor a variety of projects, which are implemented with focus on providing many programs to choose from, offering programs not just to the current Akiruno students but also to other. 92 Collaborative Efforts with External Organizations to Solve Social Issues Yokogawa, in collaboration with external organizations, has made efforts to solve increasing social issues and revitalize community environments. Tokyo Greenship Action : An Initiative to Conserve Undeveloped Woodlands in Collaboration with Regional NPOs and Citizens Yokogawa has, since 2009, been a member of the Tokyo Greenship Action, a collaborative initiative by the Tokyo Metropolitan Government, regional NPOs and corporations aimed at conserving/regenerating undeveloped woodlands and copses on the hills of Tokyo and thereby contributing to biodiversity. One of the areas covered by this initiative is the landscape conservation area in Tatemachi, Hachioji City (spanning 24,392 square meters), a familiar conservation area surrounded by houses on the Tama hills in Hachioji. Fireflies thrive along a clear stream that runs through this conservation area. Local volunteer groups regularly organize weeding and bush-thinning operations in order to regenerate the natural environment. The area used to be undeveloped woodland, which was richly endowed with nature and well taken care of. However, years of neglect made it an abandoned forest where trees were never planted, thinned or trimmed. Tokyo Greenship Action organizes weeding, dead-tree trimming/organization operations and tree planting on an ongoing basis in order to preserve the beautiful landscape of this hilly copse and nurture the area's rich biodiversity. Yokogawa participated in a program arranged by Tokyo Greenship Action in 2014 as it did in the previous year. Employees of our group companies worked with the members of NPO Green Support Hachioji to trim the thickets and cut down large trees to thin the forest. Tokyo Greenship Action 93 Collaborating with the Community on Disaster Preparedness Yokogawa and Musashino City, where Yokogawa's head office is located, signed a memorandum in 1996 on cooperation in the event of a major disaster, spelling out the terms under which Yokogawa would cooperate with Musashino City to ensure the safety of citizens. Therefore, in the event of a disaster, Yokogawa will open some areas of its premises to provide water and supplies, among others. In January 2014, Yokogawa Solution Service also signed an agreement with Musashino City on cooperation in the event of a disaster. In 2006, Yokogawa also signed an agreement with the Musashino Fire Department on support operations in the event of an earthquake. Should an earthquake hit, Yokogawa will cooperate with the Musashino Fire Department to the greatest possible extent in order to help extinguish the fire and rescue the injured. We are also conducting disaster drills with the department on a regular basis. Participating in Local Cleanup Drives near Factories To practice our corporate philosophy of good corporate citizen, our group companies are regularly participating in the cleanup drives organized by local municipalities and are making voluntary efforts to clean up the areas around their factories. At Yokogawa, we are contributing to the beautification and environmental conservation of the regions in which we operate while fostering deeper friendships and understanding of the communities we serve. ● Yokogawa Electric Corporation Twice per year, the city of Musashino conducts cleanup activities around major train stations in the municipality. Each time, a total of about 50 Yokogawa employees and family members take part in the work. ● Yokogawa Solution Service Corporation This company takes part in cleanup activities throughout the country in areas around its worksites. In fiscal 2014, a total of 231 employees assisted a significant increase from 171 the year before. ● Yokogawa Manufacturing Corporation In addition to conducting cleanup activities around its work places in Japan and around nearby train stations, this company performs weeding along the cherry tree-lined section of the Kamata River. The company also takes part in the Aki no Rakuichi autumn festival in the city of Tachikawa and cleanup activities in the city of Akiruno. Promoting the employment of the people with disabilities Yokogawa, in addition to promoting the employment of the people with disabilities by its group companies, collaborates with NPO Japan SELP Center to engage in the following activities to provide more work opportunities in local communities. 94 Kofu Factory Purchasing Waste Cloths (Used for Maintaining Machines) from an Employment Support Service Hiring the People with Disabilities Yokogawa Manufacturing's Kofu Factory has, since April 2010, purchased 150kg of waste cloths (used to wipe off oil, impurities and other dirt from factory machines) every month from an employment support service that hires disabled persons. The waste cloths thus purchased consist of material recycled from old clothes and fabrics, which means that their production does not require any resource or energy and does not produce CO2 emissions. By purchasing reused waste cloths from this service provider, we help people with disabilities to obtain work. Thus, our purchases contribute to the conservation of the global environment. Purchased waste cloths are used Producing waste cloths for cleaning in the factory Outsourcing the Production of Envelopes for Notices of Annual General Meetings of Shareholders and Resolutions to a Sheltered Workshop Beginning with the 2010 Annual General Meeting of Shareholders, we have outsourced the production of envelopes for meeting notices and other share-related documents to a sheltered workshop that hires disabled persons. Produced envelopes for notices of annual general Producing envelope at a workshop meetings of shareholders From the 2012 Annual General Meeting of Shareholders, we initiated the distribution of cookies produced by the A Box of Cookies Makes You Fall in Love with Miyagi Project--a group formed by ten factories employing disabled persons in Miyagi Prefecture, which was hit by the Great East Japan Earthquake--to the attending shareholders as take-home gifts. 95 Producing cookies Installing Welfare Vending Machines Whose Receipts Are Partially Donated to Help Persons with Disabilities Find Employment Yokogawa, in September 2008, installed one SELP (Support of Employment, Living and Participation) each on the premises of its Musashino City Facility in Tokyo and a nearby location. Moreover, since 2009 Yokogawa has installed SELP vending machines at the factories of its group companies in Akiruno City, Ome City and Tachikawa City in Tokyo, as well as in Kofu City and Uenohara City in Yamanashi Prefecture. When one purchases a drink from one of these vending machines, a portion of the money goes to NPO Japan SELP Center to help persons with disabilities obtain employment. Regular vending machines and SELP vending machine are positioned side by side on the premises of the head-office factory. Receipts from the SELP vending machine have increased by approximately 30% compared to the regular vending machines that previously operated in the same place. This Welfare vending machine is proof that many employees act consciously to contribute to society. Cumulatively, the donation from the SELP vending machines between 2008 and 2014 amounts to 2,105,752 yen. Providing Educational Support for Developing Countries through the Recycling of Used Books and CDs In November 2009, we joined Book Magic , a social program designed to utilize books, CDs and DVDs collecting dust for the educational support projects in Afghanistan, Sudan, etc. From the collection boxes installed at 50 locations within the factories in Musashino City, Tokyo and Kofu City, Yamanashi, we have collected 15,339 items and donated 296,852 yen as of March 2015. Health education for children 96 Sending School Bags across the Sea Yokogawa has, since 2008, contributed to the Sending School Bags across the Sea campaign sponsored by Kuraray Co., Ltd. In fiscal 2014, too, we collected unneeded stationery and used school bags packed with the memories of the donating employees, and sent these overseas to support children's education in Afghanistan and Mongolia where literacy rates are notably low. The number of school bags donated by employees over the past 7 years has reached 454. School bags presented from employees Children and school bags Eat Healthy and Donate at the Employee Cafeteria Since 2009, the employee cafeteria at Yokogawa Electric's head office has offered a special fundraising Hearty Healthy Plate every Monday. With each plate purchased, 20 yen is donated to developing countries (such as Afghanistan) through the NGO JOICFP developing countries such as Afghanistan, a nation faced with a high maternal mortality rate. The donations provide funds with which to purchase crop seedlings, vitamins, and medicines, as well as immunize infants. The menu items in the cafeteria are designed with calories and nutritional balance in mind to promote the health of employees, even as the donations support food self-sufficiency, autonomy, and the health of pregnant women and infants in developing countries. From the start of the program in April 2009 through March 2015, we have sold a total of 11,968 Hearty Healthy plates . This has generated the donation of enough funds to purchase 517 orange seedlings and to provide nutritional supplements, including folic acid and multivitamins, to 2,235 pregnant women. Hearty healthy menu Protective vaccinationin for infant 97 Blood Donation Yokogawa Electric Corporation has held blood donation campaigns in its premises to cooperate with Japanese Red Cross Tokyo Metropolitan Blood Center. Since 1966, total of 40,000 volunteer employees have participated in the campaigns actively. Blood donation at Yokogawa Clinical Center Improving the Health of Mothers and Children in Indonesia (to Achieve the United Nations Millennium Development Goals) Yokogawa has, since 2008, worked with Peoples' HOPE Japan (a certified NPO) to improve the health of mothers and children in Serang Regency, Indonesia. Located 80 km west of the capital Jakarta, the province of Serang has many poor villages scattered across its territory. A major problem the region faces is the fact that many pregnant women and babies die as the result of birth complications. Moreover, significant numbers of infants and children under five years of age suffer from malnutrition. Programs like those organized by Peoples' HOPE Japan are contributing to the achievement of the United Nations Millennium Development Goals. Millennium Development Goals Goal 4 Reduce to one-thirds, between 1990 and 2015, the under-five (Reduce child mortality rates) mortality rate. Goal 5 Reduce to one-fourths, between 1990 and 2015, the maternal (Improve maternal health) mortality rate. For the specific efforts on improving the health of mothers and children, visit the website of Peoples' HOPE Japan (a certified NPO). ▶ People's HOPE Japan 98 Corporate Citizenship in North and South Americas Support for Education and Social Welfare (United States) Yokogawa Corporation of America (YCA) is making community contributions as a good corporate citizen through donations in the areas of education, social welfare and health. Some of these donations have been made under a matching gift program, in which the company matches the employees' charitable contributions. Support for the March of Dimes (United States) YCA participates in the annual charity event, March for babies, sponsored by the March of Dimes, a nonprofit organization that works to support health care and wellness for mothers and babies. This event is held across the United States in order to help prevent birth defects and other problems. The YCA employees and their families participated in this charity walk. The funds raised through this event were donated to the March of Dimes. Support for American Heart Association (United States) YCA participated in the Heart Walk and Wear Red Day charity events sponsored by the American Heart Association to aid in the prevention of heart disease and strokes. At the events, YCA employees promoted the importance of preventing heart disease and supported events while walking, donating collected funds to the organization. Heart Walk Wear Red Day Supported Local Children (Brazil) Yokogawa America do Sul Ltda. (YSA) donated Christmas presents and engaged in activities to donate food and sanitary/ cleaning supplies to organizations that support children in need of economic aid. Donated food and sanitary/ cleaning supplies 99 Corporate Citizenship in Asia Massage at work (Singapore) Yokogawa Engineering Asia Pte. Ltd. (YEA) has partnered with Singapore Association of the Visually Handicapped (SAVH) to arrange for a Mobile Massage Team (MMT) to Yokogawa. MMT visited YEA office to provide a 20 minutes head and shoulder massage services to each of our staff who have registered for this service for a fees. MMT is operated by a crew of qualified, visually-handicapped masseurs who provide mobile massage services for corporates, schools, community centers and other such venues for an income. 80 staffs registered for this activity, they enjoyed not only a 20 minutes head and shoulder massage but also did a good deed at the same time by providing an income to these visually handicapped masseurs. A Packet of Rice Community Event (Singapore) Yokogawa Engineering Asia Pte. Ltd. (YEA) have organized a community event to distribute meals and food items to the doorsteps of needy senior citizens. These senior citizens are usually living alone and low income earners and this project seeked to provide a decent meal and food items to these needy residents. Our staffs have played a part in this meaningful project by either sponsoring food goodie bag for the elderly or being involved in the food distribution exercise. Regional Environmental Conservation Event（China） Yokogawa Electric China Co., Ltd. (YCS) held a regional environmental event, carrying out environmental conservation activities while interacting with local residents. ● Employee volunteers participated in a local flea market, displayed posters calling for the use of ecobags, and also distributed eco-bags, to the approval of many visitors. ● Employee volunteers acted as teachers in classrooms that showed local children how to put environmental conservation into practice. ● Employee volunteers conducted an environmental protection activity that involved cycling around Jinji Lake in the Suzhou Industrial Park. ● While enjoying cycling as a sport, the employees engaged in PR on the topic of reducing environmental pollution and reducing the use of energy. Supported the Education and Daily Lives of Local Children（China） YCS conducted events to support the education and daily lives of children. ● Employee volunteers visited a children's welfare institution in Suzhou and donated electric fans and other summer daily goods to ease everyday life during the summer months. ● Volunteer employees took the children of Suzhou welfare staff to the zoo. 100 ● Employee volunteers held a handicrafts classroom during local students' summer vacation. Economic Support for Local Communities（China） YCS conducted support activities for families and regions that require economic aid. ● The company donated clothes, shoes, books, stationery, toys, and other goods to families in the Western impoverished region. ● Employee volunteers visited low-income households and the residences of seniors living alone, and donated foods and other goods. 101 Corporate Citizenship in the Middle East and Africa Supported human resources development and employment in the community (Bahrain, Saudi Arabia) Yokogawa Middle East & Africa B.S.C.(C) (YMA) believes the most meaningful activity under CSR is to make a difference at the grassroots level and has collaborated very closely with 8 universities/institutes in the region. Activities range from participating in Career Days, Symposia, Workshops, Seminars and supplementing the University curriculum through practical courses. Summer internship programs are offered every year. 65 students attended such programs across YMA in 2014. ● Development of the local national workforce is one of the key issues of the region, and YMA has been actively supporting such initiatives. More than 20 such beneficiaries have been enrolled on intensive 1 year/2 year training programs. Such initiatives to develop local national workforces in Saudi Arabia, U.A.E., Oman and Bahrain were very successful. ● YMA participated in the Career Day events held at several colleges and universities in the region. YMA explained the job descriptions of different positions at Yokogawa to thousands of students, who paid great attention to the information covering a variety of career options and professional training programs. ● Yokogawa Saudi Arabia Ltd.（YKSA）participated in a special career day for women in Saudi Arabia along with other companies selected for the privilege from among hundreds of thousands of establishments in Saudi Arabia. ● YMA has maintained a healthy balance and diversity amongst the workforce with much higher ratios than those stipulated by the authorities. A major challenge is to achieve a gender-balance in some of the countries in the region, and YMA overcame this challenge by increasing number of Lady Graphic Designers which was a major achievement. Supported students and educational institutes through internship (South Africa) YMA-SA (South Africa) has made meaningful contributions to educational institutes and students by offering one-year internship programs. YMA-SA took in 10 Students in FY14. Training for New Graduates (Nigeria) Yokogawa Middle East & Africa B.S.C. (C) (YMA) and Yokogawa Nigeria Limited (YMA-NG) launched an initiative to provide new technical graduates with training in YOKOGAWA control systems. The trainees underwent an intensive 9-month program from August 2014 to March 2015. The initiative will contribute to human resources development within Nigeria, which is required as global company. 102 Supported Toastmasters (Bahrain) YMA sponsored the Bahrain Annual Toastmasters Conference which helps members to develop their communication and leadership skills which lead to realization of their potential. Supported Welfare Events for Child Foster Care Facility (South Africa) Yokogawa South Africa (Pty) Ltd. (YMA-SA) visited a child foster care facility to deliver presents to orphans and to engage in community contribution activities, including donations to a Casual Day event held annually to support persons with disabilities. Presented a gift to a child foster care facility Blood donation (Bahrain, Saudi Arabia) Yokogawa Middle East & Africa B.S.C.(C) (YMA) and Yokogawa Saudi Arabia Ltd.（YKSA）held a blood donation campaign in Bahrain and Saudi Arabia with more than 100 volunteer employees. Attended environmental conservation initiatives in the community (Bahrain, Saudi Arabia, UAE) Employees of YMA and its region companies attended the events in which the key message on the importance of not polluting our environment was highlighted. ● Nature Camp at the Desert （Bahrain, January 16, 2015） ● Tree-Planting campaign （Bahrain, March 14, 2015） ● Tree-Planting campaign （UAE, March 27, 2015） ● Beach Cleaning at Abu Dhabi （Saudi Arabia, March 14, 2015） Tree-Planting campaign 103 Corporate Citizenship in Europe Aid for Medical Care ● Yokogawa made a donation to CliniClowns, an organization that sends clowns to clinics to support children requiring long-term hospitalization.（Yokogawa Europe B.V., The Netherlands） ● Yokogawa supports Businessloop Amersfoort, a charitable event in which many citizen runners participate and have fun running. The Employees participated in this event and assisted in raising funds for cancer treatment foundations.（Yokogawa Europe B.V., The Netherlands） ● Yokogawa made a donation to the 3FM Serious Request Christmas charity activities hosted by the 3FM radio station. The money raised will be used to support Red Cross projects.（Yokogawa Europe B.V., The Netherlands） Support for Charity and Social Welfare ● Yokogawa made donations to groups including charity organizations for persons with mental disabilities, humanitarian aid organizations, kindergartens, and firefighting teams. (Rota Yokogawa GmbH & Co.KG, Germany) ● Yokogawa made a donation to SOS Villaggi dei Bambini, an international NGO supporting children around the world. Yokogawa contributed funds in the amount to support two foster children. （Yokogawa Italia S.r.l., Italy） ● Yokogawa made a donation to the WALTON LEA CHARITY Fund, which finds work and supports employment for persons with disabilities.（Yokogawa United Kingdom Limited, The United Kingdom） ● Yokogawa made a donation to ENTREAMIGOS, an NGO that supports scholarships and offers computer education for communities.（Yokogawa United Kingdom Limited, The United Kingdom） Support for Sports ● Yokogawa made a donation to sports organization, such as “Ajinomoto Eurolysine bike club” or “SporT Aventures 64 sports association”.（Yokogawa France S.A.S., France） ● Yokogawa made a donation to a water polo club in Amersfoort.（Yokogawa Europe Solutions B.V., The Netherlands） Disaster Aid ● Yokogawa made a monetary donation to the ORF Hochwasserhilfe Sofort campaign to provide support following floods that occurred in Austria.（Yokogawa GesmbH, Central East Europe, Austria） 104 Personnel-related and Social Data of the Past 5 years Personnel-related data Number of employees 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Consolidated 19,334 19,437 19,685 19,837 19,601 Non-consolidated 4,723 4,211 4,298 2,958 2,871 As of the end of each fiscal year Disability employment rate 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Yokogawa's disability 2.28 2.25 2.23 2.28 2.15 employment rate Legal disability rate 1.80 1.80 1.80 2.00 2.00 (%) As of June 1st each year Frequency rate of occupational accident Frequency Rate of Occupational Accident = (No. of workers having occupational accident with lost days / total working hours) × 1,000,000 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 In Japan 0.31 0.18 0.42 0.31 0.57 Outside Japan 0.39 0.38 0.23 0.45 0.49 Total 0.35 0.29 0.32 0.39 0.53 (%) 105 Social data Yokogawa Science Classes 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Number of classes 5 5 6 4 3 Number of children 129 115 129 73 70 Visitors for Yokogawa Foundry (special subsidiary for the employment of disabled persons) 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 371 ppl 365 ppl 272 ppl 259 ppl 108 ppl Number of visitors 51 org 76 org 64 org 42 org 26 org Welfare vending machine By purchasing a drink in this vending machine, a part of proceeds is utilized to support employment of people with disabilities through SELP, a Non-profit organization. 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Number of drinks sold from welfare 105,573 123,732 115,775 97,489 73,782 vending machine (bottles) Amounts contributed by 344,016 462,252 430,304 357,952 265,932 welfare vending machine (Yen) In cooperation with Japan SELP center, specified non-profit corporation Participants in Tokyo Greenship Action Tokyo metropolitan government has conducted nature conservation activities in cooperation with companies, non-profit organization, etc. in some areas. Companies use these occation as social contribution activities of companies. 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Participants from 32 ppl 27 ppl 26 ppl 19 ppl 9 ppl Yokogawa Promoted by Environmental Bureau of the Tokyo Metropolitan Government In cooperation with Midori Support Hachioji, non-profit organization 106 Donation by Book Magic Book Magic is a program that JEN, a non-profit organization, operates. JEN sells book, CD, DVD, etc., donated by companies' employees, to a used book shop and utilize the sales fund to support the education in developing countries. 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Number of CD and 5,675 2,386 1,505 1,239 1,459 book contributed Donation from selling of CD and 98,717 47,122 28,193 23,467 30,910 books (Yen) In cooperation with JEN, specified non-profit corporation Donation to Sending School Bags across the Sea Sending School Bags across the Sea is a program of international cooperation under which Kuraray Co.,Ltd. send school bags once used by Japanese elementary school students along with letters to children in Afghanistan and other countries. 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Number of donated school 100 55 39 27 120 bags Promoted by Kuraray Co.,Ltd. Donation by Heartfelt Healthy Menu In the canteen of Yokogawa Electric headquarters, a special menu with fundraising, Heartfeltl Healthy Menu is offered every Monday. Per meal, donation of ¥ 20 is presented to developing countries, such as Afghanistan through JOICFP, international cooperation organization. It becomes the money to buy vitamins or seedling crop. Menu is friendly nutritional balance and calories. As well as help to promote health of our employees, we support independence and food self-sufficiency in developing countries, and the promotion of health of expectant mothers. 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Number of Heartfelt Healthy Menu eaten 1,711 1,851 2,455 2,893 1,519 at Yokogawa's cafeteria Number of orange seedling 285 － － － － contributed by donation 107 Number of expectant mother we could － 370 491 579 254 contribute to their nutritional support In cooperation with Japanese Organization for International Cooperation in Family Planning (JOICFP), international NGO 108
