D O NG E N E RGY I N SOC I E T Y S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 4 2 DONG Energy Electricity distribution at a glance Gas distribution Leased gas storage facility Gas receiving facility DONG Energy is one of the leading Heat and electricity generation 1 Electricity generation, energy groups in Northern Europe, gas-fired power station headquartered in Denmark. Around Wind power in operation 6,500 ambitious employees are engaged Wind project under construction DONG Energy office; sale of gas in exploring and producing oil and gas; and/or electricity developing, constructing and operating GATE terminal, Liquefied natural gas (LNG) terminal, import capacity offshore wind farms; generating Producing oil/gas field. DONG Energy is the licence operator electricity and heat from our power Marulk Producing oil/gas field. DONG Energy stations and offshore wind farms; is a licence partner Alve and providing energy to Oil/gas field under development residential and business Oil/gas field under evaluation Gas pipeline owned by DONG Energy customers on a daily basis. Ormen Lange Gas pipeline partly owned by DONG Energy Gas pipeline owned by third parties Gassled, gas transmission system partly owned by DONG Energy Oil pipeline owned by DONG Energy 1) Nine central power stations and a waste-fired power station in Denmark Tobermory Cragganmore Edradour Glenlivet Rosebank Cambo Laggan-Tormore Tornado Ula Gothenburg Tambar Oselvar Trym Anholt Gyda Siri area Mjølner Hejre Solsort Copenhagen Syd Arne Horns Rev 1+2 Walney 1+2 Gode Wind Nysted 1+2 West of Barrow Westermost Rough Borkum Duddon Sands Riffgrund 1 Easington Etzel Hamburg Burbo Bank Emden Extension Burbo Bank Lincs Den Helder Gunfleet Sands 1+2 Enecogen Gunfleet Sands Demo GATE terminal London London Array 1 Zeebrugge 3 Our performance 2014 REVENUE OPERATING PROFIT (EBITDA) 9.0 EUR bn 2.2 EUR bn GROSS INVESTMENTS EMPLOYEES 2.1 EUR bn 6,500 KEY FIGURES BY BUSINESS UNIT * EXPLORATION & PRODUCTION WIND POWER Development, construction Exploration and production of oil and gas and operation of offshore wind farms Revenue (EUR m) 1,881 Revenue (EUR m) 1,306 Operating profit: EBITDA (EUR m) 1,153 Operating profit: EBITDA (EUR m) 813 Gross investments (EUR m) 675 Gross investments (EUR m) 1,051 Employees 749 Employees 2,080 THERMAL POWER CUSTOMERS & MARKETS Electricity and gas sales and distribution in the Electricity and heat generation wholesale and retail markets as well as optimisation from power stations and hedging of the Group’s overall energy portfolio Revenue (EUR m) 851 Revenue (EUR m) 6,450 Operating profit: EBITDA (EUR m) 57 Operating profit: EBITDA (EUR m) 188 Gross investments (EUR m) 97 Gross investments (EUR m) 233 Employees 856 Employees 1,543 * Group functions and internal transactions are not included. 4 Contents Introduction Reliable and Cost-effective energy independent energy 2 10 17 2 DONG Energy at a glance 11 Offshore wind works 3 Our performance 2014 12 A new and greener life for power stations 6 Foreword by our CEO 13 Oil and gas keep 7 Stakeholder dialogue is key the wheels turning 8 Our sustainability strategy 39 DONG Energy’s awards in 2014 18 Investing in the energy transformation 19 Offshore wind is a small part of the electricity bill 14 More European energy 20 The cost of offshore wind independence can be reduced 16 Caring for the roads 21 Local jobs and economic of energy activity DONG Energy’s complete sustainability performance data for 2014 and accounting practices are available at www.dongenergy.com/sustainability2014-data 5 Green energy People matter Business integrity 24 30 34 25 From black to green energy 31 The safe way or no way 27 Biomass must be sustainable 28 Energy efficiency is a package solution 35 To do the right thing 36 Customers are the basis 32 We need skilled people of our business 33 Satisfied, motivated and 37 Responsibility reaches healthy employees beyond our own walls 38 A responsible 29 We need to care for the approach to tax environment 6 FOREWORD Green, independent and cost-effective energy In DONG Energy we believe that developing our business in a sustainable direction is the best way to operate our business. We believe that it creates the most long term value for our owners and the societies we are a part of. That is why we are committed to continuously advance the UN Global Compact principles on respect for the environment, human rights, labour rights, and anti-corruption. Our sustainability strategy In DONG Energy, our vision is to lead the energy transformation. We want to supply energy that is green, independent and cost-effective, and to play a key role in satisfying society’s need for low-carbon energy. We are proud to be the world leader in two large-scale renewable energy technologies – offshore wind and power stations fuelled by sustainable biomass. Both of these technologies have the potential to be cornerstones in a low-carbon energy system. Providing a stimulating working environment and operating our business with high integrity supports our endeavours. Only if we have highly engaged employees working together as a team in a safe way will we be able to deliver on our strong ambitions for DONG Energy. Operating our business with high integrity is the right thing to do, and the best way to ensure the long-term health of the company. Work ahead In 2014, DONG Energy took a major step forward in advancing our sustainability agenda, in close collaboration with our partners. We made significant progress in converting two of our major combined heat and power plants to biomass, and in deploying offshore wind farms across Northern Europe. Furthermore, we launched our program for sustainable biomass sourcing, and significantly expanded the scope of our responsible sourcing programme. The energy transformation The increasing global carbon emissions are a major challenge for the Our work on sustainability will continue with full attention in 2015. global ecosystems, and 2014 was the warmest year ever registered. We live in a world that is constantly changing, and we regularly discover The energy sector accounts for a quarter of European greenhouse gas new issues that we need to find answers to. That is why our sustainemissions. As an energy company, we have a major responsibility to ability work will always be work in progress. We are ready to pursue help steer the world in a more sustainable direction. We must develop a more sustainable world in close cooperation with our stakeholders. and deploy low-carbon technologies that can meet the future energy demand of our customers, enabling people to live their lives and businesses to thrive. Europe faces a major opportunity in this regard. Towards 2035, the European countries have to replace and build the equivalent of 80% of their current electrical capacity. Thus, it is paramount that Europe takes this historic opportunity to replace fossil-based power generation technologies with green energy. That is what we call the energy Henrik Poulsen transformation. CEO, DONG Energy 7 Stakeholder dialogue is key The energy supply plays a key role in our to understanding the expectations of our Based on our dialogue with stakeholders, everyday lives, but it also has a major impact stakeholders with regard to us as a company we have identified five main priorities which on the production and competitiveness of and the way in which we are developing the are both at the forefront of our stakeholders’ companies, on the environment and climate, energy supply. minds and of importance to our business. and on geopolitics. Therefore, energy attracts By pursuing these priorities through the way a keen interest from customers, politicians, Through dialogue, we identify the issues and we conduct our business, we create value for the authorities, trade associations, NGOs, challenges which are of the utmost imporour stakeholders and for DONG Energy. The scientists and many other stakeholders. tance to our stakeholders. Such insights following pages describe how we are working are important elements in the continued with these five priorities. In DONG Energy, our dialogue with stakedevelopment of DONG Energy’s business holders is key to the way in which we run and strategy and sustainability strategy. develop our business. Dialogue is important Our approach Stakeholder dialogue Prioritisation Action Communication Continuous and systematic Focus on the issues that are Adaption of business Communication of targets, dialogue with our stakeholders, the most important to our strategy and development of activities, results, challenges including: stakeholders as well as to programmes that support the and future plans through various DONG Energy. realisation of the strategy. communication channels, such as: Local societies Suppliers Long term Strategy Annual report NGOs Public authorities Sustainability report Medium term Programmes and targets Interest groups Investors Stakeholder meetings Customers Politicians Short term Progress Media Employees Universities Web Analysts Owners Intranet 8 Our sustainability strategy Reliable and independent energy Programme Description Value for society Value for DONG Energy Development of 2.5GW offshore wind installed in 2014. Our By 2020, we will have installed enough Maintains DONG Energy’s global market offshore wind target is 6.5GW by 2020. offshore wind capacity to supply 16 million leader position within offshore wind. Europeans with clean, reliable and scalable energy. Converting power 28% sustainable biomass at our Danish Converting our power stations from coal and Prolongs the lifetime of the power stations stations to biomass central power stations in 2014. Our target is gas to sustainable biomass ensures more and anchors their role in the transformation at least 50% by 2020. green electricity and heat for our customers. towards more renewable energy. With our programme, we are the global leader in the use of biomass. Oil and gas production In 2014, we had 9 times as much oil and gas By ensuring enough oil and gas reserves, Strengthens DONG Energy’s regional in reserve as we produced. By 2020, our we can continue production and maintain position in North-Western Europe within oil target is to have at least 10 times as much in the security of supply. In 2014, we produced and gas production. reserve as we produce per year. 115,000 barrels of oil equivalents per day. Modernising the grid More than 99.995% reliable supply for our Modernising and maintaining the grid Investing in our grid maintains it as a stable Danish electricity customers in 2014. ensures high continuity of supply for our part of our business. customers at the lowest possible cost. Cost-effective energy Programme Description Value for society Value for DONG Energy Significant investments We invested EUR 2.1 billion in renewing the Our investments contribute to renewing the Executes DONG Energy’s business strategy energy supply in 2014. We expect to invest a energy supply in a greener direction. and renews our business portfolio. further EUR 4.7-5.4 billion in the coming two years. Reducing the cost Compared with 2012, our target is to reduce Offshore wind can become significantly more Cost reduction is necessary if the offshore of offshore wind the cost of offshore wind by 35-40% for competitive with conventional energy wind market is to continue its growth. projects sanctioned in 2020. technologies, provided that fossil technologies are charged with a fair CO2 cost. This will make green energy cheaper for private customers and businesses. Local engagement We engage with local communities in our Our local engagement around our large Builds strong local supply chains and builds footprint and work to activate companies infrastructure projects contributes to local support in local areas. from the local supply chain to compete in job creation, local economic activity and the tenders related to our major investment development of local supply chains. projects. 9 Green energy Programme Description Value for society Value for DONG Energy Reducing CO2 emissions 41% reduction of CO2 emissions from our Compared to 2006, we have reduced the same As we have reduced our CO2 emissions at a electricity and heat generation from 2006 to amount of CO2 as more than 6 million cars emit faster pace than our European peers, it 2014. Our target is 60% by 2020. in one year. That equals taking all cars gives us a strong position in the market for off the streets of both London and Berlin for green energy technologies which attracts a year and a half. Our 2020 target contributes competencies and capital to our business. to reducing negative impacts on the climate. Sustainable biomass Our suppliers must comply with specific Combustion of sustainable biomass is Helps develop a new market for green requirements to ensure the sustainability of CO2-neutral. Even including processing and energy and strengthens the supply chain the wood pellets and wood chips we use. transport, emissions are reduced by 80-90% for wood pellets and wood chips. compared to coal or gas. We ensure continuous replanting of forests; protection of ecosystems and biodiversity; and respect for social and labour rights. Customer energy 2.2 TWh of accumulated savings at Danish Since 2006, we have worked with our Danish Strengthens our position within intelligent savings customers from 2006 to 2014. customers to save the same amount of energy customer solutions and customer relations. as almost 32 million A+++ fridges use in a year. Environmental We are committed to minimising the Ensures that we operate our business with as It is important for us to care for the management resource consumption and environmental little environmental impact as possible. environment and protect biodiversity no impacts related to our activities. matter where we have activities. People matter Programme Description Value for society Value for DONG Energy A safe workplace In 2014, our Lost Time Injury Frequency Creates a safe working environment for both We never compromise on safety standards (LTIF) was 2.4, down from 3.2 in 2013. Our employees and contractors. because a safe workplace is paramount. target is an LTIF of less than 1.5 in 2020. Performance and We work systematically with getting the right In order to drive the energy transformation We have to be able to attract and retain the development people on board, managing our employees’ forward we constantly need new competenbest people to ensure that we have the broad performance, developing their skills and cies, including highly technical expert base of competencies and talents needed to supporting their careers. knowledge. create high value and be ahead in a constantly changing market. Employee satisfaction In 2014, our employees scored their Our employees spend a lot of their time with Satisfied and motivated employees are more and motivation satisfaction and motivation at 72/100. Our DONG Energy, which is why they should likely to perform their best and to stay with us. target is a score of 77/100 in 2020. enjoy coming to work and feel satisfied with their contribution. Business integrity Programme Description Value for society Value for DONG Energy Good business conduct Our employees are guided on how to act in All of our stakeholders should always have High integrity is fundamental to us and situations of inappropriate conduct such as fraud good reason to trust that we operate our ensures quality and value for the or bribery. Our Internal Audit function monitors business with high integrity and make the right business. that we uphold high integrity standards. decisions − even in challenging situations. Building good By 2020, our target is to be rated at 75/100 on Each customer is put first and experiences a Strengthens and maintains our position customer relations how positively private and business customers high level of service. in the markets for private and business perceive us, respectively. customers. Responsible We communicate our expectations in a We promote international standards for Improves our relationships with suppliers sourcing Code of Conduct; we screen contracts to human and labour rights, the environment and gives us a more stable supply chain determine risks of poor practice; and we carry and anti-corruption by identifying the where unforeseen and costly delays are out assessments to work with suppliers to suppliers who need help and working with less likely. identify and address poor practices. them to improve. Responsible In 2014, we updated our tax policy so that it Taxes play a key role for society. We aim to A responsible approach to tax is essential to tax management better describes the principles we follow in all always comply with both the letter of and the the long-term sustainability of our business tax decisions. legislators’ intention with the tax law. in the countries where we operate. 10 OFFSHORE WIND WORKS RELIABLE AND INDEPENDENT ENERGY How do we The EU must replace and build the equivalent of 80% of its current electrical continuously renew capacity by 2035 the energy supply? As consumers, we take a reliable energy supply for granted – and that is how it should be. Energy companies need to continuously renew the energy supply to ensure that there is always enough energy. Many power stations in Europe are getting old and will reach the end of their lifetimes within the next two decades. We have to replace them with more green energy. And while we transform to more Explore this focus area renewable energy, society still needs oil and gas to keep the wheels turning. 11 By fully utilising the resources we have Offshore wind works in Europe, we reduce dependence on 12 imported energy. A new and greener life for power stations At the same time, the power and gas grid 13 Oil and gas keep the wheels turning also has to be maintained so that energy is delivered to our customers when they 14 need it. More European energy independence 16 Caring for the roads of energy OFFSHORE WIND WORKS 11 Energy to rely on Europe needs to renew its energy supply. As wind turbines depend on the wind in order to produce energy, does offshore wind then really play a key role in the solution to how Europe renews its supply? At DONG Energy, we believe it does. DONG Energy’s At sea, wind speeds are higher than onshore. An offshore wind farm Danish offshore wind produces 50% more power than an onshore wind farm of the same size. farm Horns Rev 2 There is also more space offshore so we can build big wind farms that serve as power stations at sea. A good example is our offshore wind produces power over 90% farm Horns Rev 2. Here, the wind blows with the right speeds for the wind turbines to produce power over 90% of the time. And the more wind farms you have in different countries, the more stable the power supply becomes, because countries can trade and of the time. exchange energy among themselves. PROGRAMME DONG Energy is building Development of offshore wind offshore wind farms Offshore wind is a clean, reliable and scalable solution to how Europe can renew its energy supply in a green direction. By 2020, DONG Energy’s target is to have installed 6.5 gigawatts of offshore wind power – enough to provide power for 16 million Europeans. Working together with our partners, DONG Energy has become the world leader in deploying offshore wind. We have built more capacity than any other company in the world, and we build offshore wind farms faster and more efficiently than anyone else. 2014 2020 target By continuing to build offshore wind farms we maintain our market Enough power for Enough power for leading position and support European countries in building energy systems that are green, independent and economically viable. 6 million Europeans 16 million Europeans Power to a quarter of a million homes The offshore wind industry is delivering power to more and more households and businesses. In 2014, the completion of West of Duddon Sands in the UK made a significant contribution. DONG Energy shares the ownership of Peter Rom Poulsen, Project Director at DONG West of Duddon Sands with ScottishPower Energy, said: “The success of the construction Renewables. DONG Energy has constructed is based on a robust project plan, experienced the wind farm and will also be operating it. contractors that we have worked with on other Up to 1,000 people, from construction projects, and a very dedicated and skilled workers to marine biologists, have been project team. The project team of more than involved in the construction. First power was 100 people at peak time, staffed with both our delivered two months ahead of schedule and own and our partner’s employees, really went to budget. Just four months after first power, the extra mile.” the final turbine was hoisted into position. With West of Duddon Sands, our UK wind Our key contractors for this project include farms can now generate enough electricity Siemens who supplied the turbines, Bladt for 4.4 million UK citizens. And there is more who supplied the foundations, A2SEA who ahead. We currently have another offshore Peter Rom Poulsen, Project Director at DONG supplied the installation vessel, and CT wind farm under construction in the UK and Energy, at the inauguration of West of Duddon Offshore who installed the array cables. more are under development. Sands in October 2014. 12 A NEW AND GREENER LIFE FOR POWER STATIONS How do we fill the gaps? Wind power vs. power consumption in Denmark MWh Wind energy is a reliable part of the solution gaps when wind power does not cover the to how Europe renews its energy supply. consumption. Moreover, when power stations 6.000 But when wind speeds drop, we need other run on sustainable biomass, they contribute types of energy to fill the gaps between how to renewing the energy supply in a greener 4.000 much power the wind produces and how direction. much power people use at any time of the 2.000 day. Power stations that run on sustainable Also, power stations ensure that we can biomass is a good partner for wind energy. continue to heat up our living rooms easily 0 16th 17th 18th 19th 20th 21st 22nd in the wintertime. When power stations We can turn power stations up or down, generate both power and heat, efficiency January 2014 and their flexibility enables us to fill the is at its highest. Power Wind power consumption production PROGRAMME Converting power stations to biomass Power stations fired with sustainable biomass can fill the gaps when wind speeds drop. At DONG Energy, we convert our power stations from coal and gas to biomass such as wood pellets and wood chips. This extends their lifetime and anchor their role in the transformation towards more renewable energy. We operate some of the most flexible and efficient power stations in Sustainable the industry. By 2020, DONG Energy’s target is that at least 50% of Coal or gas biomass the power and heat generated by our central Danish power stations will come from sustainable biomass. Our programme to convert power stations makes us the global leader in the use of biomass. 2014 2020 target Enough green heat for 176,000 The conversions allow us to stay competitive as supplier of heat 28% >50% and enough green electricity for and power in Denmark, while providing green heat and power to our 540,000 Danish homes in 2014 customers. Warming up with wood chips In 2014, DONG Energy and our partners decided to give the Skærbæk power station a new and greener life by converting it from gas to sustainable biomass. The Skærbæk power station provides heat for important step towards demonstrating that 60,000 homes and enough power for 216,000 energy production from biomass is a good homes in Eastern Jutland in Denmark. DONG and climate-friendly investment to go for,” Energy is partnering with TVIS, the local heat said CEO John Veje Olesen from B&W Vølund. transmission company, to convert the power station. From 2017, it will be running on Two thirds of the district heating that TVIS sustainable wood chips for at least 20 years. delivers for 180,000 people in the area is from the Skærbæk power station. When the power The conversion requires a lot of rebuilding, station becomes biomass-fired, it can including the construction of two new boilers, continue to deliver a stable heat supply at a storage facilities and an extension of the competitive price – and step in when we need harbour facilities. The contract for the two more power than the wind and the sun can boilers with B&W Vølund is the biggest single provide. The conversion is another step delivery for the conversion. B&W Vølund will towards the green transformation. be using their existing knowledge and tried technologies for what they describe as an important project: “For a long time, there has been reluctance, The Skærbæk power station will be running on both in Denmark and internationally, to invest sustainable wood chips. in new biomass-fired plants. This is an OIL AND GAS KEEP THE WHEELS TURNING 13 Oil and gas remain important While we create a Europe fuelled by more renewable energy, oil and gas remain important. Today, more than half of Europe’s energy demand is for oil and gas, and it is expected to stay that way for years to come. While oil is mainly used for transport and heating, it is also an important ingredient in mobile phones, bottles, clothes, shoes and many other everyday necessities. Besides transport and heating, oil is used for many everyday products. PROGRAMME Oil and gas In deep water production The Ormen Lange gas field helps Europe keep the wheels turning. Although reserves are decreasing, there is still more oil and gas to find in Europe. In It produces the equivalent of 20% of UK gas consumption, and 2014, DONG Energy produced 115,000 barrels will continue to do so for the next 10-15 years. It is one of the of oil equivalent a day, enough to cover 10 million Europeans’ annual consumption. largest and most demanding industrial projects ever to have been completed in Norway. In 2014, we had 9 times as much oil and gas in reserve as we produced. By 2020, our target is to have at least 10 times as much in “By drilling these wells we might be able reserves as we produce per year. By ensuring to extend the field to the South. Another enough oil and gas reserves, we can continue production well will also be drilled in 2015. production and maintain security of supply. One of the challenges at Ormen Lange at this stage is to minimise the areas where we In 2015, we will produce oil and gas in could leave undrained gas at the end of field Denmark, Norway and the UK, when the UK life,” said Dagfinn Onshus, Asset Manager fields Laggan-Tormore come on-stream. This for Ormen Lange in DONG Energy. strengthens DONG Energy’s regional position in North-Western Europe within oil and gas “In late field life, pressure decline will lead production and helps meet the continued to low pressure in the reservoir, preventing demand. these wells from being drilled. We therefore have to start drilling while there is still Activity at the Ormen Lange gas field in Norway enough pressure in the reservoir. That is why (Photo: Norwegian Shell A/S). another well has been scheduled for 2015.” The Ormen Lange field helps meet gas DONG Energy owns 14% of Ormen Lange. demand and delivers a significant share of This may not sound like a lot, but the gas DONG Energy’s gas production and revenue. field is the second largest in Norway. It is also worth noting that natural gas only Together with our partners from Shell, emits half as much CO2 as coal does when Statoil, Exxon and Petoro, we work to make used to generate power. Today, 75% of the most of the field. DONG Energy’s hydrocarbon production is Production Reserves gas. As part of this, we drilled new wells in the DONG Energy’s target is to have at least 10 autumn of 2014. The deep water and seabed times as much oil and gas in reserves as we conditions meant that this was not without produce per year by 2020 challenges. Exploring up North There is still oil and gas left in the North With four licences, DONG Energy is present We operate with the highest safety Sea, but also further North. One area in the Barents Sea along with more than 30 standards and care for the environment which may contain undiscovered oil and other oil and gas companies. We explore the when we explore, and we will continue gas reserves is the Barents Sea in the oil and gas reserves below the seabed and to do so if at some point we decide to Northern part of Norway. conduct seismic surveys. We currently have develop reserves into production. no production in the area. 14 MORE EUROPEAN ENERGY INDEPENDENCE An increasingly dependent Europe As the North Sea oil and gas fields are running low, the EU imports more and more of its energy. Is this a problem? In general, trade in energy is a good thing. When one country or region imports energy society cannot function without energy, it is a strong political tool. EU gas imports that another country or region produces 84% cheaper, we all benefit from trade. In 2014, EU gas imports were in focus because of the Russia and Ukraine conflict. 51% 66% But too large a share of imported energy can Europeans use gas for industry, cooking and become an economic problem because it heating and already import two thirds of hurts the balance of trade. The more energy all the gas they consume. Over the coming the EU buys from other parts of the world, years, gas imports will increase as the EU’s the more money is sent abroad. In 2013, own gas production drops. By 2035, the every EU citizen spent EUR 888 on energy EU is expected to import 84% of its gas imports. consumption. If energy is imported from a few suppliers, Europe should do its best to take advantage this poses another risk for society. With only of its own oil and gas and renewable a few suppliers, they can more easily dictate resources to achieve higher energy the price and conditions. And because independence. 2002 2012 2035 The EU spends more on imported energy than on education The amount that the EU spends on importing €389 bn €347 bn Annual EU spend on education energy every year is so large that it can be Annual EU spend on energy imports hard to get one’s head around it. It helps to compare the amount to what else the world spends money on. Everything shown in the €203 bn €126 bn diagram is less expensive than the EU’s NATO Europe spend on Cancer, total €351 bn annual energy imports. defence in 2013 EU cost Feed and educate every child on Earth for five years For example, you could feed and educate €227 bn every child on Earth for five years for less Over 40 years of UK spend on oil and gas production than the EU’s annual spend on importing energy. Making use of Europe’s own wind resources Offshore wind is an abundant energy resource and the fastest growing energy technology in The EU’s planned Europe. It is an important energy resource that Europe can use to become more offshore wind capacity independent of importing energy. Power The potential of offshore wind depends on enough for 68 many factors – first and foremost on how the technology evolves. The EU countries’ current plans to build offshore wind farms illustrate Power million the potential. If their plans are realised, it is enough for Europeans estimated that offshore wind can cover the annual power consumption of 68 million Europeans by 2020. 18 million Europeans DONG Energy contributes to this with our plans to build offshore wind farms to supply enough power for 16 million Europeans by 2020. 2014 2020 MORE EUROPEAN ENERGY INDEPENDENCE 15 Hejre field helps Danish independence The Hejre oil and gas field will add years to Denmark’s high energy independence. Denmark has been self-sufficient in energy We installed the supporting structure of since 1994, especially due to the oil and gas the Hejre platform in the North Sea, the from the North Sea. In 2013, Denmark was so-called jacket, in 2014: “It has been a no longer self-sufficient for the first time in challenging task to manufacture the jacket. two decades. It is getting more and more We have worked very hard to make sure the difficult for oil and gas companies to find jacket was ready on time and to the agreed fields that are worth investing in, but there quality in close dialogue with DONG Energy. is still a big oil and gas potential below It is a great pleasure to see the result,” said the Danish seabed. One of the fields with Patrick Put, Project Manager, from the Dutch potential is the Hejre field. company Heerema. Almost 300 kilometres West of Esbjerg, In May 2014, Heerema transported the jacket DONG Energy and its partner Bayerngas are from the Netherlands to the Hejre field. On a building the new Hejre platform. It will be cold and windy day the 8,400 tonnes of steel the first major Danish oil and gas field going were dropped into the water and put in place. into production for almost 20 years. And at a After installation of the Topside in 2016, the depth of 5-6,000 metres, it is the first of the Hejre field will be operational from 2017. For challenging fields under high pressure and DONG Energy, the Hejre field will strengthen Patrick Put from Heerema inspects the jacket for high temperature. This type of field requires our regional position within oil and gas in the Hejre field before installation. new competencies and strong equipment. North-Western Europe. Ensuring a wide A global A sustainable range of gas suppliers coal market biomass market 9% 4% 1% 10% 13% 15% 37% 10% 14% 51% 51% 19% 21% 25% 20% DONG Energy’s own gas production Colombia Poland The Baltic countries Russia Danish part of the North Sea Russia Norway Denmark USA Outside Europe South Africa Other EU countries European gas exchange Other The EU cannot cover its own gas consumption, In DONG Energy, we have reduced our use Using sustainable wood chips and wood and gas production in the North Sea is of coal by 65% since 2006, and we will pellets at power stations is a way to produce declining. It is important to source gas from continue to produce less power and heat from clean, flexible and cost-effective energy. a wide range of suppliers in order to not be coal. But for some years we will still need coal Biomass is to a large extent imported from exposed to the risk of being dependent on for some of our Danish power stations. Europe. very few suppliers. “European countries used to produce big “Today, most of our biomass originates from DONG Energy sells gas to homes and quantities of coal, but today Europe’s own European forests,” said Michael Schytz, who businesses in Denmark, Sweden, Germany coal production is very limited. We still buy specialises in sourcing of biomass at DONG and the UK. Our own production equals 37% coal from Norway and Poland but the majority Energy. “But as we increase our use of of the gas we sell, we buy 20% from other we buy from overseas,” said Niels Bojer who biomass, we will source more from USA suppliers in the Danish part of the North Sea, oversees DONG Energy’s coal procurement. where there are big quantities of surplus and 15% on the European gas exchange. 19% wood available.” comes from suppliers outside of Europe. This “In general, we see the coal supply situation includes liquefied natural gas transported by as one with many and reliable suppliers.” Read more on page 27 on how we ensure the ship from across the world and gas from sustainability of our biomass. Russian Gazprom transported by pipeline. 16 CARING FOR THE ROADS OF ENERGY We always need energy Historic investments in DONG Energy’s existing power grid Europe constantly has to renew its energy consumption. Thanks to the last 10 years’ supply. But there is more to it than how we large reinvestment activities, most of DONG DKK m produce energy. It is also about ensuring Energy’s grid is now in good shape. As parts 1,500 that power and gas are available to of the grid age, we continue to invest to keep businesses and households when they need it in good shape. 1,200 it. The roads of the energy system have to be renewed constantly to provide energy Besides investing in the grid, we need to 900 security all year round. ensure that more wind and solar energy does not compromise the grid’s security of supply. 600 The power grid is getting older; a few At the same time, new appliances such as parts of the Danish power grid are very electrical cars and heat pumps will lead to 300 old. The major expansion of the grid a more fluctuating use of electricity. That took place in the 1960s to 1980s as the makes the balance between demand and 0 modern welfare society increased energy supply more difficult to manage in the grid. 1930 1950 1970 1990 2014 PROGRAMME Modernising the grid The power and gas grid constantly has to be We can never avoid power outages. However, renewed and cared for, so businesses can if the grid fails or when we take parts of it operate and people can go on with their daily out for maintenance, we monitor the critical lives. In Denmark, DONG Energy owns and spots. And we work with new technology operates 20,000 kilometres of power cables that will make it possible to automatically around Copenhagen and 6,600 kilometres of redirect the power to reduce the impact for More than 99.995% gas pipes in Southern Jutland and Zealand. consumers. We reinvest in the grids to deliver the same Towards 2020 we will install almost one high continuity of supply at the lowest million remote meters to replace old meters. possible cost. We do it by investing in This will lay the foundation for dynamic new technology where it makes sense, by prices and give incentives to use power when of the time, on average, our almost maintaining the old parts for longer, and by it is cheapest: at night and when windy. 866,000 Danish electricity customers using the capacity better. had power in their outlets in 2014. The last cable from air to ground The art of balance The Faroe Islands have a challenge. Aiming for 80% renewable energy, they find it difficult to In 2014, the last overhead power line of DONG Energy’s low balance supply and demand of energy. Without this balance, power may go out. voltage grid was replaced by an underground cable. DONG Energy and Schneider Electric are working on a joint solution. Schneider Electric “The planning of the cable laying began back supplies data and IT systems that provide a in 2000 after a severe hurricane hit Denmark unique insight into what goes on in the Faroese at the end of December 1999. With the last energy system. The data is processed by DONG cable in the ground, customers in our grid Energy’s Power Hub which, based on the area no longer have to fear major power cuts availability of renewable energy, plans the use of when storms hit and tear down power lines,” energy when it is plentiful and cheap. Power Hub The last low voltage cables are cut. said Anders Vikkelsø, Vice President at DONG also maintains grid stability even in the event Energy. of sudden changes in renewable generation, for instance by switching off big industry freezers. From Copenhagen to Rome and back again. A number of large construction companies That makes Power Hub one of the answers to This is the total distance covered by the power worked on the project. Per Visler, electrician at how power can stay on when we integrate still lines that we have removed in the Northern H. Helbo Hansen, is one of the people who has more renewable energy into the grid. part of Zealand and the Greater Copenhagen cut down kilometres of overhead power lines area. Approximately 4,200 kilometres of every day for many years: “This state-of-the-art solution on the Faroe overhead power lines are gone from residential Islands will be an important step towards areas and roads, and 8,000 kilometres “You see things from a different perspective intelligent electricity distribution and the of cables have been buried. In 2014, we from above the rooftops. For more than 100 transformation towards renewable energy,” said completed one of the largest infrastructure years, the overhead lines were part of the Claus Steengaard, Vice President for smart grid projects in Denmark and created an even more landscape. When they were removed, you and offshore solutions at Schneider Electric reliable supply for our customers. could really see the change in the areas.” Denmark. OFFSHORE WIND WORKS 17 COST-EFFECTIVE ENERGY How do we provide In 2020, the offshore wind that DONG Energy invests in and that starts to produce in 2023 cost-effective energy has to be 35-40% cheaper compared to 2012 and contribute to the EUR/MWh creation of growth and 200 jobs? 150 100 Offshore Europe is facing a major task to renew wind 2020 its energy supply and make it greener. 50 The challenge is that most types of green energy costs more than energy from 0 conventional sources such as coal or gas. d s as as Co l ea r in d r la in G a cl So w om w e Bi Nu re or ho sh ns ff O DONG Energy has a target to reduce O 2012 2023 the cost of offshore wind with 35-40%. By lowering the cost, offshore wind can become more competitive with other energy technologies. This makes the Explore this focus area energy transformation more costeffective for private customers and 18 businesses. The reduction of cost is Investing in the energy transformation achieved as we work with the industry 19 to build new wind farms, which enables Offshore wind is a small part of the electricity bill us to find new and cheaper solutions. The more offshore wind farms we build, 20 the more we learn. The cost of offshore wind can be reduced 21 Building new energy infrastructure can Local jobs and economic activity create local value. DONG Energy actively supports local businesses to participate in tenders for our major construction projects. 18 INVESTING IN THE ENERGY TRANSFORMATION Cost of the green transformation The need to replace Europe’s existing An analysis by the UN Global Commission Global expenses on carbonenergy supply with new energy means that on the Economy and Climate tried to answer emitting sectors 2015-2030 European countries have to invest. It is not the question. Advised by a number of the a question of whether to invest or not but a world’s leading economists, the Commission question of what types of energy to invest published the “Better Growth, Better Climate” €67 tr €66 tr in. If Europeans are to have a cleaner and Report in 2014. The report showed that the more sustainable future, we have to invest in global cost of transforming to a low-carbon more renewable energy. For instance offshore society – EUR 66 trillion – does not have to wind, which is a clean, reliable and scalable be higher than the cost of staying on the path energy source that the industry aims to make that the world is on today – EUR 67 trillion. significantly more competitive with fossil fuels by 2020. The UN working group also argued that to renew the energy supply requires big The question is: will the energy transinvestments. The energy companies cannot formation towards more green energy be carry all of these investments themselves. more expensive than if we renewed the That is why external investors from outside energy supply using fossil fuels? It is not an the energy industry, such as the big pension easy question to answer as the answer relies funds, must bring in part of the capital Base case: Low-carbon on a number of assumptions about the future. needed. business as usual scenario PROGRAMME Significant investments Distribution of DONG Energy’s expected investments towards 2020 We have to invest to renew Europe’s energy while we build more renewable energy. The 10% supply in a greener direction. DONG Energy remaining 10% is expected to go to tpower has one of the most intensive investment plants and distribution grids. programmes among comparable companies in Europe when investment sizes are Attracting capital from new investors is 30% compared to the value of the asset base. important for DONG Energy to realise our 60% strategy. In 2014, Goldman Sachs and the In 2014 alone, DONG Energy invested Danish pension funds ATP and PFA decided EUR 2.1 billion; and in 2015-2016, we expect to invest EUR 1.5 billion in DONG Energy to invest EUR 4.7-5.4 billion more. Towards which constituted a major equity injection. Gross investments 2020, around 60% of the investments are Also, as part of our business model, we sell Offshore wind energy expected to go to offshore wind energy. 30% off parts of the wind farms we build to raise will go to oil and gas activities as we still capital. Oil and gas activities need this to keep society’s wheels turning Power plants and distribution grids Attracting capital from outside the energy industry DONG Energy attracts capital investors. The task is to match the investors’ In 2014, Goldman Sachs, PFA and ATP risk and return profile with the profile of an bought 26% of DONG Energy’s shares offshore wind farm. With our partnership in return for an equity injection of EUR model, we have attracted EUR 4.5 billion 1.5 billion. The investment from Goldman €2 bn to the offshore wind industry since 2009. Sachs caused a lot of debate in Denmark. In 2014, we entered into partnerships with The capital injection was part of a financial €2.5 bn investors on three of our offshore wind farms. action plan to strengthen DONG Energy’s capital structure and enable us to continue €1.5 bn One of our investors is the pension fund La to pursue our investment-driven growth Caisse, one of the largest institutional fund strategy, including investments in offshore managers in Canada and North America: wind. 2009 2013 2014 “This is an opportunity to invest, alongside Attracting capital from outside the energy Wind partnerships Equity injection established partners, in a quality asset in a industry creates value for our owners by growth-driven sector. We have invested in allowing us to continue to pursue our To invest in the energy transformation, we London Array with a long-term horizon and strategy − the Danish state being the need to attract capital from investors outside expect to generate attractive returns for largest shareholder with 59%. And it allows the energy industry. At DONG Energy, we many years ahead, “ said Macky Tall, Senior us to continue to deploy greener, more sell up to half of the wind farms we build to Vice President at La Caisse. independent and cost-effective energy. OFFSHORE WIND IS A SMALL PART OF THE ELECTRICITY BILL 19 How much do you pay for offshore wind? Offshore wind is a clean, reliable and scalable part of the solution to how Europe can pursue the energy transformation. But how much do energy customers actually pay for the energy transformation? To answer this question we need to look at the electricity bill. DONG Energy works to develop and build offshore wind farms. Offshore wind is the Most of the fastest growing energy technology in Europe. In just two decades, Europe has installed Danish electricity enough offshore wind to supply 18 million Europeans with power. However, it is still a 34% bill pays for other maturing technology so energy from offshore things than wind costs more than energy from gas, coal or onshore wind. To find out exactly how electricity much energy customers actually pay for the energy transformation, we need to look at the VAT and taxes that the energy electricity bill. 57% companies collect on behalf of the state to fund hospitals, All countries have different ways of putting schools, roads, etc. together an electricity bill. If we look at Denmark as an example, electricity PSO tariff, including support customers pay more taxes through their bill for renewable energy than in any other European country. 57% of 9% Electricity price, distribution the bill is made up of taxes that companies and transmission costs collect on behalf of the state. These taxes do not go to energy but to state expenses such as hospitals, police or roads. Of the 9%, how much then goes to offshore The UK has also built a lot of offshore wind − Only 34% of the bill actually pays for the wind? This also varies from country to more capacity than any other country in the power itself and for the development and country. Denmark has installed more offshore world. 1.8% of an average UK family’s energy maintenance of the grid that transports wind per inhabitant than any other country in bill supports offshore wind. Germany is also the power. The remaining 9% of the bill is the world. 2.7% of an average Danish family’s ambitious within offshore wind. In Germany, subsidies for renewable energy, such as power bill pays for offshore wind support. the figure is 1.1% of an average German offshore wind. family’s energy bill. In Denmark, the UK and Germany, a small part of an average family’s electricity bill supports offshore wind 2.7% 1.8% 1.1% of a Danish family’s electricity of a British family’s electricity of a German family’s bill supported offshore wind bill supported offshore wind electricity bill supported in 2014 in 2014 offshore wind in 2014 20 THE COST OF OFFSHORE WIND CAN BE REDUCED Cheaper offshore wind As European countries renew the energy to reduce costs is there. The challenge is Scale can bring down the price supply in a greener direction, it could mean that the industry needs to develop and of offshore wind – as it did with that a family or a business would have to standardise components and processes to pay more to support offshore wind. To avoid achieve the objective. This can only happen onshore wind this, the offshore wind industry has a major through the combined efforts, knowledge task to reduce the cost of offshore wind so it sharing and innovations of many players becomes more competitive with fossil fuels. throughout the supply chain. Onshore wind Offshore wind The industry must reduce costs by producing 1985-1995 2009-2020 more with less and thereby help society become more productive. To the degree that the industry faces up to the challenge, costs will be reduced as the 40% 35-40% technology evolves and the scale of offshore cheaper cheaper And because offshore wind is still a young wind farms increases. Just as we have seen it and maturing technology, the potential with onshore wind. PROGRAMME Reducing the cost of offshore wind The cost of offshore wind has to come down. In 2012, DONG Energy set DONG Energy’s offshore wind a target to cut costs by 35-40% for offshore wind projects getting the must be 35-40% cheaper go-ahead in 2020 and that start to produce from 2023. Offshore wind will then be significantly more competitive with conventional energy from 2020 compared to 2012 technologies if fossil technologies are charged with a fair CO2 cost. In order to reach our target, we are developing a standard concept for an offshore wind farm based on a standardised design, standard components and construction at sites that have optimal conditions when it comes to wind speeds, distance to the coast, sea depth and sea bed conditions. In this way, we do not have to reinvent the wheel 35-40% every time we plan a new wind farm. Meeting our target requires stable regulatory frameworks that allow the industry to scale up so the cost can come down. Cost reductions are necessary if the offshore wind technology is to continue its growth. 2012 2020-target And five of those substations, please To bring down the cost of offshore wind, the price of parts in the entire wind industry supply chain need to be reduced. That includes offshore substations. At DONG Energy, we have awarded Atkins Nettleship, Director of Atkins Power in the UK contracts to provide offshore and Renewables. substation designs for three of our wind farms that are currently under development Having Atkins on board will enable a in the UK: Race Bank, Walney Extension production-line approach to fabrication, and Burbo Bank Extension. The substation rather than a bespoke solution for each design work will be undertaken by teams of substation, and will reduce costs without Atkins’ experts in the UK. compromising safety and reliability. It becomes more like buying off-the-shelf rather Dave Nettleship (right) and his colleague from “Our UK-based team will be working than ordering a unique product. And that Atkins discuss a substation design. together with DONG Energy to apply the brings cost savings. lessons on these large, complex projects enabling us to set new benchmarks in For DONG Energy, partnerships like these An offshore substation collects the power stripping off any fat for an industry that help us progress towards a standardised from the many wind turbines and sends it to needs to become more and more competitive offshore wind farm which will reduce the costs the customers on shore. with other energy sources,” said Dave of constructing and operating our wind farms. Read more: Policy on local community engagement www.dongenergy.com/localengagement LOCAL JOBS AND ECONOMIC ACTIVITY 21 Local value from investments The growing offshore wind industry in Europe creates direct and indirect jobs Local communities naturally expect large energy projects in their areas to bring local jobs and economic activity. The offshore wind industry is a good example of how this can happen. It requires sizable investments to renew Europe’s energy supply in a green direction. Because it is ultimately the citizens who pay for these investments in new energy, local communities naturally expect that new energy infrastructure, such as a wind farm or a power station, brings local jobs to the region and the country. 2014 2020 75,000 178,000 The offshore wind industry is a good example of how energy investments create jobs. Especially as offshore wind farms are often full-time equivalents full-time equivalents located off the shore of rural areas in need of jobs. Today, the offshore wind industry directly and indirectly employs 75,000 local area or a country have the necessary The UK, for instance, has had few businesses people in Europe – and the number is rising. competencies to produce and supply wind in the offshore wind industry historically, Moreover, when a large number of people farm components. But this is changing. While but is now investing a lot in offshore wind. are located in the area to work on the wind a lot of jobs within the offshore wind industry The challenge for local business is then to farm in the construction phase, these people are located in Denmark today, more jobs will develop and strengthen competencies that need transportation, food and services. This be located in other countries who invest in are useful in the offshore wind industry. creates jobs in other industries. And when offshore wind going forward. Local companies need to make sure that they the wind farm is in operation, people are can compete for the orders; that they know needed to operate and maintain it. More jobs in more places is not only a good how to participate in the tender process thing for local areas but for the entire industry. and understand what they have to do to get But the majority of the people who work When countries see jobs created from the job. DONG Energy works to help local in the industry work to produce the many offshore wind, they are more willing to invest companies gain better knowledge of this components that go into a wind farm. in offshore wind. This will grow the industry – and we are already seeing progress. Sometimes only very few companies in a further. PROGRAMME Three pillars for local A Siemens factory Local engagement access to tenders in the UK Stakeholders naturally expect that energy Communication investments in their regions and countries Often, local suppliers who have not worked More jobs within offshore wind are coming to will create local jobs or other types of value. with offshore wind before need to be made the UK. In 2014, the wind turbine producer DONG Energy’s procurement is subject to EU aware of the possibility to bid for the project. Siemens decided to invest EUR 385 million tender law requiring that all large purchases in building a major offshore wind turbine are subject to competitive tenders. While we Transparent process manufacturing site on two locations in the comply with this, we also work to activate If local suppliers know and understand the Hull area. This will create up to 1,000 direct companies from the local supply chain process, they are more likely to bid. jobs in the area once both sites are in full to compete in tenders related to our big operation from 2017 onwards. Additional investment projects in our footprint. Availability jobs will be created during construction and As the developer, we must be available for indirectly in the supply chain. We look beyond our direct suppliers as we answering questions to ensure that the urge our suppliers to procure locally – and we suppliers have the necessary information Clark MacFarlane, Managing Director, Wind work to make sure that local sub-suppliers are to submit their bids. Power Division at Siemens UK said: aware of and have access to project tenders. Moreover, we have training initiatives aimed We call it the Anholt model because it helped “Siemens is a leader in offshore wind, and at qualifying the local workforce to apply for local suppliers win EUR 60 million worth the investment demonstrates our ongoing jobs created by the projects. of orders when DONG Energy built Anholt commitment to UK manufacturing and offshore wind farm in Denmark in 2012 confidence in the industry. The development In some cases, we support local initiatives by and 2013. We use the same model for other of local manufacturing will provide a huge targeted sponsorships. When it is appropriate construction projects, for example for our boost to the UK renewables industry and and customary, we establish Community biomass conversions on the Skærbæk power will help unlock other major projects and Benefit Funds. Local communities can station. investments.” apply for the funds to support development projects. 22 LOCAL JOBS AND ECONOMIC ACTIVITY A renewable energy hub in the UK Thanks to investment from a number of leading renewable energy pioneers, including DONG Energy, the Humber region on the UK’s East coast is now well on its way to becoming a UK and European renewable energy hub and a major contributor to the national economy. Coastal areas around the UK have enjoyed being a focal point for regeneration in recent years with the development on new industries in these areas creating much needed job opportunities and economic investment. This includes the Humber region which is home to the cities of Hull and Grimsby. There is great potential for further development in the Humber that will support the local and regional economy. A key part of this is the development of renewable energy, using the great wind resources from the North Sea to generate electricity through offshore wind. A foundation for a wind turbine is installed at Westermost Rough off the Humber region’s coast. At DONG Energy, we plan to have a long-term presence in the Humber. We currently have three offshore wind farms under development the international renewable energy industry. a family owned and managed construction in the Humber Region and one of these, With our location, expertise and maritime contractor, and they directly employ over 130 Westermost Rough, is currently under traditions, we are in the perfect position to people in the Humber region. Furthermore, construction and due to be fully operational lead the way in operations and maintenance their team is supported by supply chain by mid-2015. Over 900 people have been for offshore wind. The fact that DONG Energy partners drawn mostly from the Humber and involved in the construction works, including is bringing hundreds of direct and indirect North East Lincolnshire area. crew transfer vessels and contractors. Once jobs to the borough furthers our drive to make operational, we expect to directly employ the Humber the UK’s energy hub.” “The Humber region is playing a key role in up to 100 people at Westermost Rough, and building up a UK renewable energy market. around 90% of those employed will be from At DONG Energy, we further signaled our This is our first job for an offshore wind farm the local areas. For this wind farm alone, we commitment to the area by opening the and if we deliver the job successfully we can expect to invest a total of EUR 14.3 million in Grimsby operations and maintenance facility use this project to give clients confidence Grimsby and the Royal Dock. in December 2014. A local supplier, Hobson & in our ability to carry out similar work in Porter, secured the EUR 4.2 million contract the future,” said Paul Taylor, Business Councillor Chris Shaw, leader of the North with us to construct this facility, including a Development Manager at Hobson & Porter. East Lincolnshire Council, said: “Our vision new office building and the refurbishment of is for the Humber to be a leading force in an existing warehouse. Hobson & Porter is The lively harbour of Norddeich − now with renewable energy Norddeich harbour has been known for tourism. Now it is also becoming known for offshore wind. “Thanks to the short distance to the wind “I believe that DONG Energy will improve the farms, we will be able to run everything from harbour. Due to the fact that we have 250,000 this one location,” said Mathias Albrecht, guests and 1.4 million overnight stays each Head of Operations at Borkum Riffgrund, year, Norddeich is mainly known as a ferry port DONG Energy. and for tourism. But it is also a harbour for the maritime industry. The image of our harbour For many years the ferries have shuttled to as an offshore or renewables harbour will be and from the small islands, making it the strengthened with DONG Energy. That’s where Buildings on their way at the harbour. third largest passenger port in Germany. we come full circle: tourism, sustainability, Together with the three marinas, it is a popular renewable energy – this fits perfectly. And, destination for locals and tourists alike. So far, we are very pleased that additional jobs have 280 kilometres West of Hamburg is the DONG Energy has invested EUR 10 million in been and will be created.” small village Norddeich with around 1,750 building roads and buildings in a previously inhabitants and a lively harbour. Now the unexploited part of the harbour. We expect to need 80 full-time positions until harbour is becoming even livelier. At DONG the end of 2015. It is further estimated that up Energy, we have placed the operations and The mayoress of the City of Norden, Barbara to 4,000 people will participate in the offshore maintenance facilities for all three of our Schlag, is hopeful about DONG Energy’s works, with many of them passing through German offshore wind farm projects here. presence in the region: Norddeich. LOCAL JOBS AND ECONOMIC ACTIVITY 23 From fish to energy It used to be all about fish. Today it is all about energy. Energy has replaced fishing as The city of Esbjerg has gained a lot of local jobs from energy. the biggest industry in Esbjerg due to activities around oil, gas and offshore wind Jobs 15,000 12,000 9,000 6,000 3,000 0 1960 1970 1980 1990 2000 2010 2013 The CEO for Esbjerg Port, Ole Ingrisch, appreciates the growing energy industry in Esbjerg. Fishing Energy Across Europe, traditional industries and According to Tom Nielsen, Director of “When it comes to DONG Energy, they are jobs have been disappearing, especially from Business Development Esbjerg, the success one of the biggest energy companies in areas outside of the big cities. is the consequence of many good initiatives Esbjerg with around 360 employees,” said coming together. “The municipality has Ole Ingrisch. The same goes for the Danish city of Esbjerg, pushed the development and the Port of sitting on the Danish North Sea coast with Esbjerg has modernised its facilities to In Esbjerg, DONG Energy produce and 75,000 inhabitants. Fishing was traditionally handle oil, gas and wind turbines. Energy transport oil and gas, have built two offshore the most important industry in Esbjerg. companies have invested in oil and gas fields wind farms, and the Esbjerg power station “From the 1960s the importance of the as well as wind farms. And they have opened dates back to 1946. fishing industry declined. Instead we focused offices and production sites in Esbjerg,” on another offshore industry: energy,” said he said. “Thanks to these investments, the Since 2000, DONG Energy has annually Ole Ingrisch, CEO of Port of Esbjerg. “Today, number of supplier companies has grown invested around EUR 134 million on average 13,500 people work in 250 energy related as well. They drill wells, fly crew to and from in energy in the Esbjerg area and worked companies in Esbjerg. The Port and the city platforms or supply wind turbines or cables, with hundreds of suppliers. This has enabled have adapted to the changed situation and and today export their know-how to other us to grow our North Sea business within oil, have transformed their activities from fish to countries”. gas and wind, and it has supported Esbjerg energy.” in growing its energy industry. Major construction works on Shetland Natural gas is set to become an important source of revenue for the Shetland Islands – a group of islands North-East of the Scottish mainland. The Laggan-Tormore gas fields are creating jobs and long-term revenue in the region. back many years and the infrastructure being based on Shetland. In addition, the project built by the project will provide a vital hub has provided business opportunities for many for the processing and export of gas from the local companies, ranging from construction region long into the future. and transport to catering and hotels. We expect that the newly constructed gas plant “We are facing a very exciting and important will create up to 80 full-time jobs related to year ahead as we expect to start production of daily operations and maintenance and will gas from the fields in 2015, which will mark our continue to provide ongoing opportunities for first production in the UK,” said Simon Slater, local business.” TOTAL employees at Laggan-Tormore. DONG Energy’s representative for LagganTormore. The economic benefits of the project and the following production will have significant The Laggan-Tormore project is jointly owned Robert Faulds, TOTAL’s Project Director, impact, both locally and nationally. It is by DONG Energy and TOTAL who operate the elaborates on the local value that the project anticipated that this development will day-to-day activities − DONG Energy has a brings: “At its peak, the project has involved contribute over EUR 230 million to the 20% share. Our investment in the project goes over 2,500 temporary construction workers Shetland economy over its lifetime. 24 OFFSHORE WIND WORKS GREEN ENERGY How do we produce The energy sector still accounts for a large part of the EU’s greenhouse gas emissions greener energy? Consumers should have access 11.8 tonnes to greener energy. The production per European of energy still accounted for a 9.1 tonnes quarter of European greenhouse gas per European emissions in 2012. The transformation towards more green energy has begun, but energy companies still have an important role to play in limiting emissions. 30% 25% When Europe has to replace its 1990 2012 numerous old coal-fired and nuclear power stations over the next two Energy sector’s emissions Others’ emissions decades, it should do so with green energy. At the same time, it is important that we use energy as efficiently as possible in order to Explore this focus area minimise CO2 emissions. 25 And whether the energy is green From black to green energy or black, energy infrastructure impacts 27 the environment. As an energy Biomass must be sustainable company, we have to care for the local environment around our wind farms, 28 Energy efficiency is a package solution power stations and oil and gas platforms. 29 We need to care for the environment FROM BLACK TO GREEN ENERGY 25 Human caused climate change requires human action It is now clear that human activity is Global average surface temperature extremely likely to be the dominant cause of the global warming of the climate system. ºC Limiting climate change and the resulting weather changes requires dedicated efforts 14.5 to bring down global CO2 emissions. The energy industry accounts for around a quarter of CO2 emissions and therefore has an important role to play. 14.0 The good news is that if we act now rather than later, the transformation to cleaner energy will be less expensive as we can take 13.5 advantage of the fact that capacity needs to be replaced anyway. 1850 1900 1950 2000 Year PROGRAMME Reducing CO2 emissions 41% reduced CO2 emissions in DONG Energy, 2006-2014 gCO2/KWh In DONG Energy, our target is to reduce CO2 emissions from our electricity and heat generation by 60% in the period between 800 2006 and 2020. We are well on our way by converting our power 700 638 stations from coal and gas to biomass and by installing offshore wind farms. In 2014, we had reduced our CO2 emissions by 41%. 600 500 Our own analysis shows that we have reduced our CO2 emissions at a faster pace than our European peers. Being ahead of the 400 pack gives us a strong position in the market for green energy 374 260 300 technologies, which attracts competencies and capital to our business. 200 2006 2008 2010 2012 2014 2016 2018 2020 Actual Target Reduced CO2 emissions from our electricity 46% of DONG Energy’s and heat generation in 2014 electricity and heat generation was based on renewable energy in 2014 Compared to 2006, DONG Energy has reduced the same amount of CO2 as more than 6 million cars emit in one year. That equals taking Fossil fuels Renewables 46% 54% all cars off the streets of both London and Berlin for a year and a half. 26 FROM BLACK TO GREEN ENERGY Less coal is less CO2 Coal is the most CO2 intensive fuel gCO2/KWh In 1990, 41% of the EU’s power generation We are converting our Danish power 1,000 was coal-based. In 2012, 29% still was. stations so that coal and gas is replaced by 800 This is problematic as coal is the most sustainable biomass. Biomass is a costCO2-intensive fuel energy companies can effective way to meet CO2 reduction targets 600 use at their power stations. as it is cheaper to rebuild existing power 400 stations than to build an entirely new energy 200 In DONG Energy, we are reducing our use infrastructure. 0 of coal at our power stations. Today, we Coal Oil Gas have transformed from being one of the In 2020, at least 50% of our electricity most coal-intensive utilities in Europe to and heat generation at Danish central becoming a global leader in renewable power stations will come from sustainable The values represent the average amount of CO2 per KWh of electricity produced in OECD energy. Since 2006, we have reduced our use biomass, compared with 28% in 2014. The member countries 2009-2011. Actual values of coal by 65% and we intend to continue conversions will give our customers the may vary considerably due to e.g. input/output the development. This will reduce our CO2 green energy they demand. efficiencies. emissions significantly. In DONG Energy, we have reduced our use of coal by 65% since 2006 Expected use in 2006 2014 2017 6.2 million tonnes 2.2 million tonnes 1.6 million tonnes From coal to wood pellets A new bio solution DONG Energy’s Inbicon technology is a new Today, around a quarter of a million people in Aarhus, Denmark, bio solution that has potential to reduce CO2 by replacing black energy with green energy. receive their district heating from DONG Energy’s Studstrup power station. From the end of 2016 they can look forward to their Inbicon can effectively turn many types of low-value agricultural byproducts into heating turning green when sustainable wood pellets replace coal. high-value, renewable energy products. One of these products is second-generation bioethanol which is a green fuel for cars, and conversion of the power station ensures a another is lignin that can be used at power significant reduction in the power station’s stations to produce green heat and power. annual coal consumption,” said Lars While first generation bioethanol is based on Lærkedahl, project manager for the Studstrup food crops, second-generation bioethanol is conversion. based on byproducts only. But exactly how sustainable is it to use We have established partnerships on Inbicon wood pellets instead of coal? Lars explained: in Brazil, China and Denmark. Brazil is the “The wood pellets will be transported by world’s second largest bioethanol market ship from Europe and North America to the and we have partnered with Odebrecht power station’s harbour. Even including Agroindustrial to investigate opportunities Lars Lærkedahl, Project Manager for the Studstrup transportation and processing, the wood for Inbicon: conversion. pellets will reduce CO2 emissions by approximately 90% compared to coal and “We aim to integrate a first-generation thus save the environment up to 800,000 bioethanol plant with the Inbicon Together with Aarhus Municipality’s heating tonnes of CO2 per year. This is as much as technology. The solution will utilize the supply company AffaldVarme Aarhus (AVA), 89,000 Europeans emit in a year.” byproducts from the first-generation we are converting the Studstrup power bioethanol plant to produce further ethanol station to run on sustainable wood pellets “This CO2 reduction contributes significantly from the existing farmland,” said Henrik from the end of 2016. DONG Energy is to Aarhus’ target of becoming CO2 neutral Maimann, Vice President for New Bio managing the conversion. by 2030,” said Bjarne Munk Jensen, Head of Solutions at DONG Energy. AVA. “And it is achieved in a cost-effective “Millions of tonnes of coal have since 1962 way that ensures stable heat prices for the been used to run the Studstrup power citizens of Aarhus the coming years.” station. Now we are changing this. The green Read more: Fact sheet on sustainability of biomass www.dongenergy.com/sustainability2014-biomass BIOMASS MUST BE SUSTAINABLE 27 What makes biomass PROGRAMME sustainable? Sustainable biomass To realise the energy transformation we When trees are cut down, they are made into need more green energy. Power station timber used for houses, furniture and paper. All biomass that we use must be sustainable. fuelled by wood pellets and wood chips can The remains from this process – around Heat and power production based on sustaincomplement the more unstable wind and 4% – are used for wood pellets or chips. In able biomass is CO2-neutral. Even if we take into solar energy. But the biomass, of course, modern forestry, forests are also thinned out account processing and transport, emissions are has to be sustainable so that it actually does gradually to help the forests stay healthy. reduced by 80-90% compared to coal or gas. reduce CO2 emissions and preserves the This low quality wood is also used for energy. ecosystem and biodiversity. If done in the To ensure this, we have developed the DONG right way, biomass can be sustainable. There is good and bad biomass. What is Energy Programme for Sustainable Biomass important is to find a way to make sure that Sourcing. Under this programme, our suppliers In modern forestry, when trees are cut the biomass we use for energy is produced must comply with specific sustainability down new trees are planted so the size of in a good and sustainable way. This requires requirements. When the programme is fully the forests is maintained. When trees are sustainability criteria, certification and implemented in 2019, all the wood pellets and replanted, they absorb the same amount of audits. wood chips we use will be certified by a third CO2 that was emitted when they were cut party auditor. Already next year we will be able down. This creates a CO2-neutral, closedto start documenting that the biomass is in loop life cycle. compliance with our requirements. The programme is based on the Danish industry agreement which again is based on the currently most stringent requirements for biomass in the EU. With the programme we get access to the CO2 sustainable biomass that we need to give new and greener life to our coal fired power stations. And we help develop a new market for a green alternative to coal and gas on power stations. Our programme for sustainable biomass ensures that: •T rees are continuously replanted so that the volume of the forest is stable or increasing which makes the forest able to constantly recapture and store the CO2 emitted from burning wood pellets and wood chips. Low quality wood • The forests ecosystems and bioResiduals diversity are protected to ensure the Thinning trees forest’s health and vitality. Wood pellets and wood chips • Social and labour rights are respected. Partnership to certify Together with six other European energy companies we have developed a sustainabilisupply chain and to demonstrate any CO2 reduction compared to fossil fuels. The SBP sustainability ty certification system designed specifically system is the most ambitious available being for woody biomass. We call it Sustainable specifically designed to meet the requireBiomass Partnership (SBP). ments of the European market” said Peter Wilson, Executive Director of SBP. We have established the partnership because internationally there are no mutually agreed In the future, DONG Energy’s biomass legal guidelines for defining when biomass supply will be based on SBP-certified can be defined as sustainable. Moreover, the suppliers. “To ensure that our wood pellets sustainability certification schemes that do and chips comply with our own sustainability exist have not been widely implemented in all programme and consequently the Danish source areas and do not meet the need for energy industry agreement, we will use the measuring total CO2 emissions throughout SBP certification. Independent third party the value chain. auditors will audit the suppliers on the implementation,” said Peter Kofod Peter Kofod Kristensen, Lead Sustainability Advisor “The SBP system enables energy companies Kristensen, Lead Sustainability Advisor at DONG Energy. to record energy and carbon data along the at DONG Energy. 28 ENERGY EFFICIENCY IS A PACKAGE SOLUTION PROGRAMME Customer energy savings Energy efficiency is a package solution: It limits climate change and pollution, it contributes to less energy imports and last but not least, it minimises the amount of money spent on energy. With regard to limiting Energy savings with DONG Energy’s climate change, energy efficiency accounts for half of the CO2 savings that the countries of Danish customers the world are planning towards 2040. In DONG Energy, we advise our private and Since 2006, we have worked with our business customers on how to use less energy. Danish customers to save a total of This includes our climate partnerships with 2.2 TWh – the same as almost 32 million around 100 businesses, local authorities and public institutions – and at the moment we are increasing our focus on how we can best help our private customers save energy. We also take our own advice by working on our own energy efficiency in our office buildings. A+++ fridges use in a year. Saving money and CO2 through climate partnerships Through around 100 climate partnerships, we work with our partners to reduce their energy costs and CO2 emissions, to support investments in new renewable energy and to share knowledge. For instance, in 2013, Egetæpper used 21% less energy than they did in 2006. Their total CO2 savings amount to 24,000 tonnes, corresponding to the emissions of almost 2,600 Danes in one year. “Our responsibility and climate strategy has been converted into specific activities on which we work systematically,” said Jan Ladefoged, CSR Manager at Egetæpper. We work with our climate partners to save continuous focus and progress in the climate To build on this success, we renewed the energy. And by giving our partners certified partnership and monitor how far we’ve come partnership with Egetæpper in 2014. One climate-friendly power from offshore wind compared to our objective. The result is that of the new ambitious targets is to cut farms or bio natural gas, we are able to cover our responsibility and climate strategy has Egetæpper’s energy consumption and CO2 all or part of their power consumption with been converted into specific activities on which emissions in half by 2020 compared with renewable energy. we work systematically,” said Jan Ladefoged, 2006. CSR Manager at Egetæpper. Our climate partners range from companies Through the climate partnerships, we build such as Novo Nordisk and Daloon to KMD and Together we have managed to reach the strong relationships with important business Tivoli. In 2011, we entered into a partnership target of reducing both Egetæpper’s energy customers. We work through common value with the Danish carpet manufacturer, consumption and CO2 emissions by 20% sets to use less energy and help transform Egetæpper: through energy saving projects. We reached this the energy supply to more renewable energy. target one year ahead of schedule in 2013. The “DONG Energy is assisting us in structuring savings are furthermore invested in renewable our efforts even further, so that we ensure energy through offshore wind from Horns Rev 2. Read more: Fact sheet on environmental management www.dongenergy.com/sustainability2014-environment WE NEED TO CARE FOR THE ENVIRONMENT 29 PROGRAMME Environmental management Big infrastructure projects and energy proTo do this, we naturally focus on complying impacts on the environment. We therefore duction impact the environment. These efwith all legal as well as other environmental identify and minimise the risk of emergency fects can be reduced, but not fully prevented. requirements. We also strive to minimise situations and environmental incidents, and our most significant environmental risks by we ensure that our response is prepared, DONG Energy used to be one of the most addressing the environmental aspects of our should an accident happen. coal intensive energy companies in Europe. activities, products and services. Among othToday, we are a leader in renewable energy. er things, these include our emissions to air, Still, CO2 emissions account for a significant use of energy, impact on the biodiversity and part of our impact on the environment. We the sustainability of the biomass we source. therefore work strategically to reduce our emissions. We are committed to minimising Last but not least, any accident in the explothe resource consumption and environmental ration, production, generation and distribuimpacts related to our activities. tion of energy can potentially have severe A small but important fish Mitigating underwater noise The capelin is a small but important fish in the ecosystem of the Installation of foundations for offshore wind Barents Sea. DONG Energy is supporting a research project with turbines by piling the foundations into the Akvaplan-niva to determine the effect of capelin spawn being seabed creates noise under the water. At close distance, the noise is loud enough exposed to a simulated oil spill combated with chemicals. to potentially impact the hearing system of marine mammals such as seals and demanded ‘flexible scientists’. After gathering porpoises, and over considerable distances the eggs, we have dedicated many hours from the construction site the noise can affect to the microscope every day to monitor the their behaviour. developing embryos and make sure that any effects were detected.” “In DONG Energy, we always make sure to follow the relevant national requirements Lill-Gøril Seljelv, QHSE Manager at DONG and agree with the authorities on how to Energy E&P Norway, has been following mitigate environmental risks before we begin the experiment: “The eggs are exposed to a the construction of a wind farm. At the same simulated oil spill which is combated with time we participate in and support relevant chemicals. The chemicals accelerate nature’s biological research projects in order to ensure own dispersion of oil spills.” that any requirements are in line with the best Capelin spawn is important to the eco-system. available scientific knowledge,” said Stine So why is this experiment important? “Today, Andersen, Head of Environment & Consents we don’t know what impact the chemicals in DONG Energy. Capelin is common in large parts of the and the dispersed oil have on the eggs and Barents Sea where DONG Energy is present the larvae. An experiment like this has never “When it comes to mitigation of underwater with four oil and gas licences. Capelin is the been undertaken before, and the result is noise we used a new mitigation tool in 2014 most important prey for cod and therefore important since capelin is a key species in for the construction of our German wind farm crucial for the development of the North-East the Barents Sea, and many other species feed Borkum Riffgrund 1 in order to meet the strict arctic cod population. It is also important on it. The experiment will determine both the German noise requirements; a so called noise prey for the harp seal and sea birds. DONG mortality rate, malformation and the effect on mitigation screen,” said Stine. Energy is supporting the Norwegian research hatching,” said Lill-Gøril. organisation and consultancy Akvaplan-niva She elaborated: “It consists of a doublewith EUR 120,000 to find out exactly how The partnership between DONG Energy wall steel screen with an air gap in between damaging an oil spill would be to capelin and Akvaplan-niva brings new in-depth providing a noise barrier. The screen spawn. Akvaplan-niva are specialised in Arctic knowledge on a topic that is relevant for surrounds the foundation during the environmental research. regulatory authorities and the industry piling operation which reduces the noise as well as environmental management in transmitted through the water. In combination Marianne Frantzen, scientist and project general. For DONG Energy, it contributes to with a modified piling strategy, the screen manager at Akvaplan-niva, explained the us being a committed and active partner in made us able to reduce the noise emission to amount of time and flexibility that the project Barents area, and the knowledge we obtain the acceptable level and thereby preventing a has required: “We have spent a lot of time from the experiment will also be important to potential impact on the marine mammals in monitoring known spawning beaches to our activities in other areas. It is important the area.” make sure that we detected fertilised eggs for us to gain substantial knowledge to as soon as possible after a spawning had preserve biodiversity no matter where we have taken place. And since the capelin seems to activities. prefer to spawn during Easter Holiday this has 30 OFFSHORE WIND WORKS PEOPLE MATTER How do we promote Fewer accidents in DONG Energy safety, the right skills LTIF and a motivating 12 working environment? 10 8 6 In the energy industry, people work 4 with large structures and machines, 2 sometimes offshore where powerful natural forces are at play. We have to 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 make sure that everybody gets home Lost Time Injury Frequency (LTIF) is the number of accidents which lead safely to their families every day. to absence of a day or more per one million working hours. People also matter because unless we have skilled people in the energy industry, there will be no energy Explore this focus area transformation. We need to find the right people and help them develop their skills so they can push the 31 The safe way or no way transformation forward. 32 And if we in DONG Energy manage We need skilled people to create a motivating and healthy 33 working environment, our people will Satisfied, motivated and healthy employees feel better when they are at work and at home, and they will be more satisfied. Read more: Fact sheet on safety www.dongenergy.com/sustainability2014-safety THE SAFE WAY OR NO WAY 31 PROGRAMME A safe workplace Fewer accidents in DONG Energy In the energy industry, people work with large, heavy structures and machines − and often at sea and at height. Here, even the slightest mistakes can lead to serious accidents. Ensuring safe working conditions based on a solid safety culture is a constant challenge. In DONG Energy, we never compromise on safety standards. By 2020, our LTIF must be below 1.5. In 2014, we continued on the right track 2007 2014 2020 target as we lowered our LTIF to 2.4. LTIF of LTIF of LTIF of Three elements are paramount to ensuring high safety in DONG Energy: 1) maintaining and improving safety systems based on 10.3 2.4 < 1.5 systematically identifying and mitigating risks to reinforce a solid foundation for safety performance; 2) strengthening the safety Own employees Contractor employees culture to inspire and motivate each employee to integrate safety Lost Time Injury Frequency (LTIF) is the number of accidents which result in into their work; and 3) working with contractors to ensure high safety absence of a day or more per one million working hours. The figure includes performance for all parties. both DONG Energy employees and contractors’ employees working on sites which are either owned or operated by DONG Energy. Strengthening Contractors committed to safety safety culture To achieve a safe working environment, we gathered the In DONG Energy, safety is an integral part of our everyday work. We work to strengthen the contractors and suppliers for the Gode Wind offshore wind safety culture in all areas of our business. project with one item on the agenda: obtaining a shared “Because not two projects are the same commitment to safety. and because accidents do not only happen in construction and operation sites, solid In the spring of 2014, DONG Energy invited safety procedures cannot do it alone. Also, the senior management of seven major administration employees’ work way affect contractors and suppliers for the Gode the safety of colleagues on-site, for example Wind 1+2 projects to a safety kick-off day in through purchase choices and project Copenhagen. This was the first event of its management. Safety has to be an intrinsic kind prior to an offshore wind project. The part of the culture across our business,” purpose of the day was for the participants to said Charlotte Bryldt Theisen, Manager for discuss how to achieve a high level of safety Occupational Health and Safety at DONG and to sign a safety charter stating a joint Energy. commitment to no life-changing events. We want to make sure that the number of people In August 2013, we launched a safety culture coming to work in the morning is the number programme across all business areas called of people leaving unharmed in the afternoon. ‘Safety through the Line’, signalling that it is a line responsibility to ensure a strong safety The contractors appreciated the initiative: culture. This means that shaping the right “In GeoSea we work continuously with safety mindset starts with a commitment from the improvements and it is one of our focus top management and filters down through areas, so it is part of how we conduct our our leaders to every employee. business. Therefore we welcome the concept of getting the senior management from the “An important focus in Safety through different contractors and suppliers committed the Line is that all employees have the to a shared safety attitude,” said Luc Samuel Leupold, Executive Vice President of DONG responsibility to proactively seek to prevent Vandenbulcke, General Manager at GeoSea. Energy Wind Power, is committed to safety. accidents. An important tool for this is to register and describe any near misses that “It was great to see that everybody was they observe so that preventive measures committed and deeply engaged to improve According to Samuel Leupold, Executive Vice can be implemented. Our motto is: ‘You see safety on the Gode Wind project. The President of DONG Energy Wind Power, the it, you own it!’,” said Charlotte. discussions showed that the attitude event will be repeated for future construction regarding safety is spot-on. This will benefit projects: “Getting all the CEOs in the same We see that our efforts are working. Since the Gode Wind project as well as future room and have them committed to a vigorous ‘Safety through the Line’ was launched, our projects,” said Jan Thomsen, Programme safety focus is a great way to prepare for the LTIF has dropped by 38%. Director at Gode Wind. construction of the project.” Read more: Fact sheet on skilled and motivated employees 32 WE NEED SKILLED PEOPLE www.dongenergy.com/sustainability2014-employees Being ambitious requires the best people The energy industry is changing rapidly. We constantly need new competencies, including highly technical expert knowledge, to make sure that we can drive the energy transformation forward. This does not happen by itself. Companies have to be able to attract the best people and to retain them to succeed in being ahead in a constantly changing market. PROGRAMME Performance and Cultivating a performance culture development A wide range of highly skilled specialists and managers work DONG Energy’s vision is to lead the energy at DONG Energy. We need to make sure that they perform their transformation. This rests on the hard work best and that we discover and develop the talents that stand out. of our highly skilled and deeply committed employees. Therefore we make a dedicated and persistent effort to attract and retain the Managing performance is first and foremost a structured annual People Review to assess best people. matter of setting clear objectives, rewarding their performance and the potential within results and handling poor performance openly the organisation. It helps managers develop We work systematically with getting the right and actively. their employees’ skills and abilities, and it is people on board, managing our employees’ the foundation for next year’s performance performance, developing their skills and “In order to ensure a continuous focus management cycle.” supporting their careers. We invest in our on growing our employees and providing employees to retain a workforce with the them with feedback, all employees have a In many cases, our specialists are among the right skills and to ensure high performance. Performance & Development Dialogue (PDD) best in the industry. To ensure that we continue with their immediate manager twice a year. to have highly qualified people, training is of We believe diversity will help ensure that The purpose is to evaluate performance, great importance. In addition, we emphasise we have an attractive workplace creating define objectives for the present year and to the interpersonal skills of our specialists value for customers, owners, employees, the discuss general wellbeing, career planning and and project managers. We have three talent broader society and other interested parties. competence development,” said Hanne Blume, programmes for employees and leaders who Therefore, we make an effort to recruit Head of People & Development. have proven high performance and whose broadly and ensure equal opportunities development potential is considered high. The through transparent recruitment and “In addition, all managers and several programmes prepare talents at different levels performance management processes. specialists are evaluated through a of the organisation to advance to the next level. More POWERful women for the energy sector To ensure that we make use of the entire pool building stronger businesses,” said Baroness of skills available and to promote diversity, Verma, UK Minister for Energy and Climate DONG Energy has a specific focus on Change and Co-Founder of POWERful Women. promoting women in management. We have developed a policy and set targets to improve DONG Energy has set the share of women at all management levels. 2014 2020 target targets for women in In DONG Energy, 30% of our employees Top management are female. It is a challenge for us as well as the industry to increase the share of women in management. We support a number of management (top 50) 14% >22% initiatives to attract more women to the energy Leadership 20% 25% sector, including the POWERful Women UK campaign. forum > (top 350) “DONG Energy has been one of the early driving forces behind POWERful Women – recognising the need to boost female leaderOther managers 24% > 32% ship within our energy sector as part of SATISFIED, MOTIVATED AND HEALTHY EMPLOYEES 33 PROGRAMME Employee satisfaction and motivation Our employees spend a lot of their time with By 2020, our target is to reach 77 out of 100 Satisfied and motivated employees DONG Energy. We need to ensure that they on employee satisfaction and motivation in are important to DONG Energy’s enjoy coming to work and that, when they the annual People Matter survey. In 2014 it return home in the evening, they are satisfied was rated at 72 out of 100, whereby it fell by success with their contribution. Importantly, satisfied two index points since the survey in 2012. and motivated employees are more likely to The fact that we have been subject to immense stay with us. media attention in Denmark is, of course, reflected in the figures. The result is still higher Each year, we ask all employees to rate their than the average for the Danish labour market 74 72 77 satisfaction, motivation and a number of other so it is a small change from a high level. But factors in our People Matter survey. 94% of it is a challenge that we need to address. employees responded to this year’s survey, which was the highest response rate to date. Each department in DONG Energy makes a This is evidence of wide support from the targeted effort to ensure satisfied and moti2012 2014 2020 employees. vated employees through performance and target development dialogues. Another specific initiative is increased focus on employee health. Rating on a scale from 0 to 100 A stake in the Employees’ health and energy company to increase motivation is vital to our organisation Our success is highly influenced by the performance of In 2014, DONG Energy launched an employee share programme that gave every employee in DONG Energy. As we invest in developing all employees the possibility of investing employees’ skills, we also invest in their well-being. their own money in shares up to a value of approximately EUR 5,370. The price of the shares was the price paid by our investors, with a special discount of 25% for the employees. Moreover, our employees can be awarded matching shares when DONG Energy is expected to go public and be listed on the Danish stock exchange, depending on the performance of DONG Energy at that time compared with a benchmark group of European energy companies. “The purpose of the programme is to Employees participating in Tour de DONG Energy in Denmark. promote a common interest among the employees, the management and our shareholders in supporting the value “Helping employees to maintain a high The two health checks showed that our creation in DONG Energy. The employee energy level will increase their resilience employees’ health is generally high and share programme gives all employees in and general performance over time. And we above average compared to other large DONG Energy an opportunity to get a share acknowledge that health is a key influencing Danish companies. Also, we saw a significant of that value creation,” said Hanne Blume, factor on the energy level. Investing in improvement of the weakest 10% in the two Head of People & Development. employee health is not only a protection of years. But we can still improve: our human assets, but also a performance Just over 3,000 employees chose to buy enabler for the future,” said Hanne Blume, “The lowest health scores turned out to be shares. One of them was Katrine Ostenfeldt, Head of People & Development in DONG with the youngest group of employees aged Application Consultant at DONG Energy: Energy. below 30. When you consider that these people are the future, and that they are “I think that it is a very good opportunity for “We offer our employees a variety of health expected to stay in the job market until they me as an employee to invest in the company benefits depending on their location, reach their 70s, it is important to address this I work for. Of course there are always risks including fitness facilities, sports events, challenge,” said Hanne. associated with buying shares. But I believe healthy food and health insurance. In that we will acquire a listing and a good 2011, we offered a health check for all our We plan to increase our focus on employee return on investment.” employees which was followed up by targeted health in 2015. Because of the overall good initiatives and another health check in results of the health checks, we will be 2013/14.” looking at preventing rather than remedying general health issues going forward. 34 OFFSHORE WIND WORKS BUSINESS INTEGRITY How do we ensure that we operate our business with high integrity? At DONG Energy, we want to be open and trustworthy and uphold high ethical standards. We take pride in running a business where high integrity is the fundamental basis for everything we do. But it can be a challenge to always Explore this focus area know what is the right decision to make. We work in a competitive and 35 challenging environment. As a company To do the right thing and as individuals, we are faced with 36 financial, technical, commercial and Customers are the basis of our business human challenges every day. But we have to do the right thing. We 37 therefore have a range of initiatives Responsibility reaches beyond our own walls and processes in place to ensure good 38 business conduct. A responsible approach to tax In the last few years, DONG Energy has gone through a period of turbulence which has made many Danes question our integrity. While we believe that we operate our business with integrity, we acknowledge that it takes time to win back the public’s trust. Read more: Policy on good business conduct www.dongenergy.com/goodbusinessconduct TO DO THE RIGHT THING 35 Operating with high integrity The Danes’ trust in DONG Energy has declined Integrity is important to DONG Energy, can be many reasons for this. The debate because we have a responsibility to do the that took place in Denmark in early 2014 54 right thing and because companies with around new owners investing in the company 43 integrity are simply more healthy companies. could be one reason. When we look at how we are perceived, We need to demonstrate through our actions we can see that we have a challenge in that DONG Energy is a company that can be Denmark. When the Danes are asked if they trusted. We have to make the right decisions 2011 2014 trust DONG Energy, we are given a score of and ensure that we have a culture that 43 on a scale from 0-100. This is a significant promotes integrity. Respondents are asked if DONG Energy is a company change compared to a few years back. There they trust. Rating on a scale from 0 to 100. PROGRAMME Good business conduct Making the right decision is not always straightforward. Because our employees Committee, chaired by our CEO, Henrik Poulsen. The committee monitors how we 97% of DONG Energy’s employees had are only human it can be difficult – even for conduct our business and it handles issues in 2014 completed our e-learning in someone with the best of intentions. when they arise. good business conduct. DONG Energy’s Good Business Conduct Our Internal Audit function is one of Policy gives guidance to how employees our most important tools to uphold high Auditors (IIA) completed an External Quality should act. It states how employees integrity standards in our business conduct. Assessment to document that the function should act in situations that could lead to It is an independent body controlling that generally conforms with the IAA’s Standards inappropriate or even illegal behaviour, such our processes, controls and governance for Professional Practice of Internal Auditing. as fraud, bribery, corruption, use of insider support compliance with our rules and This ensures that the quality of Internal information or anti-competitive behaviour. that the decisions are made in the right Audit’s work is in line with international The policy was updated in 2014. That same way. It was established in 2013 and in June requirements for a value-adding Internal year, we also established a Compliance 2014 the international Institute of Internal Audit function. Listening to whistleblowers During its first year, DONG Energy’s new Whistleblower Hotline has shed light on a number of cases involving inappropriate and illegal business conduct. Gerda Retbøll-Bauer, head of DONG Energy’s “In general, I find that DONG Energy has Internal Audit, explained: “The cases a culture of high ethical standards that involved issues such as misuse of credit we should definitely maintain and develop cards, kickback from suppliers, breach of further. I am happy to see that the new confidentiality, conflicts of interests and hotline is effective. It’s important that the questionable supplier agreements.” employees feel comfortable using the setup,” Gerda responded. DONG Energy’s response is clear: “We examine all reports in depth. We cannot She continued: “At the same time, there accept any breaches of our rules governing should be no doubt that we take all reports Gerda Retbøll-Bauer, head of DONG Energy’s good business conduct. The six cases have very seriously. We also focus on preventing Internal Audit. all had consequences for the employment that similar cases occur again, and in this relationship of the employees involved, and context line management has a responsibility in one case the matter was reported to the for ensuring that all employees understand DONG Energy relaunched its Whistleblower police,” said Gerda. the Group’s set of rules and expectations Hotline in January 2014, followed by an concerning good business conduct.” extensive awareness campaign. Since then, Last year, the number of cases filed was zero. six fully or partly substantiated cases of The question is then whether our business inappropriate and illegal business conduct culture has changed or people have become have been reported. better at reacting to suspicious matters? 36 CUSTOMERS ARE THE BASIS OF OUR BUSINESS A reputation that could be better No business can exist without satisfied who do mainly know us as an offshore wind few years. Compared to other large Danish customers. At DONG Energy, we want to company because of our visible activities companies, our reputation is now below be the preferred supplier for our customers. there. In Denmark the story is different. average. We have customers in Denmark, the UK, the DONG Energy is one of the big, well-known Netherlands, Sweden and Germany. We are companies in Denmark and the Danes are However, people who know DONG Energy among the largest power and gas suppliers part-owners the company through the partial well, rank us higher. And those of our in Denmark and the third largest gas supplier state ownership. The Danes therefore have a customers who have been in contact with us to the UK industrial and commercial market. stake in DONG Energy. rate us significantly higher than the general perception. In the UK for instance, we have In the UK and Germany, most people do not We have a challenge with our reputation in a proven track record of outstanding service, know much about DONG Energy, and those Denmark, as it has declined over the last voted no. 1 for customer service a record seven times running. PROGRAMME Building good customer relations At DONG Energy, we want to improve our We also want to improve our customers’ We want our Danish customers to reputation among our Danish customers. By experience in all the contact points that they perceive DONG Energy positively 2020, our target is to be rated at 75 out of have with us. One key contact point is our call 100 on how positively our Danish private and centres where we, as part of a programme we business customers perceive us, respectively. call ‘Customer First’, are working strategically In 2014, private customers rated us at 67 out with improving our service. Another key of 100, while business customers rated us at contact point is the electricity bill which we 76 out of 100. have made more simple and transparent. When our customers are asked what they But in the end, most people just want a lower Private Business think about DONG Energy, some of the energy bill − so we want to help with this. In customers customers specific criteria that they rank low are: 2015, we will introduce an app to help the trustworthiness, ethical behaviour and Danes save energy. Because even though our 2014 2020 target 2014 2020 target meeting the customer’s needs. These are important areas that we focus on going prices are some of the lowest in the market, it is really the amount of energy you use that 67 75 76 75 forward. makes the difference. Once you change your own energy behaviour, this is when you really Rating on a scale from 1 to 100 feel it in your wallet. We want to provide outstanding customer service Our customer centres are often the place where customers get a chance to talk to us. And even though our reputation could be better, the good news is that our customers are generally much happier with DONG Energy once they have talked to us. The customer satisfaction at our customer The customer centre in Virum receives more centre for private electricity customers in than 2,000 inquiries every day by email Virum, Denmark is high with an average of and phone. The service has to remain high 84% in 2014. This is the result of the customer regardless of who and how many people are centre being on a cultural journey since calling. 2013. Key parts of the journey have been optimising how quickly we can respond to the “Positive customer experiences create high customers and developing the employees to customer satisfaction. That is important help them become more service-minded. This because it strengthens DONG Energy as has improved how the customers experience a company in an electricity market that is their contact with DONG Energy. And we are becoming increasingly competitive,” said Jan working to improve our customer service even Peter Bjørnbak, Head of Operations at the Jan Peter Bjørnbak, Head of Operations at the further. customer centre in Virum. customer centre in Virum, helping a colleague. Read more: Fact sheet on responsible sourcing www.dongenergy.com/sustainability2014-responsiblesourcing RESPONSIBILITY REACHES BEYOND OUR OWN WALLS 37 Step-by-step improvements DONG Energy has more than 20,000 effective to work with the supplier and help the suppliers globally. Add to that thousands company to improve step by step. That creates of sub-suppliers. Some of these are located real change for the employees who work for in countries that do not meet international the supplier company or for the environment. standards for human and labour rights, the environment or anti-corruption. With this many suppliers, it is important to be DONG Energy has more than 20,000 able to identify the suppliers who need help If a supplier repeatedly fails to live up to and to work with them in a consistent and these standards, we can end the cooperation structured way so that they improve. with the supplier. But in general, it is more suppliers around the world. PROGRAMME Responsible sourcing We work with our suppliers through our Responsible Sourcing Programme. In Responsible sourcing at DONG Energy 2014, we launched an updated version of the Programme. We communicate our expectations in a Code of Conduct; we screen 1 Code of All suppliers must accept our ethical, 4 If supplier performance falls short of our expectations, contracts to determine risks of poor practice; Conduct and we carry out assessments to work social and we collaborate on the with suppliers to identify and address poor environmental development of an practice. expectations improvement plan. In connection with the programme, we hold Our approach is based on internal training courses to ensure that 2 We perform risk screenings to dialogue in good faith and continuous engagement. responsible sourcing is well integrated in identify medium our procurement processes. Almost 150 and high-risk procurement employees from all our business suppliers units participated in the training in 2014. Improving conditions for people and the environment in our supply chain also benefits 3 We assess supplier performance DONG Energy. It gives us a more stable through site supply chain where unforeseen and costly assessments or delays are less likely, and it improves our self-assessments relationships with suppliers. Respecting We demand Danish working conditions human rights In Denmark, salaries are determined by as we experienced during 2014 at our Oil collective agreements and not stated by law. Terminal in Fredericia. At DONG Energy, we are committed to At DONG Energy, we support this model. The respecting human rights and not be complicit challenge is that it enables some contractors We therefore make it clear to our contractors in human rights abuses. We address human to legally provide services in Denmark based that we do not tolerate social dumping in rights in our supply chain through our Code on much lower salaries to posted workers Denmark. We explain to them how the Danish of Conduct, and our Responsible Sourcing than local workers would receive. As the labour market model works and that they Programme ensures that we perform due system works, it is up to labour unions to have to meet the Danish minimum standards diligence on our suppliers and engage with engage with contractors individually to check protected by the EU Posted Workers Directive. our suppliers in the event of adverse human if they meet the local common minimum right impacts in the supply chain. terms, potentially by threat of labour conflict. “We demand that posted workers for our contractors in Denmark receive salary Most of our own employees work in Northern We rely on the expertise of international and rights no less favourable than the Europe where respect for human rights is contractors and the competition and ideas most representative Danish collective generally at a high level. Regardless, we also they deliver. However, we do realise that the agreement. In this way we encourage the need to make sure that human rights are increase of posted workers puts pressure fruitful competition of all contractors on a always respected in our own operations. In on the efforts of the labour unions and the level playing field based on Danish working 2015, we plan to do an assessment of human Danish labour market model as such. And the conditions,” said Susanne Monferré, Vice rights in DONG Energy to learn more about conflict situations that may arise can cause President for Group Procurement at DONG which human rights areas we should focus on. problems for the execution of our projects, Energy. Read more: DONG Energy’s tax policy 38 A RESPONSIBLE APPROACH TO TAX www.dongenergy.com/taxpolicy As simple as it sounds? Tax payments from the Danish North Sea Companies’ tax payments have been subject When paying our taxes, a range of to much debate during the last couple of conditions therefore have to be taken into years. It is one of the issues that makes consideration. These include tax reliefs In 2014 a radio documentary on the DR P1 people question whether companies can earn provided by governments, international channel aired criticism of DONG Energy not their trust. Companies should, of course, pay and local tax requirements (which may at having paid tax from our oil and gas activities their taxes. But determining and explaining times be conflicting), and transfer pricing in Denmark in recent years. The explanation tax payments is not always as simple as it requirements. is simple: may seem. Specific tax matters and the amounts Our income from oil and gas production in To DONG Energy, the nature of our business paid are always a result of many local and Denmark has been limited in recent years means that a number of different direct, international requirements and conditions, due to significant technical problems with indirect, and collected taxes apply, and that A tax policy can both help employees our Siri platform. Secondly, from the 1980s there are many transactions between DONG navigate in complex tax matters and until 2013 the Danish state offered a high Energy business units, across national communicate to stakeholders how tax tax deduction on the North Sea investments. borders, and between different tax regimes. affairs are generally managed. The intention was to promote investments in oil and gas production. Since 2006, DONG Energy has invested EUR 1.8 billion to build PROGRAMME up a production of oil and gas in Denmark. We deduct these investments from our tax payments – in full accordance with the letter and intent of the law. Responsible tax management Therefore, we do not pay the Danish oil and gas tax on our production during the first In DONG Energy, we recognise the key role One important principle is that we do not years of the lifetime of our oil and gas fields. that tax plays for society. We also believe that use contrived or abnormal tax structures But as the deduction runs out after some a responsible approach to tax is essential to that are intended for tax avoidance, have no years, we start to pay the oil and gas tax. the long-term sustainability of our business commercial substance, or do not meet the An oil and gas field has a lifespan of decades, in the countries where we operate. spirit of local or international tax law. Another and the tax payments should also be counted principle is that we use incentives and tax over decades. The tax deductions have In 2014, we updated our tax policy so that it reliefs where they apply in areas where we allowed us to help Denmark retrieve more better describes the principles we follow in all have commercial substance and where this of its oil and gas resources. And the taxes tax decisions. is the legislator’s intention. will be paid as the oil and gas fields mature. Our tax payments explained Tax is one example of the economic value companies generate to society. In 2014, DONG Energy’s tax payments in 2014 DONG Energy bore a total of EUR 805 million in taxes. These are taxes that we pay on our in all the countries where we operate own behalf, mainly corporate tax. We also collected EUR 1,879 million on behalf of the states in the countries in which we operate, Taxes paid Taxes collected on such as energy taxes. behalf of the state In 2014, our total corporate income tax was 3% 10% EUR 777 million. In Denmark it was EUR 27 million. The primary reason our local Danish corporate taxes are low is that we are subject to international joint taxation. It is an arrangement that allows Danish companies to postpone a part of their Danish corporate income tax payments. How much, depends EURO 31% EURO 59% on how much they invest in Denmark and abroad. DONG Energy invests a lot outside of Denmark, notably in offshore wind and oil and gas. Therefore we can postpone a large part of our Danish income tax. The arrangement helps 97% us invest in the energy transformation. When we opt out of the system, we will pay the taxes postponed. 2014 Corporate tax 2014 Energy taxes etc. €805 Other €1,879 VAT etc. Personal income taxes million million 39 DONG Energy’s awards in 2014 Energy Intelligence: European Business Awards: Leadership in New Energy National Public Champion At the annual Oil & Money Conference, DONG Energy received this DONG Energy was voted Danish favourite among the public for award for being a company at the forefront of the energy Environmental and Corporate Sustainability. transformation from fossil fuels to alternative energy forms. The Institute of Internal Auditors: Oil Gas Denmark (OGD): Record-fast establishment of internal audit function Safety award In record-time, our Internal Audit managed to establish a department DONG Energy received OGD’s safety award in the companies’ categowhich received top marks and a statuette for their work on ensuring ry for a very clear demonstration of the fact that safety always comes quality and value for the business. first and for having a very high safety level under difficult conditions at the Siri platform. This report ensures DONG Energy’s compliance with the Danish Financial Statements Act’s section 99a which requires us to report on the company’s policies, strategies, activities and results related to corporate social responsibility. 40 THE DONG ENERGY WAY Our mission is to develop and enable energy systems that are green, independent and economically viable. Our vision is to lead the energy transformation. The way we work is based on five guiding principles: Integrity We are open and trustworthy and uphold high ethical standards Passion We are passionate about what we do and proud of what we achieve Team We value diversity and collaborate in a non-hierarchical, respectful and trusting way Results We set the bar high, take ownership and get the right things done Safety We never compromise on safety standards DONG Energy A/S Kraftværksvej 53 7000 Fredericia Denmark Tel +45 99 55 11 11 www.dongenergy.com This report is available at www.dongenergy.com/sustainability2014
