COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2014 2014 UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 3 UN GLOBAL COMPACT COWI participates in the EU-funded ​initiative “Smart Cities and Communities” with the “READY” project aiming to promote green urban development. Over the course of five years, the project team will test a palette of energy-efficient technologies in practice, ranging from smart solutions for low-temperature district heating and local storage, over new components such as PVT solar panels, to ICT systems that send out command signals, allowing the project to test flexible energy systems. 04 COMMITMENT FROM OUR CEO 12 ENVIRONMENT 06 SUSTAINABILITY AND CSR IN COWI 14 GREEN ACCOUNTS 08 HUMAN RIGHTS 16 ANTI-CORRUPTION 10 LABOUR RIGHTS 18 ABOUT GLOBAL COMPACT PUBLISHED BY COWI is a leading consulting group PHOTOS AND ILLUSTRATIONS EDITORIAL INPUT ENDED COVER ILLUSTRATION COWI Holding A/S that creates value for customers, Jens Markus Lindhe February 2015. The extension of Denmark’s Moesgaard Parallelvej 2 people and society through our Andrik Mols Museum has been constructed to meet 2800 Kongens Lyngby unique 360° approach. Based on Nils Kristensen the criteria of the Danish low-energy Denmark our world-class competencies Nicky Bonne class 2015, making it one of the most Tel 56 40 00 00 within engineering, economics and Scanpix energy-efficient museums in the world. Fax 56 40 99 99 environmental science, we tackle iStock This means that the building may www.cowi.dk challenges from many vantage consume around half of the energy www.cowi.com points to create coherent solutions prescribed by current Danish building www.cowiholding.com for our customers − and thereby regulation. COWI was consultant sustainable and coherent societies on energy efficiency, lighting design, in the world. acoustics, indoor climate, structures, fire and sustainability on the project. COMMITMENT FROM OUR CEO COWI’s core competencies within engiCOWI incorporates sustainability into our We are fully and continuously committed neering, economics and environmental business activities by using and developto the United Nations Global Compact science result in our involvement in nearly ing methods and technologies that faciliand this Communication on Progress 13,000 ongoing projects every year. We tate more efficient use of limited natural report is produced with reference to recognise that our actions impact our resources. We also continue our work the ten principles of the Sustainability stakeholders and the environment at large. to ensure that we do not impact human Reporting Guidelines. rights negatively and at the same time In our service delivery, we are constantly increase the value of our employer brand aware that environmental and social through being a diverse workplace with responsibility has become one of the main opportunities for all. focus areas for our customers, and new legislation and emerging voluntary standIt is imperative for us that our solutions ards can limit market access for compacontinue to create value and have a nies that do not offer sustainable products positive impact for our stakeholders and or operate in a responsible manner. society. Lars-Peter Søbye, President, CEO COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 5 UN GLOBAL COMPACT SUSTAINABILITY AND CSR IN COWI OUR APPROACH an ethical culture are both critical in our and our business model, and it is where Through our services, we contribute to efforts to achieve this goal. we have the greatest sustainability sustainable development. impact. COHERENT SOLUTIONS TO MEET COWI’s approach to corporate social GLOBAL CHALLENGES INTEGRATION INTO BUSINESS responsibility (CSR) and sustainability is to COWI delivers solutions, knowledge and PROCESSES strive for benefits for our customers, key ideas for development of the modern To mitigate risk, we apply, as an stakeholders, the company and society. world and the challenges it faces – integrated part of our quality system, This is an ongoing process and we conamong these, balancing sustainable a project screening tool considering tinue to learn new ways of dealing with the growth and preserving efficiencies. health and safety, as well as security, opportunities and dilemmas faced. Sustainability is ingrained in our foundaenvironmental, social and community tion and a key competitive factor for outcomes for projects in Denmark We work through a three-pronged COWI. and in our Bridge, Tunnel and Marine approach where we integrate CSR and Structures organisation. sustainability into: One set of challenges are related to high ›› Business conduct: The way we carry urbanisation rates across the world, with Furthermore, to ensure that COWI’s out our own activities. ensuing pressure on infrastructure, waextensive knowledge is implemented ›› Employee behaviour: The way we ter, energy and health care. As examples across the business, technologies and behave at the workplace and our of this approach, COWI has built tunnels methods used and developed in one obligation to act. to connect power plants to the supply project are gathered for application in ›› Business deliverables: The way we network in Copenhagen to minimise other projects. ensure that the solutions we design for energy waste and costs, secured clean customers consider environmental and wastewater in Saint Petersburg, and is THIS REPORT community impacts. heavily involved in developing light-rail We have developed a number of policies solutions in Norway and Denmark. and guidelines on sustainability and While our biggest potential for reducing CSR, which set out the overall frameenvironmental impacts lies in our service Further challenges are climate change work for how we work on a daily basis. delivery and in the solutions we develop and environmental degradation, which These policies and guidelines are dewith and for our customers, we also focus constitute threats that need to be overscribed in this report, and underpin the on sustainable operations of our own come by, for example, low-consumption strong correlation that exists between facilities and offering tools that allow our buildings, security measures against our values and our business practices. employees to reduce their climate footprint. adverse weather and recovery of contaminated land. COWI has worked to The report serves as the required annual Our commitment to sustainability and corsecure coastal areas in the Northeastern Communication of Progress for the porate social responsibility is an extension USA by establishing floodgates. We United Nations Global Compact (UNGC). of our fundamental values and builds on employ measures to reduce energy As such, its content is structured our vision and mission. The commitment consumption by up to 75 per cent for around the ten principles of the UNGC. is also reflected in our support of the UN new buildings. We are also among the Moreover, the report serves to fulfil the Global Compact, the FIDIC Code of Ethics top suppliers of solutions for waste and requirements of Danish law and contains and the UN Caring for Climate initiative. contaminated sites. the green accounts for our Danish company, and describes our activities within Also, COWI wants and needs to be Together with our customers, COWI’s environment, human rights and social among the most attractive employers specialist competencies are part of the responsibility. for professionals looking for a career process of invention and innovation that within the consulting industry. We believe is needed to meet these global chalthat promoting diversity and cultivating lenges. This is at the core of our services COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 7 UN GLOBAL COMPACT AT THE END OF 2014, COWI HAD POLICIES CONCERNING THE FOLLOWING AREAS: Sustainable development Business integrity Safety and health Diversity and inclusion Whistleblower hotline Responsible supplier management. All policies are available at www.cowi.com/sustainability and www.cowi.com/policies In 2014, COWI together with six consortium members was awarded a framework contract by Danida − the Danish development cooperation. The contract involves the development of up to 22 new country programmes in Africa, Latin America and Asia that will all support a higher purpose of reducing poverty and improving human rights, including democracy and governance issues, green growth, social progress, stability and protection. HUMAN RIGHTS 01 02 PRINCIPLE: PRINCIPLE: Businesses should support Businesses should make sure and respect the protection that they are not complicit in of internationally proclaimed human rights abuses. human rights. WORKING WITH HUMAN RIGHTS important to COWI. To ensure that a project. If this risk is seen as too We believe that support of human rights human rights violations do not take high, we do not bid on the project. are rooted in the company culture and place on projects in which we are In other cases, mitigating actions are reflected in one of our five guiding values, involved, we operate according to three implemented. ‘respect’, which states: procedures: ›› DUE DILIGENCE The most relevant human rights issues “We respect those we work with, nature COWI performs a screening to uncover within our line of business, which we and society. We respect each other in human rights risks before entering screen for systematically, include: decision-making and implementation. into a project. The process helps ›› Physical conditions and indoor climate We respect friendship across the organiidentify potential negative human rights (temperature, air quality, noise, degassation, independent of the hierarchy.” impacts on a specific project, giving us sing etc.) the chance to back out in time. ›› Ergonomics (working posture, heavy Through our policy on sustainable ›› SUPERVISION lifting) COWI offers supervision of safety development, we integrate human rights ›› Chemical and biological conditions and health conditions on site. This in our business. In the policy, we commit (gases, particles, fibres, dust, liquids) allows us to ensure that internationally ourselves to taking social aspects into ›› Risks of accidents accepted standards are enforced on a consideration when performing assign›› Safety coordination during design and project. ments, and to enhancing our employees’ execution (responsibilities and roles) ›› OBLIGATION TO ACT attention to and knowledge of social ›› Damage to third parties (mechanical, Employees at COWI have the soconditions in order to further sustainable called obligation to act, meaning that electrical, thermal, noise etc.) development in all our activities. everyone is obligated to act if they ›› Migration, relocation/rehousing of see human rights being violated on a residents This policy is integrated into our risk asproject. Employees may either directly ›› Impact on local community (neighbours sessment and training systems, through contact the customer, their manager or and indigenous groups) which we continue to raise awareness of use COWI’s whistleblower hotline. ›› Social and environmental risks in the the importance of COWI not contributing supply chain (including human rights negatively to human rights in our external All new employees are introduced violations, employee rights and forced activities, including the work we do for custo these three procedures as part of child labour). tomers, our procurement practices and our COWI’s onboarding programme, and the This list is updated regularly to keep up partners. Internally, the main focus is on the procedures are included in our training. with developments. right to a safe workplace, with our health and safety policy as the overall guide. DUE DILIGENCE WHEN KEY ACTIVITIES AND OUTCOMES PREPARING PROPOSALS Since 2012, COWI has had a sustainDEALING WITH HUMAN RIGHTS As part of COWI A/S’s quality able procurement system, which is now ON PROJECTS management system, our project used in Denmark, Sweden and Norway. Adequate employee conditions and managers screen for risks of human Through the system, we assess supplicompliance with human rights are rights violations before bidding on ers on human and labour rights, ethical COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 9 UN GLOBAL COMPACT POLICY/GUIDELINE: POLICIES: DUE DILIGENCE HEALTH AND SAFETY Employee conditions and compliance COWI strives for a safe and healthy with human rights are important to working environment, both in COWI. To ensure that we detect any our own operations and in our human rights violations on projects assignment-related activities. which we are involved in, we operate according to three procedures: To meet our objectives, we will: ›› Due diligence: COWI performs a ›› ensure that a safe working environstandards, social and environmental screening to uncover human rights ment is not compromised for policies, health and safety, diversity and risks before entering into a project. economic or productivity reasons. The process helps identify viola›› ensure that project managers anti-corruption. We store all information tions of human rights on a specific instruct their teams on specific concerning every supplier in our system, project, allowing us to back out in project-related health and safety meaning that the entire organisation has time. risks and necessary preventive access to all relevant supplier information. ›› Health and safety supervision: measures. This includes the use of COWI seeks to increase our personal protective equipment. In 2014, another 96 suppliers were influence on project sites by offering ›› provide employees with an assessed, approved and included in the supervision of safety and health opportunity to influence their own system. conditions. This allows us to ensure working environment in dialogue that internationally accepted standwith management. HEALTH AND SAFETY WORK ards are enforced on a project. The work on health and safety in 2014 ›› comply with relevant health and ›› Obligation to act: Employees at safety legislation and standards. focused on the psychosocial working COWI have the so-called obligation environment and the prevention of work›› inform our customers and business to act, meaning that everyone is related stress as well as supervisory partners if we find violations of obligated to act if they see human work on construction sites. The risk health and safety standards, labour rights being violated on a project. of physical work injuries is very low. In rights, human rights or unnecessary 2014, three injuries with absence from or illegal environmental degradaThe three procedures are included in work were reported. tion on projects in which we are our project management training and involved. COWI’s onboarding programme. While we have no data on the occurrences of absences due to work-related stress, we are aware that with a highly committed work force this is a risk area. POLICIES AND PRINCIPLES RELATING TO HUMAN RIGHTS We have designed and implemented a solid programme to prevent stress or COWI’s value on respect bring people back to their jobs in cases FIDIC Code of Ethics, adopted by COWI of debilitating temporary stress. Policy on health and safety Policy on sustainable development All policies are available at www.cowi.com/sustainability and www.cowi.com/policies LABOUR RIGHTS 03 05 PRINCIPLE: PRINCIPLE: Businesses should uphold the Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and elimination of all forms of effective recognition of the right forced and compulsory labour. to collective bargaining. 04 06 PRINCIPLE: PRINCIPLE: Businesses should uphold Businesses should uphold the the effective abolition of elimination of discrimination child labour. in respect of employment and occupation. WORKING WITH LABOUR RIGHTS of any supervision on the project, we We enhance skills and competencies The more than 6,000 people working for do not necessarily have access to through the COWI Project Management COWI are provided with working condithe building site and, as such, are not Academy and a broad range of educations in line with international labour rights. aware of the human rights or labour tional and course offers on other subrights standards. The obligation to act jects. As part of the project management We support and practise diversity and described in the human rights section academy, business ethics is taught and equal opportunities, our employees are also applies here. debated, ensuring awareness as well as free to organise and bargain collectively knowledge of the whistleblower hotline. as they wish, and they are all paid a fair The COWI Whistleblower system is also wage. COWI dissociates itself from all available for reporting observations or PARTNERING FOR TRAINING OF kinds of child labour, and with the skill suspicion of discrimination. DEAF PEOPLE IN INDIA level required to work for us, there is no In India, a new CSR law requiring a evident risk of child labour. DIVERSITY IS MORE THAN A RIGHT mandatory spend of two per cent of net COWI is an international company with profits on CSR initiatives went into effect The main challenge for COWI in terms of projects all over the world. We need a in 2014. To fulfil this obligation, COWI labour rights is that potential violations diverse work force to develop the best India Private Ltd. (CIL) has partnered of these often take place outside our and best priced solutions. We believe with the Noida Deaf Society, a non-profit sphere of influence, often concerning that embracing diversity is one way of organisation bringing education and trainmigrant labour in the construction indussustaining our position as a leader within ing to hearing impaired in India. As a deaf try. We attempt to meet this challenge our field. To that end, we want to ensure person in India, access to both education by working according to the following that our pipeline of diverse leadership and work is quite limited. Through CIL, guidelines: talents is optimised. we are able to contribute relevant education and employment opportunities. When COWI has the management KEY ACTIVITIES AND OUTCOMES responsibility for the construction phase During 2014, we continued our activities Our contribution supports the NDS of a project, we have the chance to to ensure that COWI employees have school and directly supports the operainfluence labour rights conditions at the state-of-the-art skills and competencies, tion costs of training 120 youths. COWI’s construction site and act if they are not ensuring not only their performance on relationship with NDS began in 2013, aligned with national and international COWI projects, but also their marketwhen special photogrammetry training ratified legislation. If we are not in charge ability outside COWI. was carried out for five students from COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 11 UN GLOBAL COMPACT NDS, of whom three are now employed Diversity Charter and participates in an POLICY: by COWI’s mapping company in India. external mentor network in cooperation DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION with other major Danish companies. COWI views diversity as a competiWOMEN IN MANAGEMENT tive advantage that helps us achieve It is COWI’s ambition that the composithe best results for our customers. tion of the management should reflect the diversity of our business and EMPLOYEES IN THE COWI GROUP To meet our objectives, we will: 2013-2014 ›› aim to have a diverse workforce markets. In the light of this, COWI set the target in 2013 for minimum two 2013 2014 that mirrors the diversity in our out of six of COWI’s board members Employees 6,102 6,258 business and markets. to be women within a four-year period. Average age, years 41.7 42.0 ›› give equal opportunities to every­ Our aim is that any given management Women 30% 29% one, regardless of gender, age, forum shall reflect the diversity of the race, religion, nationality, ethnic and Men 70% 71% underlying organisation. Also, equal opsocial origin, disability, political and Women in management* – 22% portunities shall be given to everyone, sexual orientation. * Based on data on 85 per cent of the employees. regardless of gender, age, race, religion, ›› ensure that our employment and nationality, ethnic and social origin, disrecruitment practices adhere to ability, political and sexual orientation, local legislation, wherever we work as COWI views diversity as a competiPOLICIES, PRINCIPLES AND TOOLS in the world. RELATING TO LABOUR RIGHTS tive advantage that helps us achieve the ›› continuously improve equal opbest results. portunities in our employment and recruitment practices. COWI’s value on respect In 2014, one out of the six board ›› work towards creating a culture COWI Whistleblower members elected at the annual general of tolerance and appreciation of Policy on sustainable development meeting was a woman. The share of difference. Policy on diversity and inclusion women in management is 22 per Policy on health and safety cent* compared to 29 per cent of all FIDIC Code of Ethics, adopted by COWI employees being women. To increase the number of women in management, All policies are available at www.cowi.com/ sustainability and www.cowi.com/policies COWI is a party to Copenhagen’s ENVIRONMENT 07 09 PRINCIPLE: PRINCIPLE: Businesses should support Businesses should encourage a precautionary approach to the development and diffusion environmental challenges. of environmentally friendly technologies. 08 PRINCIPLE: Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. WORKING WITH CLIMATE CHANGE our Danish activities and are described In 2014, COWI participated in three AND THE ENVIRONMENT as part of the green accounts on the projects under this partnership: The area of environmental protection is following pages. ›› Overcoming barriers for climate-resilwhere COWI has the greatest potential ient building practices (with Rockwool, for impact through its activities. Finally, we promote the voluntary parVelux and the Danish Technology ticipation of employees in environmental University) We focus our business development on initiatives and locally run campaigns to ›› Unlocking market demands for micro being a leading consultant developing increase the awareness of resourceenergy production in water utilities (with future climate-change mitiga­tion measconscious behaviour. Grundfos) ures and adaption solutions in sectors ›› Kafka – a climate adjustment project and regions where we have a strong KEY ACTIVITIES AND OUTCOMES for cities (with a range of European foothold. In line with our climate-change A large proportion of our projects carry partners). strategy, we contribute actively to evalusome element of climate-conscious ating the potential for climate solutions technologies. Below is a selection of RETHINK BUSINESS and argue for the implementation of such projects from 2014. COWI’s Region Denmark was involved such, in partner­ship with our customers. in the EU-financed project “Rethink We continue to upgrade and develop CLIMATE KIC NORDIC business”, where 40 small and our skills in this area to be able to sugCOWI is the only Danish consulting medium sized companies were offered gest new and more environmentally company invited to be a partner in the assistance in developing and testing new friendly solutions to our customers. Nordic branch of Climate KIC, the EU’s business ideas supporting more efficient largest public-private innovation partnerproducts and product components, We will seek to reduce our own impacts ship on climate change consisting of inspired by cradle-to-cradle and circular through carbon-conscious policies and companies, academic institutions and the economy concepts. initiatives in respect of the efficiency public sector, with the aim of transforming needs of our customers and our orknowledge and ideas into economically SNOW AND ICE REDUCE CO2 ganisation. The data to document our viable products or services that help to CONSUMPTION progress in this area is only available for mitigate and adapt to climate change. In developing the extension of Oslo COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 13 UN GLOBAL COMPACT International Airport, Gardermoen, sustainability. This resulted in a number COWI and its project partners found a of suggestions related to using waste POLICIES, PRINCIPLES AND TOOLS way to live up to the client’s requirement and surplus heating as a resource or RELATED TO ENVIRONMENTAL to reduce energy consumption by 50 PROTECTION to the re-usability of materials in new per cent compared with the existing urban structures, while limiting resource passenger terminal from 1998. consumption and using renewable COWI’s value on respect energy. COWI whistleblower Among other things, this is achieved FiDiC Code of ethics, adopted by COWI through an innovative solution for TAKING OUR OWN MEDICINE Policy on sustainable development cooling the passenger terminal during In 2014, we completed the refurbishPolicy on sustainable supply chain the summer season by using up to ment of our corporate head office 44,000 m3 of winter snow collected and in Lyngby with new common areas All policies are available at www.cowi.com/sustainability and compressed in a snow store on the airdesigned according to cradle-to-cradle www.cowi.com/policies port site. The store is insulated to keep principles, i.e. a closed-loop approach. the snow for the summer season and Materials used for ceilings, floors, roof, use it for cooling the airport buildings windows etc. were all chosen based via a district cooling system. on their recyclability and the amount of recycled materials used to produce SUSTAINABLE CITIES them. For example, 80 per cent of the As participant in the Chinese project steel used was recycled steel, and the “World alliances for low-carbon cities”, insulation for ceilings was made from the Chinese city of Shenzhen has com100-per cent recycled materials. mitted to creating approximately 60 km² of cityscape based on circular economy principles. In 2014. Shenzhen asked COWI to review its urban development plan and optimise it in terms of GREEN ACCOUNTS 2014 GREEN ACCOUNTS facilities. Thus, our head office in Lyngby CLIMATE IMPACT DISTRIBUTED ON As part of our reporting on the was renovated in 2014, for example CATEGORIES, TONNES CO2 EQ Communication on Progress, COWI introducing energy-saving lighting to Denmark publishes our green accounts an even higher degree than previously. 8,500 covering our environmental footprint. Acquiring electric and hybrid cars is also Data covers all activities in Denmark an example of this mind-set. In 2014, including corporate functions and the we purchased two electric cars and two 7,500 Danish part of our major business line, hybrid cars as part of the continuous Bridge, Tunnels and Marine Structures. updating of the car pool. This year, our use of taxis is also 6,500 included in the green accounts. Air travel accounts for a large part of our climate impact: 53 per cent in 2014. In 2014, we continued the positive trend The impact per employee in 2014 is 1.4 5,500 of reducing our environmental footprint tonnes CO2 compared to 1.8 tonnes as shown in the graphs to the right. The in 2010. The decrease is mainly due to numbers displayed are CO2 equivalents, increasing awareness among employees 4,500 thus encompassing all greenhouse about the impact of air travel, and gases. the many possibilities of using video conferencing for small and large meet3,500 Since 2010, we have decreased our CO2 ings across offices, internally and with emissions per employee by more than customers. one third. The national lower emission 2,500 factors for electricity and the renewal of the car pool contribute to this positive CLIMATE IMPACT PER EMPLOYEE development. IN DENMARK, TONNES CO2 EQ 1,500 In 2014, we used less heat, electricity 5.0 and water per employee. In addition, 4.5 500 we converted about five per cent of our 4.0 3.9 local travel from car to train. Moreover, 3.5 3.5 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 our usage of paper declined, and we 3.0 -500 3.0 recycle our paper and change to envi2.7 2.5 2.5 Hazardours waste Paper usage ronmentally certified paper, whenever 2.0 Landfill Water usage possible. In 2014, the share of printing 1.5 Incineration Electricity paper and paper products from certified 1.0 Transport by plane District heating sources reached 99 per cent. Finally, we 0.5 Transport by train Natural gas increased the reuse of waste, leading to CO2 savings of 102 tonnes in 2014 0.0 Transport by car Recycling 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 compared to 82 tonnes in 2010. Mail 2010 These results are due to our procure2011 ment principles and our permanent 2012 aim to reduce heat loss and the use 2013 of electricity and water in our office 2014 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 15 UN GLOBAL COMPACT GUIDELINE: SUSTAINABLE SUPPLY CHAIN COWI procures goods and services at the best terms, assessing total costs, quality and sustainability. To meet our objective, we will: ›› integrate sustainability requirements in our supplier and sub-consultant approval process. ›› give preference to waterand energy-efficient products to reduce consumption rates. ›› give preference to environmentally friendly products and products that can be recycled. ›› avoid products with hazardous substances. ›› consider the emissions of CO2 when booking business trips. ›› consider if a business trip can be replaced by a videoconference or other information and communication technology. COWI takes part in the Nordic branch of the European Commission’s intiative Climate-KIC. The initiative aims to translate research and knowledge into tangible, innovative solutions that can address global climate challenges – and at the same time be implemented commercially in the market. Among the partners are both public and private actors, and COWI represents the consulting industry, bringing to the table interdisciplinary knowledge on climate solutions from both a specialised engineering and a wider socioeconomic perspective. ANTI-CORRUPTION 10 PRINCIPLE: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. AGAINST ALL FORMS OF understanding of our business integrity POLICIES, PRINCIPLES AND TOOLS CORRUPTION policy and are familiar with the COWI RELATING TO ANTI-CORRUPTION We believe that the ultimate winners Whistleblower, which can help the busiwill be companies that do not accept ness and prevent future offences and or engage in corruption. We have a unethical behaviour. business integrity policy to support this Business integrity policy belief, which states: KEY ACTIVITIES AND OUTCOMES COWI‘s value on integrity In 2014, COWI completed the developCOWI Whistleblower “We will not in our services or in any ment of a business-integrity compliance FIDIC Code of Ethics, adopted by COWI other activity, directly or indirectly, accept project, which will improve due diligence Alll policies are available at www.cowi.com/ bribery, extortion, fraud, collusion or any of business partners in relation to antisustainability and www.cowi.com/policies other undue business activity.” corruption. In 2015, we will through e-learning improve the training of our Each member of the COWI Group is employees across the Group in performrequired to implement business integrity ing due diligence processes. management. This should be done in accordance with the FIDIC Code of As part of our risk management system, Ethics, COWI’s business integrity policies COWI twice a year reviews an internal and guidelines, and with the laws aplist of countries that our regions defined plicable in the company’s home country as high-risk areas in terms of concerns and the countries of operation. related to security or business climate. We apply enhanced risk management In COWI, we believe that the adoption if, exceptionally, a project is carried out of good governance, transparency and in one of those places. In 2014, 28 accountability into day-to-day business countries were on the list. is the best fence against corruption. WHISTLEBLOWER USE COWI’s whistleblower system enables Four cases were reported into our employees and external stakeholders whistleblower hotline in 2014. Of these, to anonymously report any violations of one was dismissed as out of scope, and our principles on business integrity and the remaining three were investigated sustainable development. It is important at corporate level or passed on to local that our employees have a common management for follow-up. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 17 UN GLOBAL COMPACT GUIDELINE: COWI POLICY: BUSINESS INTEGRITY WHISTLEBLOWER COWI wishes to maintain its impartiality COWI wishes to maintain a high and independence and contribute standard of business ethics and globally to a fair conduct of business, encourages anyone to talk to their line avoiding extraneous influence on manager about concerns regarding selection, execution or compensation business ethics. If they feel uncomfortprocedures. We will not in our services able doing so, they can use the COWI or in any other activities, directly or Whistleblower. indirectly, accept bribery, extortion, fraud, collusion or any other undue To meet our objectives, we will: business activity. ›› ensure that any concerns raised through the Whistleblower are To meet our objectives, we will: investigated and appropriate action ›› continuously train our employees in taken. the area of business integrity. ›› allow everyone including employees, ›› continuously develop and maintain former employees, sub-contractors, proper tools to help and guide our agency staff and business partners to employees. use the Whistleblower. ›› allow whistleblower notifications within: ›› violations of legislation, regulations and internal policies. ›› misbehaviours with regard to accounting and auditing. ›› fraud, theft and conflicts of interest. ›› improper giving or receiving of gifts. ›› discrimination and harassment. ›› violation of environmental protection, health and safety legislation. ›› make the Whistleblower publicly available. ›› continuously train our employees in maintaining our culture of integrity and honesty and inform them of the Whistleblower. ABOUT GLOBAL COMPACT Global Compact is an initiative launched in January 1999 by former UN SecretaryGeneral Kofi Annan. It is a call to businesses worldwide to help build social and environmental frameworks that ensure open and free markets and help people everywhere secure a chance to share the benefits of the new global economy. The Global Compact encompasses ten principles spanning everything from international declarations on human rights and labour rights to environmental and corruption issues. Current waste management practices in the majority of cities in India’s most populated state, Uttar Pradesh, are inefficient, incur heavy expenditure and pose a major threat to the public health and environmental quality. In 2014, the World Bank assigned COWI as technical consultant to introduce integrated solid waste management in 17 cities in Uttar Pradesh. The project is carried out by a multidisciplinary team delivering high-level expertise on waste planning, collection and transport system design, landfill engineering, wasteto-energy, composting, agriculture, and financial and social issues. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 19 UN GLOBAL COMPACT ADDRESS Parallelvej 2 2800 Kongens Lyngby Denmark PHONE +45 56 40 00 00 EMAIL cowi@cowi.com WWW www.cowi.com
