Global Compact Communication on Progress About Vasakronan Vasakronan is the leading property company in consideration for the environment. This is why our Sweden. Our strategy is to focus on Sweden’s major sustainability efforts are strategically critical to meeting growth regions: Stockholm, Uppsala, Gothenburg, the targeted return. Malmö and Lund. Sustainability work consists of financial and environWe own and manage approximately 185 office and mental efforts, along with responsibility for humans retail properties with a total area of around 2,500,000 that are affected by us. All of these efforts are sqm (as of March 31, 2015). The portfolio is valued at based on the ten principals outlined in the UN SEK 95 billion. Global Compact, internal policies/guidelines and Vasakronan’s Code of Conduct. The work is goalThe organization has operations in four regions of oriented and long-term. It also requires commitment Sweden – Stockholm, Uppsala, Gothenburg and from all employees in the organization. Öresund. The number of employees is 352. Vasakronan is a carbon neutral company and is ISO Vasakronan is jointly owned by the First, Second, 14001 certified. We were also Sweden’s first property Third and Fourth Swedish National Pension Funds. company to offer green leases and green offices. In In order to achieve our vision of future-proof cities, November 2013 Vasakronan was proud to be the first where all individuals can thrive and companies are company in the world to issue a green bond. developing, we must contribute to a sustainable We discourage all forms of corruption and all of development of society – financially, environmentally Vasakronan’s employees and suppliers are expected and socially. Together with our employees, tenants to comply with existing laws. There is a Compliance and other stakeholders, we strive to ensure that our Officer to ensure that there is correct behavior cities will be good societies over time. throughout the company and its business. Our mandate from the company’s owners is to generate a high, risk-balanced, long-term return from property investments in Sweden. At the same time, we must run our business both ethically and with CEO-statement Reporting documents “ We support the Global Compact because sustainability is an integral part of our core business Annual report 2014 (only available in Swedish) GRI-supplement (only available in Swedish) and accordingly, all discussions and decisions consider these aspects. We also support the UN Global Vasakronan has chosen not to seek external assurance for the report. The main reason for this is Compact initiative because we are committed to taking that environmental activities are audited within the responsibility in the areas of human rights, labor framework of ISO 14001 certification. standards, the environment and anti-corruption. With those principals as our starting point, we continually Vasakronan 2014 develop our way of working to ensure that we run a responsible business. I am personally very interested in sustainability issues and it is very evident to me that employees working in all parts of Vasakronan’s organization feel the same way. ” May 2015 Fredrik Wirdenius, CEO of Vasakronan
