CONTENTS ABOUT THIS REPORT 02 Chairman’s Message 04 President’s Message This is Sinochem Group’s fifth Sustainable Development Report. The previous four reports 06 About Us were issued in June 2011, June 2012, May 2013 and June 2014. Sinochem Group also 08 Strategy and Governance published Corporate Social Responsibility Reports in April 2007, June 2008, June 2009, and June 2010. 13 Social Responsibility Management 18 Featured Social Responsibility Report REPORT PERIOD This report covers Sinochem’s activities between 1 January and 31 December 2014. In some instances content may reflect activities and data from previous years. REPORT PUBLICATION CYCLE This is an annual report. REPORT SCOPE This report includes Sinochem Group and its subsidiaries. REPORT REFERENCE The report follows the guidance of the Guidelines for Key State-owned Enterprises to Fulfill Corporate Social Responsibility, the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact, the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI G3.1), the ISO 22 38 50 60 68 26000: 2010 Guidance on Social Responsibility issued by the International Organization for Standardization, and the CSR Reporting Guidelines for Chinese Companies (CASS-CSR Serve the National Provide Value-Added Guarantee Safety and Value Talents and Contribute to Public 3.0) issued by the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences (CASS). Economy to Prosper Services to Protect the Grow Welfare and Progress Together with the Develop with Clients Environment to Reach with Employees with the Society Country Harmony with Nature IMPROVEMENTS We have made improvements to this year’s report. We have added: Safeguard National Energy Security Improve Service at Refueling Stations Strengthen HSE Management Capacity Protect Employees’ Rights Organize Poverty-Alleviation Program Safeguard National Agriculture Security Improve Agricultural Service System Occupational Health Realize Employees’ Value Drive the Local Development stories, honors and stakeholders’ comments at each chapter’s beginning; and Promote Progress of Chemical Industry Provide Integrated Professional Safe Production Enhance Employees’ Sense of Build Responsible Supply Chain Sinochem’s tips and two-dimensional codes to enrich the report. Chemicals Services Belonging Improve People's Livelihood and Emergency Management Facilitate Industrial Progress important figures in the form of KPI at the beginning to highlight business performance. Well-being Provide High-quality Real Estate Environment Protection Participate in Charity Project Sinochem Group’s cartoon image to enrich the report. Projects and Property Services Promote Scientific and Technological Innovation Provide Honest and Efficient Financial DATA SOURCES and Tendering Services Create the Best Value for Shareholders The data used in this report are from official documents and statistical reports of Sinochem. When applicable, the report offers corrections to past data. In case of any discrepancy, this information in this report shall prevail. 74 Outlook REFERENCES TO SINOCHEM GROUP 75 Experts’ Comments All references to “we”, “our”, “the company” and “Sinochem” refer to “Sinochem Group” unless otherwise stated. 77 Implementation of the United Nations Global Compact LANGUAGUE OF THE REPORT 78 Reporting Index The report is published in both English and Chinese. If any inconsistency or ambiguity exists between the two versions, the Chinese report shall prevail. inside back cover Feedback Form OBTAINING COPIES OF THE REPORT To read or download the report, please visit www.sinochem.com 02 2014 Sustainable Developmant Report Chairman's Message 03 Chairman's Message As a backbone state-owned enterprise with a history of more than 60 years, Sinochem Group envisions to become a world-class company that enjoys great respect. To fulfill this vision, Sinochem upholds the core philosophy of Creating Value, Pursuing Excellence , and strives to live up to its corporate social responsibility. It is committed to scientific development, harmonious development, and green development, and determined to build a lasting enterprise that creates value for stakeholders and society. As the Chinese economy has entered “New Normal”, Sinochem has also entered a new stage of strategic transition. Amid complex external economic environment and grim internal reform and development difficulties, Sinochem people have confidence and belief, change pressure into impetus and crisis into opportunities, and make contributions to China’s steady economic growth by excellent business performance. Sinochem always regards social responsibility as an indispensable part of the company’s gene, and endeavors to create economic interests as well as social benefits. It has accelerated the upgrading of its energy, agricultural and chemical businesses, sped up commercialization, consolidated national energy security and agricultural security, and promoted chemical industry’s progress. Sinochem constantly improves HSE management system, ensures safe production with high pressure and “iron fist” measures, reduces energy consumption and pollution emission, and strives to achieve green, low-carbon development. The company guarantees the basic rights of employees, provides a broad stage for them, and grows with them. It attaches importance to people’s livelihood, actively participates in social welfare undertakings, conducts poverty reduction activities for more than a decade, and promotes social harmony and progress. In 2014, Sinochem Group’s total social contribution reached 29.5 billion yuan, fulfilling the concept of sustainable development with its efforts. We pursue harmonious development and conduct sincere communication. It is our hope that this sustainable development report will provide a window for all to know and understand Sinochem. The 50,000 Sinochem people hold the attitude of openness, inclusiveness, mutual help and common development, and hope to join hands with stakeholders to share the fruits of development and progress. Party Secretary, Chairman 04 2014 Sustainable Developmant Report President's Message 05 President's Message In 2014, amid weak global economic recovery, mounting pressure on the Chinese economy, and shrinking profit margins, Sinochem was faced with the most severe test since 2008. The company, however, adhered to “positive, stable, sustainable and healthy” development philosophy, focused on operation, consolidated management, controlled risks, promoted transformation, completed the year’s budget targets and operation tasks, and maintained a steady growth momentum. As the symbolic project of Sinochem’s strategic transformation, Sinochem Quanzhou Petrochemical Phase I 12 million tons/year refinery was commissioned in July 2014. It is world-class refinery in terms of safety standards, environmental protection, energy conservation, techniques, product quality and market adaptability, and is a milestone in the company’s strategic transformation and third business strive. As consumers of natural resources and social resources, enterprises’ mission is to create not only economic value, but also social and environmental value--this is also our duty. Sinochem gives full play to the whole industry value chain service capabilities of energy, agriculture, chemicals, real estate and financial sectors, follows green development strategy, promotes clean production, and develops a recycling economy; per 10,000 yuan output energy consumption and pollution emission indicators are effectively improved. We launched a series of nation-wide activities under the theme of Sinochem’s Care for Agriculture Dream , which have benefited a large number of farmers; we continue to give support to four counties in Tibet, Qinghai and Inner Mongolia, constantly improve aid forms and expand aid channels, promoting the economic development and livelihood of these regions. In the face of new developments and situations in global economy and industry, Sinochem will have its new opportunities. We are confident about the future. Sinochem will follow the path of sustainable development, strive to change development model, promote industrial upgrading, and endeavor to achieve harmonious development between enterprise and economy, society and environment, making greater contribution to national economic and social development! Member of Party Committee, President 06 2014 Sustainable Developmant Report About Us 07 About Us Energy – power the future Establish a complete industry value chain, provide quality and environmental friendly petrochemical products and value-added services to society. Sinochem Group was founded in 1950. Its predecessor was China Properties (HK, 00817) and is the largest shareholder of Far Eastern Exploration & Prodution Oil Trading Oil Refining Storage & Logistics Distribution & Retails National Chemicals Import and Export Corporation, which was China’s Horizon (HK, 03360). In June 2009, Sinochem Group established As E&P non-operator and Provide professional The annual oil production We have formed a We have formed a refined oil largest trading firm. Sinochem Group is a key state-owned enterprise Sinochem Corporation as the vehicle for potential group IPO. operator, we have onshore crude oil trading services capacity of the three oil petrochemical warehousing retail and distribution under the supervision of State-owned Assets Supervision and and offshore projects, our as supplier of crude oil to refineries is nearly 30000000 and logistics network network covering major Sinochem Group was one of China’s first entrants into the Fortune business scope to develop refineries in China, tons. covering the Bohai Bay area, markets and core cities in Administration Commission of the State Council (SASAC). Sinochem’s from mainly exploration to Southeast Asia, Europe Yangtze River Delta, Pearl northeast China, north Global 500 and has been on the list 24 times, and was ranked the 107th exploration and development and North America. River Delta and China’s China, east China and south headquarter is located in Beijing. together, and our products coastal areas and Yangtze China. in 2014. In 2013 and 2014, the company was ranked as The world's include light oil, heavy oil and River stretch. Our core businesses span energy, agriculture, chemicals, real estate the Most Admired Companies and top of the Trade list by the Fortune natural gas. and financial service. We are one of China’s four largest state oil Magazine. Our strategic transformation and management overhaul over companies, China’s biggest agricultural input company (fertilizers, the years, has helped us maintain our sustainable, healthy and rapid Agriculture – sow green hope seeds and pesticides), and the country’s leading chemical services development. Sinochem received the Top A Corporate Performance company. We also exert strong influence in real estate and non-banking rating from SASAC for eleven straight years and three consecutive Largest integrated supplier of agricultural inputs-Fertilizers, seeds and pesticides-in China.Protect crop growth and development of modern agriculture with advanced technology, quality products and professional services. financial services sector. As a market-oriented global conglomerate, terms. Sinochem’s quality products and services play a vital role in many Fertilizer Seed Pesticide Our vision is to become a respected, world-class company, and to aspects of the mass economy and in the lives and wellbeing of billions The fertilizer business total ranked first in the Seeds type includes rice, corn, wheat, etc. Produce efficient and environmentally friendly deliver financial and social benefits to our stakeholders and society. Our market，is the largest fertilizer supplier and China's only state-level seed company that green agriculture products; a multinational of people. We have a strong brand reputation and are acknowledged distributor in china. The fertilizer products is integrates breeding, planting and marketing , pesticide operator with business value chain 50,000 employees adhere to the doctrine of Creating Value, Pursuing around the world. variety, and with high quality and efficiency. with world-class commercial breeding platform, to capacity, with leading pesticide developing, Excellence , and relish the opportunity to shoulder social responsibility cultivate green, safe, high-yielding new crop testing and evaluation capacity, a number of variety for China. pesticide production bases, and a marketing Sinochem currently owns more than 200 subsidiaries with domestic and as a corporate citizen. Together we will adopt a scientific development network covering Asia, Australia and Latin America. international operations. We control several listed companies including approach to help us realize the potency of sustainable business Sinochem International (SH, 600500), Sinofert (HK, 00297), Franshion practices, and bring benefit to all of our stakeholders. Chemicals – create a better life China's leading integrated service provider, with relatively strong competitive advantages in the field of fluorine chemicals, natural rubber and rubber chemicals, fine chemicals, chemical logistics, petrochemical feedstock marketing, medicine, etc. play a positive role Sinochem Group was one of China’s first In 2013 and 2014, the company was ranked Received the Top A Corporate Performance in promoting technological progress in andsafe, environmental friendly and harmonious development of the chemical industry. entrants into the Fortune Global 500 as The world's the Most Admired Companies rating from SASAC for eleven straight years and three consecutive terms Fluorine Rubber Pharmaceutical Chemicals In fluorine chemical industry, establish a Natural rubber sector covers the whole value It has a complete industry value chain covering complete industrial structure; develop strong chain-planting, processing and marketing with R&D, production and distribution R&D and production capacity of fluorinated global operations; provide products for Top 10 chemicals. More than ten kinds of products have international tire companies. the largest market share athome and abroad. Petrochemical feedstock Sinochem Group was ranked the 107th in 2014 Top of the Trade list by the Fortune Magazine Chemicals logistics One of the largest petrochemical feedstock Fine chemicals integrated marketing service provider in China; The company forays into rubber chemicals provide customers with customized Conduct strategic cooperation with leading industry, and has Asia's largest, liquid chemical petrochemical products and services solutions; domestic and overseas companies in the field of container fleet and ISO-tanks team with the supplyplastic materials to nearly 3 million polyurethane, water-based functional materials, highest safety standards, providing customers automobiles produced by China Top 10 polyether materials, polyurethane products, etc. with cost-effective chemicals logistics services. carmakers each year Sinochem Basics Real Estate – create harmony between architecture and human Company Name Sinochem Group From building a mansion to operating a city, we stick to the principle of“green technology, and Jinmao quality”, and build a better life Registered Capital RMB 11.845 billion experience. As a unique high-end real estate developer and operator, we have presence throughout the country, own a number of five-star luxury hotels, and develop many landmark buildings and high-end residential projects. Time of Establishment March 1950 Asset Scale RMB 355.354 billion Headquarters Central Tower, Chemsunny World Trade Center, 28 Fuxingmennei Street, Beijing Finance – create wealth through wisdom Our finance business covers non-banking areas, including financial leasing, trust, securities investment funds, life insurance, futures brokerage, etc. with huge industrial clusters as the basis, sound operation and professional services, we endeavor to meet the needs of social wealth management. 08 2014 Sustainable Developmant Report Strategy and Governance 09 Strategy and Governance Corporate Governance Sinochem sticks to a business strategy of developing its energy, agricultural, chemical, real estate and finance business segments, further promotes On August 27, 2014, the CPC Central Committee and the State Council decided that in accordance with the requirement of accelerating modern stateinternal synergies, improves restructuring and coordination of its businesses, promotes professional operation, mobilizes resources to develop its core owned enterprise system with Chinese characteristics, a board of directors shall be set up in Sinochem Group, Liu Deshu was appointed chairman businesses, reinforce the basis of main businesses, and strives to enhance its industry position and international competitiveness, by following the of Sinochem, and continues to serve as party secretary; Cai Xiyou was appointed general manager of Sinochem, while Liu Deshu no longer hold this development path with Sinochem’s own characteristics. position. Meanwhile, SASAC Party Committee decided that Cai Xiyou to serve as director of Sinochem’s board, and a member of Sinochem’s party committee. Sinochem adheres to the principle of collective and democratic decision-making, constantly improves decision-making mechanism, and promotes Sinochem's Development Strategy scientific and democratic decision-making. The company implements the system of division of leadership responsibility, improves the party group meeting system, and the president work meeting system. The party group meeting decides on major political and business matters, and personnel changes in key posts; while the president work meeting decides the company's major strategic development and management activities; and other professional committees are responsible for reviewing specific work and submitting proposal for major matters. Sinochem regards world-class enterprises as its learning targets, and has raised the strategic objective of “the Third Transformation” by analyzing complex domestic and international situations and challenges. It has set up one ability, two foundations, three links, four methods, and five sectors as its development strategy, identified a clear direction and a magnificent goal, and continues to promote business innovation. Sinochem Group General Office HR Dept. Strategic Planning Dept. Treasury Dept. Accounting Dept. Analysis & Evaluation Dept. Finance Dept. Project Management Dept. HSE Dept. Risk Management Dept. Science & Technology Dept. Operational Excellence Dept. Audit Dept. Legal Dept. Information Technology Dept. Administrative Services Dept. Sinochem Management School CPC Work Dept. Discipline Inspection Dept. Retired Cadre Dept. One ability 1 Sustainable development ability Two foundations 2 Internal management/External expansion Three links 3 Resource/Technology/Market Four paths Innovation/Consolidation/Acquisition/ 4 Cooperation Sinochem Corporation Five business segments Energy/Agriculture/Chemical/ Real Estate/Finance 5 Sinochem Petroleum Exploration and Production Co., Ltd. Sinochem Oil Co., Ltd. Sinochem Industries Co., Ltd. Sinochem Quanzhou Petrochemical Co., Ltd. Sinofert Holdings Ltd. China National Seed Group Co., Ltd. Shenyang Research Institute of Chemical Industry Sinochem International Corporation Sinochem Qingdao Co., Ltd. Sinochem Hebei Co., Ltd. Sinochem Jiangsu Co., Ltd. Sinochem Plastics Co., Ltd. Franshion Properties (China) Ltd. Beijing Eastern Garden International Conference Center China Foreign Economic and Trade Trust Co., Ltd. Sinochem Finance Co., Ltd. Sinochem International Tendering Co., Ltd. Sinochem Hong Kong (Group) Co., Ltd. Sinochem Lantian Co., Ltd. Sinochem Assets Management Co. Far East Horizon Ltd. “One-Two-Three-Four-Five Strategy” Note: listed Companies; Department of Operational Excellence was established on May 15, 2015 10 2014 Sustainable Developmant Report Strategy and Governance 11 Comprehensive Risk Management Key personnel performance Performance assessment Procurement acceptance Project technique/design Science and technology Sales order and delivery External communication Internal communication Procurement execution Tier-3 risks Personnel introduction Compensation system Production techniques Procurement plan and Non-operational asset As early as 1998, Sinochem began to build risk management system. After more than a decade of hard efforts, it has basically achieved no blank Knowledge and ability Process management System operation and Results management Production and sales Procurement quality Production operation Project examination System development Employee relations Marketing strategy Market exploration Project cost control Marketing channel Operational asset or overlapping area in management; orders are implemented smoothly; issues are dealt with and responsibilities are shouldered . In recent years, projects check Client credibility Trust solvency Product design Product quality Product services Project initiation Project schedule Project quality System planning and report and information release balance balance management maintenance taking internal control as an opportunity, the company further improved comprehensive risk management and internal control system that focusing on eliminating risks, and covering both group functional departments and subsidiaries. It provides strong guarantee for Sinochem’s safe operation andmanagement Suppliers Tendering management Bidding management and strategic transformation. In 2014, Sinochem was rated advanced unit in overall risk management enhancement in SASAC’s central enterprises management improvement activities. Science and Tier-2 risks Rules and processes Ethics and integrity Human resources Natural disasters Marketing and sales Asset management Production and Information and Procurement Confidentiality Third-party technology and R&D IT system Three “not allow” Four “resolutely” Five “forbid” communication warehouse Credit operation and logistics Projects Auditing Stability HSE Indirect third-party financing trading is not Resolutely strengthen the checks and Forbid doing business with entities that allowed balances mechanism at the middle and have the same controller (direct or indirect) rear ends Chief executives are not allowed to do Forbid pure financing business which business directly Resolutelyestablish the customer / supplier require full or part bill issuing or advancing access mechanism money for others Business outside of the main business Tier-1 risks Operation General risk sectors is not allowed Resolutely implement relevant provisions Forbid signing contractsrequiringfinancing on centralized management of logistics from our side with profit-sharing provisions providersresolutely implement the stocktaking tripartite reconciliation (middle Forbid doing business in which we cannot and rear ends and warehouse) system control the goods Forbid doing business in which we do not have contact with commodities, suppliers and customers Major risk Comprehensive risk management requirements Sinochem Risk Tree Three guarantees Essential risk Two mechanisms Front-middle-back desk checks and balances Tier-1 risks Laws and Strategz Market Finances Sinochem’s core risk management mechanism; an independent middle desk is the key regulations One system Risk monitor Improve middle desk personnel’s quality Monitor major risks (credit, stocks and through training and rotating system; give futures), key units and businesses, so as to full play to checks and balances nip hidden risks in the bud Internal control and comprehensive IT-based measures Corporate governance Organization structure Strategic management Accounting and statement Contract management Interest rate and risk management system Risk examination Investment and M&A Capital management Budget management Macro economy and Group management Intellectual property Tier-2 risks Improve the correct, timely and Corporate culture Legal compliance Set up risk examination standards that Cost expenditure Constantly improve basic work Corporate image cover two dimensions and nine aspects to comprehensive information monitoring over foreign exchange rate Legal friction business units policies and control conduct comprehensive examination Derivatives rights On the basis of lessons learned over the Inventory past decade, form systematic and standardized management system in line Conduct specific case-based examination Risk culture and responsibilities Liquidity with rules and regulations, best practices and Tax internationally standard coso framework Constantly improve shortages and urge Enhance risk culture and encourage business units to improve their risk responsibility awareness Constantly integrate and improve risk management capabilities management system and internal control Educate managers at all levels through International operation Foreign exchange rate Transaction counterpart Budget implementation concrete cases and publicity Tier-3 risks system so as to adapt to the company’s Financial investment Tax declaration and Industrial structure Financial statement Macro politics and Strategic planning Interest difference needs Macro-economy Business model Public relationsBrand reputation Inventory market Inventory safety Capital security Budget making Budget review policies Interest rate Operation Financing Guarantee Tax planning payment Accounting Payment Comprehensive risk management measures Sinochem Risk Tree 12 2014 Sustainable Developmant Report Social Responsibility Management 13 Anti-corruption Social Responsibility Management Sinochem adheres to the guiding principle of anti-corruption goes together with strategy implementation , regards party's work style building and antiBy linking its own development strategies and operation model, Sinochem strengthens its social responsibility management, improves social corruption work as its responsibility, and deploys implements, reviews such work with operation and management work at the same time. All this has responsibility management structure, gradually brings the concept of social responsibility into all aspects of its business and daily operations, conducts greatly supported the company in its endeavor to promote strategic transformation. communication with a broad range of stakeholders, and strives to achieve common sustainable development with the stakeholders. Earnestly implement the Party committee and discipline inspection inspections focusing on risks that may affect operating, production and Model of Sustainable Development commission’s responsibilities of conduction and oversight. The political safety, with the aim to timely detect and correct hidden risks, company thoroughly studies CPC central committee’s deployment loopholes in subsidiaries, and potential risk in leadership in the exercise In its development process, the company always bears in mind its responsibilities and mission, regards corporate social responsibility as part of of clean governance and anti-corruption work. By connecting with its of power, in a bid to nip issues in the bud and execute early correction. its gene, connects social responsibility work with business development, and gradually explores and forms a sustainable development model with diversified business portfolio and difficulties in strategic transformation, Conduct publicity and education activities. The company attaches Sinochem characteristics. the company has carried out interviews with personnel at all levels, great importance to educating its own people with concrete things. By and comprehensively investigate hidden risks. Through giving play to analyzing typical cases, it educates and warns cadres and employees superior’s leading and modeling role, it promotes clean-governance and To become a great respectable company with global presence that they should pursue a great career and grow together with the implementation of two responsibilities at every level. company. It has launched such activities as family anti-corruption Firmly carry out specific-item treatment. Sinochem is persistent in drive, themed essay, quiz, etc., so as to create a good and honest implementing antifour bad practices requirements and spirit of the culture, build a strong ideological defense line against corruption and eight provisions raised by the CPC central committee. It has conducted degeneration for cadres and employees. ND PEOPLE’S CONOMY A LIVEL NAL E IHO specific-item treatment in accordance with the principle of unified ATIO OD EN FO Strengthen the discipline inspection team. The company actively TH RM leadership, responsibility at different levels, comprehensive clean-up, VING UT R UA participates in lectures and training classes on anti-corruption launched SE LP and strict regulation. The Company did not use public funds to buy RO SP by the Central Commission for Discipline Inspection and SASAC’s SS Go ER consumer cards or books that have no connection with their work for RE n ity ve IT Y Commission for Discipline Inspection, organizes company-wide G mu rnm business executives. It has no its own self training or care facilities, nor O m en effectiveness monitor training and inspection classes, and focuses on /Co t PR P unhealthy practice in clubs . SO blic Pu R CI improving the political quality and performance ability of the discipline AL DI NG OVI Carry out thorough inspections. Relying on the its company-wide G IN SOCIALLY BENEFICIAL A inspection team. Energy internal control system for oversight, the company has conducted ED DD PATIN The power to E-A LU CTIV drive the TICI future VA ITIE PAR LOP WITH CLI S TO DEVE nt onme Shar ST Measures 2012 2013 2014 Finance ENTS Agriculture VICE e h o ld OF Developed efficacy supervision programs (items) 93 136 153 Envir To grow The hope to SER wealth Creating Value, AC seed for the by wisdom ers green Group-level executives signed CPC Anti-Corruption Letter of Responsibilities (copies) 11 18 18 Pursuing ILI Excellence TA General managers of Sinochem subsidiaries signed Anti-Corruption Letter of Responsibilities (copies) 44 43 43 TE Key managers signed CPC Anti-Corruption and Self-Discipline Commitment Letter (copies) 235 274 295 Discipline Inspection Department of Sinochem gave opinions on the appointment and removal of key managers (copies) 141 117 66 Real Estate Chemicals DE Conducted workplace anti-corruption training for employees (people) 10941 13806 13025 Creating harmony VE Em between architecture Making LO life better PM EN pl and people s G T nt Conducted anti-corruption and self-discipline education across the group (times) 155 222 238 IN oy LU ie VA ee Cl s HA S RM NT ON LE IO TA US AND DE AN D VE N LO Partners/Suppliers/Industry EE PI NG GR F E, WI SA TH E TH EE IEV MP A CH LOY TO EES NT AGEME AN PRACTICING HSE M Sustainable Development Model 14 2014 Sustainable Developmant Report Social Responsibility Management 15 Social Responsibility Promotion Group Management Team Subsidiary Management Team Other specialized CSR working teams Other specialized Group CSR Committee Sinochem organizes social responsibility work around four aspects: idea shaping, system building, practice guiding, and responsibility communicating, committees in the Group at subsidiaries committees at subsidiaries so as to promote the integration of the concept of social responsibility into the management processes and business segments of both the group company and its subsidiaries. Supporting departments CSR leadership team Supporting departments Group CSR Office Idea shaping. Sinochem integrates corporate social responsibility into corporate gene, and the responsibility concept into corporate mission, culture of the Group at subsidiaries of subsidiaries and values. It highlights social responsibility in management activities of each business segment, reflects social responsibility in communication with stakeholders, and endeavors to achieve organic integration of social responsibility with business management. Contact person at CSR lead of the CSR lead of Contact person Leader-member relation each department General Office each subsidiary at each department Operational guidance relation To become a role model in technological advancement, resource conservation and Sinochem CSR Management Structure To become a great company with world-wide status and respect Corporate Corporate environment protection vision mission Practice guiding. Sinochem holds social responsibility work meeting on an annual basis, which conducts training programs on the role of social To become a strong force propping up the national energy security, agriculture security responsibility in reshaping corporate awareness and corporate management, the latest developments and achievements of central SOEs in the field and chemical industry’s upgrading of social responsibility, as well as the compiling methods and requirement of social responsibility report. The group company guides and assists To become a responsible corporate citizen subordinating units to carry out social responsibility activities by selecting themes in accordance with their unique characteristics. with world-wide status and respect As an individual: integrity, cooperation, eager to learn; Code of Core Responsibility communication. Through its media platform of official website, newspapers, business reports, Sinochem Today microblog and Conduct philosophy WeChat account, Sinochem conducts extensive communication with stakeholders; it has published sustainable development (corporate social For work: earnest, innovation and pursuing excellence responsibility) report for eight consecutive years; its subsidiaries, Sinochem International, Sinofert, Franshion Properties, FOTIC, Sinochem Ningbo, Creating Value, Pursuing Excellence etc. actively release their own social responsibility reports, and participate in international exchanges and discussions on social responsibility. Sinochem strengthens the concept of three conforms and three integrates , integrates scientific concept of social responsibility into the company's management and operation. Its subsidiaries have conducted a variety of social responsibility activities depending on their own business characteristics. Honors At the Ninth International Forum on Corporate Social Responsibility & Golden Bee Corporate Social Responsibility, China list ceremony sponsored by WTO Tribune, Integrationinto corporate mission, culture and values In line with international trends of social responsibility Sinochem, by its solid social responsibility management practices and typical case Integrationinto each business segments’ management In line with china's basic national conditions Reaansibility idea of Care for Agriculture, Safeguard Agricultural Development , won the Golden Bee activities Enterprise as a model enterprise that stresses responsible operation and pursues In line with the actual development of sinochem group Integration into communication process with all stakeholders sustainable development. Franshion Properties, a Sinochem subsidiary which is listed in Hong Kong, won the Golden Bee Corporate Social Responsibility Award Ecological Civilization Award. At the seventh International Symposium on Corporate Social Responsibility Report & System building. Following the overall plan, Sinochem’s subsidiaries coordinate with each other and assist each other, and various departments Golden Bee Excellent CSR Report List 2014 , Sinochem Group 2013 Sustainability and entities at all levels take initiative to further strengthen the social responsibility system, and standardize process management. Sinochem’s levelReport won the Golden Bee Social Responsibility Report Evergreen Award ; the Social two units have set up leading groups, identified personnel and contacts responsible for social responsibility work, putting in place a smooth work Responsibility Report of FOTIC, Sinochem’s subsidiary, won the Golden Bee Excellent mechanism. CSR Report 2014 • Growing Companies Award. In the selection of best social responsibility practices launched by the Global Compact network in China, the case “caring for local livelihood, plowing rich soil in Africa” submitted by Sinochem won the Award for Promoting Social Development and Cooperation Best Practice . 16 2014 Sustainable Developmant Report Social Responsibility Management 17 Stakeholders and Key Issues Starting from its core businesses, Sinochem considers the actual business operations, identifies stakeholders and their needs and expectations. Serve national economy Provide satisfactory Conduct HSE Valuing employees’ Participate in social According to the characteristics of different stakeholders, Sinochem chooses the best communication tools and ways to achieve effective and people’s livelihoods services to develop management to reach talent to develop beneficial activities to communication with stakeholders, and make efforts to respond to the legitimate expectations and demands of them. for mutual prosperity with clients harmony with nature together facilitate social progress Implement extending Improve client service Promote behavior safety Strengthen employee Conduct poverty upstream strategy for system improvement training alleviation programs energy sector Enhance service Cultivate green Broaden career path Prod suppliers’ sense Promote seeds, capability environmental protection of responsibility to Give care for employee pesticides, fertilizers ideas fulfill obligations es niti ‘coordinated mu wth Innovate mechanism c om i c gro Pa Pa development it h o m rtic y ta for conducting n w n ies ipa Re Group atio eco ivit te i por xes Promote scientific and community nic cal act np t re m mu a n d lo t e er olic y re gul arly technological innovation undertakings o nt un ct c me vol vie ndu loy yee wa Strengthen lean Co e mp plo nd t e m pla mo ct e nm management Pro ndu aki ng Co s ing er tak Enhance oil and gas Improve services for end Safe production Help needy employees Prod suppliers’ sense of e und e nt Se Ab ide resources acquisition users responsibility to fulfill r rve w elfa l opm the by Green production Improve employees’ skills obligations ial eve nat law Improve oil storage Provide value-added to soc ni ty d ion Protect biodiversity ted mu al e facility layout service Promote industry evo com con with e D ote om development y rom Build oil retailing nviron P Energy network Ensure the safety of the menta Impro communities l prote ve pro ity eting Relea ction fitabil Promote local ductio autho se pro rs me Use re uct en ucture communities’ n pro Increa holde sourc se an vironm rities ce str share development where we es re cesse ernan Enforc asona es/ Go Host niti te gov ularly have presence ental ver s ee bly mu lic y gularl nm polluti nergy con rpora rt reg m prote Co Pub ent ve co tion re Repo n time on em serva ction Impro forma port o ission tion a Secure fertilizer supply Launch “sinochem’s Green production Set up multi-tiered Promote industry activit Prote nd ted in nual re reduc Share n nt se rela ciatio care for agricultural employee training development ies ct eco tion onme Improve pesticide r&d Guile scientific Relea appre logica dream” system value system fertilization Organize donations to l envir holde asset erate onme Envir Balance employees’ welfare projects nt Ensure Cond rs Safeguard seed industry Research green, work and life Coop Agriculture security low-toxic, environmental friendly pesticides s Em er m plo sto ye Cu es n Suppliers/ Serve every aspect of Provide professional, Conduct fire emergency Innovate training Organize donations to io at Peers/partners people’s lives comprehensive services drills programs for employees welfare projects ns ide pe er bu throughout the industrial Pr m re Improve rubber Green production Promote all-round Promote industry co ca ng t Im pr sin chain le to ni en m ov es industry value chain corporate culture development ab e rai m ar e se on M ke Energy conservation and on nc d t ee s th construction vir Ho tin er Provide customized as rta an td g vic ics Contribute to fluorine emission reduction Develop along with re en ov st Pr em e po nt g iffe su p e Chemical service and id im e m in Ab re po C De olle industry development overseas local ov rk ide nt comprehensive solutions Recycle used plastic ch p rti plo Pr Co ta lo wo de uc al w ct cu ng communities At ve co ye nd m se bottles de od an tc it us h cu stom m es rv go uc pe Fair competition ds ice te g e ov to sto er ve tin id m titi ide s er m er ’ op ee ov Promote industrial management s’ m re s’ ini Develop high quality Strengthen process quality Promote green Improve employees’ skill Prod suppliers’ sense Pr sa lfa e and technological progress tis co on tiv ng we fa m s real estate projects management development strategy of responsibility to fulfill ta cti pla en ini d on int Care for employees obligations tra n an Expand industry value chain,explore es ra s Promote healthy Integrate properties Civilized safe work pr ees io industrial services te ’ re at su development of the real management businesses Promote regional y rv plo ns ey Real estate m mpe estate sector economic development co Co nd Consolidate financial Provide high quality, Promote hse skills Promote democratic Conduct community Improve r&d capabilities services for people’s all-round financial management social welfare Support replacement of Enhance supply chain management and cooperation livelihood services activities old buses with new ones Optimize compensation Participate industrial development forum Promote multiple Provide tailored services system Promote industrial Support urban water Finance business development progress disposal system’s Care for employees’ lives upgrading Sinochem’s CSR Matrix 18 2014 Sustainable Developmant Report Sinochem's Care for Agricultural Dream 19 Sinochem's Care for Agricultural Dream 黑龙江 哈尔滨 In December 2013, the Central Rural Work Conference stressed that rural population 长春 吉林 should be enriched, supported and assisted, so that agricultural sector can be 乌鲁木齐 profitable, agricultural population are confident and decent career, and rural area become a beautiful land. 辽宁 沈阳 新疆维吾尔族自治区 呼和浩特 北京 内蒙古自治区 天津 甘肃 石家庄 As a professional national service provider for agricultural sector, Sinochem, mobilized its subsidiaries Sinofert, China Seed and Sinochem Agro 银川 山西 太原 河北 青海 in 2014, worked together with agricultural authorities, local governments and research institutions to carry out a campaign of Sinochem’s Care 西宁 济南 黑龙江 兰州 山东 for Agricultural Dream , in a bid to benefit farmers, protect farmers, and help farmers wholeheartedly. Measures taken include promote scientific 哈尔滨 陕西 长春 吉林 fertilization, explore modern crop protection technical services, educate new professional farmers; conduct special anti-counterfeiting and product 郑州 江苏 辽宁 沈阳 knowledge popularization and product identification training, and protect and clean agricultural supply market. In 2014, 14,000 activities were organized 内蒙古自治区 呼和浩特 北京 西安 河南 南京 西藏自治区 天津 甘肃 under Sinochem’s Care for Agricultural Dream , more than 1,300 pieces of demonstration fields were set up, benefitting nearly a million rural 石家庄 四川 银川 山西 太原 河北 合肥 上海 济南 湖北 西宁 山东 population. 安徽 兰州 陕西 郑州 江苏 西安 河南 成都 武汉 南京 拉萨 杭州 四川 合肥 上海 湖北 成都 武汉 安徽 杭州 浙江 重庆 南昌 湖南 浙江 重庆 南昌 湖南 长沙 福建 贵州 江西 长沙 钓鱼岛 福州 福建 贵阳 台北 云南 Agricultural services Professional farmers’ education 昆明 广西 广东 台湾 贵州 江西 钓鱼岛 南宁 广州 贵阳 福州 澳门 香港 台北 Scientific services Two ‘’hundreds of increase” scientific activities 东沙群岛 云南 海口 海南 昆明 台湾 High-yield demonstration projects Sinochem’s care “Beautiful villages” scientific activities 广西 广东 for agriculture dream 西沙群岛 中沙群岛 黄岩岛 Crack-down on fake products Build farmers’ field schools 南 海 南宁 广州 Benefit, protect 香港 澳门 Comprehensive crop solutions Promote scientific fertilization 南沙群岛 and assist farmers 东沙群岛 Customized services for major growers Free soil test services 海口 海南 Expert clinic on crops Build demonstration county of formula fertilizers Scientific fertilization promotion Farmers’ field school “Red-shield” campaign Special crop planting services Modern crop-protection services Seed-selection and breeding guidance voice Regions covered by agri-chemical services Scientific fertilization works well. Now 8 major farmers are using formula fertilizer, which reduced rice empty grain rate from 30% After participating in filed schools organized by Sinofert, I learned the right fertilization methods, and also understand Assisted By Science to 10%.Per mu yield of 2-times-harvest-per-year rice increased how to identify genuine and fake fertilizer. by 300 kg, which translates to 500 yuan of rise in revenue. Conduct technical training. Hunan Dongting hi-tech Seed Co., Ltd., Wang Damin, a major grower in Yiyang a subsidiary of China Seed, held exchange meeting on spring farming Wang Dihua, village party secretary, Youhewan village, Lanxi in Changsha, Hunan province. Five training lectures were held for Town, Yiyan major farmers, benefiting 180 people; scientific seed selection, with good supporting methods activity was launched, which benefited 400 farmers. Sinochem Agro carried out training classes on Aike, flu morph and 9080, which benefited 850 farmers. Build Demonstration County of formula fertilizers. Sinofert worked with Ministry of Agriculture to set up 19 demonstration counties of and 3 meetings on reviewing scientific fertilization in Longjiang County in Heilongjiang, Qianguo County in Jilin, Wuchuan and Shangdu in Inner Mongolia. China Seed conducted seeds and methods promotion activity under the theme “scientific seeds selection and good supporting methods” 20 2014 Sustainable Developmant Report Sinochem's Care for Agricultural Dream 21 Door-to-door Service Conduct Public Welfare Activities to Benefit the People Product supply. In the critical time of spring farming and field management, Sinochem relies on its comprehensive agricultural product distribution and Support disaster-hit regions. Sinofert worked with Hainan Soil and Fertilizer Station, Wenchang City Agricultural Technique Promotion Service Center service network which covers more than 95% of China’s arable land to ensure access to agricultural supply and basic products like fertilizers, seeds to launch the activity Give Your Love for a Home , donating 50 million yuan worth of fertilizers and pesticides to disaster-hit regions, which helped and pesticides. farmers out of shortage of fertilizers and pesticides due to typhoon. Door-to-door service. Sinochem-Agro launched such activities as agricultural caravans and expert consultation sessions totaling 19 times, which Send seeds to countryside. China Seed International, a subsidiary of China Seed Group, sent 500 kg of seeds to the countryside, set up 3 benefited over 900 people in 54 villages. Sinofert took measures to crack down on knock-off products, conducted sending agricultural products to the demonstration fields which cover 250 Mu, benefiting over 50 farmers. countryside and publicity activities totaling 2048 times, distributing more than 40,000 copies, which directly benefited more than 200,000 people. Enrich cultural life. Sinofert conducted 6 movie-play activities in Anhui province for over 400 farmers. Work at the forefront. Sinofert have set up 175 Farmer Field Schools (FFS). In 2014, two new FFS were built in Shandong and Fujian. 5 training sessions were launched, which benefited 170 farmers. Over 1100 pieces of demonstration land were put in place, 185 on-site demonstrations meetings were conducted; more than 22,000 copies of reading material were distributed, which directly benefited more than 11,000 people. Cooperate to Help Grow Innovate service model. Sinofert Heilongjiang branch cooperated with Zhaodong municipal government to explore the governmentfield trusteeship service model , and introduced high-yield solution that integrates “Sinochem’s seeds + fertilizers + pesticides” in the demonstration plots developed by both sides. After experts’ examination, the yield of per Mu of such plots is 1227 kg, and year-onyear increase of 36.3%. Sinochem Agro signed cooperation agreement Sinofert worked with Hainan Soil and Fertilizer Station, Wenchang City Agricultural Technique Promotion Service Center to launch the activity Give 2014 with Heilongjiang plant quarantine and protection station to Your Love for a Home jointly build Sinochem Agro Modern Crop-protection Technical Service Demonstration Area, which aims to reduce pesticide application by For more information, please scan the following 20%, and increase per Mu yield by 12.1%-29.8% through promoting unified program, unified organization, unified pesticide supply and application, and unified investigation . Demonstration base of modern agricultural crop-protection techniques in Heilongjiang Educate new professional farmers. Sinofert cooperated with Science and Education Division of the Ministry of Agriculture and Central Agricultural Broadcasting and Television School jointly organized the Northeast China New Vocational Farmers Training and Farmer Capability Enhancement Class to educate new career farmers. Theme activity “Sinochem’s care for agricultural dream”, produced by New Center, Sinochem Group Sinochem New professional farmers New professional farmers refer to modern farmers who have certain expertise, and whose revenue comes mainly from agriculture 22 2014 Sustainable Developmant Report Serve the National Economy to Prosper Together with the Country 23 Serve the National Economy to Prosper Together with the Country To adapt to the new normal of the Chinese economy, Sinochem One-Two-ThreeFour-Five strategy, relies on innovation, constantly enhance management, safeguard national energy and agricultural security, and promote the progress of the chemical industry, provide high-quality products and services, playing an exemplary role in promoting the harmonious society. 26.97 1.34 billion yuan 11.345 billion yuan Million barrels (oil equivalent) Investment in technological Total profit of equity oil and gas production innovation Honors and Stakeholders’ Comments Sinochem financial statements are of high quality and timely released. Sinochem is one of the 40central SOEs approved by the Ministry of Finance. The patent “benzo Pyrones preparation and application” of Shenyang Institute for Chemical Research and Shenyang Sciencreat Chemicals Co. Ltd.’ s patent of “A Herbicide Composition won China Excellent Patent Award . Professor Long Fei and Professor Meng Mingyang from Shenyang Institute for Chemical Research won Innovation Award at the 6th Hou Debang Chemical Science and Technology Award . 24 2014 Sustainable Developmant Report Serve the National Economy to Prosper Together with the Country 25 Exploration and Production Oil Trading From farm to table has 39 blocks in 11 countries, with core areas in America and the ●● Oil center works with Quanzhou refinery to apply for the export ●● -food safety starting from seed Middle East. qualification of refined oil. ●● p roject types include light oil, heavy oil, natural gas, shale oil, ●● crude oil trade volume reached 75 million tons, with import and etc., covering all links of the upstream sector—from exploration, entreport volume ratio is about 1: 1.2; refined oil operating volume is Seed is the origin of all living things. There can be no life without seeds. The food we eat every day is grown from production to pipeline transportation; has nearly 700 million barrels 2.87 million tons seeds. Maybe the bowl of rice you're eating is produced from the seeds by China Seed, Sinochem’s subsidiary. After of equity oil and gas 2P reserves hard work and careful selection by outstanding breeders, seeds will grow into rice and become the food we eat. Some ●● undertakes country-based research; set up 11 national oil and gas claim that your seeds are genetically bred and are not safe. Well, Sinochem can tell you for sure that genetic breeding means employing biological breeding technology to dig out the good genes, then do optimization, and improve the asset database; conduct in-depth geological and oil reserve study on Warehouse and Logistics Campo Rico oilfield overall performance of different varieties; whereas genetically-modified rice uses non-rice genes to modify rice. The two ●● Campo Rico’s production increased steadily, with smooth operation; technologies are essentially different. The safety of rice produced from Sinochem’s seeds can be ensured. ●● Operation and management inventory reached 10.12 million cubic progress was made in rolling exploration; new Gacheta layer was meters, with 3 million cubic meters of national oil reserve project discovered in VS oilfield, adding 1.8 million barrels to existing under construction, which is nearly 4 times that of 2006. geological reserve. ●● C omes back to domestic oil and gas exploration market by participating in shale gas exploration in Chongqing; owns 20% stock Retail and Distribution in the joint venture, which marks a historic breakthrough in domestic Safeguard National Energy Security market. ●● O il center opened 102 new refueling stations, signed 138 new DODO stations, with operating stations and contracted stations reaching 477 and 709 respectively. The company work hard to adapt to energy sector’s new normal of quality takes precedence over size , stride forward to become a uniquely Oil Refining ●● Q uanzhou refinery was granted refined oil wholesale business positioned, independent international oil company. Sinochem follows the strategy of expanding to the upstream sector, and constantly enhances oil and qualification. gas exploration and production capability at home and abroad. Meanwhile, it constantly consolidates its operating capabilities of oil refining, trading, ●● 12 million tons / year Quanzhou refinery has come into operation. All logistics, retailing and distribution; promotes the integrated development of upstream and downstream sectors, so as to ensure national energy security. of its gasoline and diesel products meet Euro V standards. In 2014, Quanzhou refinery processed 5.96 million tons of crude oil, and produced 1.4 million tons of gasoline, 420,000 tons of kerosene, and Year 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 For more information, 1.89 million tons of diesels. please scan the following Crude oil trading volume (million MT) 52.53 55.61 55.00 56.00 74.98 Equity oil and gas production (million barrels of oil equivalent) 17.74 22.01 23.34 25.13 26.97 Actively Participate in Study on National Strategic Oil Reserves Refined oil distribution (million MT) 4.12 4.28 4.55 6.89 7.75 Sinochem promotes development of national oil reserves, and has formed series research papers on the National Oil Reserves, among Oil storage capacity 4.34 6.35 10.03 11.35 13.12 which Study on Purchasing Strategy for National Oil Reserves won second place in the 2008--2009 NEA Soft Science Research Award; (million cubic meters) General layout of Sinochem’s and National Oil Reserve Rotation and Mobilization Mechanism won the third place in 2010 NEA Soft Science Research Award Oil refining capacity (million MT) 10.00 15.00 15.00 27.00 27.00 energy business In 2014, Sinochem Oil’s soft subject project “Study on Standards of Leasing of Private Warehousing Facilities to National Oil Reserves” won the third place in 2012 NEA Soft Science Research Award. National Energy Administration noted that the report is rich in contents, links closely with the reality, sufficiently reasoned, thoroughly analyzed—it summarized experience of foreign governments in renting oil companies’ storage facilities, and proposed standards and operating procedures for China torrent storage facilities from oil companies. The paper may work as a good reference for national oil reserve work. 26 2014 Sustainable Developmant Report Serve the National Economy to Prosper Together with the Country 27 Safeguard National Agricultural Security Promote E-marketing The company integrates fertilizer, seed, and pesticide businesses, and enhances energies and collaboration, improves R&D capabilities, Sinofert launched the B2B e-commerce platform Maifeiwang , which aims at shortening purchase process, reducing communication processes, and production efficiency; expands online marketing channels, develops greater marketing, so as to contribute to national agricultural costs and improving overall supply chain efficiency. Pilot programs were started for 65 regional customers in Shandong and Henan. security. By the end of 2014, 14,000 tons of fertilizers had been sold through “Maifeiwang”, with sales revenue reaching 33.57 million yuan. The platform shortens order placing time from 1-3 hours to 0.5 hours, and delivery period from 7-10 days to 1-2 days, greatly improving customer trading experience. Stabilize Fertilizer Supply Relying on strong fertilizer product development capability, the company accelerates commercialization of environment-friendly and efficient fertilizers. It promotes marketing through quality service, and ensures steady supply of fertilizer products. voice Year 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Sinochem’s e-commerce platform is great. I can find what I Sinochem’s e-commerce platform is great and user-friendly. I’ll Total output (million MT) 10.34 10.34 10.00 12.00 12.00 need, and can place orders by following notes, which simplifies keep watching it compression original transaction process. Xia Wenliang general manager of Qingdao Agricultural, Supply Total sales volume (million MT) 15.51 16.46 17.14 16.28 14.63 Customer Kong Xiankun Total distribution outlets 21.06 21.10 21.10 21.10 21.00 Major Indicators for Sinochem Group’s Fertilizer Business Fertilizers value chain Measures Develop and Promote Environment-Friendly Pesticides Invest over 100 million yuan in technical expense, which aims to support energy-saving processes, key techniques, new fertilizer The company enhances capability along the whole industry value chain, uses environment-friendly green pesticides as the driving force, and research and development, and technical services and promotion promotes the industrialization of self-developed products as well as “going-global” of environment-friendly green pesticides. Set up Chengdu R&D center, state biotechnology center-Sinochem sub-center. By the end of 2014, Sinochem had had 3 subsidiary-level research centers and 4 enterprise technology centers R&D As a major participant in national technology demonstration project of Bohai granary,Sinochem took the leadership role in the research Pesticides value chain Measures Study on Research and Application of Regional Specialized Efficient Fertilizer for Crops”, with focus on “fertilizers”. By the end of 2014, 180 Mu of demonstration field have been set up Shenyang Research Institute for Chemical Industry has completed industrialized technology transfer of the innovative variety SYP-9080 project, and pilot plant test of New Dijie and New Aike. It has strengthened research on new R&D formulations, expanded the depth and breadth of the study. Research on optimization of 18 existing formulations and 25 Controls or has stakes in 14 fertilizer companies,with annual fertilizers production capacity at 12 million tons new formulations were during the first three quarters Product type includes nitrogen, phosphate, potash, compound fertilizers and other new fertilizers The first batch of Eluney has completed filling on the assembly line of Shenyang Sciencreat Co., Ltd. This is Sinochem Production Owns high quality phosphate resources, which paves way for connecting phosphate fertilizer withphosphate chemical industry Production Agro’s first own brand Develop Latin American market Deliver formulation products, including Rico, ROGUE, RIVET,vto domestic and overseas markets Cooperate with China Minsheng Bank, China Postal Savings Bank, Guangdong Development Bank to innovate rural financial services Sales volume of Roundup in domestic market increased 30% year-on-year model, and promote service marketing through service Marketing Achieve Yangnong Group’s flurbiprofen and Jiaheling cooperation in domestic market; start registration of chlorine/ Create e-business platforms such as “maifeiwang” and “Chian compound fertilizer trading website” to expand marketing channels dicamba in the Philippines and Australia Marketing By the end of 2014, it owns 17 branches and over 2100 distribution centers 28 2014 Sustainable Developmant Report Serve the National Economy to Prosper Together with the Country 29 Safeguard the Security of the Seed Industry Promote the Progress of the Chemical Industry The company has set up a R&D platform, optimizes the layout of seed production, and expands marketing channels, so as to contribute to the The company continues to strengthen its core competitiveness in the fluorine chemical and rubber products sectors, consolidate resource acquisition, modernization of China's agriculture, safeguard crop security, food security and promote sustainable development of agriculture. enhance research and development, speed up commercialization of research results, innovate marketing model, so as to boost management and technological progress of the chemical industry. Seeds value chain Measures Fluorine Chemical Product Line Build breeding platform. China Seed’s national key Laboratory for crop breeding technology innovation and integration promotes rational division of labor between enterprises and research institutes, optimizes China’s organizational innovation The company continues to secure fluorite resources, strengthen independent research and development, promote commercialization of research model, establishes and promotes green super breed concept in the seed industry, strives to achieve sustainable-development production model of more output with less investment, and environmentally friendly , and is dedicated to creating world-class results, polish brand, so as to maintain advantages along fluorine chemical industry value chain. top Chinese bio-breeding platform Increase R&D efforts. Rice genome chip is upgraded to industry-leading position of 90K; introduce new quality source patented system for conventional breeding. Technology Centre completed six parent-line improvements, which is to be Fluorine chemicals Measures delivered; created two sterile lines, and completed identification value chain Promote approval identification. Rice get two state approved varieties, 21 provincialapproval varieties; corn get three R&D provincialapproval varieties; wheat get 10 state approved varieties, eight provincialapproval varieties;, sunflowers get three varieties. Maize and rice have 23/times varieties; Technology Centre is about to complete a two-line state approved two-line Improve low-grade fluorite flotation technology; improve the efficiency of resource mining medium rice variety, and a conventional improved variety, which mark a historic breakthrough Build dominant species. 6 rice varieties, 3 wheat varieties and 2 maize varieties were selected as dominant species;2 rice R&D varieties were selected as demonstration and promotion super rice varieties. By the end of 2014, among the 111 super rice varieties identified by the Ministry of Agriculture, 12 were bred and marketed by China Seed Expand production capacity of TFA; its supporting materials also went into operation Foaming agent project with Honeywell and brazing flux project with Solvay were completed Improve production capacity. Establish 5 seed production bases covering major crop growing regions in the country. Build Has19 sets industrial units, more than 50 varieties, annual production capacity of 270,000 tons (excluding fluorite and raw 15 supporting seed storage and seed processing centers; able to produce and process 250 million kg of seed per year materials). Industry-leading operating rate of HFC-125, HFC-134a, HCFC-123, TFA and other major products; organic raw Production Innovate seed production model. Set up production base transfer pilot projects in Zhangye, Gansu and Meishan, Sichuan. material utilization rate is at the industry leading level More than 6,000 Mu of land was transferred in Zhangye. The company also builds alliance with local villages, farmers' cooperative organizations and large seed growers to explore production model of company + transferred base + professional Production cooperative organization + professional seed growers to promote industry upgrading and transformation The market share of refrigerant HFC-134a and R410A, the fluorine-containing agricultural pharmaceutical intermediates TFA is No.1 in China; brand names such as “Jincool”, Kehua enjoys rising reputation in international markets; Jincool was recognized by State Administration for Industry and Commerce as famous trademark in the refrigerant sector Cooperate with 6 of the top 10 domestic electrolytic aluminum plants and a number of international companies in the field of Promote marketing through service. Give full play to the advantage of integrated service provider to explore pilot programs Marketing aluminum fluoride of “seeds + fertilizers” and “seeds + pesticides” in Henan, Shandong, Sichuan and Hubei. Carry out field investigation into the model of integration of seeds, fertilizers, pesticides, services and capital”, and promote solution of comprehensive agricultural service system Expand marketing network. Set up 22 provincial-level marketing agencies over the country; expand service network to Marketing cover all major grain and oil primary producing regions. Enrich marketing channels. Participate instate-level seed industry e-business platform supported by the Ministry of Agriculture Improve the Rubber Industry Value Chain Rubber is a scarce resource of strategic importance to the national economy. The company constantly to strengthen the rubber of resource acquisition, production and marketing capabilities, improve the cultivation, processing, marketing, rubber industry chain service system, strengthen the rubber industry chain operator position. Elite Breeder in Sanya Natural rubber value chain Measures As a specialist in seed breeding, and one of the elite breeders in Sanya, Wang Rongning has spent more than 10 years in the 200 mu of Resources Has 280,000 hectares of land in Africa and Southeast Asia, among which 180,000 are arable. The size of area of breeding field. His team supplies more than 30 of Hainan rice varieties, with more than 10 leading varieties in the South China market. acquisition plantations and land reserves is among the world’s largest As a key figure of the company’s breeding team, Wang Rongning participated in or led the review of 27 new varieties, reviewed and approved 32/times in 7 provinces, and acquired 6 new varieties. He has made fruitful results in commercial breeding and won three Grow and regrow nearly 3,000 hectares of natural rubber; increase processing capacity by 50,000 tons provincial-level scientific and technological progress awards. Production Natural rubber processing capacity of 730,000 tons, with facilities scattered mainly in China, Southeast Asia and Africa -among the three largest in the world's top three Has a worldwide sales network; has established a nationwide tire and rubber products marketing area; make up Marketing approximately 15% of domestic market share -ahead of other domestic companies; it is a major supplier for Michelin, Goodyear, Bridgestone, Hankook, etc. which are among the Top10 global tire companies 30 2014 Sustainable Developmant Report Serve the National Economy to Prosper Together with the Country 31 Improve People's Livelihood and Well-being Clothing Chemicals: produce and operate raw materials and dyes to enrich people's clothing Food Agriculture: breed new seed varieties; enrich people’s dining choices; developed green pesticides and fertilizers, promote crop output Chemicals: develop and produce ingredients such as food additives; improve food quality Accommodation Chemicals: produce energy-saving materials like polyurethane products, HFC-245fa foaming agent, air-conditioner refrigerant and the like; produce PP and PVC plastics for pipes, doors and windows, etc. Real Estate: provide customers with high quality properties and good property services Transportation Chemicals: operate rubber and rubber products, plastics, auto air-conditioner refrigerant, etc. provide raw materials for automobile tires and parts to promote the development of the automotive industry Energy: accelerate refueling station network expansion; has more than 700 stations, providing stable diesel and gasoline supply to meet people’s travel needs Education Health Finance: provide service to 150 colleges, 290 vocational colleges, 190 high schools, and 60 education bureausand Chemicals: as a professional service provider in the pharmaceutical industry, Sinochem active cooperates with finance bureaus world's leading biopharmaceutical company to improve its own strength Finance: provide financial service, medical engineering, investment and development, management consulting, equipment, etc. to domestic medical institutions; contribute to healthcare development. By the end of 2014, it had provided services to nearly 2100 hospitals 32 2014 Sustainable Developmant Report Serve the National Economy to Prosper Together with the Country 33 Promote Scientific and Technological Innovation Build Science and Technology Innovation Platform The company has 31 research and development institutions, with 65 kinds of R&D qualifications, including 23 national qualifications. In 2014, China Seed was recognized as national enterprise technical center; the safety evaluation center of Shenyang Research Institute of Chemical Industry The company regards technological innovation as the driving force for continuous growth of the company, constantly improves the scientific and achieved full field coverage, of OECD GLP, becoming the only one institution that meets OECD GLP requirements, with multi-field test capabilities. technological innovation management system, and promotes commercialization of research findings. The company led the formation of seeds, dye industry national technology innovation strategic alliances, and took part in the formation of pesticides, corn, and bio-pharmaceutical industry alliance, and has established cooperative relations with the Chinese Academy of Sciences, Chinese Academy of Agricultural Sciences, Leeds University, etc. in various areas. Sinochem has been awarded such titles as national Innovative Enterprise , “Innovation Base for High-level Overseas Talents , Key Unit for Central SOE Scientific and Technological Innovation Strategy Implementation and National IPR Demonstration Enterprises . 1national key lab 4 national engineering 7 post-doctorate 1 internationally 2 state approved enterprise research centers work stations approved GLP center technology center Year 2012 2013 2014 Investment in R&D (billion yuan) 1.18 1.14 1.34 Technology Talents Cultivation The company has built a scientific and technological innovation team covering all core business segments. In 2014, the company had 2962 scientific Research personnel 2212 2572 2962 and technical personnel, including 36 experts that enjoy special allowance from the State Council, and 73 senior experts. Implement 267 key national science and technology projects, National Science and Technology Support Program projects, including 61 national and Introduction of talent. In 2014, the company introduced 4 experts of Thousand Talents Plan , 1 expert of Young Thousand Talents Plan ; one person local government projects. was selected into Million Talents Project candidate list. By the end of 2014, the company had cultivated or introduced 12 personnel via related plans, Won 19 provincialand ministerial level awards including 7 from Thousand Talents Plan , and 5 from Million Talents Project . Sales revenue of new products reached 4.2 billion yuan, accounting for 9% of industry revenue. Training of talents. Centering on key links like patent management, science and technology projects and science and technology statistics, the company carried out multi-phased and multi-tiered training programs such as basic skills, real-time operation of the project, consolidation and Improve Technological Innovation System upgrading to improve professional sequence and certificates mechanisms. The company improves scientific and technological innovation management mechanism, strengthens full-cycle management of scientific and technological innovation, advances technological innovation platform building, fosters a dynamic, passionate echelon of talents, and strives to transform technological innovations into productive forces. Two Expert were Selected into the 10th Installment Thousand Talents Plan , Technology Innovation Management Dr. Zhang Lixin of Shenyang Chemical Research Institute and Prof. Quan Hengdao from Sinochem Lantian Group were selected into the 10th installment of “Thousand Talents Plan . Dr. Zhang Lixin presided over the development of SYP-Z048, SYP-Z071, SYP-1620, The company regards organization as the basis, the system as protection, process management as support, market demand as direction, and three new pesticide fungicides varieties, which played a good promoting role for the industry, and are important achievements in the assessment as driving force. It continuously strengthens scientific and technological innovation management, providing inexhaustible force for the development of new pesticides. Professor Quan Hengdao was granted more than 20 patents in the United States, of which six have company’s development. been commercialized, creating significant economic and social benefits; cultivated around a dozen postdoctoral researcher on ODS Strengthen multi-department collaborative management mechanism substitutes for domestic research institutions and enterprises. Set up product manager system for major products; establish technological innovation mechanism featured by shared responsibility and benefits Set up the post of Chief Technology Officer key industrial subsidiaries, including Sinochem International, Sinofert, China Seed and Sinochem Lantian Bring new product revenue profit into Establish post-project Evaluation System assessment indicators; highlight the supporting role of science and technology to Establish post-subsidy mechanism for R&D Strengthen Intellectual Property Management projects, change funding supporting mechanism business operation Improve from grant to result-oriented subsidy model Attach importance to annual priorities; organization that subsidizes projects with solid results and strengthen quarterly tracking and evaluation commercialization plans. Funding linked directly The company constantly improves intellectual property management system, and enhances intellectual property management, using and protection of key items linked to R&D outcomes, so as to improving efficiency of R&D funds and technological capabilities. In 2014, the company applied for 322 patents, an increase of 15.8% year-on-year, and was granted 172 patents. Two patents, Set Advanced Groups for Technology resources coumoxystrobin and Dijie , won China Great Patents Award. By the end of 2014, the company has had 898 active patents, 79% of which are Innovation and Advanced Individual Enhance Improve awards, so as to creating innovation atmosphere examination Scientific system invention patents, and 23% of which are granted in the United States, Japan and Europe. innovation Improve management capacity. The company has made 12 kinds of enterprise intellectual property management capabilities evaluation roadmap, Improve project fund management system, management Advance full-cycle project management; and regulate project funds management introduce strategic and business valuation which covers technical, legal, operational areas, established intellectual property management professional sequence, and implemented intellectual mechanism into major project review process Strengthen science and technology project property certificates system. budget management, explore the Introduce gate-style management mechanism establishment of science and technology for long period large projects; identify review project funding audit management Ensure process in R&D, strengthen coordination Strengthen process management. The company implements 5 IP links management in line with project management cycle-pre-project, research mechanism capital Management among strategic, R&D, production, marketing, and control and development, research finding protection, project conclusion, pre-commercialization and pre-export . Rationalize 12 items of technical secret Optimize the role of the group in the use of investment HSE, economic evaluation departments, and R&D investment; strengthen the position of process improve project efficiency and quality protection 12 and 65 risk points along full process of industrialization, and makes Guiding Opinions on strengthening the protection of Proprietary business units in science and technology Terminate timely three projects with no Technology . investment economic prospects 34 2014 Sustainable Developmant Report Serve the National Economy to Prosper Together with the Country 35 Ip-due diligence investigation Summary comprehensively Promote experience Patent application development Patent information search analysis Introduction Business value assessment of patents and Summarize management improvement activities around 10 aspects, in line with the market and Compile casebook of sinochem management enhancement Takes measure to deal with difficulties Chartered use unique techniques improve patent protection including grassroots management diagnosis and management activities to publicize the various promotion cases of specialty Making contract provisions innovation practice cases and lean projects cases each unit Cooperation Publicity Make review mechanism for publishing Review and summarize breakthroughs in four key areas, including essays and for classified information risk management, and hse management Organize each unit to review their enhance management improvement efforts Findings Project Business Pre Pre-project-check R&D-Track protection conclusion activities Rights protection -commercialization -choose -conduct -technique Improve continuously Commend advanced Existing techniques Each unit set up long-term management enhancement mechanism, Choose advanced unit of management enhancement activity by the Patents and technique protection methods Conduct comprehensive Track competitors and partners’ ip developments search and technique free implement the functions of different, and develop annual plans standards of promotion of organization and special items, and Identify R&D Make patent strategy based on market conditions operation assessment Monitor market developments comprehensive effectiveness, so as to create an atmosphere in which directions Each unit integrate management enhancement and lean all are eager to learn and to be the best Patent writing Monitor knock-off products management, and identify key points that need improving Identify invention break points Intellectual property management throughout the industry Implement Lean Management Create the Best Value for Shareholders The companies strengthens the integration of lean management and development strategy, sets up closed-loop management mechanism plancontrol evaluation , promotes the normalization of lean management. In 2014, the company implemented 114 Lean Management projects at the corporation level, and 774 Lean Management projects at the subsidiary level, reducing company-wide cost by 3.93%. The company summarizes and promotes management improvement experience, strengthens the connection between lean management and management improvement, steadily improves financial management, legal management and coverage of IT, so as to create incremental value for shareholders. Unit Major improvement measures Revise Sinochem Corporation Import/export Management Regulations on Controlled Chemicals”, form business process of Sinochem Year 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Sinochem International’s discretion rights monitored by the group , optimizes new product data system, promote coverage of information technology to Group monitor, control and management of more than 60,000 pieces of products Operating revenue (billion yuan) 335.327 458.953 453.159 466.905 496.829 Net profit (billion yuan) 7.345 10.697 7.545 6.952 6.967 Sinochem Oil E&P examines the gap between itself and its peers, optimizes operating processes, and improves on-site management. In 2014, Energy operating cost of per barrel of oil of the Colombia project decreased by 23% year-on-year, saving $ 9.39 million of yearly operating cost Total assets (billion yuan) 211.456 258.189 286.624 317.779 355.354 Shareholders’ equity (billion yuan) Sinofert launched channel integration and customer-sharing for agricultural potash and compound fertilizers in five provinces in southern 76.379 87.327 97.419 113.514 127.698 China , raising the proportion of channel customers for agricultural potassium who operate Sinofert compound fertilizers from 25% to 63%, and Agriculture the corresponding share of channel customers in branch companies from 10% to 21%. As a result, fertilizer sales reached 40,000 tons, up by 22,000 tons, realizing 3.3 million yuan in financial gain Carry Out Management Improvement Chemicals Sinochem Lantian launched “improve supply chain, optimize logistics project, sorted out problems, and improved operational processes. In 2014, fluorine chemical unit unplanned stoppages number decreased by 14% year-on-year, saving logistics cost by 1.746 million yuan The company implements the requirements of management improvement launched the SASAC, promotes continuous internal management Franshion Properties bear in mind external market and enhanced operating efficiency. Hangzhou Jinmao Dwelling project cycle was as short as improvement. It was awarded five prizes, including “advanced unit”, in SASAC’s wrap-up meeting on central SOEs’ management improvement. The Real Estate 7 months and 25 days--from buying land to selling apartments, 2 months earlier than the planned period of 10 months mark of “advanced unit” is 94.12, ranking No.2 among all participants. Sinochem Finance launched compliance-based, new measures for centralized exploration project. The company receives an average of 0.462 Finance billion yuan from Zhoushan oil reserve base every day, with daily deposits increasing by 4.72%. In 2014, the project increase revenue by 3.9 million yuan for the finance company, and funds concentration rate increases by 1.17% 36 2014 Sustainable Developmant Report Serve the National Economy to Prosper Together with the Country 37 Optimize Financial Management Improve Legal Management The company continuous to build domestic and overseas capital pool, centralize information collection, funding and bill, and monitor clearing The company establishes a sound legal management system, optimizes legal management framework, improve legal management mechanism, centralization. It makes full use of all resources, and pursues balance between economic growth and financial risks. In 2014, Fitch, Moody's, Standard strengthen legal risk management, and promote the company's strategic transition and business development. In 2014, the company and major & Poor's raised the company's credit rating from BBB + to A-. Sinochem’s shares was rated AAA by China Bond Rating Co., Ltd. subsidiaries ‘legal review rate for rules and regulations, economic contracts and important decisions all reached 100%. Improve management system. Review and rationalize management rules and regulations, amend or supplement 22 items of legal management regulations; improve the general counsel system, resulting in over 80% of legal adviser certificates rate. voice Strengthen performance assessment. Bring “running companies by law” into performance appraisal, improve legal work assessment system; rate the legal work of the subsidiaries and mete out reward or punishment accordingly, and improve the incentive and restraint mechanism; establish and improve the legal responsible person assessment standards and enforce legal liability. We approve Sinochem’s overall implementation of property rights registration. They have a complete property rights registration Strengthen risk management. Compile 20 legal risk management manuals, and plan rolling revision annually; develop or revise 686 standard system, which is a model for central SOEs in this regard. SASAC will use Sinochem’s work as a model and promote it among central contracts, improve the efficiency and quality of legal review and reduce the legal risk of contract. SOEs . Create a culture of compliance. Organize legal literacy training activities, enhance staff’s awareness of the law. Conduct more than 80 lectures on SASAC legal awareness; popularize legal developments and typical cases through electronic journals; send legal knowledge to staff through notes 29 times. Improve Strengthen whole process management of transfer of property rights; audit 219 property rights registration operations; by the end of november 2014, the number of registered businesses was 581 Promote Use of Information Technology property rights Compile, review and summarize 4 property right information system statements and submit them to the sasac. management The approval rate of sinochem annual information quality review by sasac is 100% The company optimizes IT-based management mechanism, and improve infrastructure and operation and maintenance management. It has set up system Cooperate with the sasac in the first property registration examination on central soes 24 unified basic application system, and achieved full coverage of network and basic application systems in domestic and overseas subsidiaries. It implements post-review for key IT projects, standardize information management control. It holdtraining on establishment of Sinochem company Set up two financing platforms: sinochem hong kong group and guangbai overseas financing, with credit line network and information security notification system , strengthen centralized management of company-wide information security. In 2014, the company reaching $1.8 billion, up 63% year-on-year; new uscp reached $300 million, doubling the issuance quota, with flexible rolling reaching more than 70 times invested 99.97 million yuan in IT. Set up $ 3 billion medium-term notes (mtn) program; establish framework mechanism of global bond issuance, reducing average issuance costs by 37%, saving the cost of $ 570,000 The implementation of US financial and land The first among central soes to issue private placement offshore rmb bond, totaling $ 300 million, with rate of 4% system by Sinochem E&P safeguard the Expand for 7 years interests of the acquisition of US oil and gas funding exploration operator and non-operator strategy Build and promote management information channels Successfully registered new issuance of 2-year-term ultra-short-term financing bonds worth 20 billion yuan in china Build SinochemGroup Transport Management systems, upgrade existing systems, and support interbank market trader association,. Issued the first ultra-short-term financing bonds totaling 2 billion yuan, with 90 GMG implemented of product-enterprise day duration and nominal interest rate of 4.53%, lower than the market average over the same period; the value of System (TMS), mobile application, and B2B management improvement management solutions (SAP) in TBH factories in effective bookkeeping orders exceeded 4 billion yuan business platforms for Sinochem Plastics and Thailand Sinofert B2B Build new primary data, tax maps, conference Carry out domestic and overseas mediumand short-term fund transfer, reducing capital costs by $20 million; use calls and other projects; promote the application Implement SAP in SinochemGuangdong; push credit line and lending channel to reduce interest-bearing debt, and optimize debt structure by 3 percentage points; Build 11common business systems, with the of file system, risk management system in forward merger and integrated operation apply to the central bank for rediscount bills based on agricultural credit notes. It had 56 note worth 38 million yuan, core business operation application (ERP) subsidiaries Sinochem Guangdong and Sinochem Plastics with discount costs of 2.25% coverage reach 88.5%;subsidiaries have built34 application systems, covering all the five business segments Promote centralized management of settlement, strengthen special management of key risks, and improve liquidity management system Enhance Support strategy Establish notes centralized management model featuring cooperation between the finance company, business Support management liquidity units and cooperative banks; bills from units in beijing are basically under centralized management; reduce bills Support businesses management management risk and improve their efficiency Funding concentration of the finance company increased from 28% to 38% Promote IT Build tax map analysis and display system-centralized analysis of important financial management information of in financial sinochem and its subsidiaries is displayed by regions, sectors and levels. Set up static and dynamic analysis of management tax indicators system and improve tax risk assessment and early warning ability 38 2014 Sustainable Developmant Report Provide Value-added Services to Develop with Clients 39 Provide Value-added Services to Develop with Clients Sinochem constantly optimizes product structure, improve product quality, innovate services system and carry out responsible marketing, so as to provide clean, high-quality, and diversified products and thoughtful services. 700 Operate more than 700 86 Overall satisfaction rate for Franshion 2100 Far East Horizon provides refueling stations in China Properties’ office buildings is 86 points service to nearly 2100 hospitals Honors and Stakeholders’ Comments Sinochem International was awarded the title “Annual Service Provider in Rubber Industry 2014” by China Rubber Industry Association. Sinochem International Bidding Co. won China Top Ten Tendering Agency for 7 consecutive years. Jinmao Group was awarded the title Best Hotel Owner 2014 by City Pictorial and Business Travel. 40 2014 Sustainable Developmant Report Provide Value-added Services to Develop with Clients 41 Sinochem Quanzhou Power Provides Value-added Services Jinmao Tower by your side Sinochem Oil’s Guangdong, Fujian, Anhui branches, together with TSO, launched “Sinochem Quanzhou Power” activity, to build Sinochem Quanzhou oil brand and provide customers with more high-quality resources and services. Nowadays, skyscrapers are no longer cement Through user credits multiply, attractive gifts and WeChat gifts, Guangdong Oil invites customers to experience Quanzhou Power” oil; ●● boxes, but complex vertical communities. As Through WeChat sharing, refueling gifts and membership credit, Fujian Retail promotes Quanzhou’s oil products; ●● a benchmark of China's high-rise buildings, Anhui Oil launched Sinochem food stamps activity. ●● Jinmao Tower has, for fifteen years, stridden steadily on the path of “growing both internally and externally”, and created a harmonious and rich of cultural atmosphere. Jinmao Tower hosts a variety of activities each year: international skydiving competition, New Year's Concert, badminton contest, theme painting exhibition ...... It is a great place for working, sightseeing or just free walk. As the first mainland office building that conducts customer satisfaction rate survey, Jinmao Tower has Sinochem joined Franshion Properties and Jinmao Group to hold the activity rising satisfaction rate, from 69 in 2005 to 78 in visit Jinmao’s sightseeing 88th floor with Sinochem . It was the first activity 2013, higher than that of benchmark companies organized by Sinochem’s official WeChat account since its launch. It is (75 points). Shanghai people regard Jinmao also an initiative taken by the company to strengthen communication with netizens and build transparent central SOEs through new media platform. Tower as the building that can best represent Shanghai. Value-added services provided by “Sinochem Quanzhou Power” Gas sales promotion Improve Service at Refueling Stations Improve Service The company gradually improves the management system , fulfills its pledges, provides quality products, standardizes services, and introduces Company's innovative service means, rich content services, expanding oil product retail network, diversified services to enhance the customer diversified value-added services, so as to create an integrated service chains with Sinochem characteristics, polish Sinochem’s brand image, and experience. provide customers with quality services. Standardize service. Sinochem Oil continues to promote refueling station’s visual image and service process standardization, improves service staff Improve Service Network training, conducts customer survey, customer satisfaction survey, etc. to maintain service quality. Improve service quality. Sinochem Oil upgrades fuel card information system, promotes the building of nation-wide information networking services, The company expands refined oil distribution and retail network, and has formed a network covering major markets and core cities in northeast China, integrates a variety of payment and bill methods, create online member platform, and adds self-service module to make the trading process more north China, east China and south China. Sales network in Hunan and other inland areas. It is dedicated to building well-equipped network with quality convenient. service . Diversified value-added services. Sinochem Oil integrates financial, insurance, logistics, e-commerce, catering, automotive after-service, etc. to Refueling station network in Fujian and Guangdong continue to expand steadily and rapidly; retail network jointly built with Total in Bohai Bay area ●● introduce various types of life services, and to realize integrated marketing through O2O business model, providing customers with one-stop service. and the Yangtze River Delta region is growing fast. ●● Sales network in Northeast China covers Heilongjiang, Jilin and Liaoning provinces; retail and distribution network in Shanxi, Anhui, Jiangxi, and Hunan continues to develop, bringing quality service to inland areas. 42 2014 Sustainable Developmant Report Provide Value-added Services to Develop with Clients 43 Improve Agricultural Service System Provide Quality Seed-purchase Service China Seed has set up 22 provincial-level marketing service center all over the country, set up several high-yielding demonstration fields and Sinochem Group follows the guiding philosophy of harmonious China, safe agriculture, and dedication to Chinese farmers . Through high-quality demonstration parties, conducted experiment and demonstration while provided agricultural technical services under the cooperation with agricultural products and professional services, it plays an important role in promoting scientific farming and increasing output. technology promotion departments, and provided thoughtful guidance for farmers to buy seeds. Build Scientific Fertilization Service System Seed Companies + Large Scale Growers = Win-win Outcomes Sinofert focuses on key areas and crops, explores innovative service model, and promotes scientific fertilization through formula fertilizer, seedChina Seed cooperated with major growers from Shandong fertilizer-pesticide package and agricultural-agronomic technique combination. Province to advance the direct supply of seed and to provide more comprehensive value-added services to large growers. To safeguard existing price system of traditional channels, to recommend and help farmers select the most appropriate Use soil testing and fertilizer field test as basis, apply organic fertilizer reasonably, and at the species for local soil, climate and cultivation conditions, to same time make application plan, time and Integrate supporting production techniques, make provide supporting technical measures and integrated solutions, methods in line with nitrogen, phosphate, the use of heavy equipment and agronomic potassium and mediumand micro-nutrients Agricutural set techniques support each other to ensure crop and to improve after-sales service and technical support. fertilizers，build 13 fertilizer preparation stations quality Providing customers with high-quality services, while promoting Sort out over 50 fertilizer preparation stations in Work with army’s farms in Suiling, Sunwu in purify seed market and promoting Chinese agricultural Heilongjiang to expand service channels for Heilongjiang to promote corn precision fertilization China Seed provide value-added services to major growers fertilizers industrialization. techniques covering an area of 150,000 acres in Shandong Provide integrated services of seeds, fertilizers and pesticides to effectively reduce the cost of growing, safeguard crop yield, and increase Expand Pesticide Service System farmers' income Equipments Recipe fertilizer Develop over 50 service packages in Heilongjiang, & Jilin, Shandong, Hainan, etc. ,covering corn, echniques China Seed established agricultural plant protection demonstration fields, carried out farmers training programs while held demonstration to popularize peanuts, potatoes, garlic and other major crops, integration pest control knowledge, help farmers to solve practical problems, and explored modern agricultural plant protection technical services in new model. In with area totaling 200,000 acres April 2014, the website of China Seed Plant Hospital has been formally launched, which is providing online technical support services for the national farmers now. Advance New Model Modern Agriculture Protection Services Promote Formula Fertilizer Demonstration County Sinochem Agro signed 2014 cooperation agreement with Plant Quarantine and Plant Protective Station of Heilongjiang Province, planning to continue the service mode in 2013, to continue to carry out rice, corn, potatoes and other crops plant protection technology Sinofert signed Memorandum of Cooperation on Promoting in Wuchang, Fanzheng, Zhaodong and Keshan, four demonstration zones. To enlarge demonstration area to 44.7 thousand mu, an Scientific Fertilization with Planting Industry Management increase of nearly 40% compared to 2013. To accelerate the professionalization of plant protection and prevention, while make efforts Division of the Ministry of Agriculture, which plans that in to promote technological upgrading and enhance the overall technical level of farmers, to ensure increase of production, and to promote 2014 2016, 'farmer-enterprise cooperation in promoting the continuous development of ecological and benefit type agriculture. formula fertilizer demonstration counties” will be launched in 11 pilot provinces and 19 demonstration counties, in a bid to improve fertilizer efficiency, innovate agri-chemical service mechanism through promoting formula fertilizer and improving and fertilization methods, enhance scientific fertilization, and promotes agricultural production efficiency and fertilizer industry’s restructuring and upgrading. Signing ceremony of Memorandum of Cooperation on Promoting Scientific Fertilization Cooperation agreement signing ceremony Sinochem Argo providing technical services in fileds 44 2014 Sustainable Developmant Report Provide Value-added Services to Develop with Clients 45 Provide Integrated Professional Chemicals Services Carry Out Multi-channel Sinochem Plant Hospital Services The company improves the integration of fluorine chemicals, fine chemicals, chemical logistics, medical chemicals and other sub-sector businesses, From June to September 2014, “Sinochem Plant Hospital”, which was created by Sinochem Agro provided advanced professional plant promote full coverage of the industry value chain service, and strives to be a leading integrated chemical products producer in China. protection services and supplying system in Shou County, Anhui Province with occasional free expert visit, technical explanation and outcomes demonstration, etc. The activity continued more than four months, brought tangible benefits to more than 400 farmers. Sinochem Plant Hospital Experts Group consisted of experts ●● Liquid Chemical Logistics Services of the Highest Safety Standards from Anhui Academy of Agricultural Sciences, Shouxian county Plant Protection Station and Sinochem, who went to rural areas Sinochem International expands logistics center to provide a safe, efficient and professional hazardous substance logistics services. for on-site examination on the growth of rice, and providing Full-process tracking and integrated services. It tracks position planning, storage, loading and warehousing and other operations of hazardous guidance on pest prevention and control for rice growers. substance containers and cargo, and provides integrated logistics services including information management and logistics consulting. ●● D uring rice growth period, it invited experts from Shouxian county Plant Protection Station to conduct free consulting, Equipment updating and quality service. In 2014, it built 8 new large stainless steel vessels, disposed two old vessels, so as to provide safe and publicity on common market products application technology, high-quality service. and fighting drought to ensure harvest activity. It conducted Improve the network to provide global services. It has set up 16 networks in 6 regions around the world. Overseas shipping increased by more three sessions of expert consulting and provided guidance for than 30%. In 2014, the number of ISO-tank under unified management exceeded 19,000. It has a ISO-tank operation network that basically covers the over 200 people. world, and provides advanced ISO-tank operation management services. ●● During rice maturity period, it invited experts from Shouxian county Plant Protection Station, agronomists from Boyi farm and major retailers to participate in disease-control effect evaluation events of 9080 and Aike, at which effects are demonstrated and usage is explained. Enhance Chemical Logistics Services As the only domestic ship-owner that is capable of shipping diisocyanate (TDI), xylene diisocyanate (MDI) and other high-end liquid chemicals, and the first domestic chemical distribution service provider that passed the assessment of the European Chemical Association CDI-MPI Tank Container, Sinochem International plays the role of industry leader to provide a variety of services to global chemical producers, including shipping, ISO-tank multimodal transport, port storage tanks, freight forwarding, warehousing, etc. It participated in the development of national chemical logistics industry standards such as Guidelines on Liquid Chemical Marine Logistics”, Liquid Chemical ISO-tank Land Operation Standards , Transportation Safety Management , etc. leading the standardization of industry service . Sinochem Plant Hospital’s Caravan in the countryside Experts in the countryside Plastic Business Services Close to Customer Demand Sinochem Plastics regards customer demand as the direction, and provides customers with customized services and solutions relying on its industryleading expertise. Control products’ quality for automobile Provide customers with comprehensive, Expand distribution network--build 20 factories, supervise the use of raw materials multi-channel procurement platforms to domestic branches, forming a nation-wide of affiliated plants, ensure that plastic parts’ meet their needs and provide a variety of distribution network pillared in East and performance meet design requirements follow-up services South China to better serve terminal customers Provide state supply of high-quality, low price raw materials for affiliated factories Provide door-to-door value-added services, including HES management, to customers Quality management One-stop procurement Door-to-door distribution 46 2014 Sustainable Developmant Report Provide Value-added Services to Develop with Clients 47 Provide High-quality Real Estate Projects and Property Provide Honest and Efficient Financial and Tendering Services Services Franshion Properties adheres to the philosophy of quality service, happy home , builds high-quality, energy-saving buildings, providing a full range of The company steadily promotes innovation of financial services products and services, builds a relatively complete range of non-banking financial value-added services, so as to give customers healthy, comfortable and green living conditions.. services, including financial leasing, trust, securities investment funds, and professional, high-quality tender services, creating value for customers and society. Business type Leasing Trust Build Intelligent Community and China's First “Double-best” Education Properties Securities investment fund Life insurance Wa n g j i n ·J i n m a o M a n sio n in te r p r e ts h u m a n e h a b itati on, Finance company Financial futures provides intelligent living conditions. It introduced community Finance media systems, and creates a solid, comfortable environment Far East Horizon FOTI via satellite TV, background music systems, outdoor sound Brand environmental systems, information release system, electronic Lion Fund Manulife-Sinochem Insurance locks, etc. In addition, the project successfully introduced Beijing Jingshan School, Chaoyang School, fulfilling the promise of Business type providing 9-year quality education resources, so as to build China's first five-four year best education model and owners’ Domestic and international Import agency for technologies and equipment bidding services best school district -the double “best” education properties. Procurement management Consulting services for international business Beijing Wangjing · Jinmao Mansion Tendering activities Financial Leasing Services that Promote Industrial Development Standardized Quality Property Services Far East Horizon centers on a variety of areas like medical, packaging, transportation, construction, industrial equipment, education, textiles, electronics Jinmao Properties sort out basic jobs, processes, standards, code of conduct and corresponding incentives of four professional property and information to explore opportunities along the upstream and downstream of industry value chain and market segments, enhances innovation in services (order, engineering, customer service and environment), develops 19 work standards manuals, enhances property standardized new businesses and new areas, improve comprehensive service capability and push forward the development of the industry. In 2014, the company quality. By the end of 2014, Jinmao properties had offered thoughtful services to nearly 6100 owners. conducted 81 green energy, environmental protection, new energy car projects, with total contract value of 2.57 billion yuan, and explored businesses Management process standardization. It uses Guangqu Jinmao mansion as a pilot, restructures the organization based on customer ●● in new environmental protection areas like urban public transport and urban sewage treatment, heating in North China, and waste heat utilization. needs, implements responsibility-authorization mechanism, and identified the division of management responsibilities. In 2014, Far East set up Small Business Finance department to provide customized, thoughtful financial service solutions to small and micro Business process standardization. It promotes visualization of service standards and management standards, and makes customers ●● enterprises, and support small business development. The company has provided more than 200 billion yuan to the real economy, and over 70 percent enjoy standardized services. of customers are SMEs. Information flow standardization. Its uses information center as a platform, identifies standardized information transfer process, ●● effectively outputs various types of data, and promotes cooperation of data-based analysis. Full life cycle services standardization. It builds 7 service support system models, sorts out owners’ contact surfaces and concerns at ●● various stages, plans services, optimizes service processes, and ultimately ensures the whole life cycle service chain. Healthcare Construction Education Package Pharmaceutical production and Electricity, high-end product and Culture tourism Foodstuffs and beverage distribution building materials Transportation Industrial Textile Electronic City public equipment information utilities Vessels investment and Automobile dealership Consumer products, furniture Media Public transportation operation; shipping fund Chemical industry and daily necessities Water esources 48 2014 Sustainable Developmant Report Provide Value-added Services to Develop with Clients 49 Sign EPC financing agreement with super-large coal chemical industry energy-conservation enterprises on heat Global Family Trust and Individual Customized Service Summit recovery to promote comprehensive utilization of energy Environmental production, demonstrating good value for local energy protection Respond to new energy vehicle-related conservation and circular economy park construction FOTIC hosted “China Chengdu Wealth Forum-Global Family Trust and Individual Customized Service Summit”, with a hundred of policies to provide funding for urban public transport projects clients present. The forum invited the first-class family fund around the world Rockefeller Ross Locke Group, Tsinghua Wudaokou Financial School’s Family Fund Office, and Duan & Duan law firm’s experts, to communicate with clients and answer their questions on Help more than 30 cities, including nanjing, fuzhou, guangzhou, nanning, etc. Upgrade Provide more than 20 cities, including the top-level design of the wealth management for high-net-worth family, and the offshore financial and legal framework in family trust, lng, lpg, cng, and hybrid new energy Changsha, Suzhou, Changzhou and Yangzhou, nearly 780 million yuan to assist improving the company’s customized products and services for the market. vehicles worth 680 million yuan; improve Bus Water vehicle emission standards and promote them to complete water treatment upgrading energy conservation projects, in a bid to promote the development of urban drainage system and to build a better city High-quality Tendering Service The Trust Service Putting Trustors First Sinochem Tendering sticks to the philosophy of “creating value for clients with value-added service, creating value for company with We have entitled “Top 10 Brands of China’s In the first “National Tendering Industry FOTIC upholds the philosophy of “Creating Value, Pursuing Excellence”, and provides clients with premium financial products and service with Tendering Agencies” for 7 years in a row Highlights Activity” in 2014, we won the professional operation and business innovation. It developed many business model, including bank-trust cooperation, government-trust cooperation, client’s satisfaction”. It provides procurement “Sangong Cup” prize, “First Place in securities investment trust and real estates trust, and issued several high-risk-control and yield products, encompassing “Fu Rong” “Fu Xiang” “Xin management service for many industries, We also got the titles of “Top 10 Credible Aerospace Tendering Agencies”, “Most Cheng” “Hui Jin” “Ding Hong” series of products, winning high recognition from the customers. including aerospace, military facility, railroad Tendering Agencies”, “Top 100 Most Competitive Agencies in World Bank facility, metallurgy and steel, petroleum and Competitive Tendering Agencies”, “China’s Projects”, “Second Place in the Most In 2014, FOTIC realized over 1.5 billion yuan of gross profit; its trust asset size exceeded 500 billion yuan by the end of 2014, generating nearly 40 chemical, industry machinery, ship building, Most Responsible Tendering Agency” Competitive Tendering Agency Appraisal for billion yuan of earnings for clients. By virtue of its excellent performance in the financial market, FOTIC won the “Reliable Trust—Excellent Company International Financial Projects”, “Second environment protection, and energy conservation. Place in the Chemical Industry Tendering Prize” for 8 years in a row, and also got many other prizes and titles, including “ Top 10 Most Competitive Trust Companies in China”, “Annual Best It “extends service chain, expands service Agency Appraisal” Brand”, “Best Trust Company with Steady Growth”, “Best Risk Control Trust Company”, “Best Securities Investment Trust Program”, and “Most scope, innovates business model” to upgrade its innovative Trust Scheme”. Its risk control ability topped the list in the “Trust Company Redemption Risk Assessment Report” released by Shanghai traditional business, creating value for clients, Jiaotong University. society and the country. Clients relation Client value-added Increase clients’ Protect clients’ management service satisfaction privacy Sinochem Completed Procurement Management Service Model Our service covers project preliminary planning, cost consulting, tendering and It set up long-term “Five-Elements Wealth Tried to understand clients’ Set up clients’ information mechanism for complaint Management Project” satisfaction degree through protection system, and included procurement, import agency, self-run importing, tax relief consultation, customs management. Through provided clients with a series regular Q&A sheet, phone call, clients’ information protection clearance, storage and logistics, facility installation and debugging, financing and legal Wealth Hotline, it made sure of value-added service, face-to-face interview. And then into the Staff Confidentiality to process clients’ complaint covering children’s education, they improved product design Agreement. For different posts, service. in a responsive, reasonable health keeping, and etc and service ability accordingly it had different division of power, and effective way and enhanced the punishment Held training on employees and on information leaking In 2014, its Wealth Hotline enhanced wealth managers’ had zero complaint on capability to communicate with When clients logged online, they clients’ service clients should have information authentication Service to Government Procurement Enhanced the management on outsourced business, and clarified the confidentiality All-levels of government attach great importance to the procurement management within the government system. NPC and CPPCC call measures and supervision for the transparency in government procurement, and it became an importance commitment to be delivered after China joined WTO. requirement on outsourced information In 2014, through extensive study, Sinochem Tendering expanded its service in the banks, military, government and schools, and also entered the shortlists of tendering agencies of National Development Bank, Minsheng Bank, Border Force of Chinese People’s Armed Police. It undertook many key projects and assisted the government to serve people’s livelihood improvement projects and the building of a harmonious society. 50 2014 Sustainable Developmant Report Guarantee Safety and Protect Environment to Reach Harmony with Nature 51 Guarantee Safety and Protect Environment to Reach Harmony with Nature Sinochem Group improves the management system on safety and environment-protection issues. We eliminate hidden perils from the root, enhance the safety education on all staff, strengthen energy conservation and emission reduction, disseminate the green philosophy, and promote the safe and green development, so as to make contribution to building a beautiful China. 0.889 85 95.6 Energy consumption per 100,000 yuan Recycle general industry solid Occupational health check rate equals to 0.889 tons of standard coal waste of 850,000 tons reaches 95.6% Honors and Stakeholders’ Comments Shenyang Research Institute of Chemical Industry was entitled “Jinchuan Cup” Excellent Enterprise for Safety Culture Building by China Safe Production Association. Chemsunny World Trade Center got “3-Star Green Building Operation Accreditation” , which was Sinochem’ s first project receiving such an accreditation, and the only office building in China that has both “3-Star Green Building Operation Accreditation” and LEED-EB Platinum accreditation. 52 2014 Sustainable Developmant Report Guarantee Safety and Protect Environment to Reach Harmony with Nature 53 Continuous Improvement on HSE Management Sinochem Joins Hands with You Sinochem makes benchmarking to the best HSE management practices, keeps enhancing our own capacity, and draws upon the chance of safety to Create a Clean World behavior enhancement programs to improve our work and HSE management effect. Low-quality gasoline and blend oil pollute the air and damage people’s health. Sinochem owns China’s first 12 million-ton-per-annum refinery able to produce Euro V-standard product oil. By virtue Manage We set up environment risk assessment and risk control system in 51 subsidiaries, of professional and sophisticated testing facility and system, we are supplying the market with cleaner environment and quantified the environment impact of oil leaking and liquid ammonia leaking and greener product oil. In addition, the PC products produced by us are making indirect contribution to risk reducing CO2 emission when the haze has become a serious problem nowadays. Improve institution We released standard documents on 8 major dangerous operation, and completed 3-tier 5-level of HSE system institution standards Strengthen HSE Management Capacity and system Sinochem keeps strengthening the “Iron-Fist on Safety” policy and transform the staff’s mindset from “providing me with safety” to “I demand safety”. Optimize We included HSE elements into our plan making and implementation, as well as In 2014, the company had zero major HSE accident, and our HSE management overhaul project topped the list in the management improvement HSE management strategic investment and M&A process assessment carried out by SASAC. management mechanism We enhanced and optimized our HSE performance assessment Have benchmarking Through benchmarking, we collected 1767 items of problems, less than last year Safe production management We organized HSE performance inspection, monitored the overhaul process of the environment issues, and totally corrected 120 items of environment protection issues Strengthen ent process Through specialized inspection, general check, cross-exam, and HSE auditing, we vem Ca had 100% inspection rate on the subsidiaries ro monitoring im During the safe production month, Sinochem leadership formed a team to have deep ilding p y bu inspection on our subsidiaries vior safe Beha cit pa ty Energy saving Emergency and environment response protection management Operation Safety Improvement-debottlenecking of the HSE Management B en n Sinochem attaches great importance to employees’ operation safety. Based on the principle of “those responsible are those who are ch me t ma e rkin g m anag in charge, who organize, and who execute”, we clarify the responsibility of every post, and abide by the rules of “HSE work starts from the leadership, has lenear responsibility system from level to level, and has localized management.” We organize various activities like safety work observation, safety action plan, visualization management, safety experience sharing and etc. We gradually establish a responsibility system in which “the head of each level takes general responsibility, the leader in charge takes direct responsibility, the functional departments take lenear responsibility, and HSE department carries out comprehensive monitoring”. Occupational health When it comes to the attitude towards HSE issues, we urge managers at all levels to take concrete action rather than having empty talk, and employees to change from “passive participants” to “active responsibility carriers” to ensure there is no gap or loophole in our HSE management. The operation safety management effectively resolves such problems as commanding and operation in violation with rules, violating labor rules, insufficient management, and responsibility displacement. By doing so, we make safety the NO. 1 requirement, the voluntary behavior and working habit of all staff. 54 2014 Sustainable Developmant Report Guarantee Safety and Protect Environment to Reach Harmony with Nature 55 Enhancing the HSE Capacity Building Occupational Health Sinochem has established a top-down HSE training system, and keeps enriching the training format so as to enhance our HSE team building, The company always regards employees’ health as an important issue, and keeps improving our occupational health management. In 2014, strengthen our HSE leadership, escalate the capacity of HSE personals, and enhance the operation capacity of the workshop workers. Sinochem’s occupational health check rate reached 95.6%, and the testing rate of the occupational hazards in the operation sites was as high as 90%; we had zero major accident related to occupational health. We cultivate pilot projects to promote best practices, and these projects’ occupational health monitoring and management rank at the top level in China. Interior certification and training Since 2013, we accumulatively Through system standardization and onsite instruction, we We formulated and released Sinochem Occupational Health organized 2 sessions of training on promoted the day-to-day monitoring in our company. Guardianship Guide, safeguarding our staff’s health major HSE heads, 2 sessions of Monitoring rate increased from 63% in 2013 to 90% in 2014 In our 78 subsidiaries involved with occupational hazards, 52 training on leadership team, 5 sessions of training on HSE personnel; totally Sinochem group have formulated occupational health guardianship standards, and 29 realized electronic documentation on seriously trained 136 of major HSE heads, 100 hazardous posts people in leadership team, and 455 HSE personnel; training hours reached HSE pipeline training 20152 hours system building Enhance day-to-day Standardize We formulated HSE Professional monitoring Occupational health guardianship Second-tier units Pipeline Training System Guidance, health Post HSE training and enhanced all subsidiaries’ training Take stock of our management on their HSE personnel Organize random emergency-responding We released HSE Training Process inspection Guidance, and promoted matrix training 8 of our key second-tier subsidiaries medicine method formed 21 types of 147 training courses and 13 types of professional We took stock of our subsidiaries’ emergency-responding We organized random inspection on 10 enterprises, got to We had onsite instruction on key practice subjects. These projects have medicine management work, and formulated Emergency understand the hazardous level of our first-line work sites, and subsidiaries, and promoted the building Front-tier business initially had their course reviewed and Responding Medicine Preparation and Usage Guidance, improved workers’ working environment of training matrix in these subsidiaries lecturers standby instructing subsidiaries to standardize their treatment system on acute poisoning We provided onsite service and instruction for 4 second-tier units and 11 subsidiaries, and organized “one on one” assistance The First Specialized HSE Training Program for Functional Departments at the Headquarters Safe Production Sinochem Group held the first HSE training for all the staff Sinochem focuses on the implementation of the safety responsibility system and the standardization of the safe operation. We continue to carry out members of the Headquarters functional departments. The activities for production safety dissemination and safe operation improvement. We leverage our long-term management system to build a line of training contains such content as how to enhance the sense of defense on safety, gradually create a good atmosphere of “working in a safe way”, and let every employee “happily come to work and safely go home”. responsibility and operation safety on HSE issues of the staff in the functional departments, the company’s requirements on HSE management for the functional departments, and We urged all subsidiaries to optimize Our functional departments set up a special We focused on the monitoring on Quanzhou how to establish the philosophy of “safety starts from the their regular screening system on working team to formulate and implement Petrochemical, Sinofert, and Sinochem Hebei’s projects hidden perils, and monitored the specialized action plans Headquarters staff”. The training helped the Headquarters treatment on these problems Monitored the preliminary review, appraisal, inspection Cooperated with our second-tier subsidiaries and post-project assessment work of 17 projects staff to better manage the HSE function, follow through the to advance the rectification work HSE requirements within the functional scope, and play an exemplary role in the operation safety improvement program 2014 HSE Training Program of the Functional Departments throughout the Group. Promote the systematic Promote the work Have strict supervision on the treatment on hidden perils of Six Treatments HSE work in our investment projects 56 2014 Sustainable Developmant Report Guarantee Safety and Protect Environment to Reach Harmony with Nature 57 Emergency Management Environment Protection Sinochem answers the call of “manage the grass roots, lay solid foundation, monitor the implementation, and pursue development” in the emergency Sinochem continues to strengthen our environment protection work. We actively promote clean production, development low-carbon economy, and management. We keep improving our responding system, enhancing the precautionary measures at the root level, consolidating our foundation, and facilitate the harmonious development between company and industry, society, and the Nature. providing a strong guard for the company’s sustainable development and the safety of employees’ life and property. Energy Conservation and Emission Reduction Organized on-table drills, and urged the second-tier We organized specialized assessment on 7 subsidiaries in subsidiaries to make the drills a regular practice the industries of oil storage, chemical, fertilizer, pesticide, and hotel property management, and urged these Sinochem is developing the new technology, new process and new facility for energy conservation and emission reduction. We develop recycling All subsidiaries have accumulatively organized 4625 times of subsidiaries to enhance the fire prevention system economy, try to save energy, and realize the coordinated development between company performance and environment protection as well as energy drills, with 66290 person times participating in them according to the assessment results saving. In 2014, the company’s energy consumption per 100,000 yuan was 0.889 standard coals. We promote electricity saving management within the company, which helped us to reduce the electricity consumption by 2% year on year. Through ●● such measures as adjusting the electricity load, our subsidiaries made their power factor over 0.9; they also weed out and overhaul their outdated and high-energy-consumption electric motors. Making the emergency responding drills a regular practice Fire prevention assessment Emergency ●● Through auditing and testing, we accelerate the technology upgrading and optimize control. We also increase the efficiency of our boilers, power responding transformation and distribution, and water recycling. management We enhance energy-saving management and technology promotion, and 18 our subsidiaries reached our energy-saving target. Emergency responding treatment card The stock of emergency responding facility and material ●● Unit Energy saving and emission reduction measures and results 47 branches involved in high-risk production in 9 of our second 41 key subsidiaries took stock of their material reserve and tier subsidiaries formulated totally 1612 pieces of emergency added more fire alarm facility, breathing protection items, We organized fluorine-material-based public work upgrading and renovation to increase the stability of these systems, reduced their water card, covering 100% of their important facility and posts. The body protection items and fire-fighting material consumption by 15000 tons throughout the year, and saved power by 300,000 kilowatt hours, which combined brought down the cost by system emphasized the fast response of the frontier posts in Sinochem over 500,000 yuan emergency lantian Taicang Environment Protection company’s reusing volume of the recycled water reached 20,000 tons; the recycled water of their two major facilities’ steam condensate system was over 100,000 tons; their annual water recycled rate amounted to over 99% Sinochem Fuling suspended its 50,000 ton/year pyritic-based sulphuric acid production facility, which was aimed to obsolete backward Sinofert productivity, reduce energy consumption and pollutant discharge “Safe Sinochem—2014” Emergency Response Drill Hainan Sinochem Shipping company advocates the philosophy of “green shipping”. They adopt internationally-leading technology in the Sinochem ship building, keep improving fuel power and ship structure, reduce the pollutant and CO2 content in the exhaust gas discharged by the ship international dynamic system, and enhance the ships’ capacity to prevent hazardous leaking when accidents break out Sinochem held 2014 “Safe Sinochem” emergency response drill, which was participated by over 30 staff members from the Headquarters HSE Emergency Response Commanding Panel and HSE Department. We also invited the emergency management expert from National School of Administration as our advisor in the drill. The drill took it as the backdrop of an oil and gas pipeline leaking accident. Through a series of simulation including discussion and decision making, dynamic information process, and press conference, we tested the company’s emergency response coordination and decision-making mechanism from the aspects of press Properly Dispose the Waste communication and logistical support. After the drill, all the participants had summary and analysis on the weak links in the response process, and made detailed improvement plan, so as to enhance the crisis handling ability. Sinochem has innocent treatment and recycling of waste to reduce their impact on the environment. In 2014, our company recycled 850,000 tons of general industrial solid waste, and entrusted specialised companies to dispose 4229 tons of hazardous waste. Innovation in the Water Treatment of the Fine Chemical Industry Shenyang Research Institute of Chemical Industry pioneered the pre-treatment and recycling of poisonous pollutants contained in the waste water generated from the process of each production workshop. Based on the analysis on the physicochemical property and toxicology of those toxic chemical compounds, the research team invented and integrated several technologies, and efficiently separated the waste water from the toxic pollutant. In the preliminary treatment of the waste water, the separation rate of toxic pollutant exceeded 95%. The development of the technology involved large-tonnage pesticides, dyestuff and intermediate products. They have created several sets of toxic pollutant treatment technology for waste water source, and successfully applied them on the pre-treatment of over 30 types of pesticides and intermediates, and effectively reduced the pollution on the environment. 58 2014 Sustainable Developmant Report Guarantee Safety and Protect Environment to Reach Harmony with Nature 59 Protect the Eco-system Advocate for Low-carbon Living Sinochem combines its own business with the combat with climate change, focuses on protection on biological variety, and reduced its impact on the The company carried out overhauling project to save energy and organized activities to promote green and low-carbon living. Through various climate. channels, we disseminate the energy conservation philosophy to the general public and advocate green and healthy way of living. In 2014, we upgraded 3819 sets of lamps and lanterns, and after the renovation we can reduce energy consumption by 16.56 tons every year and CO2 emission Unit Ecosystem protection measures and results by 13.44 tons. We also participated in the Tongliao city tree planting activity organized by international environment-protection organization and made contribution to the “Planting Plan for One Million Trees”. They organized such green space restoration activities as bush and climber planting, revegetation, and slope protection grass planting Sinochem quanzhou They have earmarked special fund to stock fish fry in the sea area around Meizhou Bay and protect the biological variety Sinochem Brazil Oil Company paid attention to avoid interrupting and harming the marine organism during oilfield broadband seismic Sinochem E&P data collection while whales and dolphins usually gather around 500 meters area around the data collection ships Birds Flying above the GIGANTE Oilfield Sinochem E&P’s project company EMERALD published a picture album called “Birds Flying above the GIGANTE Oilfield”. This album records many birds inhabits GIGANTE oilfield and surrounding area, and has won high recognition in the industry. It becomes the example showcasing the harmonious development between oilfield and environment. EMERALD technical team started to study the oilfield and the birds around the area from 2013, in order to get a better understanding Franshion Properties handed out Guide for Survival in Haze to Sinochem E&P’s Colombia company organized environment protection and of the overall situation of the surrouding areas. Understanding these birds’living condition and the natural environment they rely universities in Beijing, and gave out 100,000 protection masks to oilfield operation preaching at the local communities. By the end of 2014, they citizens. By doing so, they try to call on the citizens to combat with the had organized 27 times of such activities. on helps the team to improve the environment protection work of the operation area, and also enhance employees awareness of haze. sustainable development. It helps to protect the living environment of GARZON city and GIGANTE city, and raises the whole society’s awareness to respect nature and protect environment. Spectacled Parrotlet Saffron Finch Booted Racquet-Tail Vermilion Flycatcher feeding the nestling Franshion Properties was together with China News Service and China News Week, Franshion Properties co-organized “China Green Running Challenge Match”. The Match was started from Beijing, and then was duplicated in such cities as Lijiang, Sanya, Guangzhou, Shanghai, Suzhou, Ningbo, Nanjing, Chongqing and Qingdao, with over 6000 people participating in it. GIGANTE field 60 2014 Sustainable Developmant Report Value Talents and Grow with Employees 61 Value Talents and Grow with Employees Sinochem Group regards the employees as the fundamental force for company growth. Through market-oriented talents selection, recruitment and cultivating system, and by protecting employees’ rights and respecting their value, we have employees growing together with the company. 100 % 2.9 million yuan 1528 Labor contract signing rate Input for employees training Recruiting university graduates Honors and Stakeholders’ Comments Sinochem Nantong Petrochemical Storage and Transportation Company’ s Dai Haigang, and Zang Lin, Sinochem Yangzhou Petrochemical Terminal Company’ s Zhang Xing, Sinochem Tianjin Port Petrochemical Storage Company’ s Huang Bin and Wu Chuande, and Sinochem-Sinopec Shanghai Oriental Petrochemical Storage Company’ s Xie Yinjie received the title of “2014 Technical Expert in the State-owned Enterprises” granted by SASAC. In the “National Oil and Chemical Industry Social Responsibility Excellent Units (Individual)” appraisal activity organized by China Petroleum and Chemical Industry Association, Sinochem International’ s Chairman Zhang Zenggen won the Excellent Leader Prize, Sinochem International was named Best Practice Unit, and Oriental Storage’s Dai Shanglei was entitled Excellent Individual. 62 2014 Sustainable Developmant Report Value Talents and Grow with Employees 63 Democratic Management Words from Sinofert WeChat Platform Sinochem keeps improving our democratic management system. We implement the system of workers and staff congress, and protect employees’ I’m the WeChat Platform of Sinofert Excellent School, sending learning material to all the staff members. participation right and supervision right. We encourage employees to participate in the corporate management and decision-making process. We aim to create Everyone can receive and read the content sent out by me. In the past one year, I sincerely felt the a harmonious democratic atmosphere throughout the company by virtue of equal discussions, and promote a healthy development of the company. learning enthusiasm of our staff. I feel very proud to contribute my knowledge and efforts for training our Optimizing organizational system. We have established the leadership team for corporate affair publication. Through the staff congress, we have employees. formed an operation system that has plan, implement, and assessment. Regulating the institutional system. We have our democratic management embedded into our quality management system. We regularly amend the system, promote democratic management, and the scientification, institutionalization and standardization of corporate affairs publication. Enriching the communication ways. We regularly organize such activities as Labor Union Q&A survey and establishing Labor Union Chairman Protect Employees' Rights mailbox to listen to employees’ demand, suggestion and complain, and also make feedback responsively. We convene Staff Congress at regular interval, and submit the Congress with the major subjects related to corporate reform and employees’ interest, follow them through, and made report to the Congress about their implementation results. The company encourages employees to participate into company management, and also enhance the connection between compensation package and employees’ performance. In 2014, Sinochem had no major labor dispute. Compensation and Benefit Right Protection Sinochem is market-oriented in making its compensation and benefit decision. Based on the value of each post, individual capacity and performance, we have made a legitimate, standardized and effective compensation system. We implement a salary system that is performance-oriented, ensure our employees having a competitive salary in the industry, encourage our staff to create value and realize their growth together with the company’s The company strictly abide itself by the Labor Law, keeps standardizing its labor management, improves its employment form and rules, and optimizes development. its labor management mechanism. We insist equal employment, build a uniform recruitment platform, eradicate discrimination, and equally treat the employees with different nationalities, colors, nations, genders, religions, and culture background. We reject employment of child labor, and forbid The company keeps improving our compensation and benefit system. Aside from buying social endowment insurance scheme, medical care insurance forced laboring. We sign labor contracts with our employees based on laws, and signing rate reached 100%. In 2014, we recruited 1528 university scheme, unemployment insurance scheme, and accumulation fund for our employees, we also have additional accumulation fund and enterprise graduates. We also provide equal promotion channel for female employees. We have 34 females in our backbone manager pipeline, taking up 15% of annuity. Through market-oriented and monetized measures, we provide our employees with a relatively complete benefit program and diverse benefit the total headcounts in the pipeline. plans. By the end of 2014, our company had total employees of 47920, with average age at 33. Among them, female accounted for 34%, and foreign employees 10%. Release Staff Benefit Manual 1% 2% 10% 12% 12% 56 and above FOTIC keeps enhancing their management on staff benefit scheme. They have made and released Staff Benefit Manual, helping their Doctor degree 46-55 staff to understand the company’s compensation and benefit policy and related knowledge, maximizing their demand for benefit, and Master degree 34% 45%以下 25% Male 36-45 building a more people-oriented career development platform. Bachelor degree 26% 66% Female 48% 25-35 College degree 19% 24 and below Technical secondary school and below Employees education Employees gender Employees age structure Dual Compensation Control Based on the characteristics of their chemical branches, Sinochem Lantian implements a dual compensation control system in the production subsidiaries, and guarantees employees’ salary to have a balanced growth. 40% ●● They peg medium-level staff and salespersons’ compensation with the company’s business performance; Manufacturing (only Chinese employees) They stick to high-performance orientation and strategic orientation, and peg the compensation of the staff at the workshop level, in the 13% Chinese employees ●● 10% 90% Technology R&D and functional departments with the assessment on the specific departments, CPI, and company’s payment ability. Foreign employees Management 47% Posts structure(only Chinese employees) Nationality structure 64 2014 Sustainable Developmant Report Value Talents and Grow with Employees 65 Realize Employees' Value The company attaches great importance to talent cultivation, and vigorously explores its way that suits the industry and Sinochem, so as to realize the Since 2013, Sinochem Oil, Sinofert, Franshion Properties, and FOTIC have set up their respective business administration talent cultivation and common growth between employees and the company. development system in accordance with their industry and company nature. Organize Diverse Training Oil Fertilizer Franshion properties FOTIC Through systematic, regular, customized and diverse trainings, Sinochem is sharping our employees’ professional edge and enhancing their overall capacity. In three years in a row, we have got the right to organize “4 knowledge upgrading projects”, and make the “advanced study program” an Leading talents Golden eagle project Navigator project Excellent leadership plan important platform for professional cultivation, communication and cooperation. Sinochem School of Business Administration and Beijing Eastern Garden Conference Center work together to build the Continuous Education Base, which become a platform for professional technical talents to Back-bone employees Golden ears project Young talents project Future leadership plan enhance their qualification in the industry. We also join “China Chemical Education Association”, and actively acquire professional certification and Young talents Sunflower project Ark project Young financial talent plan educational resource. Morning sunbeam project Golden seed project Freshman plan Back Taking the young cadres class as the major instrument to cultivate back-bone managers’ ability -bone managers The First Young Talents Cultivation Class Back-up to Taking the auditing training class as the main vehicle to carry forward the cultivation back-bone managers on back-up force to back-bone managers Sinochem Group organized the first Young Talents Cultivation Class in Beijing, with 29 young talents from 15 business branches and functional departments taking part in it. The course centered around three major themes: “Leadership Transformation”, “Sinochem Organizing the first young talents class to be the pilot project to train young Value”, and “Strategic Methodology Practice”. Through class training, seminar discussion, transboundary learning, and coaching Young talents back-bone force from the tutors, we have a comprehensive training on the students, and guide them to transform their view on work value, and study method and technique to lead. The newly graduates Employing “124” model to enhance the training on newly graduates Innovate the Way to Learn Sinochem The “124” Model Sinofert Excellence School brought in WeChat Platform, and broke the limitation of E-learning platform, which has enhance the study 1 research subject and been welcomed by the trainees and employees. By October 2014, their fans on WeChat platform reached 770, taking up 10% of the total headcount of Sinofert company. Every day, their WeChat image-texts are red 152 times; the highest single day reading In order to train management trainees’ ability to discover , analyse and solve problems, they will volume amounted to 1235 times; the highest single day text forwarding volume reached 82 personal times. write a thesis under the instruction of their mentors in spare time. They will set up the subject of their thesis based on their respective department and work reality. The thesis has to be based Ace-pack series Career highlights Training information Case study on the real practice and able to provide value of reference for the company in our business reform and management improvement process. 2 reading reports and 2 individual summaries For management and For young talents For all staff For all staff In order to train management trainees’ sense of learning and self-reflection, and improve their technical talents including Releasing training notice Sharing and circulating the newly-graduated knowledge structure, they will have intensive reading on 2 books and write book report; at the Releasing Ace-packs on ahead of every important internal cases of the subjects of management, Releasing articles on how to training, and training company same time, they have submit twice of individual work summaries at the mid-year term and yearagrochemical, marketing, summary post the training, be more professional at work end. which contain featured including the training articles on management and situation and knowledge 4 action learning technical matters keypoints. The human resource department of Sinochem organizes 4 times of action learning for management trainees. In the learning, they invite back-bone managers in functional departments and business branches to lecture on eight management processes, business knowhow and management cases. They also leverage the external courses organized by the Sinochem School of Management Administration for thoughts development and career ability enhancement, and organize management trainees to study in the front-line subsidiaries. It provides a platform for them to exchange learning and ideas, and broaden their horizon. 66 2014 Sustainable Developmant Report Value Talents and Grow with Employees 67 Unlock Development Channel Unify the Strength of Young People through the Corporate Culture The company keeps expanding the career development channel, provides various development pipelines like administration pipeline and technical pipeline, and builds an extensive growth platform for our employees. FOTIC set up culture philosophy that call for “respect for labor, knowledge, talents, and creation”, and organized various themed activities including “FOTIC Embracing Life”, “FOTIC Embracing Labor”, “FOTIC Embracing Learning”. Through fresh themes and Professional pipeline building. Sinochem has 53 professional and technical pipelines, among which 12 are for functional roles. These pipelines cover lively formats, FOTIC showed their whole-hearted care for employees, and unified people’s hearts through corporate culture. It 19 functional developments, that is, 100% coverage; for business branches, key pipelines have 80% coverage rate. enhanced employees’ sense of belonging, solidified the cohesion of their team, activated young staff’s vigor, cultivated a happy, Appraisal of technical talents. Sinochem Oil, Sinochem Quanzhou, and Sinochem Lantian totally appraised 260 personal, among which 79 highhealthy and efficient working atmosphere, and built a company with strong sense of happiness. grade technical talents (technicians and senior engineers), and 181 technical talents (junior engineers and medium-grade engineers). Care Employees' Life Build Employees Career Development System Our company continues to promote “Employees Caring” projects, enriches employees’ life, helps those in need, and enhances their happiness index. Sinochem Lantian has built up three major pipelines, including administration, professional technique, and production skills pipelines. They have a complete employees promotion mechanism, and initially set up a career development system that covers the all staff members. Caring employees’ health. We organize health check, health lectures, vaccine injection, release health notice, hand out haze-prevention mask and air Management pipeline. We formulated and implemented High-level Managers Management Measures, Managers Management ●● cleaner, complete the “Happiness Gas Stations” EAP health project. Measures, Rules and Regulations on the Allocation of Back-bone Staff under the Management Pipeline, to clarify the setting of posts at Organizing festival greeting programs. On each staff’s birthday, Father’s Day, Mother’s Day, Children’s Day, Women’s Day, we send greetings and different levels and the promotion procedure. small gift to our staff. ●● Production technique pipeline. We improved Sinochem Lantian Post Level and Technical pipeline Management Measures, to facilitate the connection between the pipeline and the posts. Organizing colorful recreational activities. In different seasons, we organize such activities as tree planting, mountain climbing, healthy jogging and walking, as well as various matches including football, basketball, badminton, and ping-pong. ●● Production skills pipeline. We took Taicang Environment Protection and Polymer/Fluorine Material these two companies as the pilot points, and carried out certification on multi-skilled workers. They completed review on 162 person times, including 36 junior level workers, 98 medium level workers, and 28 senior level workers. A Race with the Time—Staff Evacuation from the Ebola Epidemic Area in Democratic Republic of Congo When the suspected Ebola cases were discovered, Sinochem International’ GMG moved fast to evacuate their staff to guarantee their safety. GMG led the 6 local employees to “converge”, calmly respond to “the two sudden change of the Ebola war”, quickly complete Enhance Employees' Sense of Belonging “three evacuation”, decisively retreat from “the three defensive lines”, move among “three countries”. In the end, it took them 48 days in successfully getting rid of the Ebola besiege. It became the most classic evacuation case that took the longest quarantine time and had the most quarantine areas since the breakout of Ebola epidemic in West Africa. Sinochem strengthens its corporate culture building, has employees peer-to-peer assistance program, cares for our staff’s life from multiple levels, and shows our care for retirees, which combined has enhanced employees sense of belonging. Corporate Culture Building Care Retired Employees Sinochem attaches great importance to corporate culture building, and sets up a culture system that embraces core value, business philosophy, Our company organizes multilevel activities to send our care to retired employees, and really take care of retirees from physical and psychological management philosophy, and employee codes of conduct. We are cultivating a unique culture system that is featured by “enterprising culture”, “credibility levels. culture” and “lean culture”, enhancing staff’s recognition of our culture. Culture training. We organized 7 times of corporate culture training on newly graduates, new managers, and new staff members from our acquired companies. Help in Spring Comforting Regular social security and autumn visit for serious visit Culture promotion. We have organized several times of corporate culture study on Quanzhou Petrochemical base, collected many classic cases, disease bearers procedure 104 outing 420 400 times person times person times 62 times made summery on the essence of its corporate spirit, enriched Sinochem’s corporate culture system, and promoted the Quanzhou Petrochemical’s enterprising spirit through our internal publication Sinochem Today. Service to Chess and Health Deep elderly leaders Health check card matches Diverse keeping activity Receive communication Enhancing visit Lecture 5 times 240 person 358 persons 60 person activities with 160 person over 2000 times service 1900 times over 1000 person times 320 times person times person times times participation Medical Phone call Participating Health expense Club activity communication in CPC committee Aftercare service keeping lecture reimbursement 240 person 780 times activities 73 2 persons 120 person 120 person times person times times times 68 2014 Sustainable Developmant Report Contribute to Public Welfare and Progress with the Society 69 Contribute to Public Welfare and Progress with the Society Sinochem Group actively takes part in the social welfare projects. Upholding the win-win principle, we expect common growth with our partners, and promote the social harmony and progress with our own sustainability. 14.19 Tax amount billion yuan 144 million yuan Accumulatively input in poverty 70.29 % Responsible procurement rate alleviation of Tibet Honors and Stakeholders’ Comments Sinochem constructed Bayan Baolige Kindergarten in Bayan Wendusumu, which helped to solve the kindergarten education problem of the family nearby in the 50 kilometers range area. It plays a huge role in promoting the local education and elevating the knowledge level of the local farmers. Township Head of Baya Wendusumu, Ar Horqin Banner, Inner Mongolia Sinochem also provided aid to Qinghai Province. We bought the urgently needed DR-X medical screening facility sets for the local hospitals, creating convenient medical condition for this area that frequently has traffic accident and mining accident, and terminating the history that patients have to take as long as 4 hours of bumpy road to get cured in Haixi State. Dean Wang, Haixi State Dachaidan Central Hospital, Qinghai Province Every penny that Sinochem has spent here is on us and on our life. We gratify them from the bottom of our heart. Local citizen of Qinghai Dachaidan area 70 2014 Sustainable Developmant Report Contribute to Public Welfare and Progress with the Society 71 Localized Operation The power of seed ATLANTIS TUC company tries to blend into the local community, provides clean and efficient energy, moves active in tax payment, I am a vegetable seed. Together with other companions of our company, I travel thousands of miles to increases the employment and procurement from the local area, and serve the local economic and social development. come to Gangba County of Tibet. In order to adapt to the special local climate, we have specially treated before we embarked on our road. High sprouting rate and strong adaptability become our new label. In Energy supply. UAQ gasfield is supplying RAK with natural gas, making contribution to meeting RAK’s energy demand, facilitating the ●● the past few years, we were sowed carefully by the people coming to provide aid to Tibet. We took root local industry development and elevating the locals’ life quality. and sprout here, and played a constructive role in enriching the consumption basket of nearby farmer and ●● Tax payment. After UAQ gasfield started to be developed, Atlantis company became the big tax payer in RAK. Since 2014, the improving their diet structure. company paid totally 3.07 million US dollars for mining loyalty, transportation fee, income tax, and government administration fee, and also 63,000 US dollars for port incidental expense, contributing significant fiscal income to support the local economic growth. ●● Procurement from local area. The company procures various day-to-day service and specialized technical service from the local suppliers, promoting the local service industry development. Organize Poverty-Alleviation Program Our company continues to follow the guideline that “combines intelligence support with project assistance, mindset changing with material provision”. We stick to the principle of “hematopoiesis as the core, transfusion as the supplement”, facilitate the development of industry, culture, education, health, infrastructure construction that bring benefits to the local people, pay close attention to people’s livelihood enhancement, and serve the local economic Build Responsible Supply Chain and social development. By the end of 2014, we accumulatively injected poverty-alleviation funding of 144 million yuan in Tibet. We make the best use of the funding, and spare no efforts to promote the scientific development of Gangba County of Tibet, Dachaidan Area of Qinghai, and Ar Horqin Sinochem upholds the philosophy of “mutual benefit, common growth, and equal responsibility”. Through formulating elaborate and standardized Banner and Linxi County of Inner Mongolia. administration system, we create an equal, just, and open bidding and tendering environment, and also strictly abide by contracts to protect suppliers’ legitimate rights. We bear in mind the philosophy and requirement of social responsibility during the procurement process, have training, review, appraisal on suppliers, carry out annual contract practice appraisal on engineering contractors and suppliers, promote sort management of suppliers, Enhancing skill We organized a series of free skill training programs on carpentry, vegetable planting and painting to expand the and realize a common enhancement on sense and practice of social responsibility with our suppliers in our cooperation with them. training and income channel for the locals to generate income generation ability Enhancing Administration on Suppliers Using technology We brought good vegetable and grain seeds varieties of China National Seed Group Corporation into Tibet and Inner Mongolia to promote the local to have trial planting. The vegetable seeds came out with successful results farming production Sinochem Oil Center takes it as the breakthrough point of the administration on suppliers, and further enhances the building of product oil quality management system to lay a solid foundation for product oil quality. Drawing upon the Based on the characteristics of the traditional animal husbandry industry in Tibet and Inner Mongolia, we actively helped the local strength to local specialties like “Gangba Goat” and “Mongolia Goat” go to the market. “Gangba Goat” brand became the first produce in facilitate the specialty Optimize the management Enhance oil quality Enhance the basic Refine our emergency Tibet Autonomous Region marked with “Geographical Mark” by Ministry of Agriculture industry development on suppliers management management on responding management distribution warehouse We enhanced the trace We set up a complete oil and We strengthened the We kept improving our management on the supplying oil product quality monitoring management on operational responding system to Drive the Local Development chain, strictly implemented the bidding system in selecting system from the Headquarters to Business Division, and standardization of our own warehouses, leasing emergency, optimized the procedures from the suppliers, focused on the further to the subsidiaries warehouses, and suppliers’ perspectives of units repaying ability of the distribution warehouses, and establishment, responding suppliers, and organized We promoted the building of enhanced the administration support, and crisis Sinochem brings benefits to the place where it has business operation. We enhance the correlation between our own development with the local regular and random check and company labs and built the oil on oil and oil products’ quantity communication; organized appraisal on suppliers quality management team and quality as well as the drills to enhance our economic, social and environmental development. We are committed to be an international corporate citizen, and endeavor to change from “Going stock removal responding ability Global” to “Going Local”. By referring the procurement All of our oil and oil products standards of Sinopec and reached the national Targeting at the three types of We increased the drill PetroChina, we set up standards. Our testing warehouses mentioned above, frequency, enhanced the Sinochem oil and products personnel have gradually we set up management sensibility to the complain on quality control standards, and obtained the related certificate. system, installed management our oil quality from the built a dynamic oil and oil We also set up annual personnel, completed customer end, and escalated products procurement index inspection mechanism to management procedures, our ability to handle these monitoring system check the testing personnel’s strictly control the product complains and disputes qualification quantity, quality and the ownership of goods as well as the suppliers’ credit risk 72 2014 Sustainable Developmant Report Contribute to Public Welfare and Progress with the Society 73 Facilitate Industrial Progress “Safety Guardian” in Villagers' Heart The company makes use of its industrial strength, vigorously participates in the industry standards formulation, enhances cooperation with peer Sinochem Quanzhou Petrochemical attaches great importance to the fire safety work. They specially set up Qinglanshan Fire Safety companies, and makes contribution to the industry’s sustainable development. In 2014, we host and took part in formulating and amending 14 national Squad, and carry out great cooperation with the local police and citizen. By the end of 2014, the Squad had successfully put out 20 standards and 86 industry standards. By the end of 2014, we have accumulatively formulated and amended 861 items of national and industrial times of fire of the surrounding villages and townships including Ducuo Village and Song Village. Therefore, they get the nickname of standards. “Safety Guardian” from the locals. Propelling the Development of Green Traffic Becoming Friend and Companion of the Neighbors Sinochem International was the chief sponsor of the 12 session of Michelin Bibendum Challenge Race themed at “Sustainable EMERALD Colombia project is the largest overseas onshore operator project of Sinochem’s upstream business, and is also the Traffic, Building Beautiful Life”; organized seminar with the most important project for Chinese companies in Colombia. The project company fulfills its corporate citizenship, and tries to achieve theme of “the sustainable development of the tires industry”; mutual benefit with the local government and community. In 2014, the project company invested 2.75 million USD in developing the participated various activities including “Leadership Forum”, local culture, education, medical care, infrastructure, and industry, benefiting over 80,000 person times. in which it discussed the industry’s green and sustainable development with such leading companies as Michelin and Shanghai Motor as well as China Rubber Industry Association. Unit: 10,000 USD 85 After this challenge race, “Green Book of Michelin Bibendum 6% 74 74 3854 Challenge Race” was released. This book pooled the wisdom 19% Infrastructure construction of the well-known experts in the sustainable traffic and 11617 Sinochem International having the seminar themed at “Tire Industry service 42 transportation area, and gave practical solution and direction to 6% Industry’s Sustainable Development” 69% Culture education the green upgrading of the industry. 3545 43178 Medical care MATAMBO OMBU CAMPORICO MARANTA Number of beneficiary (person times) Drafting Industry Standards for Products In order to facilitate the improvement of 4-Aminodiphenylamine production technology, and meet the market’s strict demand on product quality, Jiangsu Sinorgchem Technology company takes the company standards as the foundation, and joined hands with Sinopec Nanjing Chemical Industry Co., Ltd. to formulate the industry standards “HG/T4231-2011 4-Aminodiphenylamine” to standardize the product quality, testing equipment and methods, and to facilitate the benign development of this industry. In 2014, Setting up Beijing Horizon Charity Fund this standard was named “Excellent Standard Formulation Project of the National Petroleum and Chemical Industry”. Far East Horizon promotes the philosophy that says “great love has no boundary”, and actively takes part in the scholarship sponsoring and poverty alleviation work, making contribution to achieving social stability and healthy development. In 2014, the company officially set up Beijing Horizon Charity Fund, which accumulatively contributed over 3.1 million yuan, and financially helped over 3500 person times. Participate in Charity Project Volunteer service, delivering hope and strength. We build the platform for our employees and the public to do charity and volunteer ●● work, and deliver hope and strength to the left-behind children. ●● Raise charity fund, reflecting love and care. We organized 7 charity fund raising activities, including “Charity Auction” and “Summer While Sinochem is growing faster and stronger, we take the initiative to give back to the community. Through various methods including volunteer Charity Run for Helping Children”, with 1500 person times of participation and raising fund of 460,000 yuan. activities and making donation, we promote the development of social charity work, and make contribution to the development of community culture, ●● Public benefiting projects, sowing sunbeam and warmth. We cooperated with Transportation Business Department to organize education, medical care and infrastructure. clients with caring hearts to go to Huining in Gansu and participate in the activities to provide financial assistance to the local students. 74 2014 Sustainable Developmant Report Experts’ Comments 75 Outlook Experts’ Comments The year 2015 will see the conclusion of the “12th Five-Year Plan”, and is also the key year for China’s reform. Sinochem follow the requirements for Sinochem Group 2014 Sustainable Development Report elaborates the company’s CSR practice and achievement from five aspects, including “serving company to grow strong and better, sticks to the “active, steady, sustainable, and healthy” development philosophy, takes efficiency enhancement as the national economy and people’s life, providing value-added service, fulfilling the commitment in safety and environment protection, respecting the the core, further promotes the enterprising and innovative spirit, strengthens the development confidence, tackles challenges, seizes opportunities, and value of talents, and promoting social welfare work”. The report demonstrates comprehensive subjects, rich content, various communication forms, and facilitates the strategic transformation and the “Third Long March” at the background of economic New Normal. distinctive industry characteristics, showcasing the organic combination of Sinochem’s sustainable development and CSR with its business operation. We enhance our awareness of the rule of laws, and integrate the rule of law and its requirement into every development links of the company, The report has multi-layers, and systematically demonstrates sustainable development achievement made by Sinochem Group. Sinochem organized promoting rule of law in the corporate governance. “Sinochem’s Passion, Farmers’ Dream” agricultural service activity, “benefiting, protecting and assisting farmers” whole-heartedly. They took the initiative to adapt to the economic “New Normal”, kept enhancing management, safeguarded national energy and agricultural safety, facilitating We solidify the strategy that takes innovation as the company’s growth drive, and reform our technology management, gradually complete our industry’s sustainable development. They optimized products structure, increased product quality, innovated service system, and provided clean, technology innovation system that is in line with the company’s characteristic and industry development requirement, sustainably promoting the industry quality, diverse products and thoughtful service for clients. They improved safe environment management system, eradicated hazards and risks from technology progress. the root, enhanced energy conservation and emission reduction, promoted safety and green notion, and took active part in building a beautiful China. We dig the potential value of our current clients, actively expand our customer base, and endeavor to build long-term stable and mutually beneficial They kept innovating the selection, employment, and cultivation of talents, protected employees’ rights, respected their value, and had them growing partnership with our clients. We strengthen the building of our sales team, and enhance salesperson’s business ability. We also enhance the together with the company. They respect rules and laws, brought benefit to the general public, vigorously participated in public welfare projects, created management on every part of the sales and marketing to increase profitability. mutual benefit with cooperation partners, and facilitated social harmony and progress. We takes the change of promoting the new “Safe Production Law”, takes the lean management philosophy as the guidance, eye on the frontier The report has diverse communication forms. It starts with vivid little story to all-roundly demonstrate Sinochem’s CSR practice, shortening the production in the factories, combine key breakthrough and regular administration, strengthen the sense of HSE from the top administrators to the distance between the company and its stakeholders. Its rich and distinctive logic diagrams makes readers easy to understand and gives them a deep grassroot workers, have local management on safety issue through behavior safety improvement project, and enhance HSE accountability system and impression, making the report very readable. Its design highlights the key points, showcasing the CSR philosophy of Sinochem. I hope Sinochem its implementation. We also promote the management on facility safe operation and safe automatic overhauling. can continue to escalate its CSR management level, create more value for its shareholders, and achieve the goal of becoming the respectful great company with global status as soon as possible. With “restructuring, transforming and long-sighted” as the principle line, we further enhance the structure adjustment of our “backbone managers system”, strengthen the cultivation and building of the professional team and production skill team, and optimize the teams structure of the Headquarters functional departments. We actively respond to the expectation and requirement of our stakeholders, and create a favorable external environment conducive to the company’s Cheng Dusheng development. We also vigorously participate in the charity work, promote harmonious community building, and set up a reliable and responsible Director of Innovation Work Department of China Enterprises Association corporate image in the society. 76 2014 Sustainable Developmant Report Implementation of the United Nations Global Compact 77 Experts’ Comments Implementation of the United Nations Global Compact Sinochem Group 2014 Sustainable Development Report is the fifth sustainable development report released by the company, and demonstrates the new progress made by them in CSR work. It has the following features: First, the report is substantive. It reported on the company’s philosophy, measures and achievement on corporate governance and operation, CSR As a member of UN Global Compact, Sinochem has reported the implementation annually since 2010. In 2013, positive progress was made in this management, technology innovation, environment protection, employee’s right protection and social harmony. It focuses on the highlights of the CSR regard. that it delivered to all stakeholders, such as client management system, tackling haze, and protecting biological diversity, demonstrated the company’s whole-industry-chain service in energy, agriculture, chemical, real estates and finance, as well as the CSR practice in promoting social harmony and progress. Topics Principles Progress in 2014 Second, the sustainable development practice has more features. As the “national team” serving agriculture, rural area and farmers, Sinochem Respect and support and globally recognized Provide equal promotion channel for female staff organized a series of agrichemical services themed by “Sinochem’s Passion, Farmers’ Dream”, whole-heartedly “benefiting farmers, protecting farmers human rights and helping farmers”. As the member of United Nations Global Compact, Sinochem integrates its CSR philosophy through its “Going Global” process, Organize the first young employees training course, facilitating No complicity in human rights abuse their growth focuses on promoting the local economy, social development, employment and environment protection, trying to change from “Going Global” to “Going Optimize remuneration system Local”, which has its own industrial feature. Human Rights Never set up relation with any human right violator Third, the Report is more readable. This Report employs the format of “important performance statistics” to disclose the company’s key CSR achievement, which is very innovative and enhances the readability of the Report. On the one hand, it reflects that Sinochem is making the report with innovative spirit, and at the same time, it reflects that the company bears in mind the reading convenience of the readers and writing the report from the Uphold freedom of association and recognize collective Strictly abide by the Labor Law perspective of its stakeholders, which is also a reflection of its CSR practice. bargaining right Set up democratic management system, promote the openness, Eliminate all forms of forced labor systemization, and standardization of corporate governance Fourth, the Report is more vivid. It adds such content as open-up little stories, honors and stakeholders’ comments, enriching its content and formats Effectively abolish child labor Build a uniform recruitment platform, object discrimination, and treat and improving the readers’ reading experience. the employees of different nationalities, colors, nations, genders, Labor Standards Eliminate discrimination in employment and occupation religions and culture background equally The Report has certain improvement room. I suggest the Report can be made in a more balanced way, so as to give the readers a whole picture of the Fight against with employment of child labor, and object forced labor company’s CSR performance, and communicate with the stakeholders and get their understanding and recognition in a more transparent way. I hope Sinochem can uphold its CSR philosophy, enhance the company’s ability to create value, actively build a harmonious interaction relation with its stakeholders, and make even more contribution to the world’s sustainable development in its process to build a “respectable great company with global Take precautionary approach to environmental challenges Develop energy-saving and environment protection technology, status”. technique, and facility, develop recycling economy, and try to save Take initiative to promote greater compliance to energy environmental standards Promote the safety disposal and recycling of waste Support the development and promotion of Yin Gefei Environment environmental-friendly technologies Protect bio-diversity Deputy Director of China WTO Tribune Combat with climate change International Research Center of CSR and Sustainable Development of Peking University Object corruption of all forms, including fraud and bribery Stick to the guidance of “anti-corruption will extend to wherever our strategy goes”, make anti-corruption work our key work and responsibility, and have it on the equal position with our business operation when it comes to implementation, investigation, and Anti-corruption evaluation. 78 2014 Sustainable Developmant Report Reporting Index Feedback Form In order to improve Sinchem Group’s CRS work, we look forward to your feedback, which will Content G3.1 CASS-CSR3.0 be an important basis for our improvement. We hope to receive your valuable advice on our Cover report and our work About This Report 3.1/3.2/3.3/3.4/3.6/3.7/3.8/3.9/3.10/3.11 P1.1/P1.2/P1.3/P1.4/P1.5 Chairman’s Message 1.1/1.2 P3.1 President’s Message 1.1/1.2 P3.1 Your Information About Us 2.1/2.2/2.3/2.4/2.5/2.6/2.7/2.8 P4.1/P4.2/P4.3/M1.4/M1.5/M1.6 Name Company Strategy and Governance Telephone E-mail Sinochem’s Development Strategy Corporate Governance 2.9/4.1/4.4/4.6/4.11 P4.7/M1.1/M1.3 Comprehensive Risk Management 1.2 Your Comments Anti-corruption SO2/SO3/SO4 S1.1/S1.2/S1.3/S1.4 In your opinion, the report is: Social Responsibility Management Model of Sustainable Development G1.1 Very Good Good Medium Bad Very Bad Social Responsibility Promotion 2.10/4.8/4.12 P5.1/P5.3/G2.1/G2.3/G2.4/G4.3/G6.4 Honors In your opinion, the information disclosed in the report is: Stakeholders and Key Issues 4.14/4.17 G2.2/G5.1/G5.3 Sinochem’s CSR Matrix P5.1 Very Informative Informative Medium Somewhat Informative Not Informative Sinochem’s Care for Agricultural Dream M2.2 In your opinion, the quality of the information disclosed in the report is: Serve the National Economy to Prosper 2.10 P5.2 Together with the Country Very High High Medium Low Very Low Safeguard National Energy Security 2.7 P4.4/S1.6 Safeguard National Agrilculture Security 2.7/EN26 S1.6/E3.4 In your opinion, the structure of the report is: Promote Progress of Chemical Industry 2.7 E3.4 Serve People’s Lives, Improving People’s Happiness 2.7 E3.4 Very Good Good Medium Bad Very Bad Promote Scientific and Technological Innovation M2.8/M2.9/M2.10/M2.11/M2.12 Create the Highest Value for Shareholders EC1 M1.4/M1.5/M1.6 In your opinion, the layout design of the report is: Provide Value-Added Services to Develop 2.10 P5.2 with Clients Very Good Good Medium Bad Very Bad Improve the Service to Oil End Market 2.7 M2.1 Improve the Service System for “Agriculture, Countryside, and Farmers” 2.7 M2.1 You thoughts and suggestions on Sinochem Group’s CSR work as well on the compilation and publication Provide Professional Comprehensive Chemical Business Services 2.7/EN29 M2.1 Provide High-quality Real Estate Projects and Property Services 2.7 M2.1 its sustainable development report: Provide Reliable and Efficient Financial and Tendering Services 2.7 M2.1/M2.3 Guarantee Safety and Protect the Environment 2.10 P5.2/E1.13 to Reach Harmony with Nature Strengthen HSE Management E1.1/E1.2/E1.6/E1.7 Occupational Health LA7 S2.17/S2.18/S2.19/S2.20/S2.22 Safe Production S3.1/S3.3/S3.4 Emergency Management S3.2 Environmental Protection EN2/EN5/EN6/EN7/EN10/EN11/EN12/EN13/ E1.4/E1.10/E2.1/E2.2/E2.4/E2.5/E2.6/E2.7/E2.8/E2.9/ Contact EN15/EN18/EN22 E2.10/E2.11/E2.12/E2.13/E2.14/E2.15/E2.16/E2.18/ Sinochem Group E3.5/E4.1/E4.2/E4.3/E4.5 Address：Central Tower F11, Chemsunny World Trade Center, Fuxingmennei Street 28, Beijing, China Value Talents and Grow with Employees 2.10 P5.2/S2.1 Post Code：100031 Protecte Employees’ Rights and Interests EC3/LA1/LA4/LA13 P4.5/S1.7/S1.8/S2.3/S2.4/S2.9/S2.13/S2.31 Realize Employees’ Value LA10/LA11/LA12 S2.24/S2.25/S2.26 Tel：010-59568926 Enhance Employees’ Sense of Belonging LA8 S2.27/S2.28/S2.29 Fax：010-59568890 Contribute to Public Welfare and Progress 2.10 P5.2/M3.12 with the Society E-mail：csr@sinochem.com Organize Poverty-Alleviation Program S1.6/S4.4 Drive the Local Development EC6/EC7/EC9 S1.5/S1.7/S4.5/S4.6/S4.8 Build Responsible Supply Chain G3.2/M3.1/M3.5/M3.6/M3.7/M3.8/E3.2 Facilitate Industrial Progress Participate in Charity Project EC8 S4.4/S4.8/S4.9/S4.10/S4.11 Outlook A1 Expert's Comments 3.13 A2 Implementation of the United Nations Global Compact 4.12/4.13 P4.6/G1.2/A3 Reporting Index 3.12 A3 Feedback Form P1.5/A4 www.sinochem.com Ideas in the Cover Design: Embracing the company’s strategic transformation and the “Third Long March”, Sinochem Group 2014 Sustainable Development Report’s cover design employs the means of symbolism. The “Business Tree” is the main body—the lines representing our five major business segments of energy, agriculture, chemical, real estate and finance converge, cross over each other, and finally create a long-lasting green tree with deep root and luxuriant leaves. Sinochem Group‘s Sinochem Group‘s Through industrious efforts, Sinochem people have cultivated a fruitful “Business Tree”—the official Sina Weibo official Wechat fruits symbolizing economy, clients, environment, employees and society adorn the tree, which on the one hand reflects our achievement in the CSR practice, and on the other demonstrates the realization routes of our sustainable development philosophy.
