STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT BY THE EXECUTIVE BOARD PERIOD COVERED BY OUR COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2ND OCTOBER 2014 TO 1ST OCTOBER 2015 As a family‐owned and family‐operated company, we instinctively think in generations, not quarters. Our founder, Daniel Swarovski, was unequivocal about the role of business in helping communities to flourish and conserving the natural resources we need to thrive. As his descendants, and as the company’s integrated corporate management team, we take inspiration from his original vision and pioneering spirit. We are therefore pleased to reaffirm our support for the UN Global Compact and its ten principles in the areas of Human Rights, Labor, Environment and Anti‐Corruption. Swarovski has been a participant of the UN Global Compact since 2010. Since then, we have continuously progressed towards further integration of its principles into our culture, strategy and operations. Through our COP this year, we highlight key practical actions taken by Swarovski in each of the four issue areas and provide updated indications of our progress since our last update. A more detailed account of our goals, achievements, performance and initiatives will be provided in our next sustainability report. As our founder envisioned, we are committed to applying imagination and vigour to growing our business in a way that respects people and the environment. Our engagement with the UN Global Compact is an important part of realizing this ambition and we look forward to ongoing participation as we continue our progress with our commitments to its principles. Robert Buchbauer Daniel Cohen Markus Langes‐Swarovski Mathias Margreiter Nadja Swarovski SWAROVSKI UNGC COP 1. Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Principle 2: Businesses should make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Swarovski respects the human rights of everyone who contributes to our business – both our employees and the people working in our supply chain. As such, we continue to be unwavering in our commitment to upholding internationally proclaimed human rights standards (a) internally and (b) among our suppliers. (a) Of particular significance to Swarovski, given our predominantly female workforce (70%) and customer base, is the issue of equality as defined by the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. In 2014, we signed the UN’s Women’s Empowerment Principles (WEPs) – which provide guidance to businesses on empowering women in the workplace, marketplace and community. To boost our efforts, hone our strategic approach to diversity and inclusion, and to further develop our approach to the WEPs, we have recently recruited a Global Inclusion and Diversity Manager. We continue to support women in progressing to the highest management positions and since our last COP we have appointed two female Executive Vice Presidents and promoted a senior female manager to Managing Director at Swarovski France. We are also pursuing continuous improvement in our production locations where support encompasses initiatives such as breast‐feeding areas, cervical cancer screening, pregnancy lectures and post‐pregnancy adaptation. Our efforts have recently received recognition from UNICEF when our support for breastfeeding mothers at our 7,000 worker Marigot Thailand production facility was cited as one of the model workplaces that supports working mothers to breastfeed. Within the community and broader marketplace we have taken multiple steps to empower women, we have raised awareness among employees of campaigns such as Girl Rising (a campaign to give more girls access to education) and invited female employees to support the Swarovski Foundation’s partnership with global charity Women for Women International. This ‘Sponsor a Sister’ program matches Swarovski volunteers with women participating in a year‐long holistic training program that aims to give them the skills and confidence to transform their lives. We have also sponsored the annual Trust Women Conference, which unites businesses, legal professionals and human rights pioneers to promote women’s rights. (b) Through our Responsible Sourcing Initiative (RSI), established in 2014, we are helping our suppliers to maintain a keen focus on respecting workers’ rights. We are investing time, energy and resources in this ambition, and have expanded our Corporate Responsibility team to assess and advise our suppliers. Engaging with suppliers within all our direct spend procurement categories (those providing goods that feed into our end products), we first ask for our Supplier Code of Conduct to be signed. In the time since our last COP, we have made the code easily accessible for suppliers via an online portal, connected to our Supplier Management System. Following a risk evaluation for each factory and targeted self‐assessments requested of key suppliers, we take an in‐depth look at labor conditions by means of an internationally recognised third party assessment or our own internal labour assessment based on the Sedex Member’s Ethical Trade Audit (SMETA) standard. We have conducted factory assessments and identified follow up actions. These included appointing local specialists (where necessary) to advise and support factory managers, and build capacity by developing targeted training and improving management systems. We recognize that issues arising in factories are often complex, with no single solution, and therefore take a consultative approach to helping factory owners with remediation activities. 2 2. Labor Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Principle4: Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor. Principle 5: Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labor. Principle 6: Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Our relationship and engagement with employees is consistent with internationally recognised labor standards and we maintain high standards by integrating continuous improvement procedures into our day to day operations. We are progressing with the implementation of a number of key initiatives to facilitate more efficient and effective continuous improvement. This includes:  Improving performance, pay and benefits: We adopted a more systematic approach to performance management in 2013, and established a direct link between performance and pay in 2014. Now, on an ongoing basis, we are also supporting our managers in setting clear expectations, as well as coaching employees, and measuring and rewarding performance.  Fostering a global learning culture: Our new e‐learning initiative – called Virtual Ashridge – empowers our employees to manage their own personal development and gain valuable insights into business and management. Devised by Ashridge Business School, the initiative comprises a collection of online learning materials. It is available in 14 languages and spans 12 core subjects, from leadership and strategy to personal effectiveness, and is designed to cater for different learning styles.  Second employee survey: As part of our commitment to being open and transparent with our employees, we conducted our second global employee survey in 2014. We shared the results with managers and employees across the business to help drive progress and practical improvements. Our employees continue to be very proud to work for Swarovski (78%) and are motivated to go beyond their defined job responsibilities (75%). Additionally, engagement levels – the extent to which employees are committed and willing to go the extra mile – have increased by 1% since our 2012 survey, and enablement – the extent to which employees feel supported and empowered to perform well in their job – has increased by 5% to 66%. These are both in line with global norms.  Responsible Jewellery Council (RJC): The RJC is an international not‐for‐profit standards and certification organization. Its 600 members span the jewellery supply chain from mine to store, and commit to being independently audited against the RJC Code of Practice, an international standard defining responsible business practices on diamonds, gold and platinum metals. Both the Swarovski Gemstones Business and our US‐based personalized jewellery business unit, Chamilia, became RJC members in 2014. As well as strictly adhering to legal requirements and regulations while pursuing continuous improvement within the company, Swarovski also takes a clear stand on working conditions, respect for human rights and the elimination of discrimination throughout our supply chain. This is clearly demonstrated by the relationships we maintain with our suppliers – underpinned by our Supplier Code of Conduct (SCoC) – the foundation for our Responsible Sourcing Initiative as outlined above. The SCoC plainly sets out Swarovski’s commitments and our expectations from suppliers. It is provided in the local languages of our major suppliers and includes the following: no forced labor, no child labor, no discrimination, humane treatment and no harassment, freedom of association and collective bargaining, decent compensation, no extensive working hours and grievance processes. 3 3. Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Principle 8: Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Principle 9: Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Swarovski is committed to being an environmentally responsible business. Water has played an important role in our company throughout its history and continues to play a central role today as a source of renewable energy in our production processes. Our relationship with water has inspired and been reflected in our desire to protect the environment more widely. The growth of the Swarovski Waterschool reflects this fact. This program helps to improve access to safe water and sanitation and works with communities to help them address ecological, economic, social and cultural challenges related to water. Since being founded in 2000, it has reached over 213,000 students in more than 2,000 schools across five countries: Austria, Uganda, India, China and Brazil. In 2014, we expanded our program to include Brazil. We began working with the Earth Child Institute in Santarém, a riverside location where local communities are affected by issues including overfishing, dam‐building, ineffective water treatment, heavy flooding and chemical pollution. When it comes to our own operations, we take a rigorous approach to conserving water and maintain a keen focus on water treatment, in order to prevent harmful chemical substances reaching the water supply. We conserve water in our production processes through established recycling and reuse techniques. The volume of water we recycle and reuse across our global operations is more than twice the total volume withdrawn. On an annual basis, we have consistently recycled about 68% of the water in our operations since 2010. Similarly, a stringent approach is taken with managing and reducing waste materials in our production processes, and increasingly in our owned stores. We generated 24,849 tonnes of waste in 2013‐14 through our production processes globally, of which some 28% was recycled, reused or composted. Conserving energy and lowering emissions is also integral to maintaining our ability to operate successfully in the long term. The manufacturing of crystal and created and genuine gemstones accounts for a significant proportion of our energy use, and therefore we continuously innovate to reduce our energy footprint. Overall, our total energy consumption has decreased by 24% since 2010. Meanwhile, in 2014, 55% of our global energy consumption was derived from renewable sources. In 2014, we began a review of our sustainability data management needs, identified key requirements and identified a new data management solution which will be implemented in order to improve our monitoring and evaluation capabilities. We also continued to forge ahead with our ‘Triple‐S’ (Swarovski Sustainable Stores) program. In 2014, we exceeded our target (set at 25%) in every region, with 42% of our mono‐brand store openings and refurbishments meeting Triple‐S standards (based on the Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) guidelines for Commercial Interiors). In particular, nearly all of our new openings and refurbishments in North America in 2014 achieved Triple‐S status. Building on this success, we have now increased our target to 65% for 2015. We are actively encouraging employees to engage with environmental issues. For example, we are a partner on photographer and scientist James Balog’s Extreme Ice Survey climate change project in Austria and offering our employees the opportunity to support him first hand. In 2014, we also followed a calendar of international observances including UN led days – such as World Water Day ‐ to raise awareness through our company intranet and inspire employees to take positive action. 4 Anti‐Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. We continue to focus on our core values, vigor, passion, imagination and responsibility in all of our business dealings and are developing with the executive board the appropriate “tone at the top” to support a Swarovski approach to business integrity. As part of the application process for the RJC certification, our Gemstones Business and the Chamilia organizations embraced the principles of integrity, including explicit rejections of all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery. 5
