PUBLIC Innovia Security Communication on Progress June 2015 Reporting for the period January 2014 – June 2015 PUBLIC STATEMENT OF COMMITMENT PUBLIC Innovia Security Communication on Progress June 2015 A message from the Managing Director: I am pleased to provide this Communication on Progress and affirm Innovia Security’s commitment to the Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. I was appointed Managing Director of Innovia Security in September 2014. I am proud to join an organisation that has, during the last five years, led an exceptional transformation in governance and culture. Innovia Security sees its involvement in the UN Global Compact as both a culmination of these transformational efforts and a catalyst for future improvements in corporate social responsibility. I have set the organisation’s next challenge as the improvement of quality across the entire business. It is my vision to create ‘centres of excellence’ in our plants worldwide. This focus is not only operational, but also concentrates on how every department conducts the organisation’s business to deliver quality. Being a quality-focused organisation is in keeping with our UN Global Compact commitment. Our quality initiatives enhance and give meaning to the values that define our culture (Honour, Own, Grow, Excel, Engage), which reinforces the integrity and ethics framework that our organisation is built on. Our well-known position on anti-bribery, and our newest initiative to create a Global Recycling Program for polymer banknotes, illustrates perfectly the alignment between our organisation and the aims of the UN Global Compact, the world’s leading corporate citizenship entity. On behalf of Innovia Security, I look forward to continuing our relationship with the UN Global Compact and welcome its influence on the way in which we conduct our business. Bernhard Imbach Managing Director 3 PUBLIC UNRESTRICTED ASPIRATIONS, ACTIONS, & OUTCOMES 4 PUBLIC Innovia Security Communication on Progress June 2015 Introduction Innovia Security is the supplier of Guardian®, a sophisticated polymer banknote substrate which is currently issued on 78 denominations by 24 central banks around the world. The world's most progressive Central Banks have come to rely on Guardian® for its ability to dramatically reduce counterfeit activity, significantly increase the working life of the banknote, and provide strong public health and environmental benefits. Despite its global reach, Innovia Security is a small business, with approximately 150 employees in Australia and 100 employees in Mexico. During the reporting period, Innovia Security commenced the construction of a new opacficiation plant in England. The Australian entity in the Innovia Security division, Innovia Security Pty Ltd, became a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC)on 30 August 2012 and joined the Australian Network on 10 September 2012. This Communication on Progress reports on the activities of the division’s Australian and Mexican operations, and will include its English operations once commissioned and operational. Targets and objectives for a specific location are clearly identified. Where neither location is specified, the targets and objectives relate to both operations. Innovia Security has remained committed to its membership of the UNGC and seeks, to contribute to positive advocacy about the case for corporate social responsibility, and in particular the activities of the UNGC. Representatives of Innovia Security attended the Australian Network 2014 Annual General Meeting and have presented at anti-corruption workshops facilitated by the UNGC Network Australia. The Communications of Progress made to date by the business are available on its website, and Innovia Security continues to include the “We Support the Global Compact” logo on our website masthead in order to communicate to all website visitors our clear commitment to the principles of the UNGC. This Communication on Progress reports on Innovia Security’s progress during 2014/15, and sets targets for 2015/16. 2014-15 Actions: General Outcomes 1. One!TV scene on UNGC membership and Communication Ongoing on Progress update. 2. Publication of UNGC-related articles in One!News, including Completed in relation to International Women’s Day. 3. Inclusion of the UNGC logo (linking to our UNGC profile) in Completed our website homepage. 5 PUBLIC Innovia Security Communication on Progress June 2015 2015-16 Actions: General 1. Publish this Communication on Progress on the organisation’s website 2. Publish and promote this Communication on Progress and other UNGC related articles through internal staff communications, such as One!TV and One!News 6 PUBLIC Innovia Security Communication on Progress June 2015 Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally acclaimed human rights Principle 2: Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Assessment, Policy and Goals Innovia Security’s commitment to the overarching principle that each person is entitled to be accorded certain basic human rights is underpinned by Innovia Security’s Human Rights Policy. These policies are supplemented by the Appropriate Workplace Behaviour Policy, the Performance and Misconduct Policy, Staff Uniform Policy, Induction Policy, Learning and Development and Study Assistance Policy. In setting its goals for the implementation of practices to achieve Principles 1 and 2 (in addition to human rights initiatives that relate directly to Principles 3 – 6), Innovia Security focuses primarily on achievable actions in: (a) health and safety, and providing a safe working environment. Innovia Security regards high standards of safety and health as a cornerstone of a successful business; (b) workplace culture, and ensuring employees have freedom to express themselves in an inclusive working environment; and (c) our second sphere of influence, namely with suppliers, business partners and customers. ImplementationHealth and Safety Innovia Security’s commitment to the right to a safe working environment is founded in providing quality training to its staff. At the Australian plant, of almost 1,300 individual and group delivered training sessions conducted for the reporting period, approximately 86% (945 training sessions) related specifically to the provision and maintenance of a safe workplace. There were also approximately 100 production orientated training sessions that dealt with the safe use of a product and/or the safe use of machinery. In the Mexican plant, during the reporting period, 77 group delivered health and safety related training sessions were undertaken, which represented approximately 70% of the total number of training sessions undertaken. The Mexican plant also hosted a health, safety and environment week during the reporting period, at which environmental and safety workshops, demonstrations and training and awareness activities were held. 7 PUBLIC Innovia Security Communication on Progress June 2015 Health and safety matters also receive attention in formal meetings, such as monthly Health and Safety Committee meetings, and less formal exchanges of information, including at the shift handover between the respective shift managers at both the Australian and Mexican plants. Innovia Security has recently implemented a roster for members of the Executive Team based at Australia and Mexico plant sites to undertake Safety Walks through the operational areas and a rotating attendance at the Health and Safety Committee meetings. This practice is aimed at ensuring focus on health and safety from the highest levels of management. Health and Safety matters continue to receive prominence from the divisional Board of Directors through the Managing Director’s report at the commencement of the Board agenda. Innovia Security also provides access to an on-site clinic for treatment of soft tissue complaints or injuries, with a view to maximise employee well-being.. The business also provides an Employee Assistance Program for access to confidential counselling services. ImplementationOrganisational and Workplace Culture During 2014/15, Innovia Security continued its ‘One Team – One Vision’ cultural change program. This program included: 1. Leadership Essentials Series: the ‘Leadership Essentials Series’ was introduced in August 2014 as an in-house program design to develop leadership skills in managers and other selected employees. A Leadership Development SharePoint site was also created in 2014 to provide a broadly accessible platform for discussion where ideas about successful leadership can be shared and fostered. 2. Induction and onboarding program: the Buddy Program, which partners a long term employee with a new starter, remains a vital part of the Induction and Onboarding Program. The organisation has also streamlined its induction and onboarding program in early 2015 with a view to improving accessibility to information for staff in connection with workplace behaviour expectations, how to access employee support programs and understanding their employee entitlements. 3. Rewarding excellence in commitment to Values: The business continues to affirm the five values of Honour, Own, Grow, Engage and Excel and rewards excellence of commitment by staff to these values. Further to Innovia Security’s successful Leadership Essentials Series, Two ‘Leadership Development’ lunch sessions which covered a number of pertinent topics; including The Hay Group Four Circle Model, Hay Group Leadership Styles / Situational Leadership, Difficult Conversations and Coaching Conversations, where held at the Australian site. 8 PUBLIC Innovia Security Communication on Progress June 2015 These sessions were well attended by a range of employees across all functional areas of the business. Innovia Security has also engaged the services of an external people and performance consultancy to lead functional team-based workshops, aimed at aligning and building cohesive, motivated, high performing teams in the workplace that have instilled the Innovia Security values and reflect these in their ways of working. Town Hall meetings hosted by Innovia Security’s Chief Executive Officer are also held on a half-yearly basis, with live video links between the Australian and Mexican plants. Innovia Security’s Chief Financial Officer provides employees with an update on the financial performance of the business to facilitate transparency within the business and employees actively participate in the Q&A forum with the CEO and other Executive Team members. Employees are presented with awards recognising exceptional service in the business. The organisation has also revised its Induction and Onboarding Program in advance of the commissioning of a new plant. A best in class induction and onboarding process is a goal to achieve for all three sites. With the introduction of the England plant, the strategic plan will look at consistency and modernisation through the use of an e-Brochure and information storage on a data stick rather than a printed induction pack. This will positively impact our sustainability and environmental footprint by minimising the use of paper based forms wherever possible. ImplementationSecond Sphere of Influence Innovia Security continues to influence its suppliers, business partners and customers by adding a comprehensive “compliance with laws” obligation in its contracts. This requires the counterparty to comply with applicable laws, particularly nominating matters referenced in the Ten Principles. Measurement of Outcomes During the reporting period, two recordable injuries occurred in the Australian plant, and no recordable injuries occurred in the Mexican operations. This is a significant reduction from the six recordable injuries that occurred across the business in 2013, and compares favourably to the maximum target the business set itself in last year’s Report on Progress of no more than four reportable injuries. This is an extremely encouraging trend that Innovia Security intends to continue to work towards maintaining. A Training Hub with three accessible computers was also introduced in Australia to best facilitate eLearning sessions in a timely, practical and focused manner for production staff who do not work at a desktop. As in previous years, the 2014 Staff Climate Survey was conducted across the organisation to obtain anonymous feedback from staff. The ssurvey response rates 2014:  Australia 78%  Mexico 100% 9 PUBLIC Innovia Security Communication on Progress June 2015 The results showed significant improvement for 2014 when compared to 2013 in relation to safety resources and culture, employee performance acknowledgement and open communication. The results of the 2014 survey will be used in developing the company’s strategy and key focus areas for 2015/16. The members of the Executive Team agreed and re-confirmed the five behavioural values of Honour, Grow, Own, Excel and Engage in May 2015. Across the organisation, approximately 55 employees (approximately 20% of the workforce) were rewarded during the reporting period as part of the ‘Rewarding Excellence’ program, which recognises employees’ commitment to the organisation’s behavioural values. . 2014-15 Actions: Human rights Outcome 1. No more than one recordable injury in Mexico See above and three recordable injuries in Australia (total of four). 2. Continue to have Occupational Health and Completed Safety as the first agenda item for Board Meetings. 3. Weekly discussion sessions about health and Health and Safety issues are safety issues with relevant staff in operations to addressed at shift handover, be implemented in Australia. and at monthly Health and Safety Committee meetings 4. Poster campaign regarding safety at work to be Completed electronically via introduced in Australia. One!TV 5. Occupational Health and Safety training Completed modules to be completed. 6. Develop a “Stop and Think” Risk Assessment To be launched mid 2015 Booklet. 7. Develop an Occupational Health and Safety Not yet implemented. database. Company continues to keep manual records. 8. Prepare a risk assessment register. Completed 9. Continue the safety awareness program. Continuing. 10. Online learning sessions about Appropriate Completed and continuing Workplace Behaviour Policy. 10 PUBLIC Innovia Security Communication on Progress June 2015 2015-16 Actions: Human rights 1. Complete health and safety training for the Executive Team 2. Undertake a staff climate survey, benchmarking the results against comparable organisations. Complete an independent report to the Executive Team on the survey outcomes and recommendations. 3. Continue Town Hall Meetings in a manner that facilitates transparency of business results and strategy, and encourages active participation from staff 4. Continue improvement of the Induction and Onboarding Program by providing better access to workplace conduct policies (including health and safety) to increase employee’s awareness and understanding of the organisation’s expectations and requirements. 11 PUBLIC Innovia Security Communication on Progress June 2015 Labour Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 4: Businesses should support the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour Principle 5: Businesses should support the effective abolition of child labour Principle 6: Businesses should support the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Assessment, Policy and Goals Innovia Security reiterates its labour policies described in its 2014 Communication on Progress. In particular, Innovia Security confirms its labour policies are union neutral and set out standards of behaviour expected in the workplace designed to eliminate discrimination, harassment and bullying and other inappropriate behaviour. Innovia Security focuses its goals on the implementation of practices to achieve Principles 3 to 6 (in addition to human rights initiatives that relate directly to Principles 1 and 2) on actions in: (a) collective bargaining for and by unionised staff and sponsorship of employees’ freedom of association (b) appropriate workplace behaviour, to eliminate unlawful discrimination, intimidation or harassment Implementation During the 2014/15 year, the Australian business engaged with officials from the Automotive, Food, Metals, Engineering, Printing and Kindred Industries Union (AMWU) on the terms of a revised Enterprise Bargaining Agreement. The EBA sets out all applicable working conditions for non-salaried operations and production staff. Innovia Security’s approach to this process was to at all times, respect the principles of freedom of association and to bargain in good faith. The Mexican operation also reviewed the remuneration aspects of it collective bargaining agreement during the reporting period. An Appropriate Workplace Behaviour Policy was revised and relaunched with the support of the Executive Team in late 2014. The policy refers to both federal and state laws that deal with equal opportunity, anti-discrimination, anti-bullying and fair work. In addition, an Appropriate Workplace Behaviour eLearning training session was created 12 PUBLIC Innovia Security Communication on Progress June 2015 and released to both Australian and Mexican plants in February 2015. The training is available in both the English and Spanish language. Measurement of Outcomes In 2014, an in-principle agreement was reached by the Australian company, employee delegates and the union for the Australian EBA. At the request of employees, the Australian plant has committed to a trial of a revised shift pattern. Employee satisfaction, productivity and cost indicators will be monitored during the trial to determine whether the revised pattern should be adopted going forward. In the Mexican operations, a remuneration increase was agreed under the applicable enterprise bargaining agreement. 95% of staff in Australia, and all staff in Mexico have completed the Appropriate Workplace Behaviour training. The AWB session is also a core training session to be completed by all new staff members as part of new starter induction. 2014/15 Actions: Labour Outcome 1. Negotiation of new EBA. Agreement in principle 2. New Learning and Development Policy and Study Completed Assistance Policy. 3. Online learning sessions to be run in Australia and Completed Mexico regarding the Appropriate Workplace Behaviour Policy. 4. Training programs to be run in Mexico to train Completed designated contact officers. 5. Team leadership training program. Ongoing 6. Introduction of the “Buddy” program. Completed 2015/16 Actions: Labour 1. Continue improvement of Induction and Onboarding Program by providing better access to workplace conduct policies (including anti-discrimination policies) to increase employees’ awareness and understanding of the organisation’s expectations and requirements. 13 PUBLIC Innovia Security Communication on Progress June 2015 2. Commence reporting to the Executive Team of labour related data, including gender equality indicators. 14 PUBLIC Innovia Security Communication on Progress June 2015 Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Principle 8: Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Principle 9: Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Assessment, Policy and Goals Innovia Security acknowledges its responsibility to the environment and is committed to seeking viable solutions to environmental challenges. Innovia Security identifies its ability to best contribute towards the achievement of Principles 7 to 9 by: (a) Recognising the impact of its manufacturing operations of their local environment. In April 2014, the Innovia Security division adopted the Innovia Group environmental policy, which defines its commitment and shared obligation to manage operations in an environmentally sustainable manner; (b) Promoting the inherent environmental solutions in its product and supporting its customers in demonstrating their environmental leadership and commitment. Historically, secure destruction of paper banknotes was undertaken either by burning or putting compacted briquettes into landfill. In contrast, polypropylene, the basis of Innovia Security’s Guardian® banknote substrate, has a commercial value for recycling into new products. Calculations completed by the Bank of Canada show that waste-to-energy treatment (burning) of banknotes is estimated to carry a natural capital loss1 of C$204 per tonne and landfill has a natural capital loss of C$13 per tonne. In contrast, the recycling of polymer 1 A metric used to compare the environmental impact on end-of-life methodologies, based on the fact that economic activity and its by-products consume natural resources. The metric shows which activities carry an environmental cost and how heavy it is (“natural capital loss”) and activities which deliver a net environmental gain by not consuming natural resources (“natural capital profit”). 15 PUBLIC Innovia Security Communication on Progress June 2015 banknotes carries a natural capital profit of C$219 per tonne. The relative simplicity of recycling polymer notes presents an opportunity for governments to lead their communities by example when it comes to environmental stewardship. Implementation – manufacturing operations Both the Mexican and Australian operations continue to be certified under the quality standard ISO 14001 (Environmental Management Systems). In Australia, the Environmental Protection Agency completed an audit of the plant’s compliance with its emissions licence in 2015. In Mexico, the plant continues to hold a Clean Industry Certificate issued by the Mexican Government. At the Australian plant, environmental objectives and targets were set and documented in early 2015 for the year. This set a list of actions to be completed to improve operational environmental management. It also defined a feasibility study to be undertaken in relation to the potential installation of LED lighting in the production areas. At the Mexican site, the plant has plans for the investigation and adoption (where feasible) for the installation of LED lamps in production areas, use of treated wastewater for watering plant gardens, efficiency improvements in hazardous waste management and a monitoring program of the VOC emissions oxidizer efficiency. Staff training in relation to environmental matters remains a core aspect of the environmental management system. Implementation – Guardian® Global Recycling Program for customers In 2015, Innovia Security launched the Guardian® Global Recycling Program. It aims to address the dual barriers to recycling – lack of in-country recycling options and low volumes which are commercially attractive to a commercial recycling operator – by establishing a network of regional recycling facilities in major geographical regions around the world. These are large recycling companies that have the capability to source and ship polymer waste material from other countries for recycling at their base of operations. Thus, for any central bank or banknote printer there are now two options: 1. If a suitable recycler can be identified within the country, and the volumes are suitable, it will be possible to establish recycling locally; 2. If there is no suitable recycler within the country, or the volumes are too small, an offshore recycling process is put in place. Thanks to the leadership of central banks such as the Reserve Bank of Australia and its subsidiary, Note Printing Australia, who have recycled 100% of their Guardian® 16 PUBLIC Innovia Security Communication on Progress June 2015 banknotes for two decades, recyclers around the world have identified a set of essential requirements for best results. Polymer banknote technology and a co-ordinated global recycling program assist central banks to comply with world trends in the efficient use of resources and waste reduction. PolyTeQ Services, Innovia Security’s technical services division, provides support to the central bank and/or banknote printer to identify suitable recyclers locally or regionally, to facilitate the recycling process. Measurement of Outcomes – manufacturing operations Both the Mexican and Australian operations are subject to 6 monthly surveillance audits to confirm compliance to ISO 14001 requirements and each plant has maintained its certification. The Australian plant satisfied the EPA audit of its emissions licence without qualification, and continues to maintain appropriate records to monitor its emissions within the permitted levels. In October 2014, the Mexican plant completed an external environmental surveillance audit and has implemented a series of improvements of record keeping in relation to environmental compliance in the plant. The Mexican plant will submit to the recertification process for its Clean Industry Certificate in 2016. During 2014/15, the Australian operations evaluated and completed the installation of LED lighting in its Research and Development facility. The Objectives and Targets for the Australian plant sets a timetable for the completion of an assessment of the feasibility of the installation of LED lighting in the production area by June 2016. During 2014/15, training on chemical awareness and use was undertaken in both the Australian and Mexican plants. Measurement of Outcomes – Guardian® Global Recycling Program for customers The recycling of polymer-based banknotes is becoming increasingly attractive to environmentally-friendly governments and issuing authorities. To date, seven of the 24 nations using Guardian® polymer banknotes fully recycle their banknotes. Four central banks are ready to commence their recycling program once they achieve the required volume, and all the other central banks involved are investigating full recycling. Security printers have also taken advantage of recycling polymer substrate to recover the cost of spoilage. To date, five of the 12 accredited security printers who are actively printing on Guardian® are recycling. 17 PUBLIC Innovia Security Communication on Progress June 2015 2014/15 Actions: Environment Outcome 1. Environmental training programs will continue as Completed outlined in this Communication on Progress. 2. Innovia Security will assess the possibility of installing Not undertaken. solar panels for energy production. 3. Company-wide (Australia and Mexico) Environmental Not pursued. Improvement Plan will be finalised and approved by the Executive Team. 4. Innovia Security will continue to work towards Ongoing reducing its defect rate as set out in this Communication on Progress. 5. Review will be conducted in relation to the use of LED Ongoing lighting and depending on outcomes, may be implemented in different parts of the plants. 6. Mexican operations will continue to investigate Completed recycling polymer banknotes on behalf of customers. 7. Environmental communications will be rolled out in Completed Australia as set out in this Communication on Progress. 8. Environmental Monitoring Plan to be prepared for the Completed Australian operations. 2015/16 Actions: Environment 1. Complete feasibility study of the installation of LED lighting in production areas. 2. Maintain certifications and standards compliance. 3. Expand the influence of the Guardian® Global Recycling Program to assist other Central Bank or finished banknote printer customers to undertake full recycling programs. 18 PUBLIC Innovia Security Communication on Progress June 2015 Anti-corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery Assessment, Policy and Goals The organisation’s historical experience has informed its approach to dealing with corruption. Since 2010, the business embarked on a transformation in governance, culture, and its commercial model led by a new management team. Today, Innovia Security’s Integrity and Ethics Program is at the heart of an exceptional cultural transformation. The Integrity and Ethics Program is founded in a governance structure that sets out, at its highest level, the accountabilities of the Board and Executive Team, as well as the structures, policies and processes that each relies on to execute on these accountabilities. A comprehensive Integrity and Ethics Policy approved by the Board, is supplemented by detailed policies regarding the receipt and provision of gifts and entertainment, the management of conflicts of interest created by engaging former decision makers in the public sector, commercial sponsorship and charitable donations. Innovia Security also has in place a Whistleblower Protection Policy, supported by independently operated reporting hotlines. Innovia Security recognises its responsibility as a thought leader and role model in the industry by implementing actions to achieve Principle 10. Implementation Innovia Security remains an accredited member of the Banknote Ethics Initiative (BnEI) and the BnEI Member’s Assembly. Innovia Security continues its pre-engagement due diligence of key suppliers and business partners, intermediaries and high-exposure employees as previously detailed, to ensure it understands who the business is engaging with to meet its sanctions obligations and to minimise the potential reputational and legislative non-compliance risks to the organisation. Limits and requirements under the Receipt and Provision of Gifts and Entertainment Policy are communicated during induction sessions provided by the Risk and Compliance Team and reiterated to staff every 18 months. In addition, staff members are reminded about the requirements of this policy at times of the year when gift giving is more likely to occur. Innovia Security provides online anti-corruption for all its staff and intermediaries, and antitrust training for relevant staff and intermediaries. Each new staff member and intermediary must undergo training upon recruitment, and the training is repeated for each intermediary every 12 months and for staff members every 18 months. 19 PUBLIC Innovia Security Communication on Progress June 2015 Innovia Security does not retain the services of ex-executive level public officials in the area in which they worked for a period of 12 months after the person ceases to hold the relevant position. Innovia Security continues to include anti-corruption requirements where possible in its contracts with key suppliers, business partners and customers. Innovia Security continues its Whistleblower Protection Procedure which provides employees and other interested parties with a mechanism for addressing any concerns that they may have about the operations and activities of Innovia Security. This procedure facilitates reports to be made directly to the Chief Risk and Compliance Officer or confidentially through an externally managed Whistleblower Hotline. Measurement of Outcomes During 2014/15, Innovia Security completed its first annual review of its integrity, ethics and antitrust arrangements against the Banknote Ethics Initiative audit framework. The framework was developed by the independent auditor, GoodCorporation. The results of Innovia’s review were submitted to the BnEI Accreditation Committee, which reconfirmed Innovia’s Level One Audit Outcome (the top of the industry benchmark) for a further 12 months. Innovia Security will continue to be subject to regular audits by GoodCorporation or other independent auditors, on behalf of BnEI, in order to maintain its BnEI membership. 2014/15 Actions: Anti-corruption Outcome 1. Achieve and maintain BnEI accreditation. Completed 2015/15 Actions: Anti-corruption 1. Achieve and maintain BnEI accreditation. Strengthen divisional Procurement Framework and improve employee awareness and understanding of procurement requirements, in 2. particular in relation to due diligence enquiries for the engagement of High Risk (category 1) suppliers. 20 PROTECTED PUBLIC CLOSING STATEMENT 21 PUBLIC Innovia Security Communication on Progress June 2015 Closing Statement We are pleased to provide this Communication on Progress for 2014/15 period. Innovia Security reiterates its continuing commitment to the Principles of the UN Global Compact and to exerting influence wherever possible to increase awareness of those Principles. In 2016, Innovia Security will continue to expand its operations globally, with the establishment of a new plant in Wigton, Cumbria, United Kingdom. We look forward to continuing to integrate our commitment to the Principles into the operations of our business as it grows. 22
