OVERVIEW CEO Introduction 2014 was an important year for RSA. The implementation of our new Business Plan is changing the shape of our Group in many ways; we have tightened our strategic focus, built our capital strength, and put in place foundations to improve our operational performance. But through these significant changes, our commitment to high standards of corporate responsibility remains strong; demonstrated by the progress we have made in bringing together our people to prevent problems, protect the world around us and drive change to help create a safer, more sustainable future. Our customers, our people and our shareholders expect us to take the lead on the issues that matter most and I am proud that our efforts have been recognised internationally. In Canada, we won the PR Daily CSR Award for best stakeholder and employee engagement for our charity and community activities, and in the UK, our work with the School for Social Entrepreneurs won Best CSR Initiative at the Chartered Insurance Institute’s Public Interest awards. In all the countries we operate in, our people to Ireland. Nevertheless, RSA has adopted PwC’s play a key role in helping us deliver our corporate recommendations to enhance the operational responsibility strategy. Our award winning social effectiveness of Group-wide assurance investment programme not only empowers processes and Irish financial controls. As a our employees to make a difference, but also result, we have improved and strengthened our develop new skills and better understand the approach, for all our stakeholders. communities we serve. In 2014, we gave over 6,500 hours volunteering time, with nearly We continue to work with our partner 3,000 hours spent on improving the lifeorganisations to deliver our strategy. We are chances of young people through education and signatories to the UN Global Compact and are employability programmes. committed to integrating into our business the principles of the UN Declaration of Human We are proving our commitment to safeguarding Rights and the International Labour Organisation our customers from the risks of everyday life by core labour standards. We are members of the doing more to tackle the issue of road and water ClimateWise initiative and are also active in the safety. In 2014, we launched a Global Road Safety UN Environment Programme Finance Initiative, hub with the charity Brake and ran major road as founding signatories to the Principles for safety campaigns in thirteen countries, reaching Sustainable Insurance. over 35 million people with education, advice and safety equipment. Reviewing our performance in 2014 provides us with an opportunity to celebrate the progress we We have also strengthened our ability to protect have made, while recognising there is still plenty customers and communities from future risks more for us to do. As our business continues to brought about by natural disasters and weatherchange, we will report on the progress made related catastrophes. Every year, we use SMS to against the challenging five-year targets we set warn thousands of customers about impending ourselves in 2013. Once the operational change extreme weather events. Our extensive and disposal process has completed we will research has helped us understand the impact review the impact of these changes on our longof environmental risks on our customers’ lives term corporate responsibility commitments and and how we can better protect them should targets. the worst happen. Our insurance products also support the transition to a more environmentally Inspired by our renewed focus on providing sustainable future; we insure the manufacture the best possible service for customers and of more than 25% of the world’s wind turbines other stakeholders, we have developed a and cover around 80% of the world’s offshore new, digital approach for reporting on our wind farms. corporate responsibility performance, based on tailoring content to meet the needs of different We aim to ensure that our operations have audiences. Alongside factsheets, which provide limited impact on the environment and that we more information than ever before about our support the shift to a resilient, low carbon world strategy and performance, we have produced an through the products and sevices we provide. interactive digital tool to help people understand We have reduced our annual carbon footprint our biggest issues and films that bring to life the by 15% from a 2013 baseline, predominantly positive impact of our initiatives and programmes through our drive to minimize business travel. around the world. Not only does this approach make key information more accessible to our Of course we know that we can only truly deliver stakeholders, it reduces our paper usage, helping on our ambitious vision if we operate with to minimise our environmental impact. financial strength and transparency; and have the discipline to sustain it. The discovery of claims When it comes to corporate responsibility, and financial irregularities in RSA Ireland had people often say that actions speak louder than widespread repercussions across the business words. Never is this truer than in challenging and it was clear that we had to learn some times. This is why I would like to invite you to important lessons. The independent review explore for yourself RSA’s demonstrable and from PwC, instigated after the irregularities ongoing commitment to making things better, were discovered, describes RSA Group Control together, for our customers, employees and Framework as appropriate in terms of structure communities around the world. and design. Additional assurance testing from newly appointed external auditor KPMG and RSA Group Internal Audit confirms that the financial and claims irregularities were isolated Stephen Hester, Group Chief Executive Global Issues As a major company in the business of risk and protection, we have a responsibility – and a commercial imperative – to anticipate and respond to global trends. Our material issues research sheds light on the social and environmental considerations most relevant to our business and stakeholders. Climate Change Trust in and Resource Business Scarcity There is a 95% certainty that human influence The financial crisis brought to light a range has been the dominant cause of the observed of issues that questioned business trust and climate warming since the mid-20th century1. integrity. Financial malpractice, rigging of Continued emissions of greenhouse gases London Interbank Offered Rate (Libor) interest will cause further warming and changes in all rate scandals and miss-selling of financial components of the climate system. Coupled products have rendered the financial services with this, a growing global population means industry one of the least trusted today. by 2030 the world will need 50% more energy and 35% more food than it does today2. But the Research from Edelman shows that only Earth has a finite amount of natural resources 50% of UK citizens trust businesses, and that that can be used to satisfy this demand. year on year, levels of trust are decreasing. Though trust in the financial sector has risen These are the challenges that we face and slightly from 53% in 2014 to 54% in 2015, there the development of an adequately adapted, is a long way to go for the sector, which is resilient and lower carbon world will be currently rated the third least trusted3. essential in responding to them. Research by PwC predicts that from 2017, most insurance sector customers globally will be digitally fluent4. They will be better informed, have higher expectations of businesses, trust their own peers more than advertising, and express their voice via social media. As such, companies are under greater scrutiny. Corporate responsibility, supply chain integrity, value for money, product quality and customer service are therefore essential ingredients in building and maintaining a positive reputation. ¹ IPCC (2014) Working Group II Fifth Assessment Report (AR5) ² National Intelligence Council (2012) Global Trends 2030: Alternative Worlds ³ Edelman (2015) Trust Barometer 4 PwC (2014), Insurance 2020 http://www.pwc.nl/nl_NL/nl/assets/documents/pwc-insurance-2020-the-digital-prize.pdf Population Growth and Urban Living In 1800, 2% of the world’s population lived in cause political and social unrest in many cities. Today the figure has risen to 50%, and countries. Due to more people living in cities, every week around 1.5 million people join the there will be greater vulnerability to natural urban population, through a combination of catastrophes. migration and population growth5. By 2050, it is estimated that there will be nine billion people on It is expected that global traffic fatalities will the planet, 70% of whom will be living in cities6. triple to 3.6 million by 20307 in the growing urban areas, making road accidents the thirdRapid growth such as this creates new and biggest burden on global health systems expanding markets, but unplanned urban (by 2020), overtaking tuberculosis, HIV and expansion will put strain on social and physical cholera, according to a prediction by the infrastructure. There will be greater demand World Health Organisation8. for food, energy and water which could Inequality, Unemployment and Financial Exclusion Young people, particularly young women, crises, but the ILO describes that financial continue to feel the effects of the global financial inequality has worsened, especially in crisis. The International Labour Organisation (ILO) developed countries. In emerging economies, predicts that youth unemployment will rise to the closing of the income gap has slowed. 13.1% in 2015, three times higher than the adult A skewed distribution of income harms the unemployment rate, with the situation not set to pace of sustainable growth and leads to improve until at least 20189. poverty and increased financial exclusion. Nearly three billion people worldwide are aged below 25. With millions excluded from work, business leaders remain concerned about a lack of skills and experience. Progress will depend on creating enough jobs to meet the demands of the new generation. Investment in enterprise, particularly smaller enterprises, employability skills and development of social policies that support them, is needed to help address this challenge. The global employment gap, the number of jobs lost since the start of the financial crisis, is expected to reach 280 million by 201910. Not only have jobs been lost since the financial 5 PwC (2014) http://www.pwc.com/gx/en/issues/megatrends/rapid-urbanisation-ian-powell.jhtml 6 UN (2013)World Population Prospects: the 2012 Revision 7 WHO (2013)Global Road Status Report 2013 8 WHO (2007), cited in http://www.academia.edu/1643043/ROAD_TRAFFIC_ACCIDENT_A_LEADING_CAUSE_OF_THE_ GLOBAL_BURDEN_OF_PUBLIC_HEALTH_INJURIES_AND_FATALITIES 9, 10 ILO (2015) World Employment Social Outlook Trends 2015 More Extreme Weather Events Around the globe, the number of weather related for natural catastrophe reinsurance will double in catastrophes and the associated economic high-growth emerging markets, such as Asia and losses have been increasing in recent decades. Africa, and rise around 50% in mature markets12. According to Swiss Re, total global losses have We need to plan for these risks, find ways to more than doubled as a proportion of world GDP protect those most affected. during the last 30 years11 and by 2020, demand Issues that Matter to RSA Macro global issues, as identified by our key (CR) strategy with the issues that matter most stakeholder groups, have helped to shape both to key stakeholders and on a wider global our strategy and inform the selection of our perspective. core materiality issues. We also surveyed our employees to find out their views. These Our interactive materiality tool provides a collective responses feed directly into our more detailed explanation of the issues and our materiality matrix (see below) which matches response. the direction of our Corporate Responsibility RSA Materiality Matrix 11 Swiss Re (2014) Sigma (no 1/2014) http://media.swissre.com/documents/sigma1_2014_en.pdf 12 Swiss Re (2013), cited in Wall Street Journal http://www.wsj.com/articles/SB10001424052702304773104579265801477830612 What’s Our Strategy? In order to address the most important global employees to focus on this and empowering issues, and take action on the topics most them to support the causes they feel material to us, our strategy focuses on four passionate about. distinct areas. These are Safe, Secure World; Thriving Communities; Sustainable Future and Globally we have seen a greater frequency Responsible Business. of weather-related catastrophes in the last five years than in the previous thirty. Helping Our products and services help make people, businesses and communities communities safer places to live, work cope with future extreme weather will be and travel. Through our Safe, Secure World increasingly important to our company. activity we aim to make people’s homes and Through our Sustainable Future initiatives, possessions as safe as possible, and protect we will continue to support solutions that people from risks they face in everyday life. help customers to adapt to new challenges, Motor insurance is a substantial part of our with risks managed and mitigated business. We have a clear commercial wherever possible and claims resolved interest in making the world’s roads swiftly. As a business, we will limit our safer, though it is the human tragedy environmental impacts, encourage of traffic accidents that motivates us suppliers to do the same and do all to make roads safer for all users. we can to support the transition to a low-carbon economy. Our customers and our businesses do well when they are part of prosperous We strive to be a responsible business, communities. Worldwide, youth from product development and claims unemployment is three times higher than processes to the way we engage with adult unemployment. Through Thriving customers, employees and suppliers. By Communities, we will support young people being transparent in how we manage our to develop the skills and confidence they operations, we help build trust. We report need for the workplace. Small and medium on our customer-service performance, our size businesses are the backbone of most risk-management strategy and ensure we economies, accounting for more than 50% of have robust governance underpinning all our GDP and nearly two-thirds of employment. corporate responsibility activity. Diversity and They can play a significant role in helping inclusion are at the heart of our business, meet the challenge of unemployment; helping us to build strong teams which therefore we want to see them grow. challenge existing thinking and help us find We look to create positive social impact better ways of working. wherever we do business, encouraging our Our Governance In 2014 we changed our Corporate oversight from Local and Regional risk teams and Responsibility (CR) governance structure Group Managing Owners. to reflect a shift from building our strategy to implementation and improvement. The Implementation is assessed twice a year through updated structure also takes into account a a formal policy implementation scoring process. number of senior personnel changes within Each country assesses policy implementation the CR Steering Committee. and provides a rationale and score via the RSA Governance Risk and Compliance Portal. Policy Country level senior management now has breaches, as well as other exceptions and oversight of policy and strategy implementation challenges, can also be logged using the portal. within each region, supported by local CR Data is captured and status reports are created and Representatives. Regional activities are copresented to the Executive Owners who ultimately ordinated by the Group CR Function, which sign off compliance and implementation levels reports into the Group Executive. The Group before reporting to the Board Risk Committees. Executive has oversight of the overarching policy and monitors progress against targets. Our CR policies are designed to manage the operational, regulatory, legal and reputation risks that we are exposed to, and help embed and implement the CR strategy framework. There are three key CR policies that apply across all countries of operation. These are the Environmental Policy, the Community & Charity Policy and the Human Rights Policy. Our external policy positions can be read here. Each of these policies is fully integrated into our wider corporate risk policy framework and, as such, form part of our corporate governance and risk management system framework. CR policies are managed as operational risk policies and as such have a Group Executive Owner and Group Managing Owner. Implementation and embedding at a local country level is managed by Local Country Managing Owners with Our CR governance structure Revising Our Targets 2014 was an important year for RSA. Our new leadership positions in Scandinavia, Canada, business plan was established at the beginning UK, Ireland and parts of Latin America. These of the year designed to tighten strategic changes have impacted on the delivery of our focus, build capital strength, and put in place CR Strategy and targets. We are, however, on foundations to improve business performance. track to achieve three of our four CR targets by Embedded within this is our Corporate 2018 from our 2013 baseline. Responsibility (CR) strategy and vision. Good progress has been made in executing both in The refocus of the Company will require us to the face of challenging market conditions and review our baseline and targets in 2015. During through widespread operational changes. this review, we will continue to implement the strategy and are determined to make things Managing major transformation is not easy better, together in 2015 and beyond. and there have been significant changes to our executive management team and in the regions where we operate. Our refocused business has Performance Summary Performance Summary Safe, Secure World 2018 target 2014 progress Sustainable Future 2018 target 2014 progress All countries in which RSA operates will be Reduce our carbon emissions by 20% per running at least one annual road-safety On target employee On target campaign Support customers through the development of products and services We are on track to meet our 2018 road safety that help them respond to changing On target environmental risks and opportunities target. Thirteen countries ran significant road safety campaigns in 2014, up from eleven in We are on track to meet our 2018 target 2013. We also established a global road safety of reducing carbon emissions by 20% week hub together with the road safety charity, per employee, to 2 tonnes of CO2e. Our Brake. Find out more about this here. environmental performance has improved across almost all of our reporting criteria. We distributed over 163,000 high visibility items We have reduced our total carbon emissions in the UK, Denmark and Sweden, and relaunched by 15%, our paper use by 10% and energy the Green Cross Code Man in the UK, with the consumption by 7%. We also increased campaign video being viewed by over 370,000 recycling by 7%. We still, however, have some people within two weeks of launch. Find out improvements to strive towards when it more in our Safe, Secure World factsheet, or in comes to our water use and waste. Visit our our story here. Sustainable Future factsheet to find out more. We have continued to provide products Thriving Communities 2018 target 2014 progress and tools for customers to help them to increase their resilience to extreme weather Over the next five years we will double our events. For example, the VisAdapt website annual community contribution Behind target tool, developed in collaboration with other Scandinavian insurers and academics, allows Our employees dedicated 6,691 volunteer hours users to find out about the risks their homes in 2014, and 42% of this was spent on education face from extreme weather now and in the and employability programmes. Our corporate near future. Read more about this in our donations totalled £1,141,511. To find out more, Sustainable Future factsheet, or in the story see our Thriving Communities factsheet. here. Given the reduced scale of our business and the budget challenges we experienced in 2014, we are behind target. Our strong commitment to supporting causes important to us and our communities remains, and we will continue Contact Us to invest in education and employability volunteering in particular. In 2015 we will revise our target baseline, and build on the work we have been involved with to date of which we We welcome feedback on our corporate are so proud. responsibility strategy and activities; please contact: corporate.responsibility@gcc.rsagroup.com To find out about our reporting criteria, click here, and for PwC’s assurance opinion, please click here. SAFE, SECURE WORLD Why it Matters Everyone wants to live in a safe, secure world, but the reality is that our lives are full of risks. Whether we’re at home, at work, or on the road, there are dangers, many of which are avoidable. At RSA we can play an important role in building a safer and more secure world. We do this by developing products and services that protect people, property, vehicles and businesses and also through sharing our expertise and advice about risks and solutions. What’s Our Strategy As a global company with a 300 year history, we have provided property, motor In 2014, thirteen countries in our Group ran and personal injury insurance to millions major road safety campaigns, equipping of people. This wealth of experience means we can develop the right policies local communities with advice and tools and programmes that give our customers to help reduce the number of road traffic confidence to lead their lives. accidents. Last year, we also launched an online global road safety hub in partnership In addition to responding when our with the road safety charity, Brake. Find out customers need us, we’re also proactive, more here. providing advice and sharing our risk insights through multiple Innovations in vehicle safety, along with communication channels and with regulation, such as mandatory wearing various external partners around the of seat belts or motorcycle helmets, world. have been significant in creating safer roads in many of the markets in A key focus for us is road safety. Every which we operate. Technology will also year, 1.24 million people die on the roads continue to play an important role. – that’s one person every 25 seconds and 50 million are injured worldwide1. The In particular, over the past few years we impact of death and injury on victims and have been testing telematics. This is the their families is tragic. As well as the human technology of sending, receiving and storing tragedy there is an economic impact; information via telecommunication devices. according to the World Health Organisation It has been around for several years and, (WHO), most countries lose between 1-3% from an insurance perspective, is one of the of their Gross National Product as a result best examples of how technology is being of road accidents2. As a major global motor used to help customers. Telematics allow insurer, we feel we have a role and a us to work with the customer to monitor responsibility to help make roads safer for driving habits, to help keep them safe and all users. reduce premiums. Watch this short film to find out more. Highlights from Scandinavia • Our Codan business in Denmark ran another successful National Reflectors Day campaign, Around the handing out over 100,000 high visibility vests across the country. • In Sweden, our Baby Buoy campaign, designed Business to keep babies safe in the water, won bronze in the CLIO advertising awards. UK and Ireland Canada • We re-launched the Green Cross Code Man with • In May 2014, our ‘Distracted Driving’ campaign our More Th>n brand to educate adults about brought to light drivers’ bad habits, engaging road safety issues. It was viewed by over 370,000 millions around the country. people within two weeks of launch and received Latin America substantial print and broadcast media coverage • In Argentina, our campaign on safe beach in the UK. driving reached thousands, and our RSA • We were joint headline sponsor of Road Safety truck rescued many vehicles during the summer. Week in the UK. This is the country’s foremost community-based road safety Elsewhere campaign, coordinated by the charity Brake. • Two safe driving campaigns by In-Touch, our • We launched a telematics app with More Th>n Russian brand, reached over 18 million people that rewards safe drivers up to 20% off their through various channels, including radio, insurance. More Th>n’s telematics customers mobile apps and online. have so far driven over one million miles! • We launched the Global Road Safety hub with road safety charity Brake. How the Targets and Issue is Performance Managed Safe, Secure World 2018 target 2014 progress Based on a shared strategic starting point, All countries in which RSA operates will be each country has the freedom to address running at least one annual road-safety On target issues that are most important in their campaign territory, and to create campaigns that are relevant to their communities. We are on track to meet our target of running Individual countries set their own targets, at least one annual road-safety campaign in in line with the long term Group targets, every country in the Group by 2018. In 2014, we and each operating country is encouraged launched the Global Road Safety Week hub with to independently plan how best to address Brake, and thirteen countries ran major road issues in their area. However, the Group safety campaigns, up from eleven in 2013. These Corporate Responsibility (CR) function plays ranged from viral videos to raising awareness a coordinating role and is there to share about the importance of high visibility clothing. examples of good practice and case studies To find out more about our other road safety from around the Group. campaigns, read the story here. Fulfillment of the Safe, Secure World strategy not only requires local knowledge and delivery but also requires multiple parts of the business to take action. Some of our most effective campaigns have been delivered by a combination of functions, such as our recent road safety campaign in the UK, reprising The Green Cross Man. This campaign was created by the UK CR and External Communications functions, and was supported and distributed through the More Th>n brand marketing function. To read more about this, take a look at our road safety story here. National progress is monitored during the year through quarterly calls with the CR representatives in each country. We also conduct an annual review of implementation, enabling us to track the results achieved. Data and Charts 18 We handed out over Our Russian business, Within the first two 160,000 pieces of high IN-TOUCH, reached over weeks of its launch, More visibility equipment in UK, 18 million people with Th>n’s Green Cross Code Denmark and Sweden. their two road safety Man video was viewed by In Denmark and Sweden, our campaigns, ‘Accidents over 370,000 people. Codan office ran campaigns are never accidental’ and ‘Responsible Over 40 years after its for National Reflectors Day original release, the Green to encourage road safety by Kilometers’. Cross Code Man campaign highlighting the importance The ‘Accidents are never was re-launched in the UK of wearing high visibility accidental’ campaign with More Th>n. Originally vests. In Denmark, 130 of was an online video intended for children, the our employees distributed that showed how easily Green Cross Code was 100,000 vests and in accidents can happen. updated to provide advice Sweden we distributed The film was viewed over to adults on how to cross around 60,000 vests via our 90,000 times in the first 2 the road and avoid being website. To find out more, weeks. An accompanying distracted by mobile phones read the story here. radio campaign which and music. aired 125 times encouraged listeners to call in with Post-campaign awareness their responsible driving analysis shows one in stories; over 65 stories were every three adults in gathered. Britain saw the films, with 66% of those saying they The ‘Responsible Kilometers’ have now changed their campaign launched an app roadside behaviours directly that rewarded responsible as a result of seeing the driving, donating money to a campaign. Read more about road accident charity. A total the Green Cross Code Man of 1 million Roubles was here. raised, the project website received 54,000 visitors and the app was downloaded more than 3,000 times. Find out more here. Future Plans Driverless cars will impact all elements of the motoring industry. They will Our 2014 campaigns achieved some brilliant results and we plan to build on fundamentally change our these successes further. service model. It’s important we understand the implications We are pleased with the progress we have and adapt so we can provide made in addressing a serious issue such as road safety with engaging, customer products and services suitable focused campaigns in 2014. for our customers when this technology enters the market. Road safety will remain our key Groupwide focus. Our teams around the world Kenny Leitch, are planning campaigns that reduce the Global Telematics Director RSA number of road accident victims in their countries. To find out more about our national projects, read the story here. Our telematics services will continue to expand over the next few years, rewarding What Else We’re even more customers for safer driving. We are also supporting the development Involved in of driverless car technology and were involved with the first driverless test car • Co-sponsor of UK Road Safety Week, in London in February 2015. We are the in partnership with road safety main insurer of the UK government’s charity Brake driverless car initiative, and are committed • Partnership with The Children’s to supporting the advancement of this Accident Foundation in Denmark technology into the future. • Developing our Group telematics business with new products and tools. In 2014 13,400 telematics policies were taken out, bringing the total since 2012 to around 25,000 Contact Us We welcome feedback on our corporate responsibility strategy and activities; please contact: corporate.responsibility@gcc. rsagroup.com To find out about our reporting criteria, click here. THRIVING COMMUNITIES Why it Matters The effects of the financial crisis are still being felt in communities around the world. Thousands of jobs have been lost and unemployment, particularly among the young, remains high. As a global business this is a situation we are witnessing in many of the communities in which we work. We can help address this by sharing the skills and experience of our staff and by providing opportunities for employment. 01 13 4 Through our people, we can deliver innovative solutions and support for communities, building confidence and skills that increase employability and champion the next generation of entrepreneurs. We also empower our own people to volunteer and fundraise for charities that are close to their hearts. What’s Our Strategy? Our work to support thriving communities As well as skills support, we help local schools to has three distinct areas of focus: Education thrive through donations, provision of supplies and Employability, Enterprise and and volunteering. The impact of our educational Entrepreneurship, and Being Big Hearted. and employability work is significant and has Each of these areas provides an opportunity helped us to develop strong relationships with many of the communities in which we operate. for RSA to have a positive influence on issues that are important to us. Fostering and fuelling Enterprise and Entrepreneurship is focused on having a positive Supporting Education and Employability impact on economic growth. We support this focuses on the provision of skills required by growth through the provision of our products young people to increase their employment and services, as well as through the expertise prospects. Recent research has shown that and experience of our people. Our strategy is to in the UK, soft skills are worth £88 billion to develop the skills of entrepreneurs in our local the economy, yet graduates frequently lack communities through mentoring, training and these vital workplace skills1. We support financial investment. local schools and colleges in the areas that we operate to share our skills In the UK and Canada, we work with the in presenting, project management, School for Social Entrepreneurs (SSE). SSE communication and negotiation. In supports individuals to set-up businesses the UK, our employees are able to with a social purpose. By taking part in SSE’s participate in a voluntary scheme to programmes, social entrepreneurs are able to design and deliver bespoke workshops transform their talent into sustainable solutions for local school students that meet their to poverty and disadvantage. This provides a specific needs. In addition to soft skills, we valuable opportunity for RSA to benefit, learn use these workshops as an opportunity to from and connect with the local community in a provide young people with an insight into the way that might otherwise not be possible. Find purpose, functions and opportunities offered out more about this award-winning partnership by the insurance industry. Not only does this help to build confidence, it helps to promote in the story here. the sector as an interesting career option. The last of the three focus areas, Being Big Across the world, we offer a number of Hearted, is our way of directly investing in our internship and apprenticeship opportunities communities and our workforce. We want to to young people, equipping them with the empower our people to champion the issues that training needed to succeed in a career in are close to their hearts, helping communities insurance. To read more about this, and other to thrive around the world. To read more about similar initiatives in our operating countries, some of the incredible work our colleagues are read the story here. doing, read the story here. 1 McDonald’s UK (2015) The Value of Soft Skills to the UK Economy Highlights Targets and from Around Performance the Business Thriving Communities 2018 target 2014 progress UK and Ireland Over the next five years we will double our Behind • In the UK, we rolled out new skills sharing annual community contribution workshops to help young people develop target the soft skills needed in the workplace In 2014, the scale of our business and the number of • We continued our partnership with the operational units changed significantly. As a result, School for Social Entrepreneurs (SSE) in the UK, providing mentoring, training our annual community contribution, including the and financial support number of volunteering hours, corporate donations and employee raised funds were impacted. We are therefore currently falling short of our target to Latin America double our annual community contribution by 2018 • In Argentina, a team of volunteers from the Salta office have worked to support their from a 2013 baseline. local community in a number of ways, including school tuition Despite these challenges, there has been progress, • In Chile, we are helping to build affordable not least in the greater level of support directed to housing through our work with TECHO the Education, Employability and Enterprise parts of our strategy – see our story on this here. We Canada are as committed as ever to investing in our local • We extended our partnership with SSE to communities and helping them to thrive. In 2014, Canada, supporting a range of activities since the total value of our community contribution was September 2014 £1,560,612. For more detailed information, refer to the Data and Charts here. Elsewhere • In Oman we paired up with the charity Dar Given the changing footprint of our business, our Al Atta’a in a Back to School programme target and baseline are subject to change and will be for the first time, providing stationery and reassessed later in 2015, once the disposal process is voluntary support to over 48 local schools complete. How the Issue areas. For example, our partnership with the School is Managed for Social Entrepreneurs (SSE) began in the UK in 2013, and extended to SSE Ontario in Canada in 2014. We are excited about developing this relationship further Within the broad strategic and policy framework, and building on the work to date. Read more about each country has the freedom to address issues this in our story here. that are most important in their territory and to create campaigns that are relevant to their communities. Progress is monitored by the global team through quarterly updates and an annual This SSE partnership fits review. perfectly with RSA. It reflects Big Hearted programmes of match funding and time our heritage as a business with off for volunteering reflect our desire to support a social purpose – to provide our staff who wish to give back to causes they protection to people and are passionate about. To read about some of the inspiring work our colleagues have done, read the companies. We’re targeting story here. growth in the SME sector and this gives us an opportunity to Our other two areas; Education and Employability, and Enterprise and Entrepreneurship, are managed gain real insight. in a more structured way. Teams are encouraged to partner with relevant initiatives and organisations Jon Hancock, Managing Director of RSA UK Commercial that will allow them to share their skills in these Data and Charts 6,691 hrs Our people spent 6,691 hours volunteering in our local communities (during the working week) We encourage our employees to volunteer and they can take We made £1,141,511 in up to two days volunteer leave every year, which does not charitable donations count as annual leave. We put We are proud of the value Our people raised £225,807 particular focus on skills-sharing of our charitable donations through their fundraising volunteering that supports the in 2014, despite the financial Thriving Communities part of our and operational challenges activities for causes close strategy. As a result, 43% of our the business faced. Our to their hearts commitment to sharing our volunteering support focused We offer matched funding for on education and employability skills and supporting the money that our employees raise programmes and volunteering in causes that are important to for causes close to their hearts. local schools in 2014. us remains unchanged. 2DKDBSDCJDXRNBH@K@MCDMUHQNMLDMS@KC@S@ENQG@RADDMHMCDODMCDMSKX@RRTQDCAX/V TMCDQSGD(2 $ %NQETQSGDQ HMENQL@SHNM OKD@RDQDEDQSNNTQQDONQSHMFBQHSDQH@@MC/V R@RRTQ@MBDNOHMHNMVGHBGB@MADENTMCNMNTQ NQONQ@SD 1DRONMRHAHKHSXO@FDRHMSGD#NVMKN@CR#@S@RDBSHNM@SVVV QR@FQNTO BNLQR@FQNTODMBNQONQ@SD QDRONMRHAHKHSX Future Plans What Else We’re Successful partnerships, initiatives and volunteering opportunities were developed throughout 2014, and we plan to expand Involved in • In the UK, we established a partnership these further in 2015. with the School for Social Entrepreneurs in 2013, and extended it to Canada in 2014 Globally, we will invite more countries • In the UK, we work with Enabling to support education and employability Enterprise to help introduce young programmes. We will do this by encouraging students to the world of work more volunteering in schools and colleges, • In the UK, we work with the Dame Kelly internship opportunities for young students, and Holmes trust to support young people other creative opportunities for expanding our with employability skills development skills sharing agenda. • Our international offices support a range of charities, initiatives and organisations that are important to them In the UK, we will be expanding the most successful volunteering workshops at schools. We are creating a guide for these workshops to allow others to take part, and look forward to developing this. Contact Us We welcome feedback on our corporate We will also be building and expanding our responsibility strategy and activities; please relationship with SSE in the UK and Canada, contact: encouraging more of our leadership team in corporate.responsibility@gcc.rsagroup.com particular to get involved in future mentoring and training opportunities. To find out about our reporting criteria, click here, and for PwC’s assurance opinion, please click here. SUSTAINABLE FUTURE Why it Matters Warming of the climate system is unequivocal and there is now scientific consensus that human influence has been the dominant cause since the mid-20th century. Climate change poses risks for human and natural systems¹. As a business, we understand that our activities contribute to this change and that our customers face new risks and opportunities. We have a duty to ensure that our operations have a minimal impact on the environment and that we support the shift to a resilient, low carbon world through the products and services we provide. We have reduced our annual carbon footprint by 15% from a 2013 baseline, predominantly through our drive to minimise business travel. We insure renewable energy projects across the world, working with developers to reduce risks at every stage of development, driving down the resulting energy costs. As risk managers, we understand the impacts of climate change and work with our customers to build resilience; making them aware of and prepared for inevitable changes. ¹ IPCC (2014): Assessment Report 5. http://www.ipcc.ch/report/ar5/. What’s Our Strategy? We have a clear approach to addressing the these may impact on our customers is vital to our challenges posed by climate change, for our strategy. For example, in the UK we conducted customers and our business. We support extensive research with the public following the transition to a low carbon economy the 2013 December floods to better understand through insuring renewable energy projects, supporting climate initiatives and attitudes to climate change, extreme weather progressively reducing our own carbon and property-level resilience solutions, in order emissions. To ensure we are prepared, we to improve our response and customer advice help our customers be resilient, aware, and in the future. able to adapt to changing environmental risks and opportunities. We also provide tools and advice to help We believe that our first priority is to help our customers equip themselves for future risks. customers quickly and efficiently when they In Denmark, through our Codan business, need us most. Using our own loss-adjuster we run a SMS service that alerts the 10,000 GIS mapping technology to prepare and plan subscribers about upcoming extreme weather our response, we can make a significant events and how to prepare for them. We have difference. For example, 96% of all claims from seen a decrease in small weather related claims the devastating UK floods in December 2013 as a result. Similarly, the website, VisAdapt, are now resolved. We also deploy teams to developed with Linköpings University, allows its areas that have been most affected by extreme 13,000 users to assess the risks their properties weather, offering insurance advice and support. may face under different extreme weather and With the number of people affected by river storm conditions. Read more about these tools flooding worldwide estimated to nearly here. triple in the next 15 years², products and services like these become even more In the face of a challenge as huge as important . climate change, we recognise the need for collaboration. We are an active participant Our strategy also focuses on mitigating in a number of initiatives and roundtables climate change and carbon emissions (see the ‘What Else We’re Involved in’ section reduction. We understand that our own activities for a complete list of these) to help improve our have an impact on the environment and strive to knowledge and insight across the industry. We ensure that we minimise the negative impacts support the development of climate risk analysis from our energy use, business travel and waste through our membership of ClimateWise, and generation, and maximise the positive impacts. in June 2014 we published a white paper with In the UK, we are certified by the Carbon Trust WWF and PwC on environmental systemic risk for demonstrable carbon reductions and we (ESR). This groundbreaking report explains the offset our emissions from our UK and Ireland connection between ESR and financial loss, operations. We advise our customers on how especially for businesses, and how we can all to reduce their own emissions through our better protect ourselves, and the environment, engineering inspectors who are trained by the from system-wide impacts. Read the report Carbon Trust to advise customers on energy here. reduction initiatives. To meet the energy demands of a growing global population, we Policy development and lobbying are also believe that renewable energy needs to play a central to our approach. We have encouraged significant part, and have been involved in the governmental and industry-wide action on sector for over 30 years. We now insure the lowering the costs associated with renewable manufacturers of more than 25% of the world’s energy projects through our involvement with wind turbines and provide insurance to around the Dods Renewable Energy Dialogue in the 80% of the world’s offshore wind farms. Read UK. We also sit on the Confederation of British more about our mitigation strategy here. Industry (CBI) Energy and Climate Change Committee. We are proud of our customer focus, and a clear understanding of environmental risks and how ² http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/science-environment-31738394 Highlights from Around Targets and the Business Performance UK and Ireland • Published groundbreaking whitepaper with Sustainable Future 2018 target 2014 progress WWF and PwC on Environmental Systemic Risk in June 2014. Reduce our carbon emissions by 20% per employee On target Canada Support customers through the • Canada’s Johnson Green Committee development of products and services On target that help them respond to changing ran ‘Waste Reduction Week’ and engaged environmental risks and opportunities employees in fun, challenging and informative ways of reducing their waste. Scandinavia In 2014, we reduced our carbon emissions • Our Codan business in Denmark and per employee by 8% through a range of Sweden launched the online tool ‘VisAdapt’ initiatives across our operations that have to help its 13,000 users prepare for future encouraged our employees to focus on their extreme weather events. own impacts. A Group-wide focus on costs and efficiency has also meant we have halved • Codan’s SMS service that warns against the carbon emissions from our business upcoming extreme weather events and travel and increased our teleconferencing how to prepare now has 10,000 and remote working. See Data and Charts for subscribers. more information. • In Norway, we installed two rainwater We continue to respond to customer harvesting systems to be used to water the needs, and have proactively helped our green areas around the office. commercial and personal line customers increase their resilience to extreme weather Elsewhere events, through tools such as VisAdapt • We launched a global employee and the Codan SMS service. We also work engagement programme, Sustainable with industry and environmental groups to Future, with tips for employees to reduce promote renewable energy as a critical part their individual impact and improve their of the energy mix of a low-carbon future. wellbeing. There is a community of influencers that are beginning to come together to address climate change mitigation, and RSA are taking a leading part in that. Steve Kingshott, RSA Global Director for Renewable Energy How the Issue is Managed The breadth and complexity of issues and improve their personal wellbeing. We also associated with the Sustainable Future pillar injected some healthy employee competition, of our CR strategy means that several different by creating a carbon footprint dashboard so departments are involved in managing it countries could compare their performance effectively. For example, responding to against other parts of the business. customer claims that result from extreme weather events is the responsibility of the Operating companies are encouraged to develop claims department, and understanding the their own sustainability schemes. In Canada, our increased risk brought about by changes Johnson Green Committee has helped challenge in our climate is the responsibility of the employees to reduce their impacts through a underwriting teams. However, from a holistic range of events, such as ‘paperless day’, ‘waste perspective, we have a clear management free day’ and ‘alternate transportation day’. In our approach to the internal impacts of our Codan business, the Facilities Management team operations, and how we support our was so effective with their employee engagement, customers through our products and services. and their success in reducing paper waste and increasing recycling, that they were formally We set targets to reduce carbon emissions and recognised for their efforts. Read more about reduce resource use at a global level, and each Codan’s work here. operating country is tasked with meeting these targets. The CEO of each country ensures that Within our buildings we minimise emissions by a corporate responsibility representative is in aiming to meet BREEAM, LEED (or equivalent) place to embed the environmental policy into standards for all new construction and the business. It is their role to make sure that refurbishment projects. Our buildings are local facilities management, travel managers, managed by energy and facilities managers, as finance and procurement work together when well as third party operators such as Bilfinger measuring and reporting impacts. Europa in the UK. This helps us to ensure we are compliant with legal requirements in every Effective employee engagement is a vital part country where we operate. For example, in of delivering our Sustainable Future pillar. In the UK we ensure we comply with the Energy 2014, we ran a group wide campaign that Savings Opportunity Scheme (ESOS) and the inspired employees with simple, everyday tips Carbon Reduction Commitment. on how to reduce their environmental impact LEED BREEAM Environmental Impacts Data and Charts Environmental Data Key Data 2014 2013 Scope 1 12,279 12,968 Scope 2 24,717 25,787 Scope 3 16,376 23,901 Total gross tonnes CO₂e 53,372 62,656 Greenhouse gas emissions (tCO₂e)* Gross Tonnes of CO₂e per FTE 2.4 2.6 Carbon offsets UK & Ireland 21,827 27,278 Total net emissions 31,545 35,378 Net Tonnes of CO₂e per FTE 1.4 1.5 Energy consumption (mWh) 106,693 114,325 Water consumption (m³) 282,334 270,572 Paper consumption (tonnes) 1,734 1,920 Waste production (tonnes) 5,262 5,014 Waste recycling (%) 67% 60% *Group carbon dioxide equivalent emissions (tonnes) where Scope 1 includes all direct GHG emissions. Scope 2 includes indirect GHG emissions from consumption of purchased electricity, heat or steam and Scope 3 includes other indirect emissions. Selected key social and environmental data for 2014 as indicated by the symbol has been independently assured by PwC under the ISAE 3000 and ISAE 3410 for greenhouse gas assurance engagements. For further information, please refer to our reporting criteria and PwC’s assurance opinion which can be found on our Corporate Responsibility pages HM SGD  #NVMKN@CR#@S@RDBSHNMat GSSOBNQONQ@SDQDRONMRHAHKHSX QR@FQNTO BNLCNVMKN@CR. Our environmental performance has improved across almost all of our key performance indicators. We have reduced our total carbon emissions by 15%, our paper use by 10% and energy consumption by 7%. We also increased recycling by 7%. We still have some improvements to focus on when it comes to our water use and waste. Business Travel tCO₂e 2014 2013 Local flights 2,418 2,595 Short-haul flights 1,053 3,740 Long-haul flights 3,711 8,556 TOTAL 7,182 14,891 The significant reduction in our Group emissions has been largely driven by a 52% decrease in business travel emissions. These improvements were aided by a group-wide focus on cost reductions and internal communications around our environmental impacts. This approach allowed us to identify opportunities to opt for teleconferencing and other remote working solutions. Future Plans What Else We’re This year, we plan to continue the provision of practical tools and advice to help customers adapt to climate change Involved in and extreme weather events. We will • Signatory to Flood Re in UK, the continue to drive down our own carbon footprint by addressing our highest government backed initiative to sources of emissions and supporting the ensure affordable insurance for all, shift to a low carbon world. even those in flood prone areas Flood Re, the UK government backed initiative • Member of managing committee that is owned and managed by the insurance of ClimateWise, working with the industry, is due to be operational by the insurance industry to identify new summer of 2015. The scheme ensures that ways to reduce long-term climate households in the UK at the highest risk of change risks flooding can receive affordable cover for the flood element of their household property • Member of the Energy and Climate insurance. This will enable us to provide even Change Committee of the UK’s main better customer access to affordable insurance, business lobbying organisation, The wherever they live. Confederation of British Industry (CBI) Our support for renewable energy projects will • Founding signatories to the United continue through supporting innovative new Nations Environment Programme technologies and sharing our risk management Finance Initiative’s Principles for expertise to enable renewable energy projects Sustainable Insurance (UNEP FI to go ahead most efficiently, reducing the cost PSI)a global framework for the of the resulting energy. insurance industry to help us address environmental, social and governance 2015 marks an important year for international risks and opportunities climate change negotiations, and RSA intends to play an active role in supporting a robust, • Partner of Dods Renewable Energy consistent global agreement at the Conference Dialogue, a UK cross-party project on of Parties of the United Nations Framework growth in renewable energy Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC COP21) in Paris. We will continue to produce regulation • Contributory to Offshore Wind statements, as well as to work with WWF, Programme Board in UK to drive cost Forum for the Future, and Green Alliance to reduction in offshore wind build our knowledge and further consolidate our position on the latest climate change • Work in partnership with Forum for challenges. Our work with the Confederation of the Future, Green Alliance and WWF British Industry, Association of British Insurers, ClimateWise and UNEP Finance Initiative • Member of Association of British Principles for Sustainable Insurance will also Insurers continue, and we look forward to the planned discussions in 2015. Contact Us We welcome feedback on our corporate responsibility strategy and activities; please contact: corporate.responsibility@gcc.rsagroup. com To find out about our reporting criteria, click here, and for PwC’s assurance opinion, please click here. RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS Why it Matters Being a responsible business is essential for our long-term success. We will meet the needs and expectations of our customers, shareholders, staff and society at large by ensuring we are responsible in the way we conduct our business. This impacts the way we create and sell our products, manage our claims processes and the way we engage with customers, employees and suppliers. By being transparent in how we manage our operations we help build trust. At the end of 2013, an unprecedented situation professional workforce and we are committed in RSA Ireland led to a global re-evaluation to personal and professional development. of our company risk culture. This included a Together, our core focus is the customer. We significant focus on the integrity of our leaders work hard to ensure that customers benefit and the development and implementation of a from our products and services, to meet their new framework to improve the company’s needs and to provide excellent customer approach to risk management. service. The discovery of financial irregularities in In many of the communities where we Ireland had widespread repercussions operate, there is a low level of trust in across the business, and it was clear businesses, particularly financial services, we had to learn some tough lessons. The with confidence often dropping to just solution has provided an important opportunity 50%1. We want to turn this situation around to improve and strengthen our approach to by engaging customers, communities and being a responsible business, from a cultural employees in honest, transparent and mutually and operational perspective. beneficial dialogue. Our employees are at the heart of our business. We benefit from a diverse, motivated and Business Ethics We recognise how important a transparent that makes us all feel comfortable about and healthy culture is to our company. The speaking up and challenging inappropriate situation in Ireland presented an opportunity behavior. To read more about this, click here. to review our approach to cultural risk. We run mandatory training on business In 2014, an independent review by PwC ethics including anti-bribery, corruption recognised that, although the RSA Group’s and whistleblowing. We also updated our System of governance, including the Control whistleblowing policy in 2014 to enable Framework, was effective, local weaknesses employees to raise concerns about malpractice in the RSA Ireland business rendered it less in a confidential but accessible way. effective there. We developed and implemented a range of recommendations at the beginning of 2014, including the integration of a new Cultural Risk Index (CRI) that was shortlisted The impact of this work for an award with the Chartered Institute of has been more global and Personnel and Development (CIPD). positive than we could have hoped. We have developed Our CRI tool monitors the organisational culture an in-house solution to across the globe, and audits it to ensure any risk understand the culture, from behavioural culture is recognised before it leadership and engagement develops into a serious issue. It is a guide for environment in each region naming the patterns of behaviour people may and thus better understand recognise but find hard to challenge. The tool the cultural risk that we presents a process that encourages honest may be exposed to. conversations, with clear accountability and escalation steps indicated. Since launch, it is Vanessa Evans, proving a valuable tool in facilitating a culture Group HR Director RSA ¹ Edelman 2015 Trust Barometer Our through a nine-stage process, and is reviewed by senior management in our Marketing Customers & Communications Functions, Technical Underwriting and Product Functions. Customers are our life blood; they are our very reason for being here and we have to We have also strengthened our customer focus on serving them well. communications to ensure that customers are completely clear about the products We take customer service very seriously, they are investing in before taking out a and take pride in supporting our customers policy. We are committed to marketing all of as effectively as possible when they make a our products responsibly, regardless of the claim. Each country has a process in place communications channel used. Although we for measuring, monitoring and responding don’t have a single Group-wide marketing to claims, and we strive to continuously policy that addresses responsible marketing improve our customer service. For and communications, we do have several example, in the UK our More Th>n business policies that collectively address all aspects embarked on a ‘Good to Great’ programme of responsible marketing. that has helped increase its Net Promoter Score (NPS) from 40 to 62 and reduced complaints by 19% in the retail sales and service teams. The programme equipped staff with leadership skills, coaching, and Access to support tools to help solve customer concerns in an effective and positive way, Insurance putting the customer at the centre of their Making sure everyone has the opportunity approach. Read more about ‘Good to Great’ to access our products is vital in breaking here. down some of the barriers to financial exclusion. We provide a broad range of Our approach to customer service is insurance products to meet the needs of informed by our understanding of our customers’ needs, and we use a number many different types of customers. of tools to allow for ongoing customer feedback. These tools help us to stay in We work closely with charities and partners tune with our customers and improve our to better tailor our products to customers services in the right way. These include with specific needs. In the UK, we provide working with the General Insurance Market insurance to the charity Motability, which Research Association (GIMRA), Customer provides bespoke vehicles for those with Satisfaction Measure (CSM) and Customer mobility disabilities. Our staff who work in this Voice (CV). CSM and CV enable us to gain area are also specially trained to deal with the direct feedback from our customers in requirements of our Motability customers. relation to their claims experience, which helps us measure our Net Promoter Score Also in the UK, we provide affordable (NPS) for claims. Customer sentiment has ‘microinsurance’ for low income households remained supportive in 2014 across our through our ‘Tenant’s Contents Insurance’ core regions as reflected in our customer product. This provides a flexible home satisfaction scores. Accordingly, retention contents policy for social housing tenants. trends have remained broadly stable with overall retention across the Group of around In Denmark, we have worked with the national 80%. association LEV for a number of years. Together, we have created bespoke contents and home In the UK our Regulatory Approvals Team insurance for customers with mental disability review and approve our Financial Promotions and those who care for them. We also train the to ensure that these comply with the LEV teams in customer service, and together Financial Conduct Authority regulations and we are able to provide the best bespoke the Committee of Advertising Practice Code. insurance for these customers. Click here to Before any product is launched, it goes read more about these case studies. Our Employees Our Suppliers We faced some difficult changes in the We take corporate responsibility issues in wake of the situation in Ireland, but our our supply chain seriously; it underpins our employees have continued to work hard brands and our regulatory compliance. It is and deliver for our customers throughout a mandated part of our Group Third Party the process. We are committed to remaining Contracts Policy, and is integral to our honest and transparent with all our people, other Group Policies. ensuring they are consulted and informed. Supplier codes of conduct are created on We engage with our employees in open and a country-by-country basis, and supplier honest dialogue. In 2014, we started a new and risk reduction processes mirror this annual people survey, called YourSay, which approach. The policies are therefore tailored encourages colleagues to ‘shout out’ about to meet a country’s particular situation and things they want to improve or change. So far needs. we have received 80,000 ‘shout outs’, which help to inform our work in the year ahead. In the UK, we engage with suppliers through We are also rolling out the social media site our central Strategic Sourcing and Supplier Yammer across the Group. This has been Relationship Management (SRM) function. in place in the UK for some time and now The SRM team and Business Managers receive an average of 10,000 comments work collaboratively with Strategic Sourcing, every month. which is responsible for selecting, negotiating and contracting with key suppliers. This We recognise the importance and value collaboration ensures we are appropriately in having a diverse workforce. In 2013, we managing our suppliers throughout the started initiatives to improve the gender life span of their engagement. Our SRM diversity in our business and in response Programme has been in place for over seven to a clear internal need, established years, and is specifically there to manage our global female networking events and higher value or risk supplier relationships. Our mentoring opportunities. We also recruited collaborative working approach ensures that more women through our Global talent our supplier risks and corporate responsibility programmes, and are committed to building (CR) compliance are checked effectively. this, and other diversity initiatives, in the near future. Working closely with our suppliers, we aim to improve the social and environmental Developing our employees at all levels is impact of our own purchases across vital to a productive, motivated workforce. the lifecycle of products and services, We continue to invest in the training and and we prioritise suppliers with robust development of our people right across the environmental policies and processes. We business. These development opportunities encourage all our suppliers to work towards include our Executive Development minimising environmental impact and to be Programme, Senior Talent Acceleration able to demonstrate this progress. Programme, as well as the training and skills developed through our award-winning Technical Academy. We are also developing new and exciting areas of expertise through our Digital and Telematics Centres of Excellence. Human Rights We have Human Rights policies in place against their risk using a number of criteria to ensure our company operates in a way including operational risk, socio-political that respects the rights of all the people we environment (including human rights) and work with, including our suppliers and our sanctions applied by UK HM Treasury. There is a employees. referral and signoff process for writing business in the countries listed as high risk and this varies Our Human Rights policy covers the entire depending upon the risk rating. The socioGroup and is managed like all operational political situation in each country is dynamic policies through our robust compliance and is reviewed formally twice a year or when procedure. This includes bi-annual policy an issue comes to light. Countries may have implementation reviews and risk assessments. their rating changed, be removed from or added Our Human Rights policy is implemented by to the list depending upon circumstances. The two different functions. Human Resources whole process and referral guide is managed ensure compliance with the policy where it by the Review Committee, which comprise relates to our staff. Our procurement functions key stakeholders (Group Underwriting, Global assess and manage the policy where it relates Network and Group Corporate Responsibility). to the supply chain, considering material tenders and contracts. Results from the Review Committee analysis are shared with relevant national or regional RSA’s Group Underwriting policy encourages CEOs (and the Group Executive Committee and underwriters to consider human rights Board Risk Committee) to check agreement implications where business is written and and allow any potential issues to be raised. in what lines. This policy includes a high risk Countries rated as high risk (“Red”) will be country referral guide which grades countries considered outside the Group Risk Appetite. Public Technology is proving a fertile ground for new, exciting road safety initiatives, such Affairs as telematics and driverless car tests. We are working with the relevant government departments to ensure the voice of insurance Our public affairs strategy is a combination is heard in relation to these developments. of reactive and proactive engagement. In To find out more about our work in this area, the UK, we work across departments, such watch this short video. as the Treasury and DEFRA. We engage with officials, government departments, We have also established a telematics partners and MPs throughout the election roundtable, enabling us to further discuss cycle on issues that are most relevant to the benefits of rewarding customers for RSA. We do so in an open and transparent good driving behaviour. We will continue to way, ensuring our advice and information is engage with ministers on innovative driver unbiased and accurate. In 2014, we focused technology, and the opportunities it presents on three topics in particular – flooding, to make drivers safer in the future. driver safety, and how to reduce the cost of insurance claims. We have a structured approach to engaging with MPs and parliamentary officials, bringing our expertise and points of view to them around issues of most importance to us and our customers. For example, in 2014, we hosted a drop in session for MPs on flooding and were involved in a range of roundtables, such as the Association of British Insurer’s (ABI) roundtable on flooding and flood defences at the Labour Party Conference in 2014. This gives us the opportunity to engage MPs and lobby parliament to better prepare against flooding in the future, which in turn will reduce the number of claims. We have also been involved in Flood Re, the government-backed initiative that ensures those in high risk flood areas can still have access to affordable insurance, and we will continue to support customer access to insurance, regardless of where customers live. On the issue of driver safety, over the past three years we have run our ‘Fit to drive’ campaign, encouraging MPs to ensure Contact Us drivers have professional eye tests when We welcome feedback on our corporate taking their driving test. We invited MPs to responsibility strategy and activities; please a drop in session on this. Whiplash has also contact: proved a key issue for us, with the impact corporate.responsibility@gcc.rsagroup.com of fraudulent claims directly contributing to increases in driver premiums. Though To find out about our reporting criteria, click we are yet to see government action on here. this issue, we will continue to highlight its importance in the future.
