Delete Group Oy UN Global compact COP Statement by the CEO Delete Group Oy aims to be the best provider of environmental services in the Nordic countries and its customers’ preferred provider of environmental services. We are a rapidly growing group of companies concentrating on environmental services for the manufacturing and construction industries. Delete serves various branches of industry, properties and construction, and provides environmental services in Finland and Sweden. Delete’s business areas include Industrial and Property Services, Demolition Services and Recycling and Waste Processing Services. In Sweden, Delete’s services also include the erection of scaffolding and weatherproofing. I am pleased to confirm Delete’s support of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of human rights, labor rights, environment protection and anti-corruption. Our work for high business ethics and sustainable operations reflect the ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact. We have identified our prioritized sustainability issues and follow our performance on these issues systematically. In the Communication on Progress we describe our actions to continuously improve the integration of the Global Compact principles into our business strategy and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our customers, employees, suppliers and other stakeholders. Helsinki, 8th December 2015 Jussi Niemelä, CEO, Delete Group Oy Delete Group Oy Tel. 010 656 1000 VAT.reg. Bank: Pohjola Bank Postintaival 7 firstname.lastname@delete.fi Business-ID: IBAN FI6950000120263271 FI-00230 Helsinki www.delete.fi 2340045-3 BIC OKOYFIHH Office: Helsinki Delete Group Oy Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Commitment: Delete actively supports the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. We respect Human Rights within our sphere of influence and operate our business in a transparent and trustworthy way. Delete sees no significant risks that the company or its suppliers violates the UN Global Compact Principles 1-2. Systems: Our Code of Conduct is a clear set of standards for our business conduct, including The Global Compact Principles 1-2, the protection of human rights, health and safety. It provides the ethical and behavioral framework on which we base our decisions every day. The Code is anchored within our organization. Activities: We work systematically to strengthen our business ethical performance, including Global Compact´s Principles 1-2. We have followed up the Delete Code of Conduct through management reviews. Performance: In the past year Delete has not been subject to any investigations, legal cases or incidents involving Human Rights violations. No incidents on violations of the Human Rights principles have been reported to the Company Management. Delete Group Oy Tel. 010 656 1000 VAT.reg. Bank: Pohjola Bank Postintaival 7 firstname.lastname@delete.fi Business-ID: IBAN FI6950000120263271 FI-00230 Helsinki www.delete.fi 2340045-3 BIC OKOYFIHH Office: Helsinki Delete Group Oy Labour Standards Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Commitment: We respect the right of workers and operate our business with safe and attractive working conditions. We respect the freedom of association and collective bargaining and have zero tolerance for forced labour, child labour or discrimination. Delete sees no significant risks that the company or its suppliers violates the UN Global Compact Principles 3-6. Systems: Our Code of Conduct is a clear set of standards for our business conduct, including Global Compact Principles 3-6. To develop and manage its operations, Delete Group Oy has built the One Delete HSEQ system to ensure occupational health and safety and in order to identify risks and reduce the number of accidents and sick leaves. Delete’s Finnish operations are certified according to the ISO 9001 (Quality management systems) and OHSAS 18001 standards (Occupational health and safety management systems) Activities: The ISO 9001 and OHSAS 18001 are important tools in our efforts to continuously enhance quality and working environment standards throughout the group. We work systematically to strengthen business ethics, including Global Compact´s Principles 3-6. We follow up of Delete Code of Conduct through management reviews and the Delete’s nonconformity reporting system, Sherpa. The system enables the development, sharing and implementation of preventive actions across all units. It is a system for reporting, planning, monitoring and follow-up of corrective and preventive measures, and allows the monitoring of statistics and performance on all organisational levels. Performance: No incidents on violations of labour rights principles have been reported to the Company Management. Working safety is prioritized. Delete has managed to enhance the safety of its workers and as a result accident frequency has dropped with 25 % during 2015. This is a continuous work, and goals for coming years have been set. Delete Group Oy Tel. 010 656 1000 VAT.reg. Bank: Pohjola Bank Postintaival 7 firstname.lastname@delete.fi Business-ID: IBAN FI6950000120263271 FI-00230 Helsinki www.delete.fi 2340045-3 BIC OKOYFIHH Office: Helsinki Delete Group Oy Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Commitment: We recognize that our production and transports have a negative impact on the environment. We constantly work to minimize our environmental footprint. Systems: Our Code of Conduct is a clear set of standards for our business conduct, including Global Compact Principles 7-9. To develop and manage its operations, Delete Group Oy has built the One Delete HSEQ system to meet our stakeholders’ environmental expectations, and our environmental policy details our work to lower our overall environmental impact. Delete Finnish organization hold ISO 14001 certificates (environmental management systems). Activities: The ISO 14001 environmental management system is an important tool to continuously enhance our environmental performance. We work systematically to strengthen business ethics, including Global Compact´s Principles 7-9. We follow up of Delete Code of Conduct through management reviews and the Delete’s nonconformity reporting system. The system enables the development, sharing and implementation of preventive actions across all units. The reporting system, Sherpa, is a tool for reporting, planning, monitoring and follow-up of corrective and preventive measures. The system also allows the monitoring of statistics and performance on all organisational levels. During 2015 Delete has reviewed its energy consumption (electricity and heat) on Finnish operations to address actions for lowering consumption and making operations more energy efficient in the future. Performance: No incidents on violations of the environmental principles have been reported to the Company Management. Delete Group Oy Tel. 010 656 1000 VAT.reg. Bank: Pohjola Bank Postintaival 7 firstname.lastname@delete.fi Business-ID: IBAN FI6950000120263271 FI-00230 Helsinki www.delete.fi 2340045-3 BIC OKOYFIHH Office: Helsinki Delete Group Oy Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery. Commitment: Delete do not participate in any corruption, bribery or extortion. Fair competition is one of Delete’s key operating principles. This applies to all of our behavior in respect of our competitors and customers as well as activities in industry associations. Delete’s Board of Directors has ratified separate competition law guidelines with more detailed instructions on competition-related matters. Delete and its employees and others acting on behalf of Delete may not offer, give or accept bribes or other illegal payments. Business partners and representatives of the authorities may not be offered any inappropriate financial benefits in order to promote Delete’s business activity or other company interests. Systems: Our Code of Conduct is a clear set of standards for our business conduct, including Global Compact Principle 10. Our Code supports correct behavior if an employee should face an ethical dilemma. Delete will during the year 2016 initiate an internal discussion on establishing a whistleblowing service to follow up the Code of Conduct. Activities: We work systematically to strengthen our business ethical performance, including Global Compact´s Principles 10. The ethical guidelines of Delete, described in our Code of Conduct is easily available for all our employees. We carry out training for new employees, and when we see a need for follow up training. We follow up of Delete Code of Conduct through management reviews. Performance: No incidents on violations of the Anti-corruption principle have been reported to the Company Management. Delete Group Oy Tel. 010 656 1000 VAT.reg. Bank: Pohjola Bank Postintaival 7 firstname.lastname@delete.fi Business-ID: IBAN FI6950000120263271 FI-00230 Helsinki www.delete.fi 2340045-3 BIC OKOYFIHH Office: Helsinki
