2014 Communication on Progress Statement of continued support by the Chief Executive Officer December 31th 2014 To our stakeholders: AM Law Firm, decided in 2014 to support the ten principles of the Global Compact with respect to human rights, labor standards, protection of environment and anti-corruption and to advance those principles within our company and our sister companies, such as Towers for financial consultation and Brilliance for translation and consultancies services. It’s a pleasure to confirm our continued support for the Global Compact and renew our ongoing commitment to the initiative and its principles. In our first annual Communication on Progress, we describe the taken actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also are committed to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Yours sincerely Ayman Abdallah Managing Partner Human Rights Assessment, policy and goals AM Law Firm is committed to ensuring that all our employees are treated fairly and with respect. In the past year, we worked on explaining the ten principles for our partners of success and encouraged them to behave the same track for the publication and dissemination of these principles. Implementation The Human Resources Department developed the firm’s policy to conform to the Global Compact initiative. We also encourage UNGC members to send their inquiries regarding their issues for that subject through the email address that we established specially for these types of inquiries. Measurement of outcomes No claim regarding Human Rights was reported in the period covered by the COP. Labor Assessment, policy and goals Protection of Internationally recognized principles including Labor Standards forms an integral part of AM Law Firm code of ethics which is distributed to all employees in the firm. We respect differences, care about others and do not discriminate against others on the basis of nationality, ethnic origin, age, sex or religious or political belief. Implementation Human Resources department is accountable for executing company policy regarding Labour. If any abuse is detected an internal investigation is initiated and if the abuse is proved can result on the termination of the employee's contract Measurement of outcomes Company Demographics are good example of the implementation of the Labor Principles: Men 61% vs. Women 39%. Management Team: Men 66% vs. Women 33%. No labor incidents have been reported in this period. Environment Assessment, policy and goals As AM law firm main area of practices is wider than impacting the environment, in the next year, AM Law Firm look forward to implement an environmental protection activity in cooperation with NGO partners. Implementation Protection of Internationally recognized principles including environmental Standards forms an integral part of AM Law Firm code of ethics which is distributed to all employees within the firm. Measurement of outcomes No claim regarding Environment was reported in the period covered by the COP. Anti-Corruption Assessment, policy and goals From day one of our business, we highlighted many principles which we believe that these to reflect our image and reputation, one of these principles is the anti corruption as we struggle against corruption. Implementation AM Law Firm addressed the importance of transparency of relationship between attorneys and third parties. The management emphasizes that bribe are not acceptable under any circumstances. Measurement of outcomes There were no cases of conflict of interest in the company. There were no reported cases about attempt of bribery as well.
