Sustainability Performance Report 2014 Resilient World Contents Introduction from Samir Brikho About Amec Foster Wheeler Our approach Materiality and engagement Foundation of excellence We put safety first Health, safety, security – we put safety first Health, safety, security performance Spotlight on security Environmental management and performance Minimising resource use Carbon management and performance We act ethically and with integrity Managing ethics Ethics Performance Human rights We care about our communities Community investment Partnering with SOS Children’s Villages People Resourcing Employee engagement People development Diversity and inclusion Mobilising our people Innovation & Delivery Safety by Design Supply chain management Projects Our reporting Sustainability Performance Report 2014 Resilient World Introduction Sustainability Performance Report 2014 Resilient World Fact sheet Celebrating 15 years 2015 is the fifteenth anniversary of our Sustainability Programme launch and it takes place against a very different background. ‘‘ In the fourth quarter of 2014 We want to be publicly recognised This will ensure that we continue to everything changed as we as an industry leader in sustainable meet the requirements and also help created a new organisation – business practice, continually identify opportunities where we can Amec Foster Wheeler. validating our social license to achieve higher levels of sustainability operate by ensuring employee’s performance within the Global We created a clear vision for our behaviours and actions are in line Compact, tying in with our Resilient new company, placing sustainability with our values. World approach. at the very heart of our values, and continuing to build on over 150 years Through our Resilient World We have taken steps to bring our of heritage. sustainability strategy, which I’m sustainability reporting in line with pleased to be launching together GRI G4 Sustainability Reporting Being a new company brings many with this microsite, we are clearly Guidelines. Our trusted advisors, new opportunities and also presents setting out to solve tomorrow’s Corporate Citizenship, supported some challenges. The Dow Jones natural resource challenges in us in undertaking an extensive and Sustainability Index viewed us as a partnership with our customers, robust materiality assessment to set new company with a clean slate and colleagues and suppliers. us on our way, reflected in the focus so, in accordance with their rules we and structure of this report and we have to earn our place at the top all A changing world needs cleaner and will be fully we will be fully aligned over again. We remain undaunted more efficient solutions that are to the new standard by the end of by this challenge and see it as an built to last – and, in Amec Foster this year. opportunity for us to be even better Wheeler, we have the problemthan we were before building on our solvers. People who are driven every By connecting excellence within sustainability achievements, while day to find answers to the world’s our customers, colleagues and going further and deeper. toughest resource challenges business partners, our Resilient and it is our passion for solving World approach will become truly And so, this year we are not printing those challenges that connects embedded within the fabric of our our report. We are now wholly us as a business. We know that, in business, driving positive change online and, apart from the obvious partnership with our customers, we’ll across our value chain. environmental benefits of starting find the right answers through the further up the waste management innovation, ingenuity and expertise I want all of our people to feel proud hierarchy (‘reduce, reuse, recycle, of our people. Working together to to be working together to support recover’), we will give regular build a more Resilient World. the achievement of the ambitious updates to all subscribers and this goals we have set ourselves and also provides an immediate point for We have reaffirmed our commitment Amec Foster Wheeler to become our own accountability. to the principles of the Global synonymous with a Resilient World. Compact and are reviewing our policies, procedures and processes. Sustainability / Date: 05/15 / CEO Intro amecfw.com Page 1 of 1 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2015 Fact sheet About Amec Foster Wheeler Our locations With revenues of £5.5bn and Percentage split of revenue 8 % over 40,000 employees in more Americas 17 N. Europe & CIS than 50 countries, Amec Foster AMEA & S. Europe Global Power Group Wheeler operates across the 28 whole of the oil and gas industry – from production through 47 to refining, processing and distribution of derivative products Total pro forma scope revenue 2014 – and in the mining, clean energy and environment and £5.5bn infrastructure markets. Percentage split of average aggregate employees 7 % 23 Americas N. Europe & CIS AMEA & S. Europe Global Power Group 29 41 Aggregate employees 2014 40k Sustainability / Date: 05/15 /About Amec Foster Wheeler amecfw.com Page 1 of 5 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2015 Fact sheet About Amec Foster Wheeler From 2015, Our operations From 1 January 2015, our operations are structured our operations are into the four business units described here. Compared to 2014, only the Americas business unit has the same structured into geographical remit as there were previously three AMEC four business units. divisions (Americas, Europe and Growth Regions) and two Foster Wheeler divisions (Engineering & Construction and Global Power Group). The new company structure has been designed to further enable collaboration and promote greater growth opportunities. Americas Northern Europe & CIS The largest of our business units, with around 16,000 Northern Europe & the Commonwealth of Independent employees and approximately 150 offices in 10 countries, States has around 12,000 employees operating in more across the two continents. than 120 locations across 15 countries, with its expertise extending into many more. Our business is balanced across our markets and we have a growing mid/downstream Oil & Gas business in North The unit has broad-based customer reach across three of America; a presence in the Gulf of Mexico and Brazil our markets, in Environment & Infrastructure; Clean upstream offshore and we are the market leader in Energy – notably in the nuclear industry, including asset mineable oil sands. We are the leading mining consultant support, decommissioning and new-build programmes; in the region and have good solar and bioprocess and Oil & Gas – across the value chain and lifecycle for positions in the US, nuclear and wind positions in Canada, projects on and off shore, from pre-feasibility consulting and we are a leading environmental consultancy. to late-life management and decommissioning. AMEA & Southern Europe Global Power Group The Asia, Middle East, Africa & Southern Europe Operating four manufacturing facilities, two cogeneration (AMEASE) unit has over 9,000 employees, spread across plants, 11 engineering and service centres in eight more than 40 locations with strong capabilities and countries and employing around 2,600 employees, customer reach across each of our Oil & Gas, Environment this business unit designs, supplies and erects boilers, & Infrastructure and Mining markets. In addition we auxiliary steam and air pollution control equipment, as have our Consultancy and Special Construction group well as a wide range of aftermarket products and services. which is focused on infrastructure planning, design and construction serving government, Oil & Gas, and Mining Delivering projects and services virtually anywhere in the customers across key geographies in and beyond the world, we enable utilities, independent power producers AMEASE region. and industrial customers to achieve their power, process steam and environmental goals. Collaboration and leveraging of skills around the world. Sustainability / Date: 05/15 /About Amec Foster Wheeler amecfw.com Page 2 of 5 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2015 Fact sheet About Amec Foster Wheeler Our customers include Our four markets BG Honeywell We have positioned our operations across four markets BP KNPC because we believe a diversified approach minimises risk Canadian Natural Resources Ltd National Grid and maximises opportunity over the long term. In Oil & Gas, Mining, Clean Energy and Environment & ConocoPhillips Newmont Infrastructure, we provide similar services, winning work Dow Chemical Novartis through strong customer relationships and our proven EDF Energy Pemex ability to deliver projects successfully. Many of the Enterprise Products Royal Dutch Shell services we provide to our customers are transferable ExxonMobil Saudi Aramco across markets. Freeport-McMoRan Sempra Energy Oil & Gas GDF Suez US Government We are involved in every part of the project delivery phase across the oil and gas value chain, but we specifically do Order book 6 not operate in early cycle exploration or drilling. % 25 Americas Clean Energy N. Europe & CIS In renewables we provide a full service engineering, AMEA & S. Europe Global Power Group procurement and construction solution on wind, solar, biomass and biofuels projects. We also support the full 32 lifecycle of nuclear energy and are a respected leader 37 in the design and supply of combustion and steam generation equipment. Mining Order book We offer mining consultancy (including ore resource £6.3bn estimation, mine planning and feasibility studies), design, project and construction management services. Environment & Infrastructure (E&I) We are a leading consulting, engineering and project management firm with strong market positions, especially in the water, transportation and infrastructure, government services and industrial sectors. Providing safe and sustainable project solutions for our customers. Sustainability / Date: 05/15 /About Amec Foster Wheeler amecfw.com Page 3 of 5 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2015 Fact sheet About Amec Foster Wheeler Our sectors Upstream Midstream Delivering challenging Providing transportation and complex upstream for the midstream oil and oil and gas projects gas industry Downstream Mining & Metals Pre-eminent provider Expertise and delivery of services to the oil and from concept to closure gas industry Nuclear Renewables/Bioprocess Expertise spanning the A century of experience entire lifecycle of complex supporting today’s nuclear assets renewable energy Conventional Power Transmission & Distribution Shaping the future Innovative and high value of clean energy added solutions Water Government Global expertise in every Comprehensive engineering aspect of water, from services and solutions source to ocean Industrial/Pharmaceutical Transportation & Infrastructure technical expertise Innovative solutions for complex transportation needs Sustainability / Date: 05/15 /About Amec Foster Wheeler amecfw.com Page 4 of 5 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2015 Fact sheet About Amec Foster Wheeler Details of incorporation Amec Foster Wheeler plc (formerly AMEC plc) is a public limited company that is incorporated in England and Wales with the registered number 01675285. AMEC plc changed its name to Amec Foster Wheeler plc on 13 November 2014 when it took control of Foster Wheeler AG. The Company’s registered office is situated at Booths Park, Chelford Road, Knutsford, Cheshire, WA16 8QZ, UK. The Company operates under English law. The Company’s agent in the US is CT Corporation, whose contact address is 111 Eighth Avenue, New York, New York 10011, US. Sustainability / Date: 05/15 /About Amec Foster Wheeler amecfw.com Page 5 of 5 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2015 Fact sheet Our approach to sustainability For us, sustainability is about integrating social, environmental and economic concerns into our values and operations in a transparent and accountable manner. Our aim is to be acknowledged as a Resilient World leader in sustainable business practice, Our sustainability strategy for solving tomorrow’s natural resource challenges together continually validating our social licence People Innovation Delivery to operate by Investing for Delivering innovation Being a trusted tomorrow by technologies, solutions partner by embedding ensuring employees’ developing a diverse, and services that a consistent inclusive and talented behaviours and workforce which add business value for our customers sustainability standard across our actions are in line exhibits our values whilst minimising projects and behaviours to environmental impacts with our values. drive sustainability Ensuring a foundation of excellence in responsible business practices We put safety first – Health & safety leadership, security, environment We act ethically and with integrity – Governance, ethics, human rights We care about our communities – Community investment Resilient World is our sustainability process began with a full and detailed We took the results of the strategy for solving tomorrow’s materiality assessment involving assessment to focus the content of natural resource challenges together. engagement with various stakeholder the pillars and framework of our new groups in order to ascertain those strategy, shown above. In 2014, following the acquisition areas deemed the highest priority of Foster Wheeler, we began the for us to focus on. A more detailed development of our sustainability summary of this assessment can strategy for the new business. This be found in the materiality and engagement factsheet. Sustainability / Date: 05/15 / Our approach to sustainability amecfw.com Page 1 of 5 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2015 Fact sheet Our approach to sustainability Foundation of excellence Innovation Sustainability impacts, A foundation of excellence ensures Delivering innovative technologies, risks and opportunities continued focus on those areas set solutions and services that business As an international business, our out within our values and behaviours: value for our customers whilst sustainability impacts are diverse minimising environmental impact. and inextricably linked to the regions We act ethically and with integrity We will drive long-term growth for in which we operate. We believe that • Governance Amec Foster Wheeler by developing sustainability impact management • Business ethics and encouraging a growing portfolio must be integral to the way we • Human rights of innovative environmental manage our business and must be We put safety first technologies, solutions and services integrated throughout the entire • Health and safety leadership which add value to our customers management system. • Security and our business. • Environment Sustainability related issues are part • Carbon Delivery of our business. We have to ensure We care about our communities Being a trusted partner by we concentrate on those which have • Community investment embedding a consistent sustainability the greatest impact on our ability • Stakeholder engagement standard across our projects. to manage our operations. We use Our customers demand high a number of techniques to do this We want our sustainability strategy standards, and sustainability is a including: to focus on the opportunities to fundamental part of this. We will achieve our sustainability vision, as ensure a consistent approach to • Risk management; well as manage our risks, to enable inherently embedding sustainability • Stakeholder engagement; us to deliver value to Amec Foster into the core of our projects, and • Sustainability surveys; and Wheeler and its customers. Three implement a value-add sustainability • Global standards, principles areas were highlighted as focus areas framework to be used for those and frameworks. for this – our leadership focus areas. clients with advanced sustainability objectives. People We will build further on the content Investing for tommorrow by of the strategy, and will publish long developing a diverse, inclusive and term goals and targets to support its talented workforce which exhibits delivery throughout 2015. See the our values and behaviours to drive Resilient World section of our website sustainability. Growth in demand for the most up-to-date information drives competition for skills and and progress. expertise within the industry. We will resource for a diverse and inclusive workforce, introducing new people (both experienced and new entrants) to the resource pools in order to create a business with genuine diversity of thought. Sustainability / Date: 05/15 / Our approach to sustainability amecfw.com Page 2 of 5 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2015 Fact sheet Our approach to sustainability The top five risks relating to the sustainability of our business are described in the table below. Risk Description How we manage the risk More information Health, safety, Amec Foster Wheeler is involved in We are focused on achieving the highest standards Foundation of security and activities and environments that have of health, safety and security management through excellence environment the potential to cause serious injury setting effective policy and putting in place clear to personnel or damage to property or standards which underpin our Health, Safety, the environment and damage to our Security and Environmental management systems. reputation. We have processes in place to assure that our systems work effectively. Staff An inability to attract and retain sufficient This risk is mitigated with a clear Human Resources People recruitment and high-calibre employees could become strategy, which is aligned to the business strategy retention a barrier to the continued success and and focused on attracting, developing and retaining growth of Amec Foster Wheeler. the best people for the group with succession planning as appropriate. We continuously review compensation and benefits. Amec Foster Wheeler’s Academy delivers development activities to enhance and prepare employees for more advanced roles. Ethical breach A substantive ethical breach and/or We have a number of measures in place in the Foundation of non-compliance with laws or regulations two legacy businesses to mitigate the risk or a excellence could lead to damage to reputation, fines, substantive ethical breach and/or non-compliance litigation and claims for compensation. with laws or regulations, including: This risk is heightened as we transition • Embedded policies and procedures; from two codes of business conduct and • Codes of Business Conduct; two systems of raising concerns to a • Independent whistle-blowing mechanism; single code and reporting system. • Appointment of ethics and compliance officers; • Anti-fraud and other internal audits; and • Ethics training programme. Environmental Amec Foster Wheeler’s build/own/ Environmental management systems are in place Environmental licences operate facilities and fabrication/ to monitor and mitigate this risk. innovation & manufacturing sites rely on maintaining foundation of environmental licences to operate, which excellence includes protecting the environment and achieving legally enforceable operating parameters. Failure to maintain these standards may result in the revocation of all or part of the licence and the suspension of operation. Project delivery Failing to maintain discipline and meeting Amec Foster Wheeler has created a new focused Project customer expectations on project delivery and prominent project delivery function to assure excellence could result in damage to reputation, loss and drive project execution and to support of repeat business and potentially lead the development, training and mobilisation of to litigation and/or claims against Amec personnel to enhance execution competencies. In Foster Wheeler. addition, the system of globally applied policies and procedures, combined with comprehensive management oversight, the risk management process, project reviews, internal audit, peer reviews and customer feedback, mitigate the risk to successful project delivery. Sustainability / Date: 05/15 / Our approach to sustainability amecfw.com Page 3 of 5 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2015 Fact sheet Our approach to sustainability When reviewing our sustainability being launched to take account of The vision is for the principles of risks we once again looked at climate and provide a practical application of the Global Compact to be enshrined change. Amec Foster Wheeler fully Amec Foster Wheeler’s new values within the Amec Foster Wheeler recognises the challenge that climate and expected working behaviours in policies and procedures and to be change poses. We take measures to the delivery of the Company’s vision embedded within our behaviours address this both internally by our and values. and our culture across all our carbon management programme, organisation. And for all business and also within the solutions we offer The board approved the groupunits to endeavour to work with to our clients. Although it remains wide policy framework and other our supply chains, clients, business a significant long term issue for us, mechanisms for ensuring the partners and peers to disseminate it does not fall within our top five effectiveness of governance in the the requirements along the sustainability risks at this time. We group’s working practices. On a value chain. continue to manage our climate day-to-day basis, the board has change issues, while ensuring delegated responsibility for the An extensive internal review was compliance with local, national and implementation of the global policies undertaken by the corporate international legal requirements. We and ownership of the supporting sustainability team in the first believe our biggest impact in this global mandatory procedures to the half of 2015 to ensure that Amec area is the manner in which we can Group Leadership Team. Following Foster Wheeler continues to meet positively support our customers the acquisition of Foster Wheeler, the requirements of the UN Global to address their energy and water the global policies and procedures Compact. A framework for the review use in the services we provide them. and working practices of AMEC was purposely developed as a tool Examples of this can be found within and Foster Wheeler have been to guide the process, which entailed the case study section, or within the reviewed, to create the necessary detailed discussions and review of sustainability report downloads. foundation needed to support a documentation across all business consistent business in accordance units and support functions. This was Information relating to our principle with the company’s vision and based on international standards risks and uncertainties and how they values. The revised global policies and best practices to help steer the are managed can be found within and procedures are in the process of company towards improving existing the 2014 annual report and accounts being issued and provide a detailed policies and systems, engaging pages 20-23. description of the expected working suppliers, contractors, business behaviours, and we continue to partners and other stakeholders, Governance integrate the two businesses. A new improving internal and external Amec Foster Wheeler’s board is sustainability policy will form part of reporting and much more. responsible for promoting the longthe revised global policy which will be term success of the Company in published in 2015. A comprehensive action plan is accordance with the expectations currently being developed as a result of, and its obligations to, all The board is supported by four board of the review and will be implemented stakeholders. committees: audit, remuneration, throughout 2015/16 to ensure that nominations and HSSEE (health, Amec Foster Wheeler continues to The board has responsibility for safety, security, environment achieve higher levels of sustainability maintaining strong corporate and ethics), chaired by either performance within the UN governance practices and regularly the Chairman or another nonGlobal Compact. reviewing the effectiveness of the executive director, and a number of Company’s governance framework. management committees, chaired The Code of Business Conduct by the executive directors (or other forms the foundation of Amec Foster senior individuals) to which specific Wheeler’s approach to corporate responsibilities have been formally governance and is applicable to delegated. all employees. Our commitments It is the responsibility of and is Amec Foster Wheeler is committed upheld by the board, and ensures to the ten principles of the that the board and all those who work UN Global Compact Compact for and under Amec Foster Wheeler’s principles. This builds on AMEC’s direction understand the behaviour legacy commitment where it joined that is expected of them. Following the register of Global Compact the acquisition of Foster Wheeler, a participants in 2009. new Code of Business Conduct is Sustainability / Date: 05/15 / Our approach to sustainability amecfw.com Page 4 of 5 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2015 Fact sheet Our approach to sustainability Amec Foster Wheeler supports the UK Corporate Governance Code and, in the opinion of the directors, the company has complied with the provisions of the September 2012 edition of the Code throughout the year ended 31 December 2014. This section explains in more detail how we have applied these provisions. Amec Foster Wheeler governance structure Board The board has ownership of the global policies Board committees Support the board in its work with speciﬁc review and oversight Audit Nominations Health, Safety, Security, Remuneration Provides independent Identiﬁes and makes Environmental and Ethics Aims to attract and retain scrutiny of the company’s recommendations Assists in upholding our good management and to ﬁnancial and non-ﬁnancial concerning the core value of integrity and incentivise them to create performance, risks and composition of the board maintaining our HSSEE shareholder value audit functions and that of its committees commitments for a safe and secure working environment Group Leadership Team Responsible for implementation of the global policies Behaviours, Vision, Values, Chief Executive Primarily responsible for running Amec Foster Wheeler’s businesses with the objective of creating shareholder value Global Management committees Deal generally with more operational matters Code of Business Conduct, Global policies Share allotment Pensions and Risk HSSE review retirement benefits Corporate transactions Tender review Disclosure Project review mandatory procedures Business Unit leaders Functional leaders Local jurisdictional policies and procedures Business Unit teams Functional teams Sustainability / Date: 05/15 / Our approach to sustainability amecfw.com Page 5 of 5 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2015 Case study Local sustainability planning For the last six years we have used our office sustainability matrix as a tool to frame and drive sustainability action at a local level across offices. In 2015 we are rolling out a new framework our sustainability promises to support our offices in implementing local sustainability action plans. The sustainability promises will act as Northern Europe & CIS a tool for offices and business units to Sustainability Promises 2015 develop and align their sustainability goals and action plans with the global sustainability strategy and goals. Global NECIS Roll out and embed new Ensure a robust carbon values and behaviours reporting system is in place for the business The focus for our offices in 2015 is to Roll out new Code of Business Conduct to all employees unit, in line with carbon strategy and carbon accounting procedure complete an office 5 star efficiency Continued support for community investment Support completion of the gap analysis against the assessment and develop a plan for future and engagement, including UN Global Compact continued support for SOS Children Establish a network of sustainability focus points improvement in this area, and to undertake a Develop and roll out new carbon management/ reduction strategy Benchmark the amount of waste and water being minimum of one charity or community event. Roll out anti-bribery and corruption training produced in 2015 Develop a communications plan Develop and roll out new to promote a greater sustainability strategy understanding of what sustainability is and the Develop and pilot a project benefits to the business sustainability framework Benchmark our Continue focus for STEM sustainability performance activities against that of organisations in other industries Complete or review an office sustainability profile on an annual basis Develop and implement an office 5* efficiency improvement plan amecfw.com/sustainability Sustainability / Date: 05/15 / Local sustainability planning amecfw.com Page 1 of 2 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2015 Case study Local sustainability planning Vancouver Sustainability 2014 Our Vancouver office in Canada has, over the last two years, developed a successful sustainability strategy focusing on both reducing its environmental impact and continued involvement with the local community. The Vancouver office focused on reducing the amount of waste produced in its offices and on educating staff on the need to properly segregate their waste prior to disposal. In 2014, the office diverted over 66 tonnes of waste from landfill as a result. Employees also took part in a Commuter Challenge an annual event designed to promote environmentally responsible methods of commuting to work. 126 employees took part in 2014 by cycling, taking transit or carpooling to work with 1,768 kg CO2 avoided and 1,145 litres of fuel saved. The Vancouver office has also managed to raise over $116,892 in charitable donations with employees working with various charitable organisations throughout the year. With continued employee support for our global charity SOS Children, employees also raised funds for a number of other charities focused on supporting the local community. One charity, Farm Day, is currently in its sixth year of support from employees, and aims to grow food to feed families in need in Richmond. The farm is run by community members with additional support from over 1,000 employee volunteers yearly, helping a small team of part time staff. Last year the Vancouver office raised $721.20 for the Richmond Sharing Farm through the Earth Day Seed sale. Sustainability / Date: 05/15 / Local sustainability planning amecfw.com Page 2 of 2 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2015 Fact sheet Materiality Determining our priority areas through materiality assessment and engagement Sensitive habitats People Integration Health, safety Job creation & Community capacity building & security Environmental management Ethical business Project practices excellence & Financial innovation accountability Responsible Political sourcing Human rights Water instability Climate change Stakeholder engagement Understanding the views of our Media numerous stakeholders helps us • Interest in information for to make better and more informed target audience decisions. Although we understand Employees/future that we will not always meet every employees Customers stakeholder expectation, their views • Attraction and retention • Customer satisfaction leads us to strengthen our policies • Engagement • Trusted partner • Safety • Innovation and solutions and practices, understand the • Diversity and inclusion challenges we all face, and how we • Learning, development, can better communicate how we Investors mobility contribute to solving them. • Sustainable growth of • Well-being our company Peers • Risk and opportunities We have continued to engage our • Collaboration key stakeholders, with a number of • Shared Communities events taking place throughout the challenges • Capacity building year, aiming to consider views across • Education support the various geographies and sectors. Suppliers • Relationship These opportunities have once • Lasting commercial building relationship again helped to shape this year’s • Trust • Fair treatment performance report in both style • Impartial selection and content. The diagram outlines • Capacity building Government and Regulators some of the key areas for discussion • Policy during these engagement sessions. • Global challenges i.e. climate NGOs change, energy security • Collaboration and/or • National challenges i.e. skills challenge on common shortage/education issues Sustainability / Date: 05/15 /Materiality amecfw.com Page 1 of 3 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2015 Fact sheet Materiality Determining our priority areas through materiality assessment and engagement In light of the development of the new company, and the new geographies, markets and organisational culture that brought us, we felt that a full and detailed review of our material Step 1 Step 2 Step 3 issues was required. We took the Identify Prioritise Focus areas opportunity to engage with a wide issues variety of our key stakeholders at this time to ensure we were concentrating on the sustainability issues most relevant. This extensive engagement programme consisted of specific conversations around sustainability with: More detail of this process is set 88% out below. • 56 senior managers within the organisation; Materiality assessment • 742 employees; Over recent years AMEC had undertaken a number of • Industry groups (International engagement sessions with various of employees surveyed Petroleum Industry Environmental stakeholder groups to gain insights agreed or strongly agreed Conservation Association IPIECA, into their thoughts on sustainability that sustainability is integral National Skills Academy for within the industry, their to the delivery of our projects. Nuclear, Global Compact Network expectations from business and UK and the Nuclear Industry whether our approach resonated association, Confederation of with them. We used this information British industry and Oil and to help shape our management of Step 1 Gas UK); sustainability, and also how and Identification and what we communicate. categorisation of material • Investors (Threadneedle and Universities Superannuation With the acquisition of Foster issues* Scheme, Jupiter Asset Wheeler late 2014, we needed to review our current sustainability An initial list of 45 issues were Management, Walden Asset strategy and goals to better reflect identified relating to Amec Foster Management and Fidelity Asset the new scope of our operations. Wheeler which were categorised into Management); and Working with specialist CSR 13 broad areas, then three umbrella • Customers (BP, Dow Chemicals, and sustainability consultancy, themes: Business, Environment Rio Tinto and EDF). Corporate Citizenship, we undertook and Society. The list was compiled a materiality assessment to identify from previous AMEC and Foster which sustainability issues were Wheeler reports, reporting and most relevant to the new company. communications from peers, Corporate Citizenship’s database of macro-trends and reviews of external standards, media, thought leadership and campaign groups. *Material issues are those which exert significant risk or opportunity for the business Sustainability / Date: 05/15 /Materiality amecfw.com Page 2 of 3 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2015 Fact sheet Materiality Determining our priority areas through materiality assessment and engagement Step 3 The results of the process were 93% Materiality matrix and used to inform the development of our new sustainability priority areas strategy Resilient World and the way in which we have From these engagement sessions structured our sustainability we were able to obtain a ranking of of employees surveyed report communications around importance to provide a clear view of agreed or strongly agreed sustainability. which issues are priorities for both that sustainability is internal and external parties. Throughout the stakeholder fundamental to Amec Foster engagement process all the Wheeler’s long term growth. The results identified five broad issues identified were seen to be theme with highest sustainability of importance to at least some considerations for the business: stakeholders and to Amec Foster Wheeler as a business. We will Step 2 • People; therefore continue to consider Prioritisation of material • Project excellence and innovation; them in terms of initiatives and • Health, Safety and Security; issues • Environmental management; reporting even though they may not be considered to be a high priority • Ethical business practices. The next step was to present these issue overall. issues to a range of internal and external stakeholders in order to rank the thirteen issues identified in order of importance in terms of Lower priority Medium priority People High priority issues issues issues risks, reputation or opportunities Project for Amec Foster Wheeler. Over a six excellence & Health, innovation Safety & week period a series of roundtable security Importance to stakeholders discussions were held with various Responsible Environmental external stakeholder groups sourcing management including industry bodies, investors Local job creation / Ethical and customers, all chosen to capacity business building practices provide a viewpoint from the various Impact on sectors and geographies in which sensitive Climate change Financial habitats we operate. Participants were also adaption & accountability mitigation given the opportunity to discuss any Political Human rights concerns issues that they felt were important & other instability but were not covered by the shortlist of the 13 broad areas. Community investment For our internal stakeholders, our employees, we issued online surveys to 2,000 randomly selected employees across the two legacy Importance to the business organisations, and to the 100 most senior managers, again to obtain a ranking of those issues they felt were most important for the business. In total we received 742 employee and 56 senior management responses. Sustainability / Date: 05/15 /Materiality amecfw.com Page 3 of 3 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2015 Foundation of excellence Sustainability Performance Report 2014 Resilient World Fact sheet Health, Safety, Security Doing the right thing – we put safety first Everyday around the world our employees and those who work with us are working on behalf of our clients. It is a fundamental right of every individual who works with us to undertake “Things do not that work in a healthy, safe and secure way. happen. Things Even though we work in some of the harshest are made to environments undertaking difficult and dangerous happen.” work it is our duty to make sure that work is managed properly and risks are effectively John F Kennedy mitigated. More than just looking after our Policy and framework Health, Safety, Security and people and those who work under Our policy sets out our fundamental the Environment Policy 2015 our control, we have an obligation to pledges to our people, it outlines Purpose of this policy To share and communicate our commitment to a workplace free from harm, through the prevention of injury, ill health, pollution and operational loss. This policy applies take a leadership role wherever we what we believe are the things to all Amec Foster Wheeler global operations wherever they are carried out and is reviewed, and if necessary revised annually, as a minimum. work. According to the International we must do to make our working Labour Organisation (ILO) every environment a healthy, safe and Commitment The Board is responsible for establishing the policy and for monitoring and reviewing overall HSSE year an estimated two million people secure place to work. performance and is committed to the value of ‘Doing the right thing putting safety first’. die from work related accident and We accomplish this through the protection and support of our employees and anyone working with us or affected by our activities, and our commitment to continuous improvement. disease. We can lead by example This is an important statement and, through education and because it underpins the mentoring those with whom we development of our health, safety u Monitoring and verifying our performance to ensure work, we can play our role in To meet our commitment and management approach. It We recognise the right of our workforce to have a that the organisation is fully compliant with its safe and healthy workplace and are committed to standards, requirements and applies the lessons maintaining a strong and sustainable HSSE culture learned across all our operations through: u Deploying the best leadership and management structure required to deliver this policy and to u Implementing effective processes for workforce consultation and engagement at all appropriate levels, on HSSE issues reducing workplace incidents. is regularly both reviewed and ensure a continuous chain of responsibility and approved by our Board. u Ensuring that personnel are trained and competent accountability to carry out their activities u Identifying and controlling the HSSE risks associated u Consulting with our customers, regulators and other from our operational activities stakeholders to promote continuous improvement in u Implementing systems for the management of HSSE, ensuring they are communicated and maintained in accordance with the Amec Foster Wheeler HSSE HSSE performance u Working with our Supply Chain and Partners to We make a healthy, safe and secure See the HSSE policy. deliver world-class HSSE performance to our working environment, it does not Management Framework customers in their operations. u Complying with the applicable HSSE legislative and industry requirements as a minimum u Establishing and monitoring clear HSSE performance objectives that include both leading and lagging indicators Date: 1/2015 happen by itself, it is a living and u Deploying robust processes for the investigation of incidents and capturing lessons learned to prevent similar events occurring Samir Brikho, Chief Executive learning process which evolves with us and it is fundamental to the operation of our business. We recognise this through our company values. Sustainability / Date: 05/15 / HSS Management amecfw.com Page 1 of 3 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2015 Fact sheet Health, Safety, Security Doing the right thing – we put safety first The policy is supported by our health, safety, security and Amec Foster Wheeler HSSE Policy environmental (HSSE) framework (Global) Policy document. This framework sets out Amec Foster Wheeler’s expectations and minimum HSSE standards for HSSE Strategy Delivery (Global) our global operations. It provides Strategies the guiding hand on what we believe should be our absolute HSSE Framework & core standard wherever we operate in Common expectations the world. We know that standards Processes (Global) of health, safety and security are different across the world and we Project Management Plan are committed to upholding our agemen t Security & Emergency Project Man legal obligations. However, where ns Preparadness Plans P la the statutory duty of care to an individual falls short of our own tions, standards, we are committed to s, Instruc Procedure ) and supporting ensuring that we operate to our IFs’ Forms (P ts framework and standards. documen Global applies to all Amec Foster Wheeler business and operations Amec Foster Wheeler operates an integrated health, safety, security and environmental management Assurance system which is based on the Effective mitigation of health, safety and security risks relies on implementing elements of international standards practices and processes that eliminates or effectively controls exposure to and best practice (ISO 14001, hazards to an acceptable level. We have to assure ourselves that measures OHSAS 18001, HSG65). are implemented properly, we do this through our assurance strategy. Our assurance process covers a broad spectrum of risk issues from strategic Mandatory procedures through to operational on-site covering four levels (see below). Our business is far reaching and diverse, it is therefore important As our business and portfolio of operations grows, our profile of HSSE risk that our approach to health, safety evolves with the nature of our acquisition and organic growth into different and security management is flexible regions, countries and industries. enough to recognise industrial norms, processes and best practice. Entity Assurance objective Assurance tools to use However, for some things, such as how we measure and categorise Level Group Provide assurance to the Board • Validation assessment/review 4 that there is a robust HSSE • Statistical monitoring and report incidents we have to do management system in place • Peer review process this consistently throughout the Level Business To validate that Operational • Validation assessment/review business, where this is the case we unit Assurance Plans are effective • Statistical monitoring 3 have a mandatory procedure which and learning is captured in the • Peer review process management system • Performance standard sets out what is required. assessment review Level Ops Develop and implement an • Integrated risk based 2 unit assurance process to give assurance plan confidence to operational • Statistical monitoring management that robust HSSE • Management review management systems are in place to protect people and the environment Level Project To undertake assurance processes • Agree risk based audit schedule 1 which seek to confirm that the • Management review HSSE management system is • Recording & reporting to OU in place and working effectively • Inspections in managing HSSE risks on the • Investigations project • Integrated focused audits • Recording & reporting incidents Sustainability / Date: 05/15 / HSS Management amecfw.com Page 2 of 3 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2015 Fact sheet Health, Safety, Security Doing the right thing – we put safety first 2015 Journey Plan 3 HSSE Accountability Both AMEC and Foster Wheeler One of the mainstays of our have a rich history of great HSSE improvement efforts over the years performance. Our plan for 2015 is has been leadership in HSSE. This about consolidation, establishing will not change and we have plans “Occupational health to further strengthen this during where we are on our journey and and safety measures can being able to visualise where 2015, with new modular training only deliver to their full we would like to be as Amec and awareness for our supervisors. potential if they have the Foster Wheeler. They are the people on the front line who are managing real-time unequivocal commitment Our Beyond Zero program will sit risk and to a large extent set the of an organisation’s board at the heart of this new vision. It culture of HSSE on site. We will and senior management. will contain best practice tools, also be providing coaching and techniques and standards that will stress testing to our leadership to High-level management, drive a refreshed HSSE agenda ensure they are discharging their not just line management which will deliver class leading responsibilities visibly and fully. or specialises, must protection from harm for our people, be directly involved our assets, our environment and 4 Risk Management our customers. We use risk management techniques in implementing OSH to identify hazards, consider risks policies” Our journey plan for 2015 is about associated with those hazards and consolidating best practice from then quantify those by looking at Leadership and occupational both AMEC and Foster Wheeler, and the likelihood and consequence of safety and health, EU-OSHA 2012 also establishing where we are on the risk materialising. The output our journey. Our objectives for 2015 is to communicate and educate reflect this and are described below; those involved in managing the risk. The better we perform our hazard 1 Performance Standard analysis and risk assessment, the Leadership for safety Implementation better results we will achieve. In 2014 Our leaders are imperative in We have a recognised and proven risk management, and in particular shaping the culture and climate of tool for ensuring that our minimum risk assessment, was frequently the working environment as they HSSE standards are in place across at the root cause of our incidents. provide direction and vision to our businesses and projects. We will We must ensure that we don’t the company. reassess our operations as Amec repeat this in 2015 and beyond. Our Foster Wheeler to make sure we business units created a risk based We have a management team level are living up to those standards, by program to establish risk registers HSSE Review Committee chaired by undertaking a performance standard at operating unit and/or high risk the Chief Executive. The committee mapping exercise against the HSSE projects, creating a clear view as supports the Board in its corporate Framework for core expectations. to where and what level of HSSE governance role and is responsible risks are carried in the business. for setting Policy, examining HSSE 2 Beyond Zero refresh These registers will be utilised in our risk, setting performance targets Beyond Zero and Realizing Zero assurance processes and will aid and reviewing performance. This were the names of the AMEC and the transfer of best practice across committee meets twice a year. Foster Wheeler HSSE programs. Amec Foster Wheeler. Both have complementary features Overview of HSSE at board level and some overlaps, but we will take We will track our progress against is provided regularly by the Chief the opportunity now to look for best this plan, as well as our lagging Executive and is regularly discussed practice and determine what can be HSSE indicators throughout the at board meetings. The Amec consolidated, refreshed and used year, which will be reviewed at the Foster Wheeler board have raised going forward. We will launch the Chief Executive’s HSSE Review the required level of engagement new material and overall program Committee. in this area, and will form a new during 2015. committee of the board to consider HSSE matter more fully. This new committee will be implemented in 2015. Sustainability / Date: 05/15 / HSS Management amecfw.com Page 3 of 3 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2015 Case study Healthy working lives programme receives bronze award Our qedi office in Aberdeen was awarded a Bronze Award for Healthy Working Lives (HWL) in August 2014. This is a Scottish Government award programme for employers which aims to improve lifestyles in the workplace in a practical, logical way that is beneficial for everyone. The Health Action Plan was developed as a part of qedi’s move to developing a planned and integrated approach to improving health, safety and wellbeing at work. The Health Action Plan included a series of monthly workplace health improvement activities and information campaigns to increase employees’ awareness of how their health, safety and wellbeing affects their work. As a part of the Health Action Plan, a number of volunteering and fundraising events were organised including: Volunteering Fundraising Learning session Aberdeen Beach Cleanup & Race for Life qedi employees Mental Health Raising awareness Aberdeen Torry Battery Cleanup participated in the Race for Life and understanding of mental As a part of our initiative to give raising £3,367.20 for Cancer health issues. Two qedi employees back to our communities, we have Research UK attended Mentally Healthy selected several volunteers for two Workplace Training developed by group events to help clean up our Ovarian Cancer Awareness Month the Scottish Centre for Healthy city and surrounding areas. -Raising awareness and selling heart Working Lives in partnership pins on behalf of the Eve Appeal with the Scottish Development £163.65 raised for the charity Centre for Mental Health (www. (https://www.eveappeal.org.uk/). healthyworkinglives.com) We also had a guest speaker from Cancer Research UK. Fit in ‘14 As a part of qedi’s Physical Activity Awareness Week, daily tips on different ways of getting active at work were sent out. In addition, qedi’s first running club was established (www.fitin14.org). Sustainability / Date: 05/15 / Healthy working lives amecfw.com Page 1 of 1 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2015 Case study Employee well-being Balanced – Body and Mind Wellbeing booklet The HSSE team in our Brownfield and Asset Management operating unit in Aberdeen has developed a health and well-being booklet to be used as portable guide to physical and mental well-being for employees. The booklet covers a variety of Occupational Health Manager Dr. Joan Patterson came up with the idea topics including: calculating your and engaged with Struan Robertson, and Gabriela Jankowska. Using daily nutritional requirements, their previous backgrounds Struan provided input for the exercise and basic relaxation techniques, dealing nutrition part, whilst Gabriela focused on the mental wellbeing and stress with the effects of stress, tips for management. staying hydrated and advice on sleep hygiene. It also provides helpful hints Dr. Joan Patterson, Occupational Health Manager commented on the about how small changes in your booklet saying: lifestyle can lead to short-term and longer-term improvements in your wellbeing. “In Amec Foster Wheeler we are committed to excellence and innovation in occupational health. We aim to deliver real, measurable results and we believe this is a step towards achieving this goal. The manual has tips on exercise, relaxation, healthy eating and how to make sure you get a good night’s sleep – all to help achieve a balanced body and mind.” Sustainability / Date: 05/15 / Empoloyee well-being amecfw.com Page 1 of 1 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2015 Fact sheet Health, Safety, Security Performance 2014 Please note that AMEC completed the purchase of Foster Wheeler on 13 November 2014, therefore the data presented in this factsheet relates to the performance of AMEC unless otherwise stated. Health, safety & security performance We use a number of performance indicators across our business and we use the Global Reporting Initiative to identify those indicators of most value to our audience. We have presented a summary of the information we collate about our yearly performance in this fact sheet. Detailed performance summary AMEC 2014 Total hours worked Fatality LTUI Total All injury Lost Time Total All injury recordable incidents Injury Rate Recordable rate (AIFR) cases (LTIF) Incident Rate (TRIFR) 23,056,379 0 3 34 155 0.026 0.29 1.62 1.34 Americas 26,924,380 0 5 52 218 0.037 0.39 3,868,001 0 2 18 63 0.103 0.93 3.26 20,505,776 0 10 28 121 0.098 0.27 1.36 1.18 Europe 23,303,268 0 11 33 159 0.094 0.28 2,797,496 0 1 5 38 0.071 0.36 2.72 Growth 11,861,540 0 3 10 39 0.051 0.17 1.62 0.66 27,391,425 0 6 32 222 0.044 0.23 Regions 15,529,885 0 3 22 183 0.039 0.28 2.36 56,080,303 0 16 72 315 0.057 0.26 1.53 1.12 Total* 78,275,682 0 22 117 599 0.056 0.30 22,195,379 0 6 45 284 0.054 0.41 2.56 *Figures for Corporate are included in the total but not shown separately Figures in blue relate to AMEC employees Figures in green relate to contractors working under our supervision Figures in white relate to the total AMEC employees plus contractors working under our supervision. Sustainability / Date: 05/15 / HSS Performance 2014 amecfw.com Page 1 of 6 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2015 Fact sheet Health, Safety, Security Performance 2014 Lost time injuries (LTI) In 2014 we set ourselves a group Management, as identified in the A lost time injury is described in our target rate of 0.23 compared to our 2015 HSSE Journey Plan – described reporting procedure as any non-fatal performance of 0.30, so we did not in more detail within the HSSE traumatic injury that causes any loss achieve our target improvement and management section. of time from work beyond the day performance was 15% worse than or shift it occurred; or a non-fatal the previous year. non-traumatic illness/disease that Confucius said: causes disability at any time. All injury rate “If I am walking with two AMEC has for a number of years In total AMEC reported 22 LTIs tracked the rate of all injuries across other men, each of them during 2014 of which 6 were suffered our organisation, unlike LTIR and will serve as my teacher. TRFR this is not a rate that our by contractors working under our I will pick out the good supervision. Our target for 2014 peers routinely track and trend. was zero which we did not achieve, This statistical group contains points of the one and in fact our performance was 47% information on any incident which imitate them, and the bad worse than the previous year with resulted in an injury, it differs from points of the other and an incident frequency rate of 0.056 recordable cases because it also per 200,000 man-hours worked. includes minor first aid injuries. correct them in myself”. We have analysed the incident data for trends in this area, and there In total AMEC reported 599 injury were no specific spikes found in root cases during the year of which causes, geographies or projects. 284 were suffered by contractors This approach can be applied to our 2015 will see the launch of the new working under our supervision. HSSE – we need to build on our past HSSE journey plan which is aimed excellence and learn from mistakes, to re-focus attention across the We also use data to calculate an All adjusting our performance along the whole business. To kick this off a Injury Rate, it is calculated by the way, avoiding them in the future. “safe start” initiative was launched sum of all injury cases multiplied by at the beginning of 2015 to ensure 200,000 and divided by the number Benchmarking every employee is aware of our of hours worked over a rolling Each year we benchmark ourselves performance and also what we need 12 month period. In 2014 we set against our peers and the industry to do to improve. ourselves a group target rate of 1.40 as a whole using both lost time compared to our performance of incident and total recordable Total recordable cases 1.53, so we did not achieve our target incident rates which are calculated Recordable cases include all injuries improvement, however performance by the total number of cases excluding minor first aid cases. was 8% better than the previous multiplied by 200,000 and divided So an injury resulting in medical year. by the number of hours worked treatment, restricted duties, lost over a rolling 12 month period. time or a fatality would be included The table below shows the latest Overall, our HSSE record was not as in this group. OSHA statistics available along good as we wanted it to be in 2014. with AMEC’s 2014 performance. We As part of the recent combination In total AMEC reported 117 continue to compare well in both with Foster Wheeler we have a clear recordable cases during the year areas against this group. opportunity to address this, we have of which 45 were suffered by reviewed our performance and will contractors working under our focus on several key areas to include supervision. HSSE accountability and Risk OSHA benchmarks 2013 Professional Construction All Industry AMEC 2014 & Business Services TRCFR (per 200,000 manhours) 1.6 3.8 3.5 0.30 LTIFR (per 200,000 manhours) 0.5 1.5 1.1 0.06 Sustainability / Date: 05/15 / HSS Performance 2014 amecfw.com Page 2 of 6 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2015 Fact sheet Health, Safety, Security Performance 2014 Occupational Health Americas Europe Growth Other (group An occupational health case is regions centre, investment described in our reporting procedure services) as one which causes physiological Employee 0 2 0 0 harm or loss of capacity produced by systematic infection; continued or Contractor 0 1 0 0 repeated stress or strain; exposure Total 0 3 0 0 to toxins, poisons, fumes, etc. or other continued and repeated exposures to conditions of the work Occupational Health Rates environment over a period of time. During 2014 we had three 0.02 0.05 0.06 0.02 0.01 occupational health cases reported across the business of which one related to contractors working under our supervision. These cases involved one migraine, one case of heat exhaustion and one possible Carpal Tunnel Syndrome (CTS). We describe occupational health cases in two distinctive categories: • Those which we can identify a workplace root cause for example exposure to a substance resulting in occupational dermatitis; and • Those where the root cause may 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 not be apparent or related to repeated exposure in multiple work environments for example chronic exposure to vibrating hand Incident investigation and trending held tools resulting in capillary or All incidents are subject to the requirements of our incident reporting and sensory damage of the hand. recording procedure and the associated investigation process. Every incident is classified and recorded in our incident management database (Trackwise) The categorisation assists us in and remedial actions are tracked to close-out. As part of this process, reviewing these incidents and each incident is given a rating which focuses on potential consequences. informs our investigations into This means that we manage to capture many valuable lessons that might effectiveness of mitigation measures otherwise get missed if we only focused on actual outcome. All incidents for acute and chronic occupational that are given a ‘high potential’ classification are subject to review by senior health hazards. management at an incident review panel. All incidents are subject to incident investigation and, using the Trackwise system, we can monitor investigations’ findings to see whether there are any common causes of incidents. Of the 937 injury, security and near miss incidents recorded during the year, 33 were categorised as high potential of which 21 were attributed to our contractors. Americas Europe Growth Other (group regions centre, investment services) Employee 3 8 1 0 Contractor 6 2 13 0 Total 9 10 14 0 Sustainability / Date: 05/15 / HSS Performance 2014 amecfw.com Page 3 of 6 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2015 Fact sheet Health, Safety, Security Performance 2014 We also use data to calculate a High potential Americas Europe Growth Other (group high potential incident rate which regions centre, investment is calculated by the sum of all high incident rate services) potential incidents multiplied by 200,000 and divided by the number Employee 0.03 0.08 0.02 0 of hours worked over a rolling 12 Contractor 0.31 0.14 0.17 0 month period. Our rate for high Total 0.07 0.09 0.10 0 potential incidents in 2014 was 0.08 compared to 0.16 in 2013. High potential incident category 7 4 4 3 3 2 2 2 2 2 1 ct t er rike at w tion Stru n ty ht n bje c atio atio o bje O th ork tr i c i h eig le s t io la ck / ng o tr a v io l v io l aps by som pped ll i n g ele c rom c ab in g ng v ed / ig h t ace ove ething f a ll i d/fa D riv Lif ti live Fall HV f k by r tu r t he d to d sp ppe ned ng a fine Stru os e Dro c c o ll Wor E xp C on ki Regulatory record 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 There were zero prosecutions 0 0 1 2 0 0 during 2014. Sustainability / Date: 05/15 / HSS Performance 2014 amecfw.com Page 4 of 6 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2015 Fact sheet Health, Safety, Security Performance 2014 Root causes of incidents in 2014 Reviewing the 2014 incident data, there continues to be the common themes of risk management and behaviour running through the root analysis on our incidents. We have used this information to inform our 2015 HSSE journey which is described in more detail within the HSSE management factsheet. I-Physical capabiltiy Total Recordable 1% J-Physical condition 4% L-Mental stress 2% 1% 2% M-Behaviour 22% N-Skill level 20% O-Competence/Training/Knowledge transfer P-Safety leadership R-Engineering/Design/Commissioning S-Planning 7% 3% T-Materials 9% U-Work equipment 7% 2% V-Standards & processes 9% 2% 1% 7% W-Communication X-Risk management Y-Learning from experience All Injury M-Behaviour Z-Monitor & review N-Skill level 20% O-Competence/Training/Knowledge transfer 35% R-Engineering/Design/Commissioning 5% S-Planning 6% T-Materials 3% U-Work equipment 3% 4% V-Standards & processes 8% 6% 10% W-Communication X-Risk management I-Physical capabiltiy Lost Time Incident J-Physical condition 3% 3% 3% 3% L-Mental stress 19% M-Behaviour 13% O-Competence/Training/Knowledge transfer P-Safety leadership 7% R-Engineering/Design/Commissioning 10% S-Planning 7% U-Work equipment 3% 3% V-Standards & processes 7% W-Communication 19% X-Risk management Y-Learning from experience Sustainability / Date: 05/15 / HSS Performance 2014 amecfw.com Page 5 of 6 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2015 Fact sheet Health, Safety, Security Performance 2014 Foster Wheeler Group performance The following information pertains to the Foster Wheeler part of the business; this is data obtained from their incident reporting tool. Total hours Fatality LTI Total All Injury All Injury Total Lost Time worked Recordable Incidents Rate Recordable Injury Rate Cases Incident Rate GPG 6,762,572 0 5 18 111 3.28 0.53 0.148 E&C 67,105,026 0 6 33 234 0.70 0.10 0.018 FW AG 64,259 0 0 0 0 0.00 0.00 0.00 Total 73,931,857 0 11 51 345 0.93 0.14 0.030 Sustainability / Date: 05/15 / HSS Performance 2014 amecfw.com Page 6 of 6 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2015 Fact sheet Health, Safety, Security Spotlight on security As AMEC and Foster Wheeler combine businesses and projects as one new company, we also combine resources to manage the risks more effectively. There are new geographies, particularly along the Asia Pacific Rim and parts of South America, new operating units and new kinds of projects. With the new operating model and business structure, the group security function has recalibrated its existing systems and processes to reflect the new business entity and the new global risk environment. Spotlight on security In late 2014, preparation began to Political violence and instability, In 2011 AMEC put in place a integrate both AMEC and Foster potential terrorist activity, and network of regional security Wheeler by concentrating our organised crime dominate our watch advisors and, coupled with the focus on the most critical security list as the main threats Amec Foster embedded business security needs facing our high* and split Wheeler must assess and mitigate managers, a spread of what we risk** countries. Companyagainst. Protest activities against called ‘security focal points’. The wide risk assessments indicate nuclear energy or fracking, potential system was designed to ensure that that emergency preparedness, flashpoints about land ownership AMEC approached security risk travel security for employees and and access to natural resources, and management from both strategic / alignment with the wider initiatives resource based conflict are the kinds developmental and grass-roots/ of the HSSE function are core of new threats that group security tactical levels. Between 2012 and areas for us to focus on as we move will also address as part of the risk 2013, risk mitigation and security towards building the nuanced, assessment and management we awareness processes and outputs resilient security function that carry out for Amec Foster Wheeler. were embedded across AMEC, these the new company requires in the We will continue to work hard to ranged from the global security more dynamic, complex security protect our people as they travel standard and online security environment it faces. and work on behalf of the company awareness programmes for travel and to assist our operating units and information protection, to Current risk focus and businesses navigate the risks bespoke and dedicated project Geographically, we will continue to inherent in doing business around security support in our highest risk focus on events in the Middle East the globe. locations such as Afghanistan, Iraq, and Gulf States, South America Libya and Peru. and the Asia Pacific Rim, where Amec Foster Wheeler is conducting business in complex, dynamic security environments. Sustainability / Date: 05/15 / HSS Management amecfw.com Page 1 of 2 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2015 Fact sheet Health, Safety, Security Spotlight on security Looking forward In 2014, group security undertook a strategic level risk mapping exercise As part of the integration to Amec to assess what kinds of risks the company faces and how they are being Foster Wheeler, in 2015 group managed. In 2015 we will expand that risk mapping, and in line with the security will focus on: HSSE Roadmap, work to assist each business unit, operational unit and project to complete a unique risk register which accurately reflects the • Core expectations – do we meet risks of their operating environment. This gives Amec Foster Wheeler four the standards we have set for levels of risk register – Group plc, business unit, operating unit and project ourselves in terms of protecting – resulting in a comprehensive profile of our risk environment. With this Amec Foster Wheeler and its deeper understanding of the risks and how the company is responding people, assets and operations? at different levels, group security will calibrate security provision and preparedness to meet the challenges ahead and to keep Amec Foster Wheeler resilient and adaptable regardless of how the global security • Emergency preparedness – environment evolves in the future. can we effectively deal with an emergency situation everywhere we work? Performance To ensure that we monitor our performance in this area and are able to look for trends we track the number of security incidents across our business. • Travel security – are we fulfilling We define a security incident as any incident which occurs resulting in our duty of care to our employees physical, criminal or intellectual security breaches. as they travel on behalf of the company? In 2014 AMEC reported 19 security incidents during the year, of which four were attributed to contractors working under our supervision. Number of security incidents Americas Europe Growth regions Other (group centre, investment services) Employee 9 4 2 0 Contractor 0 0 4 0 Total 9 4 6 0 We also use data to calculate a security incident rate which is calculated by the sum of all security incident cases multiplied by 200,000 and divided by the number of hours worked over a rolling 12 month period. Security incident rate Americas Europe Growth regions Other (group centre, investment services) Employee 0.08 0.04 0.03 0 Contractor 0 0 0.05 0 Total 0.07 0.03 0.04 0 Our rate for security incidents in 2014 was 0.05 compared to 0.09 in 2013. Stats drawn from AMEC Trackwise only. * High risk country Conditions present a serious and persistent challenge to business and personnel. High risk rated countries require full security approval for all forms of business travel, full commercial review board processes, and close interaction with Group Security during business planning or assessment. ** Split risk country Aspects of the country present risk and security challenges similar to that of extreme or high risk countries but these are contained and do not extend throughout the whole country. Challenges to business and operations may vary. Split risk rated countries require full or partial travel approvals for business travel, and interaction with Group Security during business planning or assessment. Sustainability / Date: 05/15 / HSS Management amecfw.com Page 2 of 2 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2015 Fact sheet Environmental management and performance “Companies with innovative business models that have integrated sustainability into their core strategies are growing fast, on average, at a rate of “Environmental 15 per cent a year, at a time when their respective management markets have remained flat.” matters to Amec UNEP Deputy Executive Director at the 1st Dubai International Forum Foster Wheeler.” on Sustainable Lifestyles Our business and many like it Much of our work we do for clients Managing our help to shape the world around us has the potential for significant through the services we offer. We environmental consequences. environmental have an ever increasing portfolio of services which focus on the markets Ensuring that we manage our environmental aspects is imperative aspects of tomorrow – but the services to the sustainability of our business. Amec Foster Wheeler has adopted are only useful to us when they are Every client demands that we an integrated Health, Safety, procured by our clients. When oil carefully manage environmental Security and Environmental (HSSE) prices are low, securing investment risks associated with executing our management approach which draws in renewable technologies is projects and doing more with less on the elements of ISO 14001 with challenging, however we continue to enables us to minimise wastage. the European part of the business invest in our clean energy business benefiting from ISO certification. because we believe that we need to Meeting statutory minimums is Compliance with the standard is provide the world with post-carbon not the answer, although it may required as a part of our mandatory solutions now. form part of our basic fundamental framework although third party principles. Being a business that certification is not, unless there is Adding to the business case contributes to global sustainability a business need to do so. for excellence in environmental by offering services which seek management is the fact that to protect and enhance our environmental & infrastructure environment is, by far, a key services is a significant part of aspiration. Amec Foster Wheeler’s business, representing 10% of our total global turnover. Sustainability / Date: 05/15 / Environmental management & performance amecfw.com Page 1 of 3 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2015 Fact sheet Environmental management and performance Policy and framework Our HSSE policy sets out our key Amec Foster Wheeler HSSE Policy (Global) environmental aims and objectives Policy as a responsible business, many of our aims and objectives are combined health, safety and security HSSE Strategy Delivery (Global) as well as environmental. See our Strategies HSSE policy. HSSE Framework & core Our policy is an important Common expectations document because it underpins the Processes (Global) development of our environmental management approach. It is such an Project Management Plan important policy that our Board of agemen t Security & Emergency Project Man Directors regularly review and must Preparadness Plans P la ns approve it. tions, s, Instruc The policy is supported by our Procedure ) and supporting IFs’ health, safety, security and Forms (P ts environmental (HSSE) framework documen Global applies to all Amec Foster Wheeler document. This sets out Amec business and operations Foster Wheeler’s expectations and minimum environmental standards for our global operations. It The Environmental provides the guiding hand on what Standards is a live and we believe should be our absolute evolving document, standard wherever we operate in containing learning and the world. We know that standards best practice from across of environmental management are our group of companies. different across the world and we The objective of the are committed to upholding our standards is to provide legal obligations. However, where consistency across our the statutory duty of care to the operations which protects environment falls short of our own and enhances our standards, we are committed to reputation and minimises ensuring that we operate to our environmental risks. framework and standards. The standards form Environmental core part of our Beyond Zero expectation roadmap and tool kit, The HSSE framework established you can find out more 15 core expectations of our HSSE about this, mandatory management systems, and contains procedures and our environmental expectations for environmental assurance the business. This core expectation in “Managing Health, references compliance with the Safety and Security” company Environmental Standards. section. Sustainability / Date: 05/15 / Environmental management & performance amecfw.com Page 2 of 3 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2015 Fact sheet Environmental management and performance Environmental performance – spills, incidents and releases Please note that AMEC completed the purchase of Foster Wheeler on 13 November 2014, therefore the data presented in this factsheet related to the performance of AMEC unless otherwise stated. All significant environmental incidents are recorded, reported and investigated utilising AMEC’s global incident management tool. Significance is assigned using a potential rating system. Only incidents which had no potential to do environmental harm would not be recorded in this tool. 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 EIFR* 0.13 0.23 0.23 0.47 0.46 0.94 No. recorded incidents 51 87 99 179 160 333 Of which were spills 50 71 78 175 Total volume of spill 301,922 3,314 4,529 7,150 (litres) *Environmental Incident Frequency Rate (per 200,000 hours worked) Our environmental incident frequency rate continued to fall in 2014, along with a drop of 36 incidents recorded in comparison 10% 6% 2% to the previous year. However, the total volume of spilt materials rose Chemical considerably. This was the result of a single incident in Namibia where a Debris dam liner failed due to a faulty brace 24% Fuel / anchor, spilling 300,000 litres of treated sewage water into the Grey Water surroundings. The figure on the right 36% shows a breakdown of the number of Hydraulic oil recorded spills by type during 2014. Other 22% Environmental regulatory 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 record 0 0 0 2 0 0 There were zero prosecutions during 2014. Sustainability / Date: 05/15 / Environmental management & performance amecfw.com Page 3 of 3 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2015 Fact sheet Minimising resource use The world is experiencing growing energy demand, climate change, increasing resource scarcity and changing environmental regulation. Consequently “Environmental energy use and water security are key issues for management Amec Foster Wheeler, and indeed our clients. matters to Amec Foster Wheeler.” We work to minimise resource use In 2014 we began to roll out a global See our case study of the in the projects we deliver for our office efficiency programme, which programme which was rolled out customers, see our case studies looks at the efficiency of our offices across our America’s offices in for examples of where we’ve from the outset when we procure 2014. In 2015 we plan to roll out the demonstrated our environmental new office space, and also within our programme globally by introducing management capability for further existing office environments. Our office profiles within our carbon information. new office efficiency programme reporting software. Completion rates office locations against 5 sets of an office 5 star profile, and the Of course, we also work to minimise of criteria (building infrastructure, development of an improvement resource use in our own operations. building operation, energy plan based on the result of this are management and performance requirements of the 2015 office Energy and heating improvement, efficient occupancy, sustainability promises programme management water efficiency), with the office and will be monitored moving Our energy and heating being an awarded a star rating per forward. consumption is associated mainly set should the criteria be met, with with our office locations and building the intention of moving our office utility and includes our electricity, stock closer to 5 star efficiency natural gas, heating oil, steam and across the board. generator fuel. We manage energy and heating at a local level with the office / site using our environmental management systems, our environmental standards and also office sustainability programmes. Sustainability / Date: 05/15 / Minimising resource use amecfw.com Page 1 of 3 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2015 Fact sheet Minimising resource use Energy performance Global annual fuel and energy consumption (Mwh) & intensity We have seen an increase in the Emission (mWh) 2014 2013 emissions associated with the Heating Oil 51 12 heating of our offices during 2014. For the first time, our Americas Natural Gas 29,141 27,047 offices have been able to track and Total Heating report actual usage of natural gas 29,192 27,059 Energy instead of estimated data, this has led to a slight rise in natural gas Electricity 69,478 68,178 usage being reported. We will be Generator Fuel 11,381 14,607 able to set targets and implement Steam 970 873 reduction plans for this region now that the transparency of this Total energy 81,828 83,658 information has improved. Total 111,020 110,717 Our energy consumption overall has 120,000 reduced, this is due to the continued reduction in use of generator fuel in 100,000 projects in Europe, as they come to a Mwh (‘000) close. The electricity associated with 80,000 our offices has however increased slightly overall, this is largely due to an increase of almost 2,000 tonnes 60,000 associated with the electricity use in our America’s offices. On 40,000 analysis, this increase is thought to be because the total office 20,000 space in the America’s increased by approximately 5% during the 0 year. Also the carbon intensity of electricity production (or grid 2014 2013 emission factor) in Canada and Natural Gas Generator Fuel Electricity the US increased on average by Steam Heating Oil almost 4%. Our absolute usage will increase considerably in 2015 following the Mwh per employee Mwh per £m turnover acquisition of the Foster Wheeler 5.0 35.0 business and its inclusion within the 2015 footprint. It is the intention 30.0 40. to use 2015 as the baseline year 25.0 moving forward because of the lack of historical data within the Foster 3.0 4.1 29.9 3.9 20.0 27.9 Wheeler business to enable any historical trending of usage. The 2.0 15.0 emissions of the new Global Power Group business unit will be reported 10.0 separately due to the differences 1.0 5.0 and volumes associated with this business. 0.0 0.0 2014 2013 2014 2013 Sustainability / Date: 05/15 / Minimising resource use amecfw.com Page 2 of 3 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2015 Fact sheet Minimising resource use We also measure our energy This year, we have seen a decrease intensity by employee (average full in our water consumption, this can time equivalent employee), and also be attributed to the use of real usage by turnover (per £million). data where it is available, and also In both cases we have seen an the consolidation of a number of increase in 2014 in comparison office locations. We will continue to 2013. There have been small to review our own water usage and increases in both electricity and gas plan to roll out a water awareness emissions for reasons explained. These increases, along with the 418,229m³ programme moving forwards. slightly reduced employee numbers and turnover for 2014, has resulted direct water Externally, we will continue to support our clients to assess and in increased energy intensity. We hope with the continued focus on consolidation of office space to consumption manage business water risks, this is where Amec Foster Wheeler can make the biggest positive impact ensure efficiency in this area, as well with our water experts within the as the roll out and implementation business. See our case studies for of the office 5 star efficiency some specific examples. programme we will begin to see this intensity level begin to reduce, although the inclusion of this Foster Wheeler business for 2015 will Water consumption by country (m³/year calculated) likely have an effect on the overall 500,000 intensity levels. 450,000 Water management We began to review our direct water usage and risk in 2012 where we 400,000 reviewed our permanent locations and assessed their exposure, we 350,000 Other continued our work in this area and assigned priority levels to each of Chile our offices based on water stress 300,000 risk and usage. Using this priority Australia listing, in 2014 we launched a pilot 250,000 UK water consumption improvement program within our top priority Canada sites in the Americas to better 200,000 quantify water usage so that best USA management practices could be 150,000 identified. See case study for more information on the pilot. 100,000 We continue to calculate water data based on country-specific 50,000 benchmark water consumption figures, a dataset of office locations 0 and size, and actual water usage data where available. The graph below shows our total water 2014 2013 consumption split by those countries that contribute the most. Sustainability / Date: 05/15 / Minimising resource use amecfw.com Page 3 of 3 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2015 Case study Americas water pilot In 2014, we launched a pilot water consumption improvement programme in our top priority offices in the Americas. The western US was chosen based on a global water risk assessment that showed 10 of Amec Foster Wheeler’s 25 priority risk locations are within this region. Data was collected using an online survey from 22 offices and included Domestic water usage information on building use (single, multi-tenant or laboratory), current 21% types of water uses (irrigation, Lavatory faucets vehicle washing, evaporative cooling), and detailed information on Urinals fixtures. Fixture data was gathered for faucets, toilets, and urinals, and Toilets 17% included the number and flow rate of 62% each fixture. Calculating water consumption Guidance and methodology for calculating water usage across Most existing fixtures within offices • High efficiency toilets (HETs). the offices was adapted from the surveyed were conventional fixtures, Also known as ultra low-flow WATERGY programme, developed and potential water conservation toilets such as dual flush and by the US Department of Energy’s opportunities were evaluated by pressure assist toilets use 1.28 Federal Emergency Management calculating the potential savings to gallons per flush, 20% less than programme. Utility rates were taken be achieved if current fixtures were a standard 1.6 gallon per flush from bills provided where available replaced with low–flow fixtures. toilet or estimated from service providers • Ultra low-flow urinals. Use 0.125 in each office location. An economic analysis was gallons per flush which is 87% completed by comparing the less water than standard urinals. The pie chart shown summarizes water and energy savings with the • Faucet aerators. Low-flow the estimated breakdown of current installation cost for each type faucet aerators are inexpensive domestic water use across all offices of fixture. attachments to water faucets included in the water pilot. As shown that limit the flow rate to 0.5 in the chart, toilets account for 62% Some of the water conservation gallons per minute which is of the domestic usage, followed by fixtures evaluated include: 75% less than the 2 gallons per lavatory faucets and urinals at 21% minute faucet fixtures typically and 17%, respectively. have in place. Sustainability / Date: 05/15 / Americas water pilot amecfw.com Page 1 of 2 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2015 Americas water pilot Potential savings Projected domestic water savings m³ Implementation of all of the above would result in a reduction of approximately 43% of water use, or 6,000 5,346 3,046 m³, across the pilot offices. Replacement of toilets and urinals 5,000 4,523 typically did not provide a favourable economic payback, due to the relatively high cost of these fixtures. However, replacement of faucet 4,000 aerators would return the initial 3,045 investment in just over one year, on average, and would result in savings 3,000 of approximately 15% of the total domestic water use. 2,000 Next steps We will look at expanding the water 1,000 pilot outside of the Western US, and also look at irrigation use across our locations. Offices with irrigation 0 usage account for a large proportion of water use in certain offices, often exceeding domestic usage by five Current usage Savings Savings times or more. (All conservation (Only faucet opportunities) aerators) Sustainability / Date: 05/15 / Americas water pilot amecfw.com Page 2 of 2 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2015 Case study JouleX In 2012 we started to roll out the JouleX power management system throughout legacy Amec as part of our carbon reduction strategy. ‘In 2014 the JouleX software has saved >572 tonnes legacy AMEC the of CO2e saved from equivalent CO2e of flying around the world global footprint in Premium Economy The software allows us to monitor This is a substantial saving, and almost 60 times’ and reduce both the energy and would cover the carbon produced costs associated with powering from heating and light at all our our networked equipment such as legacy AMEC offices within Europe computers, laptops, printers and for just under a month. (Note: based some phones. This roll out continued on electricity and gas consumption throughout 2013 and by 2014 our during 2014 covering around 120 entire legacy AMEC operations were locations.) covered, around 17,000 devices. We are now able to see the results of implementing the JouleX software across the globe. During 2014 legacy AMEC saved over 572 tonnes of CO2e from their global footprint thanks to the JouleX software. This equates to flying around the world in Premium Economy almost 60 times. Sustainability / Date: 05/15 / Joulex amecfw.com Page 1 of 1 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2015 Case study Saving paper without lifting a finger In September 2013, we replaced the majority our multi-functional devices (MFDS) which print, copy, scan and fax across our UK offices with more efficient printing devices from Toshiba. The new fleet of devices, which feature in Toshiba’s Carbon Zero programme, and are verified to a Gold Standard, are designed to allow for greater efficiency and management of how we print. These printers are all installed with the ‘follow me’ printing function aimed at reducing the amount of paper wasted from unnecessary printing of documents, by only printing the document once the employee has confirmed the selection at the printer. This has led 1,876,016 626,441 1,249,575 to two significant benefits: Pages not wasted Colour pages Greyscale pages CO2 • A reduction in the number of documents which are left at printers, reducing waste throughout the year; and • Improved security, utilising staff security passes to ensure that only the employee that 5,884.6kg 16.24 370,510.8 has printed the document can saved trees saved bulb hours collect it. delivering real time quantifiable data environmental impact on a daily In addition to ‘follow me’ print, including Kwh consumption, CO2 basis. This allows us to communicate we are also utilising the PaperCut emissions and tree consumption. to staff our environmental software across all computers and performance and how they can laptops, allowing us to manage This allows central visibility of all contribute to this as part of our our printers, collect data and print activity and regular usage wider sustainability strategy. identify potential inefficiencies and monitoring across our offices and opportunities for improvements. operating units. The PaperCut Our report for 2014 shows how Through PaperCut we are able to desktop widget installed on all much paper we’ve sent to a printer, monitor our performance by device, laptops and office computers also but not actually printed off – prints location or user and produce various provides access for all employees which, in the past, would have been reports monitoring usage and costs to monitor their printing patterns abandoned on the printer and as well as environmental impact, and track their paper cost and then binned. Sustainability / Date: 05/15 / Saving paper amecfw.com Page 1 of 1 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2015 Fact sheet Carbon mangement and performance Carbon management What we include in our carbon footprint AMEC’s carbon strategy was first published in 2008 to guide our efforts to reduce our global carbon footprint Emissions Source 2014 2013 through a series of four strategic milestones. 2013 Absolute (tCO2e) marked the first of our milestones: 15% reduction against our 2008 baseline year which we achieved. Scope 1 Company Car 16,009 20,397 • 15 percent reduction in CO2e by 2015 Achieved • 0 per cent reduction in CO2e by 2020 Generator Fuel 2,833 3,622 • 60 per cent reduction in CO2e by 2030 Heating Oil 14 3 • 80 per cent reduction in CO2e by 2050 Natural Gas 5,271 4,842 We report our scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions within our Total Scope 1 emissions 24,126 28,863 organisational boundary as set out within the adjacent table, using an operational control approach. Scope 2 Electricity (grid average 34,397 32,226 Since we began measuring and reporting our carbon electricity) footprint there have been significant changes to the business in terms of acquisition and divestment, and Total Scope 1 +2 emissions 58,523 61,089 considerable improvements to our data collection and Scope 3 reporting process and tools. We continue to review and improve the robustness of our carbon reporting where Air travel (short haul) 6,106 7,011 possible to improve the transparency through which we Air travel (long haul) 10,075 11,441 report our carbon footprint. Non-company Car 8,448 7,326 We use the most up-to-date national emissions factors Train and bus 250 166 for our operations in line with international reporting standards. We undertake spot checks and analyse data Steam 334 267 trends throughout the year. We also have our data and our Transmission & Distribution 408 432 approach audited annually by an external auditor. During one of our internal reviews we identified an error in the losses emissions factors applied to company and non-company Total Scope 3 emissions 25,631 26,643 car data for our Americas business for 2013. We have updated the emissions factors accordingly and revised Note: Our carbon reporting year runs from October 1 to our 2013 carbon footprint to reflect this, resulting in a September 30 to ensure we are able to report a full 12 months 2% increase to 87,732 tCO2e. actual data within our annual report and accounts. As discussed in the 2013 report, due to the numerous changes to the business since our 2008 baseline year, AMEC made the decision to use the 2013 carbon footprint as the baseline moving forward, based on the fact that the 15% reduction target had been met. Sustainability / Date: 05/15 /Carbon performance amecfw.com Page 1 of 3 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2015 Fact sheet Carbon management and performance Carbon performance Our 2014 footprint shows an overall Annual CO2 emissions by type reduction in absolute carbon of four percent against our 2013 baseline year, however on a normalised basis (using per employee and per £m revenue), the figures are slightly above where we were in 2013. Scope 1 emissions from direct energy Scope 1 emissions for 2014 were 24,126 tonnes CO2e making up 29% of our total carbon footprint [2013: 33%]. Overall there has been a 16% reduction in our Scope 1 emissions from 2013 levels, this is due to a reduction in company car use across the business globally, as well as the continued reduction in the use of generator fuel in Europe as a number Annual CO2 emissions by scope of on-site projects come to a close. Scope two emissions from indirect energy Scope two emissions associated with our office locations increased by 7% during 2014 in comparison to 2013, and continue to be our biggest contributor to our carbon footprint, accounting for 41% of our carbon footprint [2013: 37%]. This increase was attributed to our Americas business unit, whose total office space by square footage increased by approximately 5% during the year. Scope three emissions Non-company car emissions increased overall by 15% for The carbon intensity of electricity from business travel production (or grid emission factor) 2014 compared to 2013, despite Scope three emissions were reduced in Canada and the US also increased reductions in distance travelled in 4% from 2013 levels in 2014, on average by almost four percent. both the Europe and Growth Regions representing 30% of our total carbon business units. Transparency of nonemissions. We continue to use our power company car within the America’s management software tool, Joulex, has improved significantly over We have seen good reductions in to track and reduce our energy the past year with better reporting our air travel – both long and short consumption from our office available from our rental car haul by 12% and 13% respectively computers globally. Throughout 2014 providers, which is providing a far as we further roll out and encourage the Joulex software achieved a saving more accurate data set than was the use of Microsoft Lync and video of 1,159 Mwh by hibernating those previously available. conferencing facilities to reduce the PC’s that had been left on and idle need to physically travel to attend outside of office hours. meetings. Sustainability / Date: 05/15 /Carbon performance amecfw.com Page 2 of 3 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2015 Fact sheet Carbon management and performance Benchmark indicators Looking forward to 2015 Our revised milestones are as follows: With the acquisition of Foster 2014 2013 % Wheeler, the carbon footprint for the • 15% reduction in CO2e by 2013 difference Achieved new Amec Foster Wheeler business Tonnes will change considerably. There • 30 per cent reduction in CO2e CO2 per will be a change to the operational by 2020 3.11 3.06 1.81% person per boundary with he additional emission • 50 per cent reduction in CO2e year sources from the Global Power Group by 2030 business which is currently under • 80 percent reduction in CO2e 2014 2013 % review. by 2050 difference It is the intention to roll out the AMEC Our priorities in this area for 2015 are Tonnes CO2 carbon reporting process and system therefore to: 22.63 22.08 2.50% per £m across the legacy Foster Wheeler turnover operations who have historically not • Roll out the carbon reporting reported / collated this data as a procedure and process to the group. The 2015 footprint will include Foster Wheeler operations; all operations that fall under the Carbon Disclosure Project operational control organisational • Undertake training and awareness boundary. of this new requirement to the 2014 AMEC CDP Results Foster Wheeler locations; As the Foster Wheeler business We continue to externally report does not have a historical carbon • Undertake a review of all on our performance in both legal footprint to which we could add to the offices and locations to ensure and voluntary carbon reporting AMEC one to get a baseline that can completeness of the footprint requirements. This year we be backdated, we will use our 2015 as per our operational and achieved our highest performance carbon footprint as the new baseline organisational boundaries; band rating B from the Carbon year for Amec Foster Wheeler’s Disclosure Project as part of our carbon reduction strategy. • Review and assess the Global continued efforts to improve our Power Group operational boundary, carbon performance. Following the acquisition of and set new reporting protocols for Foster Wheeler and taking into carbon reporting for this business consideration the fact that they – recognising that it will be have not measured or reported significantly different to the other their carbon footprint globally three business units within Amec previously, we have reviewed our Foster Wheeler; and carbon reduction milestone targets. Following this review we have taken • Roll out the office efficiency 5 star the decision to update the milestone assessment profile to all locations targets for 2020 and 2030, with the for them to use as the basis of continued ambition to achieve 80 office improvement plans. percent reduction by 2050. Please see 5 star case study for more information on this programme. Our 2014 carbon footprint includes data from AMEC operations only, as the acquisition of Foster Wheeler did not occur until after our carbon reporting year closed on the 30th September. It is the intention to report the full Amec Foster Wheeler business for the 2015 carbon reporting year. Sustainability / Date: 05/15 /Carbon performance amecfw.com Page 3 of 3 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2015 Case study 5 star office efficiency programme In 2013 the sustainability teams, in conjunction with real estate, developed the 5 star office efficiency programme, aiming to improve our office stock in terms of operating cost and the emissions associated. The 5 star office efficiency programme sets out criteria with 5 star programme: office energy cost which to assess offices prior to lease, helping us to make more informed êêêêOffices:2 61% decisions on the impact the offices would make on our carbon Certified Energy aspirations. The 5 star programme Efficient Offices:5 47% is equally applicable to our current Reduction in Energy Cost offices where we can assess the per Person êêêOffices:5 44% efficiency against the 5 star criteria, from No Star offices assign star ratings against the office based on meeting the criteria for êêOffices:14 39% each star and then setting in place plans to make improvements. êOffices:18 19% The five stars were developed from key areas that we believed would No Star Offices:66 have the most impact in terms of cost and carbon efficiency and are: £0 £100 £200 £300 £400 £500 Annual Energy Cost Per Employee (GBP) • Building infrastructure, systems * Only offices reporting actual data (105 offices) were included in the chart. Energy cost includes electric, natural gas, and other. Energy cost from CloudApps final data, Jan 2013-Sept 2013, head counts per PLC. and equipment; • Building operation; location to complete on an annual focussing on which of the stars • Energy management and basis. The graph above provides has the greatest impact in terms of performance improvement; some of the results of the analysis of efficiency and cost savings. • Efficient occupancy; and the results of the 5 star assessment • Water efficiency. questionnaires. In 2015, the office profile questionnaire is being rolled out In 2014 our America’s business Trends are indicating that as the globally so that we can begin to worked on the roll out of the overall efficiency of the offices build a global view of the efficiency 5 star programme by building improves, our energy costs of our offices, and begin to put in the assessment criteria for each decrease. As we continue to gather place improvement plans based on star into a sustainability profile additional information we will be increasing the number of stars for questionnaire for every office able to better assess the trends each location. and project potential savings by Sustainability / Date: 05/15 / 5 Star efficiency programme amecfw.com Page 1 of 1 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2015 Fact sheet Ethics Managing ethics “The time is always right to do what is right.” Martin Luther King Amec Foster Wheeler is a new company, but we have over 150 years of proud heritage, in which we have carefully built a reputation for consistently delivering excellence. Our values encapsulate the behaviours which must be second nature to us as we focus on delivering on promises, developing full potential and doing the right thing. We must be 100% committed to acting ethically and with integrity at all times. Amec Foster Wheeler, and those procedures, Amec Foster Wheeler AMEC plc board at least three who act on our behalf, must act with encourages each individual to times per year. The Committee the highest ethical standards in all live our values and take personal oversaw and had responsibility relationships, and never accept, responsibility for their behaviour. for the Code of Business Conduct, or excuse, behaviour which is Amec Foster Wheeler requires its implementation and ethical inconsistent with our values. all who work for us, or under our awareness throughout AMEC. The direction, to adopt the highest Committee was supported by the Legacy AMEC and legacy Foster ethical standards. The combined Chief Ethics Officer (who was the Wheeler had very similar ethics company also seeks to foster a General Counsel and Company programmes in place. Post-merger, culture where any suspected or Secretary) and the Chief Ethics Amec Foster Wheeler has, as an actual breach is reported with Officer was, in turn, supported interim measure, continued to confidence in the Leadership Team’s by Ethics Officers in each of the operate the pre-transaction ethics commitment to support anyone geographical regions in which programme of each of the legacy making such reports. AMEC operated. companies but the requirement for ethical conduct has not, and will not, Ethics structure In the case of legacy Foster change. Carrying out business in Legacy AMEC and legacy Foster Wheeler, the Audit Committee was an ethical manner continues to be Wheeler each had an ethics responsible for monitoring the viewed as paramount across Amec organisational structure in Company’s compliance with its Code Foster Wheeler. place. Both legacy organisations of Business Conduct, establishing a recognised the importance of the procedure for receipt, retention In 2015, it is planned that the tone from the top in shaping the and treatment of any complaints ethics programmes of the legacy culture and climate of the relevant received by the Company about companies will be replaced by a new organisation in the ethics sphere. its accounting, internal accounting programme which is appropriate for controls or auditing matters and the enlarged group. In the case of legacy AMEC, ethics for the confidential and anonymous issues were discussed with the submission by employees of In the ethics sphere, rather than Ethics Committee (now the Health, concerns regarding questionable informing our employees to Safety, Security, Environmental accounting or auditing matters. simply follow a set of compulsory and Ethics Committee) of the Sustainability / Date: 05/15 / Ethics Fact sheet amecfw.com Page 1 of 3 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2015 Fact sheet Ethics Managing ethics Ethics issues were reported to The procedures and guidance Reporting General Counsel, the HR Director included, in the case of legacy Each of the legacy companies and the Chief Compliance Officer. AMEC, a gifts and hospitality provided various channels to An appropriate response would be procedure, an agents and sponsors enable their employees and third agreed and instructions given to procedure, a third party due parties to raise ethics concerns, the relevant party to investigate diligence procedure, an offshore including a dedicated ethics website the matter and to report back. payments procedure and facilitation and helpline administered by a Where appropriate, use would be payment guidance. third party. The various channels made of the legacy Foster Wheeler were advertised by the legacy global Compliance Officer network In the case of legacy Foster companies in their respective covering each of the operating units Wheeler, the procedures and Codes. In addition, legacy AMEC around the world. guidance included a gifts, travel and advertised the reporting channels entertainment for Foreign Officials on posters in every office and, Upon receipt of the report the procedure (including guidance on periodically, on the background General Counsel, the HR Director facilitating payments payments), wallpaper on employees’ computers. and the Chief Compliance Officer and an engagement of agents due Legacy Foster Wheeler provided would agree a course of action diligence procedure. all employees with a helpline wallet and initiate that action. Significant card as part of new hire orientation. issues would be raised with the Training Audit Committee at the earliest It was recognised within each of Both companies always took opportunity. legacy AMEC and legacy Foster allegations seriously and Wheeler that education was investigated each concern. Legacy Code of Business Conduct, fundamental to ensuring that the AMEC, in conjunction with one mandatory policies and company’s values were instilled and of the Big 4 accountancy firms, procedures and guidance lived. provided investigations training to Both legacy AMEC and legacy individuals who may be called upon Foster Wheeler had implemented Legacy AMEC, therefore, provided: to undertake serious ethics / fraud a Code of Business Conduct. • Online Code of Business Conduct investigations. The Code for each company set and Anti-Bribery and Corruption out that company’s values and (ABAC) training for all employees; the responsibilities and required • Face-to-face ABAC training for behaviours of all who represented or certain employees (i.e. senior worked under the relevant company. employees and employees who See the Code. operated in high risk positions). The Code for each company was The approach taken by legacy Foster viewed as being fundamental as it Wheeler was to provide on-line underpinned the development by Code of Business Conduct training that company of an ethical culture. to all staff incorporating a section Each legacy company’s Code was on anti-bribery and corruption. The approved by the company’s board majority of staff were last required and reviewed annually. to complete the training in 2013 with the foreign language training Each company supplemented the being completed in 2014. Successful Code with ethics related policies, completion of the training by all staff procedures and guidance. These was closely monitored and staff documents sought to expand upon chased by the local Compliance the broader principles detailed in the Officers where the training had not relevant Code. be successfully completed within a reasonable time period. Face-toface ABAC training was provided for senior management. Sustainability / Date: 05/15 / Ethics Fact sheet amecfw.com Page 2 of 3 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2015 Fact sheet Ethics Managing ethics 2015 Journey Plan to take stock of the existing will be adopted by the combined New beginnings create optimism documentation and attempt to group. We also recognise that there and provide opportunity. Both legacy improve it. A new Code is, therefore, is a need in Amec Foster Wheeler to AMEC and legacy Foster Wheeler being produced, which will, once ensure that certain of our employees had successfully engendered an again, be supplemented by ethics receive competition law training. We ethical culture but Amec Foster related policies, procedures and will, therefore, also provide online Wheeler recognises that the merger guidance. competition law training to certain of the two companies provides an employees in the course of 2015. opportunity to build further on those A thorough review of the legacy companies’ successes with a new AMEC and legacy Foster Wheeler Considerable experience has been ethics programme and a fresh Codes, policies, procedures and obtained in rolling out training to ethics agenda. guidance has been undertaken the legacy organisations in the last and we have also checked what few years and we hope that the Our objectives for 2015 reflect this our clients and competitors are lessons learnt from such training and are explained below. doing in this space to ensure that programmes will make this year’s the new Code and supplementary training programme more successful 1 Ethics structure materials reflect the optimum than ever. The combination has led to a need approach for Amec Foster Wheeler. to adopt a new ethics organisational Consequently, it has been decided 4 Reporting structure, which is appropriate for that, rather than simply replace the We are currently working to the enlarged organisation. As in existing procedures on a like-forconsolidate the third party previous years, the tone from the top like basis, certain of the procedures administered, dedicated ethics will be critical to ensuring that the will be consolidated into a single websites and helplines which the correct culture is instilled across procedure to ensure that the relevant legacy companies had in place so the company. information is more accessible to that Amec Foster Wheeler will have employees. a single ethics website and a single The new structure will see ethics helpline per country. As before, issues discussed with the Health, The new procedures will include: numerous other reporting channels Safety, Security, Environmental and • an anti-bribery and corruption will be made available for reporting Ethics Committee of the Amec Foster procedure, which will also include, ethics concerns and complaints. Wheeler plc board. The Committee amongst other things, facilitation will oversee and have responsibility payments guidance, provisions to 5 Ethics initiatives for the Code of Business Conduct, combat bribery and corruption, In developing an ethical culture, it its implementation and ethical and restrictions in relation to is important that ethics is at the awareness throughout Amec Foster political events; forefront of employees’ minds and Wheeler. The Committee will be • an ethics investigations procedure; is not just something that comes on supported by the General Counsel • a legal matters procedure; the radar when training needs to be and Company Secretary. The Legal • a competition law procedure; completed. After a successful pilot function will be responsible for the • an agents and sponsors procedure; in legacy AMEC’s Growth Regions content of training and Ethics & • a third party due diligence Business Unit, it has been decided Compliance Officers will assist with procedure; that an initiative named “Ethics the implementation of training. • an offshore payments procedure. Beyond Zero” will be rolled out globally. This initiative, which seeks 2 Code of Business Conduct 3 Training to leverage the success of the health An ongoing training programme is and safety initiative called “Beyond and Policies, Procedures and key to ensuring that our values are Zero”, will see each internal meeting Guidance embedded in our business. As was commence with an ethics moment. As stated above, each legacy the case in both legacy organisations, It is hoped that this initiative will put company had a Code and policies, online Code of Business Conduct ethics centre stage. procedures and guidance in place, and ABAC training will be provided to which were viewed as being effective. all Amec Foster Wheeler employees. Amec Foster Wheeler employs Amec Foster Wheeler recognises In addition, the approach of legacy approximately 40,000 people. That the need, however, to have one set AMEC to providing face-to-face is a big team and yet every employee of materials for all of our employees ABAC training to select employees and each person who works under us and sees this as an opportunity has a part to play in making sure our values are maintained. Sustainability / Date: 05/15 / Ethics Fact sheet amecfw.com Page 3 of 3 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2015 Fact sheet Ethics performance Please note that AMEC completed the purchase of Foster Wheeler on 13 November 2014, therefore the data presented in this factsheet relates to each of legacy AMEC and legacy Foster Wheeler on a standalone basis, unless otherwise stated. Each year each of legacy AMEC and legacy Foster Wheeler monitored the number of people trained in its business and the number of ethical concerns raised. We have presented a summary of the information collated about the legacy companies’ yearly performance. Training summary legacy AMEC 2014 Each year, legacy AMEC provided its employees with Code of Business Conduct (CoBC) refresher training. The CoBC refresher training in 2014 focused on Anti-Bribery and Corruption (ABAC). The online training was made available to all legacy AMEC employees, whereas the face-to-face training was only provided to select employees (i.e. senior personnel and employees who were viewed as operating in high risk positions). The 2014 online ABAC training achieved a final completion rate of 82.9% and the results by region are set out below: Region Target population Number of people Completion rate trained Americas 13,209 11,190 85% Europe 7,527 6,043 80% Growth Regions 3,195 2,617 82% Group Centre 1,299 1,067 82% Total 25,230 20,917 82.9% The face-to-face ABAC training resulted in an overall completion rate of 85.3% and the results by region are set out below: Region Target population Number of people Completion rate trained Americas 416 404 97.1% Europe 518 418 83.4 Growth Regions 514 415 80.7% Group Headquarters 12 8 66.7% Total 1,460 1,245 85.3% Sustainability / Date: 05/15 / Ethics Performance amecfw.com Page 1 of 2 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2015 Fact sheet Ethics performance Ethics cases summary – legacy AMEC 2014 In 2014, legacy AMEC received 56 reports relating to ethical concerns, broken down as follows: 16 reports via the AMEC ethics website which is administered by an independent third party; 15 calls to the helpline which is administered by an independent third party; 10 reports to the General Counsel and Company Secretary; 9 reports to the Ethics Officers; 4 reports to Group Internal Audit; and 2 reports to other members of the Legal team. Training summary – legacy Foster Wheeler 2013/2014 The latest legacy Foster Wheeler CoBC training spanned 2013 and 2014 with the English version of the training being completed in the second half of 2013 and the non-English language versions of the training being completed in early 2014. The CoBC training in 2014 included a section on anti-bribery and corruption. The online training was made available to all legacy Foster Wheeler employees. The 2013/2014 online CoBC training achieved a final completion rate of 97.6% and the results by region are set out below: Business Group Target population Number of people Completion rate trained Corporate Center 99 99 100% Global Power Group 1,764 1,764 100% Global Engineering and 9,816 9,535 97.1% Construction Group EXT 13 13 100% Total 11,692 11,411 97.6% Sustainability / Date: 05/15 / Ethics Performance amecfw.com Page 2 of 2 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2015 Fact sheet Human rights Amec Foster Wheeler supports and respects the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Our commitment to human rights is shown in our Code of Business Conduct (CoBC), which is currently being refreshed, where we set out specific behaviours and expectations. We support the elimination of We recognise that we include In 2014, we conducted a high level forced or child labour, respect the amongst our customers some of review of our business practice human rights of any individual or the largest extractives companies against the UN “Protect, Respect community in which we work. We are who are all signatories to the and Remedy” Framework and committed to providing a workplace Voluntary Principles on Security Guiding Principles (the “Ruggie environment free of gender, race, and Human Rights, and who Framework”). As a result of the religious or other discrimination, contractually or otherwise have an Ruggie Framework review, and the that is safe and secure and that expectation that we understand review of Amec Foster Wheeler’s offers fair and equal opportunity and where appropriate apply those commitment to the UN Global for advancement and promotion. voluntary principles. We ensure Compact, we are currently assessing The CoBC outlines the practical our operating units are aware of how to broaden and deepen our application of our core values – in their responsibilities regarding the commitment to labour and human particular acting with integrity. understanding and application of rights in a more integrated way the voluntary principles by including across our business and sphere of Underpinning and supporting checks and balances within our influence. We are also assessing the CoBC are a number of security risk assessment process for the impact of the UK Modern Day specific policies, procedures, all new business development and Slavery Act on our operations and practices and commitments. new project support activity, and our supply chain and any resulting These mandatory policies set security assurance processes. reporting requirements. out a robust framework across our financial, human resources, We have in place a Supply Chain commercial, risk management, Code of Business Conduct project delivery, supply chain developed to ensure that our management, project delivery, suppliers understand and act in a security, safety, environmental manner consistent with our values. and sustainability functions. These The Supply Chain Code, which is practices are supported by specific currently being refreshed, covers communications on our Intranet, topics including environment, ethics hotline and the training of health and safety, ethics and legal ethics officers. requirements, gifts and hospitality, human rights and human resources. It is a requirement for all suppliers to sign up to the Code prior to contract award. Sustainability / Date: 05/15 / Human rights amecfw.com Page 1 of 1 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2015 Fact sheet Community investment We care about our communities We believe that encouraging and £483,367 9149 supporting community donated by Hours volunteered investment activities carried out by our employees is important. AMEC 5574 Employees involved in volunteering Working together for good causes promotes £529,104 wellbeing, supports our raised by our £15,488 local communities and employees Value in-kind donations helps us to demonstrate strategic charity, makes periodic partnership was formalised for a our values, particularly checks on charitable donations to further three years which will take us how we care about ensure compliance with the global to our tenth year of supporting the procedure, and also discusses and charity. See our SOS fact sheet for our communities. agrees any specific response to more information on our support to natural or other disasters. SOS Children to date. Charitable giving The majority of the money Amec In 2014, the legacy AMEC business Community investment Foster Wheeler donates to charities donated £483,367 to good In addition to fund raising activities, each year is through matching causes and charitable institutions we encourage involvement in the the fundraising activities of our worldwide, including matching local communities in which we employees. Amec Foster Wheeler employee volunteer fundraising. work. This may take the form of also provides charitable giving environmental clean-up activities through ‘in-kind’ material donations Our employees continue to drive like the global shoreline cleansuch as office equipment, unused our charitable fundraising and up, supporting local schools or supplies, obsolete branded community investment efforts, in educational institutions, or spending items, etc. addition to the contributions made time supporting those less fortunate by the company via matched funding than ourselves. Our community investment activities and other activities; a further are in line with a global community £529,104 was raised by Our case studies provide a flavour investment procedure and process, our employees. of just some of the activities our which is overseen by the charities employees have taken part in over committee. The committee agrees Amec Foster Wheeler has a long the past 12 months, and we will the budgets for the forthcoming standing partnership with SOS regularly update these. year, reviews recommendations Children’s Villages. In 2015 this for and decides on the global Sustainability / Date: 05/15 / Community investment amecfw.com Page 1 of 1 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2015 Case study Post disaster relief shelter in the Philippines Since, 2013 we have worked closely with both the International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies (IFRC) through involvement with the Disaster Response Partnership (DRP). The DRP aims to bring private sector engineering and construction companies into close cooperation with humanitarian agencies to solidify a collaborated response to a natural disaster. The focus has been on providing technical expertise to transitional shelters, as part of emergency relief efforts providing necessary shelter to those whose homes have been damaged or destroyed in the aftermath of disasters. Amec Foster Wheeler was initially requested by the IFRC to provide technical support for the preparation of the second edition of their transitional shelter design catalogue. IFRC provided ten designs which had been previously used in disaster response by either IFRC agencies or other humanitarian agencies in Burkina Faso, the Philippines, Haiti, Sri Lanka, Pakistan, Bangladesh and Afghanistan; the primary criteria being that these designs had successfully been used in the field. Amec Foster Wheeler provided engineering analysis for each of these shelter designs to review and improve the shelter structural design, taking into account potential future Above right: Philippines Transitional Shelter, 2011 adverse weather events. Above: Philippines Transitional Shelter, 2012 In light of the recent typhoon which Typhoon Haiyan was one of the strongest tropical cyclones ever recorded, with devastated the Philippines and over 6,000 reported fatalities. It brought winds of up to 200 mph devastating South East Asia in November 2013, portions of South East Asia with the Philippines being hit the hardest. This Amec Foster Wheeler reviewed the led to global international emergency relief efforts and support by several transitional shelter designs which countries and aid organisations. Amec Foster Wheeler provided engineering were used in emergency relief efforts reviews of the transitional shelter designs to meet defined technical in the Philippines. performance parameters. Sustainability / Date: 05/15 / Relief shelter in Philippines amecfw.com Page 1 of 1 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2015 Case study Movember 2014 In 2014 Amec Foster Wheeler employees across our global offices participated in the annual Movember challenge to promote men’s health and raise awareness and funds for prostate cancer awareness, research and treatment. £59,231.83 amount raised in 2014 by Amec Foster Wheeler employees around the globe Samir with Mo Bros at Amec Foster Wheeler’s Movember challenges men to grow moustaches during first town hall in London the month of November, to raise funds and promote men’s health. Women, also known as ‘Mo Sisters’, can get involved by encouraging the men in their lives to educate themselves regarding their own personal health. Employees formed teams across the various offices and registered their participation at the official Amec Foster Wheeler Movember webpage. Participants, also known as ‘Mo Bros’, started with a clean shaven face on 1 November and then grew or groomed a moustache until 30 November 2014, with teams updating their moustache progress and totals raised on the Movember website. Mo sisters in UAE office Since first participating in 2011, Amec Foster Wheeler has raised more than £178,788 for Movember and was awarded a one-of-a-kind handmade wooden trophy celebrating our fundraising achievements. In 2014 a total of 31 teams, with 247 members from Amec Foster Wheeler offices around the globe signed up to participate, helping to educate loved ones or raising money to support men’s heath, raising a total of £59,231.83. Amec Foster Wheeler Denver Office Sustainability / Date: 05/15 / Movember amecfw.com Page 1 of 1 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2015 Case study Creative recycling for Qatar Amec Foster Wheeler employees in Qatar have been working with local volunteers for the last six years to raise awareness about the amount of waste being produced and finding creative ways of recycling the waste. To coincide with the Earth Hour 2014, on 29th March, a 3D pond project was unveiled at the man-made island of Pearl-Qatar. The project aimed to highlight the amount of waste people produce as well as introducing creative and artistic ways of waste management. The project culminated in a recycled model in the form of a pond with water, fish, birds and flowers. AMEC Black Cat volunteers with the finished artwork The concept was first introduced in Qatar in 2009 by Lead Project engineer Ronnie Anderson based on “Having seen some of the previous projects around The Pearl, his previous work with Amec Foster I was inspired to get involved and contribute towards the 2014 Wheeler in Kazakhstan. Volunteers effort. A terrific contribution was made by all involved around came together to complete the the office to collect the bottle caps and support this excellent project, which involved the collection of 60,000 bottle caps, bottles, bags, initiative. For Qatar it is an important concept in a society who plates and spoons. Amec Foster generally don’t recycle and to associate the Amec Black Cat Wheeler Black Cat employees in name with the project leaves a lasting legacy that reflects the Qatar took part in the event by company’s sustainable core values.” collecting the bottle caps and volunteering over two weekends in Andrew Mitchell putting the artwork together. Project Controls Manager, Qatar Sustainability / Date: 05/15 / Creative recycling for Qatar amecfw.com Page 1 of 1 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2015 Fact sheet Partnering with SOS Children’s Villages Helping children realise their true potential “By connecting our global resources, our experience and energy, we will transform the lives of vulnerable children and help them grow into healthy and able adults.” 21,219 SOS Children is the world’s largest orphan and abandoned children’s charity providing new family and homes for more than 70,000 Total number children in 475 unique children’s villages in 123 countries. We have of beneficiaries supported them as our global partner since 2007 and have pledged to continue that support reached 25 projects until at least 2017, marking 10 years, by developing a formal partnership with three overarching aims: £538,205 supported • Across 17 countries • Creating the right environment and opportunity for children; • Collaborating effectively; and donated to date • Across 30 separate locations • Inspiring and motivating employees. 16,000 people reached through 2,200 people from vulnerable families Since 2007, we have supported SOS Children on a number of educational projects within their villages, helping six emergency response helped to stay together through the with running costs of the villages programmes, helping provision of education, healthcare which provide a safe environment families stay together in the and nutritional support, and also for children; provided funding and wake of a crisis income generation training support for two infrastructure for parents projects (water and solar); and 1,000 children and youths supported 12 provided support in their emergency relief efforts. children’s villages directly with school fees, education supported supplies and uniforms Sustainability / Date: 05/15 / SOS Children amecfw.com Page 1 of 2 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2015 Fact sheet Partnering with SOS Children’s Villages Helping children realise their true potential Below outlines some of our Two SOS Children’s Villages are involvement to date: currently being built in Haiti to add to the two already running; combined, 2007/08 these will care for over 700 children. We began our support in the wake In addition, we provided a muchof a devastating earthquake which needed boost to the restoration hit the regions of Tarapaca and work following the Peru earthquake, Antofagasta in Chile. Our employees ensuring those most vulnerable and got involved by raising funds for most affected could return to their the emergency relief efforts in the normal lives. region. As a Children’s Village, home 2013 to over 121 orphaned and abandoned We supported SOS Children through children, and a Family Strengthening local events as well as through a Programme had been already global emergency relief campaign established in Antofagasta, we to help people impacted by the decided to support these facilities natural disaster in The Philippines in coping with the earthquake’s and the state of affairs in Syria. Our aftermath. Many of our employees employees raised over £25,000 were involved in raising funds for which was matched by the company. the emergency relief efforts in the region. 2014 In 2014, we supported a very 2009 valuable water project, voted for by We expanded our level of 2011 our employees, in the SOS Village involvement focusing on providing A devastating drought and famine in Callao, Peru, where children and school fees for vulnerable children. in East Africa, the worst in 60 years, families need a new water pipe Four countries were selected for focused the world’s attention in installed. The completion of this support: Kazakhstan, Azerbaijan, the 2011 as 12.4 million people were project will improve their quality of Philippines and Peru, to help children displaced or without food and water. life and save money in fetching water attend school, lead a normal life and Our employees raised monies or paying for its transportation. gain an education. Our donation to aid SOS Children, one of just provided school fees and equipment a few charities with an existing 2015 to 2017 for over 480 children in towns local presence in the region. In addition We will continue to work with SOS to many of our offices including Baku to supporting the emergency relief Children throughout 2015 across and Ganja in Azerbaijan; Astana in efforts in East Africa, the money we their villages, focusing on education Kazakhstan, Manila in Philippines raised in 2011 funded the purchase and working to improve the lives of and Chicklayo in Peru. of 24 solar panels, a photovoltaic the children and villages they work solar generator and a groundwater in, and actively engaging employees tank to collect rain water with solar across our offices. pumps and overhead tank for the Gwagwalada SOS Village in Nigeria. By the end of 2017 we aim to have: 2012 • Engaged 25% of Amec Foster Marking our fifth year supporting Wheeler offices in SOS Children’s SOS Children, 2012 focused on Villages activities; and raising funds for their village in • Helped children in 25 countries Baku, Azerbaijan to deliver ground where we operate. breaking solar heating and hot water systems. Using the five-year Each year we will choose specific anniversary as a theme, activities projects with SOS Children to 2010 relating to the number five were support these overarching goals. We continued to raise funds for undertaken, for example our Baku children in Pakistan, Chile, Nigeria, office set a goal to clear five tonnes See our website for up to date and Tanzania, for SOS Children’s of rubbish from one of Baku’s information on this year’s projects. emergency relief efforts in Haiti beaches to raise funds. following the devastating earthquake to the country. Sustainability / Date: 05/15 / SOS Children amecfw.com Page 2 of 2 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2015 People Sustainability Performance Report 2014 Resilient World Fact sheet Resourcing Amec Foster Wheeler is a business which relies on the quality and availability of talented people to deliver high quality services to customers. Therefore, the recruitment function plays a key role in ensuring human resources are available to deliver across our global portfolio. The team works hard to source and generally ageing workforce without asset by continually attracting new engage the most talented individuals adequately replenished supply and and dynamic talent, and supporting around the world, and subsequently an overall increase in the technical the development of our people to support the wider business in taking complexity of projects. We recognise reach their individual potential. This the right steps to retain those the scale of the challenge, and we is why sustainable recruitment is individuals. This enables us as a understand the importance of both a critical factor for the continued business to sustainably develop delivering talent to the business success of Amec Foster Wheeler. and differentiate the quality and today, and supporting the initiatives consistency of the service we offer to that will help us to close the gap In 2014, the recruitment function our customers. on talent shortage in the industry, engaged a vast array of talented and thereby continue to deliver for individuals, to meet requirements The demand for energy continues to customers in the future. To that end, across our four key markets. Over grow, and with this demand so too we have developed a commonly used the course of 2014, we engaged grows a shortage of skilled technical saying around the business; “our 9,413 individuals in staff and talent. This is widely attributed to people are our greatest asset.” For contract positions. the nature of the highly specialised our business to realise its potential, and experienced job roles, a we must continue to develop that Europe Americas Growth Centre 2014 Regions Directly, by AMEC 2,024 (1,751) 1,784 (1,950) 748 (649) 108 (152) 4,664(4,592) recruiters Using external 41 (85) 35 (44) 83 (135) 15 (33) 174 (297) recruitment agencies Referral from existing 77 (28) 407 (379) 135 (63) 1 (3) 620 (473) employees Alumni programmes 1 (3) 63 (104) 32 (13) 0 (3) 96 (123) Total 2,143 (1,867) 2,289 (2,477) 998 (860) 124 (191) 5,554 (5,395) Note: 2013 figures are shown in brackets Sustainability / Date: 05/15 /Resourcing amecfw.com Page 1 of 3 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2015 Fact sheet Resourcing A core objective of the recruitment team is to deliver sustainable and cost efficient recruitment. To achieve this, the function implemented what we call the ‘direct sourcing model’. The model defines how we operate as a function, to ensure we fully utilise our own skills, systems and tools, and established networks to attract and engage talent. It ensures we continually build our own high quality talent pools to support the present recruitment requirements, and those of the future. This approach also has significant impact on cost efficiencies through minimising spend with third party suppliers. As the table demonstrates, through the direct sourcing model, Amec Foster Wheeler has delivered 97% of recruitment through its own sources during 2014, a slight increase from 96% in 2013. To support the growth ambitions of the business, we have also established a number of strategic recruitment programmes and initiatives. These include a focus on early career recruitment, recruitment for diversity, and utilisation of our own people to support the growth of our business through our employee referral programme. These key programmes ensure that we grow the business in a sustainable way, engaging and developing candidates across all career levels, who possess varied, diverse experience and come from widespread cultural backgrounds. In 2014, we recruited 1,185 individuals under these programmes and initiatives, an increase from 885 hires in 2013. Strategic recruitment Amec Foster Wheeler has a proud tradition of early career recruitment, including graduate, trainee and internship programmes. By internships, we mean school, college or university students hired, for a defined period, as part of their work experience. Graduates are hired from college or university onto structured development programmes, and our trainees are school leavers hired into study programmes or as apprentices. Europe Americas Growth Centre 2014 Regions Graduates 80 (102) 155 (43) 1 (12) 6 (7) 242 (164) Trainees 34 (34) 23 (4) 3 (3) 6 (2) 66 (43) Interns 45 (73) 63 (103) 3 (28) 2 (1) 113 (205) Total 159 (209) 241 (150) 7 (43) 14 (10) 421 (412) Note: 2013 figures are shown in brackets During 2014 a total of 421 early careers employees were recruited. This included 242 at graduate level, 66 trainees and 113 interns during the year. We continue to build on our established programme, to ensure that we are attracting and selecting the very best fit for the organisation. Through earlier and broader engagement we aim to further improve the diversity of the graduate intake. Through this approach, we will engage with students who, historically, we have not have had an opportunity to reach out to. For example, our ‘Insight Programme’, aimed at 14 – 16 year olds aims to inspire students from a variety of schools across the UK to study Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics (STEM) subjects, and set early foundations to pursue a career aligned to their educational path. Through programme developments and operational initiatives like this, our business will continue to drive increased levels of diversity in our strategic recruitment intake and progress will be monitored throughout the year. Sustainability / Date: 05/15 /Resourcing amecfw.com Page 2 of 3 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2015 Fact sheet Resourcing Global Mobility Systems and tools The system centres around three We know that many of our As a key element of sustainable key components – ‘Attract’, ‘Recruit’ individuals aspire to move recruitment, we continually look for and ‘Onboard’ – which provides the internationally, to work in new and ways to develop the mechanisms recruitment function with a portfolio different cultures, and broaden and processes we use to search, of solutions to cater for each stage their professional experience. We engage and hire talent into the of the candidate’s journey to joining also know that our customers want business. Following a recent HR the business. Through these tools, the best people; highly skilled, with systems review, we have made we will connect with new talent diverse experience to work on their the decision to implement a global around the globe, induct candidates projects. To add to that, the project resourcing system. into the business efficiently and nature of our business means that compliantly, and subsequently projects are continually staffing facilitate the free transfer of talent The new system will be in place up and down as they start and end within the business, under the during 2015 and will provide the phases of their lifecycle. ‘Global Mobility’ initiative. global resourcing function with access to the latest and best As a result, we place a great technology for engaging and Collective bargaining emphasis on the importance of communicating with candidates, In 2014 the number of employees mobilising our workforce. This along their journey of joining Amec covered by collective bargaining is a mutually beneficial exercise; Foster Wheeler. Ultimately, this agreements in AMEC rose to (2,881 our people have the opportunity development means a better hiring employees) 12.29 per cent from to develop their skills and gain experience for the candidate, 11.8 per cent in 2013. The NE & valuable experience in dynamic driving greater efficiencies in our CIS business unit accounts for environments, and the business recruitment process, and supporting the vast majority of individuals benefits from retaining vital skills a superior level of collaboration covered by these arrangements. Our and experience in the business, and between our global resourcing employee population is generally not maximising employee utilisation. teams. This single system approach unionised, and where it is we usually During 2014, across the business, will also support further cost work through a sector or national we completed 339 global mobility reduction within our business as we agreement rather than a companytransfers – that includes individuals find cost efficiencies through user level agreement. moving from one Business Unit scale and system utilisation. to another, one Operating Unit to another, or one country to another. During 2015, we expect this number to grow as we continue to seek opportunities to connect excellence around the world. Sustainability / Date: 05/15 /Resourcing amecfw.com Page 3 of 3 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2015 Case study Say YES to engineering! Our Reading, UK, office is highly involved in Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics (STEM) activities, participating in over 20 events a year at schools, encouraging all new employees to consider becoming a STEM Ambassador. At the end of the programme the teams presented their results and recommendations to a panel of judges which included representatives from the Institution of Chemical Engineers (IChemE), the Engineering Construction Industry training Board (ECITB) and the Duke of Edinburgh’s Award (DofE). YES is accredited by the ECITB The Schools-Industry Liaison One of the other activities originating and students can reference their Committee (SIL) oversees this from the Reading office is the Young participation on their CV, university interaction, with the chair of the Engineers Scheme (YES) which aims and college admissions, armed committee, Rachel Davies, being to bring together young people from services applications and personal one of three finalists for the most local schools to compete in a realstatements. It is also supported by dedicated STEM Ambassador world engineering challenge. the DofE and can count towards the 2014 award. skills section of a Bronze Award. This 12-week long programme invited Many of these activities are centred teams from five schools to carry on careers fairs in schools, which out a study for a new oil refinery in involve all disciplines and interaction the UK. Students were tasked to from all levels of the organisation. submit a report for their findings The opportunity to gain work which included justification for experience at an engineering location chosen, rationale for a block company is one which many students flow diagram for the refinery and a appreciate, especially as one-to-one projected revenue. The study also time with graduates through to chief involved some detailed engineering engineers is arranged across the around a compressor, through the disciplines. This gives the students selection of a motor and cabling, and a valuable insight not only into a possible support structure for the the day-to-day life of a design compressor housing. engineer but also into university or apprenticeship life. Sustainability / Date: 05/15 /YES to engineering amecfw.com Page 1 of 1 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2015 Case study Partnering with Henderson Mill, Georgia Amec Foster Wheeler and Henderson Mill Elementary School share a mutual goal, developing students into adults who have a deep passion for and knowledge of the engineering design process. Amec Foster Wheeler’s partnership with Henderson Mill Elementary School began with a single project. The program grew quickly and together with the support of Henderson Mill’s other partners, the school became the first elementary school in the State of Georgia to be Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics (STEM) certified. The program began in 2011, when Howard, along with other volunteers tools. We are so pleased that great our engineers designed and installed created a curriculum that can be engineers like William Howard and a rainwater collection system for followed. The curriculum assists Bill Minando along with people the school’s community garden. others that want to volunteer but who are committed to developing The official ribbon cutting for the are not sure how to get started. One partnerships with us like Kathy collection system was held in 2012, of the guidelines when creating the Tabor are more than simply willing and the garden is now grown and projects in the curriculum was that to give their time and energy in maintained by students. volunteers had to be able to explain an effort to share their expertise. the projects to kids, so the kids can Through class lessons delivered The success of the rain water do the projects. “The hands on on site, their participation in our collection system left volunteers experience is important. Our goal is annual evening STEM Night, their with the passion to do more. to expand the students’ knowledge willingness to design and build They wanted to give back to the on particular subjects, not just our water reclamation system to educational system and cultivate build something for them”, said capture rainwater to water our the student’s interest in math and Howard. garden, and their direct training science. William Howard, located of our teachers in the engineering in Amec Foster Wheeler’s Tucker, Mitchell Green, Henderson Mill design process, we are fostering Georgia office has been instrumental Elementary School’s principal sums the love of STEM in all of our 600+ in the volunteer efforts for up the partnership perfectly, “Amec students, students who will be Henderson Mill. “You can’t wait until Foster Wheeler and Henderson ready in the next 11-16 years to fill high school, you must cultivate a Mill Elementary School share a some very big shoes.” child’s interest in science and math mutual goal, developing students early. If a child is not interested in into adults who have a deep Through the efforts of this program science before high school then passion for and knowledge of our volunteers create a spark of chances are small that we can the engineering design process. interest to these students “I’ll know change that.” says Howard. We wish to instill in them a sense we were successful if any of these of curiosity for how things work students choose this career path.” Howard hopes the program will and a strong desire to make the continue to be embraced throughout world a better place through the the Georgia area offices and in other development and refinement of offices across the country. To assist with the viability of the program, Sustainability / Date: 05/15 /STEM amecfw.com Page 1 of 1 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2015 Case study Recruitment for diversity We know that different opinions spark creativity and help us make better decisions. So, bringing together professionals with diverse backgrounds and varied experience is key to solving challenging problems with innovative solutions. To be sustainable we must bring in talent from outside the ‘normal’ talent pools. Our recruitment teams work closely with hirers around the world to proactively source ‘alternate’ or ‘atypical’ candidates for suitable opportunities in the business. For example, our NECIS business Our Oil & Gas and Nuclear We recognise that candidates in unit, which spans Northern Europe businesses have created two these atypical talent pools often and countries in the CIS region, programmes; ‘In 2 Oil & Gas’ and possess highly transferable skills and reaches across our four key ‘New 2 Nuclear’. These programmes and experience. This means markets, is supporting recruitment cover two distinct types of that the transition period for the for diversity through the creation of recruitment; proactively searching candidate to come into the business bespoke programmes. for and engaging candidates from is minimised, but the diversity of diverse sources, including thought and approach they bring to ex-military. the business is much greater than we would typically find in traditional or established talent pools. Sustainability / Date: 05/15 /Recruitment for diversity amecfw.com Page 1 of 2 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2015 Fact sheet Recruitment for diversity These programme entry routes are defined as below: Diverse sources: Non-industry International relocation Candidates with relevant transferable skills and Candidates from alternative locations and geographies. experience from alternative industries i.e. a candidate These candidates typically have transferable skills and with pharmaceutical experience looking to transition into experience which can be utilised to fill existing role Oil & Gas. requirements. Ex-military: Operational entry Strategic development Ex-military candidates can apply for active vacancies with Ex-military candidates with 18-24 months service the intention of an immediate start. remaining can register interest with Amec Foster Wheeler as an employer of choice for future career opportunities. To support this proactive initiative, the NECIS recruitment team has set annual targets for the numbers of individuals we aim to take into the business during the year, based on the known business growth requirements. In 2014, the NECIS business recruited a total of 144 new employees through these sources, an increase from the 87 hires of this type in 2013. In 2015, we expect to continue developing this programme, to support us in engaging candidates from these sources to support the development of diversity across the business. Source Number of hires 2014 International relocation 22 Ex-military 7 Non-industry experience 115 Total 144 Sustainability / Date: 05/15 /Recruitment for diversity amecfw.com Page 2 of 2 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2015 Fact sheet Employee engagement It’s been recognised that engagement can have a huge impact on business performance, but, as different things engage different people, it’s also about recognising people. Engaged people are more receptive to ideas, they want to achieve, and they are more proactive and more involved. We define engagement as being Area Engagement Amec Foster AMEC the extent to which people are statement Wheeler year historical connected and committed to their end avg.* work, their manager, their work team and their organisations because of Satisfaction Overall, I am extremely their work environment. We need to satisfied with the 75% 70% regularly measure the engagement company as a place of our employees to provide us with to work an indicator of how well we are doing Referral I would gladly refer a good in this area, so that we can address friend or family member 75% 74% any issues collectively. to the company for employment To measure levels of engagement Commitment I rarely think about at regular intervals we use looking for a new job with 68% 63% pulse surveys; these have been another company undertaken historically for a while in AMEC, and throughout the year; Pride I am proud to say I work 79% 75% one was also conducted at the for the company conclusion of 2014 following the 74% 71% creation of the new company with a sample of both AMEC and Foster *Average of the aggregate AMEC quarterly pulse engagement scores from Q1 2013 through Q4 2014 Wheeler employees. The pulse survey resulted in an and mining markets as well as the engagement score of 74% which resulting impacts on job security and equaled the highest quarterly pulse pay. Supporting this was a 5 point survey score achieved historically increase in both the satisfaction and in AMEC, this is despite industry commitment scores compared to indicators weighing heavily on the historical averages. the minds of those in oil & gas Sustainability / Date: 05/15 / Employee engagement amecfw.com Page 1 of 3 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2015 Fact sheet Employee engagement Designing the new Cultural impact addressed early on and actively company during integration Energy in 2014 was targeted at creating our new company, and Percent of deals Addressed culture impact early on and actively culture was identified early in the 100% acquisition process as essential to Addressed culture Somewhat addressed impact early on and integration success. Having several culture impact actively company cultures is counter80 productive; it creates confusion around how to behave and how to make decisions. The right culture 60 Did not really address Somewhat addressed culture impact culture impact is key to delivering business goals, e.g. commitment to a value such 75% of failed deals did not address 40the as connecting globally as one cultural impact early team leads to increased breadth of on and actively Did not really address expertise, securing more projects. Definitely did not culture impact 20 address An engaging culture can help culture impact Definitely did not address win the hearts and minds of both culture impact companies’ people creating a great 0Failed deals Successful deals and high performance place to work. Companies with clear values have a stronger sense of purpose, which helps them perform better and last Unique identity longer. We wanted our values to + summarise what we are and what Values we stand for, to reflect the real Culture + character of Amec Foster Wheeler Leadership behaviours and its people. Work was undertaken + Ways of working during the integration planning stage by studying past work in culture and engagement, and by Culture is one of the vehicles for emloyee engagement probing the views of employees and management, to develop a set of values for the combined business which were issued to everyone on Propensity to stay integration day 1. Engagement and contribute to discretionary effort Sustainability / Date: 05/15 / Employee engagement amecfw.com Page 2 of 3 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2015 Fact sheet Employee engagement Delivering on promises Developing full potential Doing the right thing • We listen, understand • We invest in our people • We put safety first and respond • We embrace diversity and • We act ethically and with • We agree clear expectations inclusion integrity • We aspire to consistent • We connect globally as • We care about our excellence one team communities We recognised that publishing the To support this, we will design a As a project based business, we values was only the start of the new employee value proposition always have projects starting and journey, and that to really create a (EVP) and will continue to measure finishing, this is part of our natural culture in which each and every one engagement with pulse surveys. The cycle of work, therefore gross figures of us has a fundamental role and can EVP will be comprised of the reasons for leavers can be misleading. be accountable for our actions, we people tell us they are committed to Employee instigated turnover i.e. needed to bring them to life in the the company, and the early evidence those employees we would like to way we behave and work together. is that the values already capture keep, who choose to leave us, is a in words what engaged people more relevant indicator. A set of behaviours was developed have been feeling about each of the through workshops and working heritage organisations for some 2014 data is AMEC only, we will groups to further embed the values, time. look to update this information these were agreed and published as Amec Foster Wheeler moving early in 2015. So the future of engagement forward. Our turnover for 2014 measurement will simply be scoring is improved from previous years 2015 will be one of extensive value the degree to which the mutual which we believe to be the result of and behavior embedding activities expectations stated in the values are a combination of factors. Firstly, (e.g. social media, small group viscerally experienced by our people, reduced activities in both Oil & Gas engagements, town hall meetings, and therefore the aspiration of and Mining markets will have had performance expectations and connected excellence being realised. some effect on attrition; secondly, review, rewards) with an intent of as a result of the activities that we ensuring we have the right culture to We will continue to measure our have been undertaking in employee achieve a workplace worthy of our employee engagement levels using engagement, there will also likely peoples’ choice to work here and to pulse surveys on a regular basis, and have been an effect in relation to put forth heartfelt effort. we will monitor and measure our excitement amongst the workforce employee-instigated turnover rate. relating to the acquisition of the Foster Wheeler business. 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 % employee instigated 9.9 10.6 10.8 11.0 10.8 turnover Sustainability / Date: 05/15 / Employee engagement amecfw.com Page 3 of 3 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2015 Fact sheet People development Our vision is to be the most trusted partner for our customers by consistently delivering excellence. Underpinning that commitment to excellence is our value ‘Develop full potential’. This means that year-on-year we invest heavily in the development of our employees so that we can help them perform and grow in a way that assures excellence of delivery. Our key development focus in 2014 • 80 classroom programmes • Four cohorts of ‘high potentials’ was on supporting the growth of our were run in different parts of were taken through our people in line with our customer and the globe. The content focussed accelerated development business imperatives. on developing those capabilities programmes. These drive critical to business delivery development through a Our global Academy continued to and success, such as project combination of workshops, play a key role in this. The Academy management, commercial seminars, mentoring, coaching, was set up in 2009 to ensure that understanding and facilitation live international projects, we have the critical skills and skills. It also focussed on the networking and development knowledge needed in sufficient management skills needed to run planning over the course of a year. quantities to meet the demands of strong operations and develop a The aim is for Future Leaders to our customers. Some key examples sustainable talent pipeline. develop a deep understanding of follow illustrating the way this was the organisation, the operating achieved in 2014: • The geographically diverse nature environment and themselves of our business means that we as leaders in order to take on • Four cohorts of leaders from place increasing focus on online increasingly challenging roles across the globe attended the delivery with circa 4,000 online across the global business. Academy I-Care programme. training courses completed in I-Care is a Group-wide programme 2014. Example areas include: Find out more about our Future developing the capabilities of our training on the Code of Business Leaders programme. executives to continuously drive a Conduct, ‘how we manage people’, customer-orientated organisation. ‘how we manage projects’ and It represents a significant sustainability awareness. We also investment on the part of the launched a new online training business over a year, comprising and management information four week-long residential modules service which 3,500 people have alongside individual coaching and accessed since it went live in peer-to-peer networking. February 2014. Sustainability / Date: 05/15 / People development amecfw.com Page 1 of 2 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2015 Fact sheet People development Europe Americas Growth Centre Total Regions BU move 6 19 73 3 101 OU move 21 27 86 1 135 Country move 27 44 31 1 103 Locally we continued to drive We also continued to support Good progress has been made learning and development activity internal movement and in 2014, already. For example we have that relates to the specific needs of 101 individuals moved one from implemented the new approach our Operating Units. Examples of business to another and a further to succession management for this are: 103 from one country to another. our recent succession review and Cross discipline, sector and country we have purchased our integrated • A draftsman apprenticeship pilot moves are encouraged as a means talent management system in our Northern Europe Clean to develop our employees and with configuration underway. Energy business in conjunction foster diversity of thought across Still to come is a suite of global with industry partners and the the business. Internal vacancies are communications so that all our UK government department of published on the global intranet. employees understand the new Business, Innovation and Skills. In tandem, talent reviews across approach backed up with learning This was one of the early pilots the group provide a forum in which activities to ensure the approach is reflecting government’s desire for moves of this nature are discussed embedded as quickly as possible. closer partnership with industry and planned. in order to shape the skills and Our global Academy will also be engineering talent pipeline in the refocusing its support for the UK for the future and mitigate 2015 One of our focus areas for 2015 business to reflect our new operating skills shortages. model, values, behaviours, approach • Our Engineering Leadership is the development of a globally consistent approach to people to performance management and programme in our Northern the challenging environment in some Europe Oil & Gas business. This development activity across Amec Foster Wheeler. Specifically this markets. Examples of this are: picks up graduates at the end of their formal schemes and means a revised and integrated • The creation of Academy alumni furthers their development approach to talent, succession who will work as champions through mentorship and specific and performance management for skills and management development targeted to individual underpinned by a global talent development throughout the needs. system. The aim of this is to: business; • Our Practice Areas Programme • Creation of a greater spread • Drive a shared language around which provides monthly technical of methods to deliver leaning, people development across the seminars and an annual technical ensuring that even where global organisation; conference for junior engineers in learners choose not to leave their • Better understand and leverage our Environment & Infrastructure businesses, personal development the strength of an expanded global business in the Americas. can still be achieved. talent pipeline; • Our Office Leadership Programme • Executive Leadership • Centrally manage the careers of in Environment & Infrastructure Development seminars which will our ‘high potentials’ to give them which develops the leadership be led by our global lead team and the experiences they need early in and management skills of new delivered online. Work has already their careers to accelerate through and upcoming Office Managers. begun to broaden learning delivery the organisation; and This programme, which facilitates methods and the Executive • Drive performance levels by learning through live examples, is Leadership Development seminars ensuring that personal growth is led by internal senior leaders. commenced during the week of planned at the start of the year • Successful programmes in our 18 May. in the same way that business African and Middle Eastern objectives are. markets which transfer skills and competencies from the expatriate workforce to the local workforce, building a sustainable local talent pipeline, such as the development of a local workforce in Ghana Sustainability / Date: 05/15 / People development amecfw.com Page 2 of 2 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2015 Fact sheet Development of a global cadre of future leaders Every year we take 15 ‘high potentials’ nominated from across the global business onto our Future Leaders programme. The aim of the programme is to accelerate the development of individuals showing the capability, aspiration and potential needed to become the Group’s leaders of the future. Here is the experience of one of our former participants: “From Workshop 1 we were taught The whole process about looking at strategy and taking time to reflect on decisions and was very much an critically analyze how things were going for us. I took a lot of this back evolution for me into my project at the time which and it worked well was in ‘firefighting’ mode due to a number of complex reasons. Andrew Mitchell Project Controls Manager, Qatar My team had grown from eight to 24 personnel over the space of six months and I had not pulled myself out of the detail which As a result of this I was able to pull The biggest take away from the was consuming a lot of my time together a robust strategy to deliver process for me was making the time unnecessarily. cost, planning, contracts and DCC to reflect and review on what I have across three work share locations done. The nature of the projects I Using some of the reflective to deliver an additional $50million have typically worked on have been techniques and starting to strategize of detailed design and engineering intense and fast paced and, looking more frequently I was able to put work to our client. Without workshop back on them, I rarely stepped out together a more robust set of 1 of the process I would have of a decision and asked if I thought it procedures and processes to embed definitely struggled to take these was the right thing to do? Or if what project controls into how the project steps and evolve what was already had been put into place was actually operated. in place. working? I have made this more of a habit in my day-to-day work and feel that this is strengthening my contribution to team meetings and as a Leader of a team.” Sustainability / Date: 05/15 / Future leaders amecfw.com Page 1 of 1 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2015 Case study Development of the local workforce in Ghana In our African and Middle Eastern markets we are required to develop a national workforce alongside our expatriate workforce. This ensures sustainability of appropriately skilled and qualified employees for Amec Foster Wheeler projects. It also satisfies our corporate responsibility to support local employment in the markets in which we operate, as well as enhancing our ability to deliver a competitive commercial offering to our customers. A recent example for a project in our Ghanaian market illustrates the way we do this. We aim to develop We are also introducing a Graduate 10 Ghanaian Development programme which will develop Ghanaian national graduate engineers to the international national engineers to the standards of the Oil & Gas Industry. standards of UK Chartered In this case study the deliverable Engineering institutions from the programme is 10 Ghanaian national engineers fully developed over the life of the contract and qualified to the standards of UK Chartered Engineering institutions over the life of the contract. This will be achieved through a combination A competency assessment is This process is particularly of development activities such conducted for each employee at important when it comes to choices as mentoring, e-learning, lunchthe beginning of their employment. for promotion. It ensures that local and-learn sessions and on-the-job This is done by disciplinehires only progress to a more senior rotations. competent people against the position when they are evaluated as discipline competency framework ready by an assessor. That way we and evaluates skills against the maintain the quality of our work for specific requirements of the job. the customer while ensuring that any The outcome of this assessment is experience or capability bars then reflected in a development plan to an individual’s progression can jointly prepared by the employee be addressed. and Line Manager. The Learning and Development Lead then monitors to ensure that planned action is being executed. Sustainability / Date: 05/15 / Development of local workforce in Ghana amecfw.com Page 1 of 1 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2015 Fact sheet Diversity and inclusion Amec Foster Wheeler is committed to increasing diversity and inclusion throughout its business. This is reflected through the emphasis we have given diversity and inclusion in both our new company values and expected behaviours. We recognise that each of us has many different diverse This broader view of diversity is encapsulated by our traits which shape our view of the world, our perspective belief that diversity is really about diversity of thought; and our approach. where different viewpoints and experiences are the point of difference, rather than our visible characteristics. We want to maximise the value of our peoples’ individual differences and understand that creating an inclusive environment is essential for us to achieve this. Our diversity and inclusion vision is that: • Diversity of thought is valued as it adds to our business through enriching the solutions we deliver to our clients; and • We are passionate about building a culture of inclusion and respect where the value of difference is not only recognised, but positively encouraged. Sustainability / Date: 05/15 / Diversity and inclusion amecfw.com Page 1 of 3 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2015 Fact sheet Diversity and inclusion To achieve this vision and to become more diverse and inclusive, global company, our global diversity and inclusion steering group was established in January 2014. This steering group leads and drives our diversity and inclusion strategy globally, focusing on five key areas to influence change and accelerate progress. • Leadership and vision Create a framework to lead and drive Amec Foster Wheeler’s diversity and inclusion activities which clearly demonstrates our commitment; • Communication and engagement Raise Amec Foster Wheeler’s profile both internally and externally as a diverse and inclusive employer; • Culture and behaviors Foster a culture where diversity and inclusiveness is embedded and embraced as part of the Amec Foster Wheeler way; • Recruitment and talent management Attract and retain key talent for Amec Foster Wheeler from the full spectrum of the worldwide talent pool, ensuring that the right talent is deployed to the best opportunities in order to help the business globally and achieve creative solutions; and • Measurement and evaluation Ensure that there are effective and reliable methods in place to monitor and measure progress on diversity and inclusion activities. In 2014 we appointed 14 diversity Overall Group America Europe Growth and inclusion champions, all senior central regions leaders from across our business. Each champion is responsible for a AMEC has created diversity and inclusion action plan an environment for their operating unit covering where people 72% 69% 76% 67% 68% the five key areas and designed with diverse to embed our global diversity and backgrounds can inclusion strategy, address local succeed issues and individual operating My manager treats 86% 81% 88% 83% 87% unit needs. me with respect My ideas and In addition to establishing our 69% 75% 70% 64% 75% opinions matter diversity and inclusion leadership structure, in 2014 we also focused I feel that I am part on communicating to our people of the wider AMEC 47% 52% 52% 34% 52% what diversity and inclusion means team in Amec Foster Wheeler, what our Inclusion Index 69% 69% 72% 62% 71% vision is for diversity and inclusion and why it is important to all of us. To enable us to do this we launched As part of Why AMEC, an AMEC In November 2014 a pulse survey our global mandatory diversity and engagement initiative, quarterly was carried out focusing on inclusion procedure, we also created pulse surveys were conducted diversity and inclusion, asking our a diversity and inclusion intranet targeting 2,000 randomly-selected agreed inclusion index questions. site and launched an internal social employees each time. The purpose These results will serve as a useful media group for diversity and was to measure the level of benchmark for our diversity and inclusion which nearly 500 of our engagement in the company on a inclusion activities moving forward. people have joined. regular basis as well as to solicit feedback on various related topics. Sustainability / Date: 05/15 / Diversity and inclusion amecfw.com Page 2 of 3 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2015 Fact sheet Diversity and inclusion In 2015 our focus will be to deliver Gender split, based on directly employed workers only – against both our global and local AMEC only (2013 figures in brackets) diversity and inclusion action plans and this will be monitored and driven Europe Americas Growth Centre Total by our global diversity and inclusion regions steering group. Male % 79 (79) 71 (71) 71 (80) 66 (65) 73 (74) Specifically, we will develop the Female % 21 (21) 29 (29) 29 (20) 34 (35) 27 (26) Amec Foster Wheeler global mandatory diversity and inclusion procedure and ensure that diversity Hired in 2014, by strategic recruitment – AMEC only (2013 and inclusion is further embedded figures in brackets) into our company. Diversity and inclusion champions will be Graduates Trainees Interns appointed in the five operating units that are yet to confirm their champion and action plans for Male % 75 (70) 53 (72) 69 (73) these areas will be developed and Female % 25 (30) 47 (28) 31 (27) actioned. We will also focus on building our external profile as a diverse and inclusive employer and Gender split, 2014 – Amec Foster Wheeler at 31st December ensure progress on diversity and inclusion activities are monitored Board Group Executive All directly and measured. leadership employed Male % 78 90 88 76 Female % 22 10 12 24 Sustainability / Date: 05/15 / Diversity and inclusion amecfw.com Page 3 of 3 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2015 Case study Women in engineering As part of our diversity and inclusion policy and our ambition to increase the number of women in technical roles within the business, we are committed to positively influence women and girls in science and engineering, by fostering a culture within the business where women can develop to their full potential, and also through school outreach programs. Amec Foster Wheeler continues to be involved in the WISE campaign in the UK which aims to promote female talent in STEM (science, technology, engineering and mathematics), from classroom to boardroom. “Diversity and inclusion In 2014 Amec Foster Wheeler pledged support to a UK Government campaign called ‘Your Life’ aimed at promoting greater participation are critically important in STEM, especially among women. As part of this we successfully for society and business committed to: and I am passionate about • 15 of our major offices participating in schools outreach events on ensuring that Amec Foster 23 June 2014 to celebrate the 95th anniversary of the founding of Wheeler plays a central role the Women’s Engineering Society; in making this happen. • Doubling the number of STEM visits made to schools in 2014 from I am personally committed 75 to 150; • Doubling the number of women STEM ambassadors from 20 to to seeing an increase in 40 within a year; and women in technical roles • Organising 10 Women in Science and Engineering (WISE) specific within Amec Foster Wheeler events targeting pre-option students (11-13 year olds or younger) throughout the year in the UK. as that is one of the key ingredients to creating the diverse and inclusive workforce that we need to deliver on our ambitions.” Samir Brikho Sustainability / Date: 05/15 /Women in engineering amecfw.com Page 1 of 3 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2015 Case study Women in engineering Below outlines just a few of the 2014 activities that took place. Women in Engineering Day To mark the 95th anniversary of National Women in Engineering Day last year Amec Foster Wheeler hosted a number of special events to promote and attract more women into the science and engineering field. The aim of the day was to focus attention on the opportunities for women in engineering, to be as inclusive as possible and inspirational for girls but also to engage with boys in encouraging all into a career in engineering. Some of the events included visits to laboratory facilities in Birchwood, Warrington by Culcheth High The Technology & Innovation Centre School, and a visit to the Overhead is home to a number of laboratories, Line Training School in Darlington, engineering halls and test facilities. by the Woodham Academy in We were able to provide hands County Durham. There were also a on experience for every student number of visits by graduate STEM with a range of different technical ambassadors to secondary schools challenges. across the UK. Following an introductory talk on Each session comprised of an the principles of nuclear power, introduction to Amec Foster Wheeler students visited full scale replicas and its operations, with an insight of key power station facilities to see into the work the graduates carry how they are inspected, maintained out daily and how to progress to and repaired. Students then had a career in engineering and the the opportunity to control Remote different entry paths Amec Foster Operations Vehicles (ROVs – Wheeler can offer. A number of small robots) to simulate moving the schools also held competitions radioactive waste containers in to build structures from specially storage areas off limits to people designed plastic bricks to give the due to radiation levels. They also students a realistic insight into the measured radioactivity levels in engineering design process. a range of everyday household items (do you know the inherent The day concluded with ‘speed radioactivity of a banana?) and mentoring’ allowing each student Women in Engineering they investigated how Ion exchange the opportunity to talk 1:1 to around Day at the Amec Foster resins remove Ions from water in 10 different Amec Foster Wheeler Wheeler’s Technology order to purify it. engineers and scientists. & Innovation Centre, Warrington The day was supplemented with The day was summed up by one To celebrate Women in Engineering short career talk from Dawn attendee: Day 2014 we invited twenty Year 10 James, Vice President for Nuclear “I thought it was a very fun students from Culcheth High School Generation and Defence, who spoke experience which I would to visit Amec Foster Wheeler’s about her early career as an apprentice and her route to love to take part in again.” Technology & Innovation Centre in Warrington. Vice President. Sustainability / Date: 05/15 /Women in engineering amecfw.com Page 2 of 3 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2015 Fact sheet Women in Engineering Mentoring future engineers at Brunel University Amec Foster Wheeler has also been working closely with Brunel University to provide mentoring services to female engineering students. The Women in Engineering Programme (WIE) supports their female engineering MSc graduates to attain their full potential in the engineering profession. The Programme consists of a bespoke mentoring scheme (consisting of professionals), personal professional development training and visits to industry to help provide support and future career path opportunities for future engineers. Do you know the inherent radioactivity of a banana? Answer: Sarah Templey, Chief Mechanical Bananas are slightly radioactive because they contain potassium and Engineer in our London office is potassium decays. Potassium is a necessary substance for healthy currently a mentor and says; operation of your body – you need about 2.5g per 1kg of body weight. You would have to eat a LOT of bananas just to compete with the “As the mentoring topics are natural potassium dose of your body. unique to the student concerned, we’ve based our discussions on the Bananas have about 0.1 μSv of radiation i.e 0.1 x 10-6. A CT scan objectives she wants to get from her delivers around 0.7 mSv i.e. 0.7 x 10-3 which is 7,000 times more than course, career and the mentoring a banana. A lethal radiation dose is about 800mSv i.e. a thousand process itself. This means our more times again (or nearly 10 million times more than a banana). So discussions remained both focused you would need to eat 10 million bananas in one go to have sufficient and highly relevant to my mentee. radiation poisoning to kill you in a few days, or around 250 bananas a As well as covering several areas day for 7 years to poison yourself slowly. in support of her objectives I’ve also been able to put my mentee in contact with women engineers working in the specific role she is interested in doing on graduation, enabling her to gain an insight to the working environment and to get perspectives on issues that she might face as a working mother, for example.” Going forward we will continue to get involved and support national campaigns that improve opportunities for women and youth in education. Sustainability / Date: 05/15 /Women in engineering amecfw.com Page 3 of 3 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2015 Fact sheet Mobilising our people Mobility continues to be an important focus for us. Our main objective is to ensure that our mobility programme continues to support our business strategy by ensuring that we have the right people in the right place at the right time and in the most cost efficient way for both the company and our clients. Policy Driver The driver, or business intent, is at the foundation of the In 2014 we launched a new framework. It is the first item which requires definition and Employment Framework which prescribes the mobility pattern. documents the way in which we The intent of the driver is to define both the long and short term mobilise and employ our resources, intent for the employee, in terms of career development, business offering greater flexibility to the requirements and potential for future mobility. business and supporting our Mobility The mobility pattern defines the requirement for mobility for the global execution model. This is a Pattern employee. It prescribes the Employment Stream. change in strategy which has been The intent of the Mobility Pattern is to determine whether there is developed specifically to meet the a long term or potential requirement for future mobility, or whether needs of the business based on the move in question is permanent. This decision should support feedback, and shifts the mobility the outcome of the decision made when determining the driver. function from mainly mobilising a Employment The employment stream defines the route through which the western workforce, to allowing us to Stream employee will be mobilised. It prescribes the possible policy recruit from any country and place options. and mobilising that workforce to The intent of the employment stream is to define the relevant wherever it is required to deliver employment entity and the requirements dictated by the mobility our work. pattern. Policy The policy summarises the terms and conditions applicable to Historically, it has been challenging each cross border move. to offer flexibility with only one policy The intent of the policy is to account for the specifics of the move while also maintaining consistency (duration, level of benefit provision, employee type) and to define and the businesses have often felt appropriate remuneration and support. constrained and frustrated by the lack of options available to them. As The framework defines a structure composed of 4 elements, illustrated above. a result we have developed a suite of five polices which are aligned to The framework aims to provide towards a talent based approach, five employment streams, thereby transparency and clarity on how where the intent or driver for each providing options and agility to Amec Foster Wheeler employs international move is at the core support our businesses, ultimately its people globally, to introduce of decision making around how an decreasing time to bid and time consistency across regions and to assignment is structured. to mobilisation and increasing support diversity. It also moves us competitiveness. Sustainability / Date: 05/15 / Global mobility amecfw.com Page 1 of 3 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2015 Fact sheet Mobilising our people The diagram below provides a visual Centre in Manila where we can Technology representation of the framework. streamline processes and deliver Key to supporting us in the delivery Starting at the very inner circle a more seamless experience to of our objectives and process and moving outwards; the purple our employees. While still in the improvements is the design and circle is the driver or intent, the grey early days of development this implementation of a technology tool segments show the mobility pattern, enhancement to our current which will automate cost estimates we then move on to the colour coded structure will enable us to establish and work flow management. The employment streams and finally the globally consistent processes and introduction of automation and very outer ring depicts the policy as reduce the number of contact points process consistency will enable us per the legend on the right. for the employee, thereby improving to provide accurate and timely data their overall assignment experience. to support the business in winning Process Since the establishment of the work whilst increasing the speed of Common feedback that we receive Shared Service Centre we have deployment. from our employees is that during been able to realise cost savings mobilisation there are multiple and process improvements while As we move forward into 2015 contact points and process hand also strengthening compliance. we are primarily focused on the offs which makes the experience Throughout 2015 we will continue integration of the two legacy global disjointed and confusing. In order to migrate activities to Manila in line mobility programmes which will to address this we have established with our Operating Model. include policy harmonisation, team a Global Mobility Shared Service integration and a review of our technology requirements. The main objective being to improve employee Global Mobility Employment Framework experience and achieve cost and Employment Stream, Policy and Process Options process efficiencies while also ensuring that we remain compliant. Sustainability / Date: 05/15 / Global mobility amecfw.com Page 2 of 3 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2015 Fact sheet Mobilising our people We are also working with Talent & Performance Management to identify ways in which we can be more closely aligned to capitalise on the experience that our employees gain while on assignment. By the end of 2015 we aim to have in place a single mobility function, working to a common set of principles which will meet both the strategic and operational needs of our new organisation. In 2014 AMEC had just under 2,000 people on a mobility assignment. 236 individuals moved from one business to another, and a further 103 from one country to another. Europe Americas Growth Centre Total Regions BU move 6 (5) 19 (83) 73 (25) 3 (10) 101 (123) OU move 21 (33) 27 (16) 86 (12) 1 (7) 135 (68) Country move 27 (11) 44 (48) 31 (22) 1 (13) 103 (92) On people development 0 0 0 0 0 assignments (Int’l) Note, numbers in brackets relate to 2013. Sustainability / Date: 05/15 / Global mobility amecfw.com Page 3 of 3 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2015 Innovation & Delivery Sustainability Performance Report 2014 Resilient World Fact sheet Safety by Design Doing the right thing – putting safety first is one of our core values. This includes the fundamental goals of achieving inherently safer design in all of Amec Foster Wheeler’s engineering and construction efforts. Amec Foster Wheeler’s Safety by Design process assists the achievement of designs with enhanced safety and environmental characteristics. This process is based on the implementation of Inherently Safer Design principles applied to engineering, construction and their environmental aspects. Amec Foster Wheeler applies a • Examine whether actual and Why adopt a Safety by Safety by Design process on its potential negative impacts can be Design approach? engineering projects, designed to entirely avoided, or their magnitude In addition to making a facility safer, help our engineering and design reduced by design. If this is not adopting a Safety by Design process teams, focus on the impact they possible then appropriate and can save costs: have on operations and construction preferably engineered controls ( safety, and how we can improve in i.e. by isolating people from the • Inventory reduction will reduce this area. The intent of Safety by hazard by use of enclosures) shall costs because smaller vessels Design is to: be put in place to manage the cost less; residual risks and environmental • Simpler plant costs less because • Address life-cycle health, safety impacts. there is less equipment and fewer and environmental risks and environmental aspects including ancillaries; Amec Foster Wheeler has made management of the use of natural • Avoiding hazards also prevents the Safety by Design an integral part resources in development projects; costly hazard control measures; of the project engineering design • Systematically and workflow. In addition, we have and comprehensively identify and dedicated resources in our key • Reducing count, size and assess hazards and environmental engineering centres that are actively complexity of equipment reduces challenges, and their associated involved in ensuring Safety by utilities, labour, testing and risk to people, environment, asset Design. maintenance costs. and production loss, and company reputation; and Sustainability / Date: 05/15 /Safety by Design amecfw.com Page 1 of 3 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2015 Fact sheet Safety by Design A five-step process Define safety & use of materials or energy from 1. Define safety goals occurring by passive means, rather environmental goals than reactive means, i.e. acting Goals will help maintain focus throughout the Safety by Design on the consequences of events process. Goals should reflect rather than preventing the events. regulatory requirements, legislated Engineered controls are generally and project specific tolerability Understand hazards & preferred to administrative controls, of risk criteria and sustainability environmental impacts as these require no, or less, human strategies, as well as project specific intervention to be effective. safety and environmental goals. The preferred hierarchy of controls 2. Understand hazards & Implement inherently is reflected in Amec Foster Wheeler’s aspects safer design principles Safety by Design process, and subIf hazards to health and safety or processes that address health & the relevant environmental aspects safety and environmental protection that require to be managed are not & sustainability issues. known, they cannot be controlled. Manage residual risks & The purpose of this step is to identify environmental impacts Various studies can be conducted as and understand project specific part of the residual risk management health and safety hazards as well as process, either in-house or with environmental impacts. external support. These studies could include the review of: Consolidate & 3. Implement Inherent Safer communicate Design principles • Operability and safety of The intent of Inherently Safer Design Amec Foster Wheeler’s five step Safety by processes involving hazardous is to eliminate a hazard or the use Design process materials; of materials or energy completely • Effectiveness of safety or reduce the magnitude of use • Moderate – minimise the potential instrumented systems as a sufficiently to eliminate the need for impact of a release of substances, safeguard; elaborate safety or environmental materials or energy, e.g. by • Analysis of the possible failure management systems. This process changing layout / configuration, of equipment and the potential of elimination or reduction is adopting less hazardous operating impact of this failure on people accomplished by means that are conditions, or by minimising the and the environment; inherent to the production process number of people exposed; and • Effects and likelihood of releases and thus permanent and inseparable • Simplify – design facilities of hazardous materials; from it and therefore highly reliable. and plan executions to reduce • Effects and likelihood of fires, or eliminate complexity; and explosions and nuclear radiation, The implementation of inherently minimise the possibility of and mechanical impacts such as safer design is achieved by adopting human error. dropped objects and collisions; a strategy based on the following • The minimisation of the use of principles: 4. Manage residual risk resources (e.g. water) and energy If ‘inherent control’ cannot be fully (e.g. electricity diesel fuel); • Eliminate remove hazardous achieved or is perceived to be • Human-machine interface and materials, processes and inadequate, residual hazards, risks human-friendly design; activities; and environmental impacts will • Effects and likelihood of potential • Minimise use smaller quantities remain and their associated risks human errors; of hazardous substances and and effects will need to be reviewed, • Escape, evacuation and rescue materials generally; minimise the and where reasonably possible, process; and number of activities especially mitigated. Mitigation may require • Evaluation of risks to people hazardous ones; the implementation of additional and the environment, asset • Substitute replace a hazardous, engineered or procedural controls. / production loss, effects on expensive or rare material or community, habitat and natural activity with one that is less so. Controls or safeguards are generally heritage. more effective if they prevent a hazardous event or unnecessary Sustainability / Date: 05/15 /Safety by Design amecfw.com Page 2 of 3 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2015 Fact sheet Safety by Design 5. Consolidate and Developing and communicate maintaining an Inherently Once the Safety by Design process has been completed as intended, Safer Design culture For the benefits of Inherently Safer and the goals that were identified at Design to be fully realised it is the outset of the project have been important that the entire project met, the process can be closed. team becomes aligned with the The findings of the Safety by Design need for it. To support this, in process can be consolidated and conjunction with the Amec Foster communicated to internal and Wheeler Academy, a two day training external stakeholders. program “The Essentials of Safety and Environmental Protection Depending on legislative and through the Asset Life Cycle” has client requirements, a dedicated been developed and is presented in compliance report such as a Case for global locations several times a year. Safety or an Environmental Impact The objective of the training is to Statement is produced. explain the principles of the Safety by Design process to our engineering Managing actions and community. recommendations Any action or recommendation raised during the project’s Safety The program has been by Design process is recorded and running for over five followed up. years and to date more Following up these actions can be than 400 employees complex, as it requires multiple parties to be involved, either as have completed the responsible party or in an approving training. capacity. Our SharePoint based Engineering and Technical Action Tracker (ETAT) has been specifically developed to address this type of actions. Sustainability / Date: 05/15 /Safety by Design amecfw.com Page 3 of 3 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2015 Fact sheet Supply Chain Management Amec Foster Wheeler’s Supply Chain Management (SCM) function is responsible for the end-to-end management of the external supply chain for the provision of goods and services to our projects across the globe, managing an annual spend of circa $6.35 billion per annum. The global SCM leadership team With the creation of the new focuses on two key areas: company, SCM has become a core Deliver a globally part of the overall project delivery consistent and • Firstly, to ensure we have a strong function, which consists of various and successful relationship other primary frontline project collaborative supply management with our supply execution functions. The purpose chain management chain as this is fundamental to our delivery of safe and excellent of our supply chain management is to “Deliver a globally consistent capability utilising projects for our customers. We and collaborative supply chain value the relationships we have the processes, with our suppliers and recognise management capability utilising the processes, tools, skilled SCM tools, skilled SCM the important role they play in the personnel and suppliers expertise to development and ongoing success personnel and of our business; and enable excellent project delivery”. suppliers expertise To deliver this, the group vice • Secondly, the provision of president has a global SCM to enable excellent appropriate training and leadership team comprising the project delivery. development programmes for respective business unit SCM leads the SCM people that enables and other subject matter experts them to understand how to related to various facets of executing use the procedures, processes supply chain management. In and systems effectively on our addition to the leadership team, each projects. business unit has SCM leads which are deployed into the Operating Units (OU), forming part of that OU management structure. Sustainability / Date: 05/15 /Supply Chain Management amecfw.com Page 1 of 2 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2015 Fact sheet Supply Chain Management Supporting our suppliers  A Supply Chain Code of Business Conduct which is To support and aid our focus on our suppliers we have aligned to the company Code of Business Conduct. the following in places. This contains the requirements and expectations we set for the supplier community in both their dealings with our company and their supply chains, • An internet SCM section which our suppliers can particularly in terms of our commitment to the UN view, currently undergoing a significant change to Global Compact. The company Code and Supply incorporate the following: Chain Codes of Business Conduct are currently • A link to a global registration system which enables under review, with new versions expected to be suppliers to provide details of their capability which issued imminently. the SCM function can use for the purposes of  A “hot line” which they can use to report any identifying potential suppliers for specific projects breaches by personnel within our company to our related to their provision of goods and services. Code of Business Conduct and Supply Chain Code of Currently, there are 14,000 suppliers registered Business Conduct. No complaints or breaches were from across the globe. Access to the site will require reported or registered in 2014. suppliers to have confirmed acceptance of the company and Supply Chain Codes of Conduct. • Our terms and conditions contain a clause related to the Supply Chain Code of Business Conduct which • We have a Supplier Performance Assessment (SPA) we require suppliers to confirm acceptance of prior to system in place which is used by the team that dealt award of any subcontracts or purchase orders. with the supplier to whom we awarded a subcontract or purchase order to. The SPA has nine categories of • We regularly participate in Supplier Industry Trade assessment related to purchase order to assess their Bodies, for example EIC connect and Energy North in performance in several areas: the UK, or the IHS Oil and Gas Supply chain summit in the US, where we provide information related to our  Responsiveness in bidding How a supplier has current and potential future projects. These forums dealt with our requests for quotation/proposals or provide suppliers the opportunity to discuss with our invitations to tender; personnel their capabilities and explore the potential to  Commercial Post award topics such as change be considered for award of work. orders, claims, etc.;  Delivery Performance of the work post award of a contract, sub-contract, or PO • We also have regular lunch-and-learn sessions where  Technical compliance Overall technical integrity suppliers come in and present to us over the course of of the scope of work/supply; a lunchtime, which provides them with the opportunity  Documentation Provision of documents/data; to meet numerous members of our team, understand  Health and safety Implementation and current and potential projects, and also for our supply compliance executing the work/activities; chain or project personnel to learn more about the  Environmental Impact on the environment of products and services available. work/activities performed;  Equipment installation and commissioning Startup and operability of facilities or equipment; and  Sustainability Human rights, ethical practices, their supply chain workforce and community, carbon management, and climate change on the work/activities. For each category there the supplier is assessed, as relevant to their scope of work or supply, against a set of standard definitions/assessment criteria. Where a supplier has created issues for us the assessment information is used to have a conversation on how to prevent future occurrences. It is also a tool to identify our poor performing suppliers who create increased risks for us, and also highlight good performing suppliers who can support us. Sustainability / Date: 05/15 /Supply Chain Management amecfw.com Page 2 of 2 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2015 Case study Small business program Amec Foster Wheeler’s Environment & Infrastructure business established a small business program with the intent to utilize small businesses to the fullest extent where possible, and in particular on US Federal Government contracts. The small business programme looks at a number of types of AMEC’s Procurement Manual addresses small business utilisation, business listed below, with the an example: aim of maximising the practicable “All federal procurements will be set aside for small business suppliers, opportunity to participate in the unless there is no reasonable expectation of obtaining responsible performance of contracts: offers from two or more responsible small business concerns that are • Small business (SB); competitive in terms of market prices, quality and delivery. In fact, AMEC • Small disadvantaged business screens all procurements under federal contracts for the ability to set (SDB); aside for small business, and requires written justification from the • Women owned small business project manager if not set aside for a small business, that needs to be (WOSB); approved and signed off on by the AMEC Small Business Office. • Veteran-owned small business (VOSB); AMEC has provided recognition to deserving small business advocates • Service disabled veteran-owned and small business subcontractors since 2005. AMEC presents two small small business (SD/VOSB); and business awards each year; one is awarded to our top small business • Historically Underutilized Business subcontractor of the year. The other is awarded to the AMEC small Zone small business concerns business advocate of the year. (HUBZone SB). Our small business subcontractor is presented with a plaque and AMEC publishes an internal write-up and posts on our small business internet The small business programme site. This annual award was established to honor a small business to assists and monitors mentor-protégé which AMEC has awarded subcontracts and whose performance from relationships, introduces qualified a technical, schedule and administrative perspective has exceeded our small business firms to project expectations. personnel in the form of face-to-face meetings or phone conversations, Our AMEC internal small business advocate is presented with a plaque expands and maintains the database and a cash reward. This provides incentive for AMEC employees to ensure of small business subcontractors that small businesses are given equitable opportunity to compete on our for projects, prepares all federal subcontracts, mentor small businesses and share their successes with subcontracting plans, compiles other AMEC project managers and customers. small business procurement data, See the 2014 winners. prepares individual and summary subcontract reports, and audits and reports on the performance of small business procurement efforts under all federal contracts. Sustainability / Date: 05/15 /Small business program amecfw.com Page 1 of 2 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2015 Case study Small business program Much effort is also put into outreach activities. Amec Foster Wheeler’s Raleigh, NC commitment to small business Amec Foster Wheeler’s Small Business Program hosted its third small can easily be measured through business “play ball” networking event on October 21st, 2014 in Durham, our active participation in many NC. The event was attended by close to 90 small businesses, and small business events. Amec was held at a local park and featured football-themed activities, BBQ, Foster Wheeler attends, exhibits matchmaking sessions, and business bingo throughout the event to and participates in small business facilitate networking. conferences, workshops, and “As a small business it is very rare that we have the opportunity to meet seminars nationwide to identify and with the number of decision makers that attended this event, and hear develop small business relationships. from them directly about opportunities that were currently available In the past 12 months, we attended or upcoming. In addition, I found that the representatives from the more than 41 such events across different areas of AMEC were eager to find ways to include small the US. businesses. As a result of the event we were invited to bid on a project,” said James Jordon, of JCC. Amec Foster Wheeler has recently taken its marketing outreach to a “I really enjoyed the opportunity to meet several key AMEC personnel new level, hosting a Small Business in one location, as well as fellow small business representatives. Networking Event twice a year, one The atmosphere was casual and laid back, making it a stress free on the east coast in the fall and one environment for starting and building business relationships. As a small on the west coast in the spring. business it is a great opportunity to establish contacts, have access These local events are tailored to various AMEC offices and lines of business, and meet key people toward inviting small business firms, face-to-face with minimal expense involved. Looking forward to more of various socioeconomic types, opportunities like this in the future.” that provide services which we commonly subcontract. This makes Curtis Teague of DNT Environmental the networking session valuable for both the company and the small businesses. The legacy event is AMEC has been awarded the following small business awards called “Play Ball With AMEC” and has its own unique sports-related Award Agency Year theme. The goal is for companies 1 USAID Excellence in mentorship Award USAID 2015 to meet in a more fun and relaxed atmosphere that promotes small 2 Dwight D Eisenhower Award for ExcellenceUS SBA SBA 2015 business interacting with Amec 3 Outstanding Rating-SBA Small Business Program SBA 2014 Foster Wheeler and each other. The Compliance Review events have been extremely well 4 SAME Large Business National Award SAME 2012 received by attendees. 5 SAME Large Business 2nd Place Award Pike’s Peak & Denver SAME 2012 Metro Post We are extremely proud of its track record of small business 6 Dwight D. Eisenhower Award for Excellence – US SBA SBA 2011 utilization, as evidenced by the 7 Outstanding Rating-SBA Small Business Program SBA 2010 small business reports, the national Compliance Review awards garnered for small business 8 DoD Nunn-Perry Award for mentoring SDBs CORE utilization and mentoring and the Engineering & Construction, Inc. (SDB) & Florida DoD 2008 recent award of an “Outstanding” International University (MI) rating from SBAthe highest rating 9 Claire Hackett, Champion of Veterans in Small Business SBA 2008 SBA can bestow upon a large business. 10 Dwight D. Eisenhower Award for Excellence US SBA SBA 2007 11 DoD Nunn-Perry Award for mentoring SDBs Echota DoD 2006 Technologies (SDB) 12 DoD Nunn-Perry Award for mentoring SDBs Zambrana DoD 2004 Engineering (SDB) 13 DOD Nunn-Perry Award for mentoring SDBsBering Sea DoD 2002 Eccotech Sustainability / Date: 05/15 /Small business program amecfw.com Page 2 of 2 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2015 Case study Sempra U.S. Gas & Power Successful completion of a solar project In May 2015, Amec Foster Wheeler completed the Sempra U.S. Gas & Power and Consolidated Edison Development’s 250 megawatt (MW) Copper Mountain Solar 3 project in Boulder City. “Copper Mountain Solar Amec Foster Wheeler was awarded Construction of the solar project the multi-million dollar engineering, which began in 2013, created 3 is the culmination of procurement and construction roughly 300 jobs and 12 permanent hard work and a great (EPC) contract by Sempra U.S. operations jobs. During the partnership with Sempra Gas & Power in 2013 to design and 18 month completion we have U.S. Gas & Power and construct its Copper Mountain Solar installed 1,132,800 photovoltaic 3 project near Las Vegas, Nevada, in (PV) modules, 410 miles of Consolidated Edison an effort to harness the desert sun in electrical cable and nearly 200,000 Development. This is a Boulder City, Nevada, and produce foundation posts. In 2014, the plant significant project in the clean energy. produced approximately 265 million solar market and we are kilowatt hours and now complete, Copper Mountain Solar 3 is the third will provide enough electricity to delighted to deliver this phase of Sempra U.S. Gas & Power’s power around 80,000 homes. prominent project, which landmark Copper Mountain Solar demonstrates our growing complex jointly owned by Sempra Construction on a 94-MW expansion U.S Gas & Power and Consolidated of the Copper Mountain Solar position in renewables and Edison Development. It is situated complex, Copper Mountain Solar 4, clean energy as well as on about 1,400 acres of land and is expected to get underway later our ability to leverage our is currently one of the largest this year with Amec Foster Wheeler global design, engineering photovoltaic (PV) solar plants in continuing to work with Sempra the U.S. U.S. Gas & Power and Consolidated and project management Edison Development on this expertise to deliver projects landmark solar complex. for our customers.” Tim Gelbar President, Amec Foster Wheeler Power & Process Americas Sustainability / Date: 05/15 /Sempra US Gas & Power amecfw.com Page 1 of 1 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2015 Case study Springbank reservoir project Amec Foster Wheeler identified the potential for off-stream flood storage by identifying a site and engineering solution to mitigate flooding the lower Elbow River in Alberta. The scheme will not only protect thousands of residents in the Elbow River basin, but will also protect transportation, infrastructure and mobility in downtown Calgary from experiencing a repeat of the floods of June 2013. Background Between 19th June and 22th June The challenge Innovation 2013, over 310mm of rain fell in The upper Elbow River basin has The use of off-stream storage for the Elbow River headwaters. The limited opportunities for a flood flood control is unprecedented in resultant flood caused by this storm storage facility due to the steepness Alberta. The concept avoids some was the most expensive natural of the watercourse and geotechnical of the major technical challenges disaster in Canadian history. The challenges in the mountainous with a large on-stream reservoir, and challenge presented to Amec Foster upper reaches. The main stem of the eases the management of flood risk Wheeler was to find flood mitigation lower Elbow River is also generally during construction. This project measures that would prevent such a unsuitable for a flood storage makes intelligent use of the terrain natural disaster from recurring. scheme. Also required to limit the to achieve flood protection for an risk of structure debris blockage and event of the severity experienced The problem to allow the passage of fish. in June 2013. The final design The Elbow River basin headwaters can also be adapted to retain are on the eastern slopes of the The solution water during periods of drought Rocky Mountains. The steep terrain The solution was an off-stream flood if necessary without causing in the upper basin can generate storage basin connected to the significant disturbance to the Elbow extreme rainfall as moist air from the Elbow River via a 9.5 m high gated River riparian area. It will provide Gulf of Mexico rises over the Rockies. diversion structure across the Elbow significant flood protection to areas There are currently no significant River. This would divert major flood downstream of the site, increase flood defenses on the Elbow River flows to an off-stream reservoir that safety and effectiveness of the leaving downstream properties, would release the floodwater back Glenmoir Reservoir, and contribute residents and infrastructure at high to the river at a controlled rate once to flood damage mitigation in the flood risk. Downstream of Glenmore levels had receded. Bow River basin. Reservoir, the probability of flooding in a given year is between 4% and 10%. Sustainability / Date: 05/15 /Springbank reservoir project amecfw.com Page 1 of 2 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2015 Case study Springbank reservoir project Benefits • The elbow river supports fish specifies including populations of bull trout which are listed as “species of special concern” by Alberta’s endangered species conservation committee. Reducing the footprint of the project minimises the impacts to fish and fish habitats. • Off-steam project would maintain normal flows in the river except during flood periods, which would minimise changes to water flow and water quality. • Reducing the footprint of the off-stream project within the key wildlife and biodiversity zones along the river minimises the impacts to important wildlife and species movements. • Enhances the safety of residents, workers and emergency services personnel who live and work in the downtown core area which was significantly affected in June 2013. • Most of the construction is offline from the river, as such there is reduced hazard from floods during construction. Sustainability / Date: 05/15 /Springbank reservoir project amecfw.com Page 2 of 2 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2015 Case study Providing energy to Korea Samcheok Green Power project – a new era in clean coal technology The Samcheok Green Power project is one of the world’s most ambitious energy complexes. Located in the northeast of South Korea, it aims to provide Korea with a constant, secure supply of electricity. Despite being coal fired, the project will be one of the greenest and most efficient power plants ever built. The first phase of the plant featured The benefits include: When fully complete, in addition four of the world’s first 550MW ultrato the CFB boilers, the site will • The CFBs wide fuel range and supercritical Amec Foster Wheeler generate 1,000MW from renewable the ability to reliably burn low rank CFB boilers – producing a total of sources, comprising of wind turbines and high quality coals as 2,200MW – firing imported coals mounted on the plant’s seawall, solar well as biomass and waste coal and biomass. panels, on rooftops and slopes, wave slurries gives KOSPO the widest power generation at the seawall, fuel procurement flexibility and Korea is a major importer of fuels; small hydropower at the plant’s security, along with the ability to with the supply of high-grade fuels drainage canal, and fuel cells from save millions of dollars in fuel cost declining and becoming more nearby Korea Gas Corporation. over the plant’s life. expensive, the use of conventional thermal plants is becoming • The CFBs do not require backThe plant infrastructure will include increasingly costly to run. The use end flue gas desulphurisation bilateral mooring for coal barges by Korea Southern Power Company equipment for SOx control saving and an indoor coal yard which are all (KOSPO) of Amec Foster Wheeler’s KOSPO hundreds of millions contained, ensuring coal will never Circulating Fluidised Bed (CFB) of dollars to build this plant, in be exposed to the outside, reducing technology boilers, provides Korea additional to reduced operating the spread of coal dust. The roofing with the ability to burn different fuels cost and water usage. of the coal storage will be covered and waste materials including low • The unique low temperature CFB with solar panels. rank coals, petroleum coke combustion process minimises and biomass. NOx formation, and allows The site, once complete, will also limestone to be fed directly into contain a world leading CO2 research The CFB technology has several the furnace to capture SOx as centre employing technical experts benefits such as improved efficiency, the fuel burns. This, coupled to continue development and reduce reduced emissions, high fuel with ultrasupercritical steam emissions. flexibility, high reliability and lower technology, provides KOSPO maintenances costs. Another with high plant efficiency and Watch the video to find out more significant feature is its ability to low emissions including carbon about the Samcheok Green Power tightly control nitrogen oxides (NOx), emissions. project. and sulphur dioxide (SO2) emissions in the boiler, therefore avoiding the costs associated with the installation of additional equipment. Sustainability / Date: 05/15 /Samcheok Green Power project amecfw.com Page 1 of 1 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2015 Our reporting Sustainability Performance Report 2014 Resilient World Fact sheet Our reporting Indicators Material aspects This report covers activities from We have chosen performance In accordance with GRI G4, this January 1st to December 31st 2014 indicators that are meaningful with report focuses on material issues unless otherwise stated. regard to our business. i.e. those that our internal and external stakeholders have deemed Previous reporting covered 2013 activities. GRI G4 and UN Global significant in relation to our business Compact and the industries in which we work. We have reported in accordance with the GRI version 3.1 for many Scope and Boundaries years. This report is the start of the The report incorporates all business transition to GRI version 4. Our index units plus corporate and shared sets out those indicators we feel are services. AMEC completed the material and relevant to our business, purchase of Foster Wheeler on the and signposts those areas to the G4 13th November 2014, therefore the standard and the UN Global Compact data presented throughout the If you have any questions or principles. Our sustainability report report related to legacy AMEC comments, you can email our is also our Communication of and Legacy Foster Wheeler on a Head of Sustainability, Frances Fay Progress (CoP). standalone basis (where available), frances.fay@amecfw.com unless otherwise stated. Sustainability / Date: 05/15 /Our reporting amecfw.com Page 1 of 4 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2015 Fact sheet Our reporting GRI content index for G4 in accordance Core General standard disclosures General Standard Disclosure / UNGC principle Factsheet G4-1 CE statement CEO Statement G4-3 Name of organisation About Amec Foster Wheeler G4-4 Primary brands, products and services Annual Report and Accounts About Amec Foster Wheeler G4-5 Location of headquarters Annual Report and Accounts About Amec Foster Wheeler G4-6 Number and name of Countries where we have Annual Report and Accounts significant operations About Amec Foster Wheeler G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form Annual Report and Accounts About Amec Foster Wheeler G4-8 Markets served Annual Report and Accounts About Amec Foster Wheeler G4-9 Scale of the organisation Annual Report and Accounts About Amec Foster Wheeler G4-10 Employee breakdown People Resourcing G4-11 Collective bargaining People Resourcing G4-12 Organisations supply chain Innovation & Delivery Supply chain G4-13 Significant changed during the reporting period Annual Report and Accounts G4-14 Precautionary approach addressed by Foundation of excellence – environmental organisation management and performance G4-15 List external charters, principles, other initiatives Annual Report and Accounts to which we subscribe Our approach G4-16 List of associations and national or international Materiality and engagement advocacy organisations to which we subscribe Our approach G4-17 All entities included in financial statements Annual Report and Accounts G4-18 Report content and boundaries Our reporting Materiality & Engagement G4-19 Material aspects identified Materiality & Engagement Our reporting G4-20 Aspect boundary internal Our reporting G4-21 Aspect boundary external Our reporting G4-22 Restatements Our approach G4-23 Changes in scope and aspect boundary Our approach Throughout all factsheets where applicable G4-24 List of stakeholder groups Materiality & Engagement G4-25 Identification of stakeholders Materiality & Engagement G4-26 Approach to stakeholder engagement Materiality & Engagement Sustainability / Date: 05/15 /Our reporting amecfw.com Page 2 of 4 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2015 Fact sheet Our reporting General Standard Disclosure / UNGC principle Factsheet G4-27 Key topics raised through stakeholder Materiality & Engagement engagement G4-28 Reporting year Our reporting G4-29 Date of previous report Our reporting G4-30 Reporting cycle Our reporting G4-31 Contact Our reporting G4-32 GRI content list Our reporting G4-33 Assurance Assurance Statement G4-34-G4-43 Governance Annual Report and Accounts Our approach G4-45-G4-47 Governance Annual Report and Accounts Our approach G4-56 Values, principles, standards of behaviours Our approach Foundation of excellence – Managing ethics G4-57-G4-58 Ethical behaviour Foundation of excellence – Managing ethics Foundation of excellence – Ethics performance Specific standard disclosures Specific Disclosure DMA and Indicators Factsheet Material Aspects Market presence G4-DMA Materiality & Engagement Indirect economic impacts G4-EC8 Innovation & Delivery – Safety in design Innovation & Delivery Supply chain management Community Investment Energy G4-EN3, G4-EN5, Foundation of excellence Environmental management & G4-EN6 performance Foundation of excellence – Minimising resource use Water G4-EN8 Foundation of excellence – Minimising resource use Emissions G4-EN15, G4-EN16, Foundation of excellence – Carbon management and G4-EN17, G4-EN18, performance G4-EN19 Compliance G4-EN29 Foundation of excellence Environmental management & performance Occupational health and safety G4-LA6 Foundation of excellence – Health & safety performance Anti-corruption G4-SO4 Foundation of excellence – Managing ethics Foundation of excellence – Ethics performance Sustainability / Date: 05/15 /Our reporting amecfw.com Page 3 of 4 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2015 Fact sheet Our reporting UNGC Principle Factsheet/Case study Principle 1 Foundation of excellence Human rights Foundation of excellence – Health & safety management, Foundation of excellence Managing ethics Principle 2 Foundation of excellence Human rights Foundation of excellence Ethics performance Principle 3 People – Resourcing Foundation of excellence Managing ethics Principle 4 Foundation of excellence Human rights Foundation of excellence Managing ethics Principle 5 Foundation of excellence Human rights Foundation of excellence Managing ethics Principle 6 Foundation of excellence Managing ethics People Diversity and inclusion Principle 7 Foundation of excellence – Health & Safety Performance, Foundation of excellence Environmental management & performance Principle 8 Foundation of excellence – Health & Safety Performance, Foundation of excellence Carbon management and performance Principle 9 Innovation & Delivery – Samcheok, providing energy to Korea Innovation & Delivery – Sempra US Gas & Power Principle 10 Foundation of excellence Managing ethics Foundation of excellence Ethics performance Note: all sections of the 2014 report have been externally assured. See assurance statement. Sustainability / Date: 05/15 /Our reporting amecfw.com Page 4 of 4 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2015
