FROM the INSIDE OUT Monsanto 2014 Sustainability Report It takes introspection. Assessing where we are as a company, what’s expected of us and how we can further embed sustainability into our business. And it’s about engaging externally on new ideas and opportunities that positively impact agriculture, society and the environment. Through transparency and collaboration, we’re helping to make balanced meals more accessible for everyone while using resources more efficiently. FROM the INSIDE OUT Monsanto 2014 Sustainability Report | 2 A Message from CEO Hugh Grant Dear Stakeholders, 10 Principles of the United Nations Global Compact and take affirmative actions to address these critical areas. In actively pursuing a more sustainable approach to doing business and helping to feed the world’s growing In this report, you’ll see the wide-ranging approach we’re population, we recognize that sustainability is a journey, not taking to reducing our impact on the environment and a destination. But even though there is no real finish line get a sense for the degree to which sustainability is part in the sustainability journey (since people and organizations of our business model and practices, our collaborations, can always do better), there are measurable outcomes to and the products we offer farmers. mark our progress. That is why it’s important for Monsanto to continuously take an inside-out approach to assessing I’m proud of what we’ve accomplished so far, especially in where we are as a company, what’s expected of us and the areas of water consumption and soil health, but I hope how we can further embed sustainability into our business. this report also helps you to see that we’re not satisfied with our progress or impact and we’re not standing still – and Today, no single issue will impact the world and the success that everyone at Monsanto understands the importance of our farmer customers, our partners and our company more of accelerating our efforts, quickly. than sustainability, which includes our ability to adapt to and mitigate the impacts of climate change. The sustainability There’s no set course on the sustainability journey and no journey is fully intertwined with the agriculture industry’s ability corner on good ideas. We’re still working through this – to nourish a global population that’s expected to grow from with a lot of learning and candid conversations along the 7.1 billion people today to at least 9.6 billion by mid-century. way. But Monsanto is committed to this journey because we know that through transparency, collaboration Monsanto participates in the Global Reporting Initiative and hard work, we can help make a balanced plate (GRI), the principles on which this report is based. This is critical accessible to all while using fewer resources. because it connects us to the public at large, our stakeholders and other companies working through some of the same I hope you’ll join with us and that you’ll help hold issues and provides a structure through which to share our us accountable. There’s not a moment to lose. commitments, our goals and our progress toward them. GRI Sincerely, also provides a vehicle for us to continually evaluate ourselves against our internal commitments and goals and work to improve our performance. We also remain committed to the Monsanto 2014 Sustainability Report | 3 INSIDE THIS REPORT 5 HELLO. 77 IMPROVING We are Monsanto. the lives of farmers, workers and communities 19 PRODUCING 126 C O R P O R AT E enough food to make a balanced meal accessible to all GOVERNANCE touches every aspect of our company 48 CONSERVING the earth’s resources and 140 R E P O R T I N G preserving the natural environment our sustainability strategies, efforts, impact and progress Monsanto 2014 Sustainability Report | 4 HELLO. We are Monsanto. We are more than 20,000 employees Through programs and partnerships, we collaborate committed to pursuing a broad range with farmers, researchers, nonprofit organizations, of sustainable agriculture solutions universities and others to help tackle some of the to help nourish our growing world. world’s biggest challenges. We are a collection of food enthusiasts, mothers and fathers, innovators, We produce seeds for fruits, vegetables and key crops botanists, farmers and thinkers all striving for the – such as corn, soybeans, and cotton – that help same thing: helping to make balanced meals more farmers have better harvests while using water and accessible to all. And when we can help do it in a way other important resources more efficiently. We work that helps protect the environment, everyone wins. to find sustainable solutions for soil health, help farmers use data to improve farming practices and conserve natural resources, and provide crop protection products to minimize damage from pests and disease. Monsanto 2014 Sustainability Report | 5 2014 Revenue: Global Locations with Significant Operations: $15.8B 407 FACILITIES in 5 7 C O U N T R I E S See our 2014 Annual Report for Complete Financial Information 20K Employees + Globally S T. L O U I S, MISSOURI He a d q u a r t e r s Monsanto 2014 Sustainability Report | 6 Products KEY CROPS CROP PROTECTION We use traditional plant breeding and At any stage, plants may be threatened biotechnology to create seeds that by pests, weather, poor soil conditions, grow into stronger, more resilient crops weeds and disease. We consider the issues that use resources more efficiently. that might affect future crop growth and create solutions to help protect plant health Our seed brands include Agroeste, Agroceres, and minimize environmental impact. Asgrow, DEKALB, Deltapine, La Tijereta, WestBred and more. This includes our work as part of the BioAg Alliance to research the benefits of soil microbes, as well as crop production systems that include Genuity trait brands and Roundup weed control. V E G E TA B L E S D ATA We combine traditional plant breeding We’re building digital tools that provide with modern techniques to create more insights that help farmers make decisions vibrant and flavorful vegetables that can throughout the growing season. better withstand nature’s challenges. The Climate Corporation platform helps farmers Our vegetable seed brands include have better harvests through data science, integrating Seminis and De Ruiter. seed science, field science, local weather monitoring, data modeling and precision equipment to develop customized insights field by field. Monsanto 2014 Sustainability Report | 7 Our business revolves around delivering agriculture innovations that address some of our world’s biggest challenges like climate change, resource conservation and, ultimately, how we will collectively feed a global population of more than 9.6 billion by the year 2050. Everything we eat requires resources to produce: land, water, energy and people. Over the next 40 years, society will have to produce more food than it did in the past 10,000 years combined to meet the needs of people around the world. Not only does society need to grow enough food, but we also need to do it using resources more efficiently. Monsanto 2014 Sustainability Report | 8 HELLO. We are Monsanto. • Collaborating with Stakeholders to Grow Enough Food Promoting Dialogue and Taking Action Evolving our Sustainability Commitment Confronting Tough Issues Head-on Making Sustainable Agriculture Work COLLABORATING WITH critical voices that help us better understand how we can positively impact the most important issues STAKEHOLDERS TO and opportunities facing society and a shared planet. GROW ENOUGH FOOD Ongoing engagement with key stakeholder groups – via in-person meetings, robust dialogue at events, online conversations, and analyses of industry and Making a balanced meal accessible to societal issues – have been and will be critical to everyone in a sustainable way requires continuously help us define a set of material issues and a wide range of ideas and resources. impacts that inform our approach to sustainability. At Monsanto, we collaborate with farmers, researchers, nonprofit organizations, universities Throughout this report, we provide examples of our and many others to develop a broad range of engagement with key stakeholders, and in the section solutions to help nourish a growing world. entitled, Reporting, we offer a description of the process we engaged with them to determine our material issues. These key collaborators, along with our employees, investors, policymakers, media and consumers, are Monsanto 2014 Sustainability Report | 9 HELLO. We are Monsanto. • Collaborating with Stakeholders to Grow Enough Food Promoting Dialogue and Taking Action Evolving our Sustainability Commitment Identified Material Issues and Topics Confronting Tough Issues Head-on This report was prepared in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4 Sustainability Reporting Making Sustainable Guidelines, which emphasizes that organizations report on their most material sustainability issues. For more Agriculture Work information on our approach to reporting and determining materiality, please see the Reporting section. Developing products and technologies that meet or exceed regulatory Product Safety & Stewardship requirements relative to safety, the environment and use Continuous Agriculture Innovations Offering systems-based solutions for farmers Getting better harvests through a broad range Global Food Security of solutions to help nourish our growing world Protecting and conserving water resources so food Water and other crops can be grown more sustainably Improving the lives of our farmer customers and Farmer Livelihoods the economic vitality of farming communities Ethical Business Operations Operating in a compliant, ethical and socially responsible way Actively demonstrating transparency and engaging Dialogue, Transparency, Collaboration with diverse stakeholders for perspective and input Nutrition Providing access to affordable, safe and nutritious food Monsanto 2014 Sustainability Report | 10 HELLO. We are Monsanto. • Collaborating with Stakeholders to Grow Enough Food Promoting Dialogue and Taking Action Evolving our Sustainability Commitment Stewarding the environment throughout our operations so land, water and Environmentally Conscious Operations Confronting Tough energy can be used to its greatest potential with the least environmental impact Issues Head-on Climate Change Management Helping farmers mitigate and adapt to climate change Making Sustainable Agriculture Work Local Communities Enhancing the communities in which our employees and customers live and work Attracting, developing and empowering our people while providing Talent Management a safe and rewarding working environment that embraces diversity Protecting and restoring natural habitats, including forests near croplands, Biodiversity and supporting honey bee health and monarch butterfly habitats Technology Innovation & Access Safeguarding intellectual property while enabling adaptation to products and innovations Youth in Agriculture & Science Championing the next generation of agricultural innovators Supporting the full realization of human rights of our employees Human Rights and business partner employees Sustainable Supply Chain Promoting sustainable practices and policies in our supply chain Legacy Matters Fulfilling indemnification obligations related to certain historical business operations Monsanto 2014 Sustainability Report | 11 HELLO. We are Monsanto. Collaborating with Stakeholders to Grow Enough Food • Promoting Dialogue and Taking Action Evolving our Sustainability Commitment Confronting Tough Issues Head-on Making Sustainable Agriculture Work PROMOTING DIALOGUE •• Creating The Conversation at discover.monsanto.com, an online forum where anyone can ask questions about AND TAKING ACTION our company and our contributions to the food system. •• Launching a global advertising campaign to raise While Monsanto has focused on working with awareness about Monsanto’s role in agriculture. and supporting our farmer customers for decades, they aren’t the only ones interested •• Engaging in climate change discussions to explore in where food comes from and the safety the potential role of plant sciences like biotechnology, and care that goes into growing it. As more data science, and agricultural biologicals during and more people join the conversation about food, the World Economic Forum, Aspen Ideas Festival, we have a responsibility to help make relevant Clinton Global Initiative and other forums. information available to them. Based on feedback •• Partnering with industry leaders including Walmart, from stakeholders, we’ve taken significant steps to Coca-Cola, McDonald’s and Conservation engage in conversations about how food gets from International to launch a Clinton Global Initiative farm to table and the role we play along the way: Food Systems Track dedicated to designing •• Hosting consumer and farmer listening approaches for empowering farmers, building sessions around the world to get a better sustainable supply chains and addressing the understanding of their concerns and points challenges of food security and hunger. of view about where food comes from. Monsanto 2014 Sustainability Report | 12 HELLO. We are Monsanto. Collaborating with Stakeholders to Grow Enough Food • Promoting Dialogue and Taking Action Evolving our Sustainability Commitment We’re listening. And the things we’ve heard from The Office is responsible for aligning and embedding our business partners, global nonprofit leaders, sustainability in the company across functions, operations Confronting Tough policymakers, consumers, customers, suppliers, and processes in all regions of the world, and serves as Issues Head-on supporters and critics have had substantial impact the working arm of the Executive Sustainability and Making Sustainable on how we think and talk about our business. Product Stewardship Committee. Agriculture Work More than just words, we are taking new action to more effectively collaborate with global and local leaders on the issues that matter most. We have significantly Sustainability Governance at Monsanto refined our approach to governing and managing sustainability. It starts at the top with the Sustainability and Corporate Responsibility Committee of our board of Board of Directors: directors, which reviews and monitors our sustainability Sustainability and Corporate Responsibility performance. Our Executive Sustainability and Product Committee Stewardship Committee, established in 2014, assesses global challenges and opportunities, sets direction, reviews goals and commitments, and aligns the resources Executive needed to achieve them. This new committee expands Team Executive the scope of our long-standing Executive Product Sustainability Stewardship Committee and will focus on the overall and Product sustainability of our business, thus eliminating the Stewardship Committee Global Business redundancy of a separate Sustainability Strategy Council. Operations Leadership Team Our newly formed Office of Sustainability is a crossfunctional team of employees who have day-to-day responsibilities in core areas of sustainability including stakeholder engagement, food and nutrition security, Office of Sustainability environmental management, safety, health, supply chain, global policy, business conduct and human rights. Monsanto 2014 Sustainability Report | 13 HELLO. We are Monsanto. Collaborating with Stakeholders to Grow Enough Food Promoting Dialogue and Taking Action • Evolving our Sustainability Commitment Confronting Tough Issues Head-on Making Sustainable Agriculture Work EVOLVING OUR We’ve pledged to improve our resource efficiency and continue to participate in landmark collaborations. SUSTAINABILITY We’ve helped improve crop tolerance to drought COMMITMENT and insect pests. We’ve engaged with consumers in new ways and contributed to discussions at global sustainability forums. We continue to innovate Since announcing our first sustainability with products and services that help farmers grow commitment framework in 2008, we’ve food sustainably. We’ve come a long way, but we strived to advance Monsanto’s three know there’s more to do. This sentiment is echoed sustainability principles: by stakeholders who have suggested that we •• Producing enough food to make more fully integrate sustainable business practices a balanced meal accessible to all across our footprint and establish clear goals and commitments for our products and our operations. •• Conserving the earth’s resources and preserving the natural environment •• Improving the lives of farmers, workers and communities Monsanto 2014 Sustainability Report | 14 HELLO. We are Monsanto. Collaborating with Stakeholders to Grow Enough Food Promoting Dialogue and Taking Action • Evolving our Sustainability Commitment We understand that the vision for sustainable agriculture is more expansive than what is We are actively charting a course that further aligns Confronting Tough included in our current framework. our sustainability framework and commitments with Issues Head-on the role we play at the start of the food value chain. Making Sustainable That’s why we are actively charting a course that further Agriculture Work aligns our sustainability framework and commitments with the role we play at the start of the food value chain. In support of this transition, we’ve structured our 2014 Sustainability Report around a much broader interpretation of our original Producing, Conserving, Improving framework to share our progress as well as set the table for the next phase of our journey. Food Value Chain 11 12 13 4 15 16 17 Agricultural Farmers & Wholesale Food Processors Distributors Retail & Consumers Input Growers Buyers & Preparers Foodservice Providers & Sellers Providers Monsanto 2014 Sustainability Report | 15 HELLO. We are Monsanto. Collaborating with Stakeholders to Grow Enough Food Promoting Dialogue and Taking Action Evolving our Sustainability Commitment • Confronting Tough Issues Head-on Making Sustainable Agriculture Work CONFRONTING TOUGH •• Spotlight concerns about honey bee and monarch butterfly populations and ways we’re partnering with ISSUES HEAD-ON others to better understand and ultimately expand habitat and populations beyond historic levels. In engaging with stakeholders about the •• Explain how we’re working with farmers to importance of crop production, resource control resistant, tough-to-manage weeds. conservation and improving the lives of people, we have found common ground. •• Acknowledge the particular challenges that But it has required us to address some contentious come with providing technology platforms, issues along the way that relate to our material impacts including data security and ownership – directly and transparently. In this report we: and intellectual property rights. •• Outline why we support voluntary labeling •• Share steps we’ve taken to have frank discussions approaches and oppose initiatives to regarding the impacts and opportunities that arise mandate labeling of ingredients developed from modern agriculture and what we’re hoping from genetically modified (GM) seeds. to do alongside farmers, researchers, nonprofit organizations, universities, governments and others •• Offer perspectives from both within and outside to develop and provide sustainable solutions. of our company on the need for biotech seeds to help feed a growing population. Monsanto 2014 Sustainability Report | 16 HELLO. We are Monsanto. Collaborating with Stakeholders to Grow Enough Food Promoting Dialogue and Taking Action Evolving our Sustainability Commitment Confronting Tough Issues Head-on • Making Sustainable Agriculture Work MAKING SUSTAINABLE Using Biotech Seeds and No-till AGRICULTURE WORK Farming in Argentina “ We believe sustainable agriculture means growing the right amount of food on Biotech crops are helping us to less land using resources in an efficient heal our soils and get better harvests. manner that preserves natural ecosystems, For the first time in farming history, addresses water scarcity and climate thanks to a no-till farming system, we will change, improves farmer livelihoods and be able to look into our sons’ eyes knowing benefits society. This approach is often ” that we will give them better soils than the referred to as sustainable intensification. ones that we received from our parents. Making sustainable intensification work is anything -Pedro, Farmer, Buenos Aires Province, Argentina but simple. At Monsanto, we’re working with partners around the world to provide farmers with the tools they Pedro is a fifth-generation farmer who grows corn, need to help nourish the world’s growing population. sorghum, soybeans, sunflowers and wheat on 3,500 Monsanto 2014 Sustainability Report | 17 HELLO. We are Monsanto. Collaborating with Stakeholders to Grow Enough Food Promoting Dialogue and Taking Action Evolving our Sustainability Commitment acres of land in Argentina. Working on his family farm that Bill has conducted sustainability field trials targeted at was established in 1892, Pedro has firsthand experience developing crop residue management and cover crop Confronting Tough with the positive effects of biotech crops and their systems. (Read more about cover crops on Page 30). Issues Head-on role in sustainable agriculture. Utilizing biotech seeds • Making Sustainable Agriculture Work in a no-till farming system helps farmers like Pedro increase the organic matter in their soil, reduce the Using Hybrid Seeds and Better amount of water needed for irrigation, and find success Techniques in India in producing stable harvests year over year. (Read more “ about the benefits of biotech seeds on Page 22). By adopting hybrid seeds and improved farming techniques, Planting Cover Crops in the United States as well as reducing the cost of inputs, I was able to increase my “ ” earnings by 66 percent – all thanks to One piece of sustainable agriculture my association with Project SHARE. is the use of cover crops. Cover crops are a win-win for both farmers and -Khushiram, Farmer, Rajasthan State, India the environment – we get better soil to ” benefit future crops and the world sees a Khushiram, a smallholder maize farmer, employed improved agronomics and adopted hybrid seeds reduction in greenhouse gas emissions. to enhance his harvest and his family’s livelihood. -Bill, Farmer, Nevada, Iowa Khushiram credits his participation in Project SHARE with providing the training and tools he needed. He Fifth generation farmer Bill is passionate about making learned about soil testing, hybrid corn varieties and agriculture more sustainable through the use of cover better sowing techniques. Prior to Project SHARE, crops and other methods. Recognized by TIME® Khushiram struggled to feed his family, let alone Magazine as one of “100 People That Matter,” Bill is a earn a living, off his two hectare farm. Now, he’s contract grower for Monsanto, as well as a customer, expanding his operations to grow other vegetables. who operates a 5,000 acre farm in Iowa. Since 2008 (Read about Project SHARE on Page 46). Monsanto 2014 Sustainability Report | 18 PRODUCING enough food to make a balanced meal accessible to all Monsanto is tapping into expertise both inside Commitments and Guiding Principles our organization and across society to develop •• We are committed to helping farmers a broad range of solutions to help farmers double yields by 2030 from 2000 levels have better harvests. We’re collaborating to for corn, soybeans, cotton and canola. develop solutions – from traditional plant breeding and biotechnology to data science •• We are committed to providing farmers with the and agricultural biologicals – that help to tools they need to feed a growing population overcome the unique challenges facing regions while using resources as efficiently as possible. around the world. By sharing knowledge, new •• We are committed to proactively engaging with ideas and best practices with our partners, society through in-person and online forums. farmers everywhere can produce more of the foods needed to maintain a balanced diet. •• We are committed to helping smallholder farmers in developing nations grow more food to nourish and support their families. Monsanto 2014 Sustainability Report | 19 OUR WORK GOES BEYOND SIMPLY GROWING ENOUGH. It’s about developing a broad spectrum of tools that allows farmers of all sizes in all regions to grow crops in smarter ways: using resources more efficiently while still getting the highest percentage of their crop to harvest. In fact, sustainable intensification is key to meeting food security needs for our growing planet while also reducing agriculture’s impact on the environment. Dr. Robb Fraley, Monsanto Chief Technology Officer Monsanto 2014 Sustainability Report | 20 PRODUCING enough food to make a balanced meal accessible to all • Growing the Right Amount More Efficiently Soil Health: Vital to Farmers, Consumers and the Environment Driving Water Innovation Stewarding Product Safety Heightening Food and Nutrition Security GROWING THE Rising Population 9.6+ RIGHT AMOUNT BILLION 7.1 BILLION MORE EFFICIENTLY 4.4 BILLION Today, one acre of farmland supports the food needs of one person. By 2050, those same food needs will have to be met using about a third of an acre per person due to an increasing 1980 TODAY 2050 population, dietary shifts of a growing global middle Source: United Nations Department of Economic and Social Affairs class and the implications of climate change on agriculture. This will take a wide variety of agricultural innovations and practices. Some of these include: Declining Arable Land •• Data science: Advances in data science and information technology help farmers track the amount of fertilizer in their soil throughout the LESS THAN year and identify and address problems in their 1 ACRE 1/3 ACRE fields before they impact their crop production. PER PERSON PER PERSON TODAY IN 2050 Monsanto 2014 Sustainability Report | 21 PRODUCING enough food to make a balanced meal accessible to all • Growing the Right Amount More Efficiently Soil Health: Vital to Farmers, Consumers and the Environment Driving Water •• Agricultural biologicals: Products that are Innovation based on or derived from natural materials like Increasing Stewarding plant extracts or beneficial microbes that can Crop Productivity Product Safety complement or replace agricultural chemical products for weed, insect and disease control. Heightening Food Based on population growth predictions, Monsanto made a and Nutrition Security •• Conservation farming practices: Cover crops commitment in 2008 to develop improved seeds and agronomic and other practices that conserve water and practices to help farmers double yields by 2030 from 2000 levels for improve soil quality to ensure the land can corn, soybeans, cotton and canola in countries where farmers have produce food for generations to come. access to the full complement of tools for these crops, including plant breeding, biotechnology and agronomic management. •• Advanced plant breeding: New plant breeding methods that use sophisticated computer According to the United States Department of Agriculture Foreign Agricultural Service, significant progress has been made against these analyses and other high-tech applications aggressive goals, especially in countries of high technology adoption. to bring new seeds to farmers. Due to factors such as weather and individual country policies, •• Biotechnology: Use of technology to take a worldwide crop yields are not currently on pace at this point to beneficial trait that helps a living thing thrive double yields by 2030 to meet the anticipated demand for food. in nature, like an ability to use water efficiently, and adapt that trait to a new plant so that it 2030 Goal Double Yields from 2000 can better survive in its environment. Canola 30% Cotton 37% ON PACE Soybeans 13% RANGE Applying Advanced Plant Corn 21% Breeding and Biotechnology Yield-gain percentages are based on a three-year rolling average. To be Plant breeding has been a part of everyday life since considered on pace, yields needed to reach the shaded area at the time this data was documented. Data source: USDA Production, Supply and the dawn of agriculture. Most plant species have Distribution View; analysis by Monsanto. For more information on this improved dramatically from agricultural breeding, goal see Our Commitments to Sustainable Agriculture white paper. and a good number of the fruits, vegetables and grains we enjoy today did not exist in their current state prior to selective and cross breeding. Monsanto 2014 Sustainability Report | 22 PRODUCING enough food to make a balanced meal accessible to all • Growing the Right Amount More Efficiently Soil Health: Vital to Farmers, Consumers and the Environment Driving Water For hundreds of years, plant breeding was a relatively Innovation straightforward process. For example, a maize farmer The Biotechnology Stewarding would choose the biggest, healthiest ears and replant some Process Product Safety of those seeds the following season. Largely through this basic selection process, farmers bred plants with a variety of Heightening Food desirable traits to better their harvests including resistance 1 and Nutrition Security to disease and improved flavor, texture or shelf life. Desired trait of a living thing is identified Today, plant breeders increasingly understand the genetic traits that will deliver a desirable impact and can select those traits much more quickly and effectively. This knowledge is accelerated by a better understanding of plant genomics. 2 Beneficial trait is adapted to a new plant Biotechnology and its products, commonly referred to as genetically modified organisms (GMOs), have helped 3 Plant is tested for food us develop highly effective solutions for farmers that and environmental safety would not be possible through plant breeding alone. and nutritional value Over the past 30 years, biotechnology has been applied in agriculture and at Monsanto to strengthen plant resistance to disease, insects and adverse weather conditions. 4 New plant is better able to thrive Since biotech crops were commercially introduced in 1996, farmers around the world have rapidly adopted the products and realized a broad range of benefits. Between 1996 and 2014, acres planted with biotech seeds increased from 4 million acres in 1996 A 2014 analysis of 147 studies published reported to more than 448 million acres in 2014. In 2014, on average that biotech crop technology adoption 18 million farmers grew biotech crops in 28 countries has reduced chemical pesticide use by 37 percent, throughout the world and 90 percent of these increased crop yields by 22 percent, and increased were smallholder farmers in developing nations. farmer profits by 68 percent from 1996 to 2013. Monsanto 2014 Sustainability Report | 23 PRODUCING enough food to make a balanced meal accessible to all • Growing the Right Amount More Efficiently Soil Health: Vital to Farmers, Consumers and the Environment Driving Water •• Glyphosate-resistant weed control: Innovation Researching New Sustainable Solutions Target glyphosate-resistant weeds and Stewarding for Increasing Productivity and Managing enable more effective weed control. Product Safety Pests: Agricultural Biologicals •• Tospovirus control: Protect tomatoes Heightening Food Ongoing innovation holds great promise for addressing and peppers from tospoviruses such and Nutrition Security global challenges that farmers face. Monsanto’s as the tomato spotted wilt virus. agricultural biologicals research focuses on creating BioDirect technology is based on a naturally products derived from nature to support plant occurring process in a specific plant or pest health and protection from pests. We believe that to limit the production of a particular protein agricultural biologicals have the potential to offer using a technique called Ribonucleic Acid (RNA) farmers new ways to grow food in a sustainable way interference, or RNAi. Because it can be so precisely while managing natural resources more effectively targeted, BioDirect technology has the potential (see related story on the BioAg Alliance on Page 69). to be very effective in small quantities and with Our BioDirect technology research pipeline is an important fewer applications, leading to the maintenance of part of our agricultural biologicals platform. It focuses beneficial insect populations and protecting birds, on using a naturally occurring process to create very fish, bees and other wildlife. Like other agriculture specific reactions in plants or pests. Through BioDirect biological solutions, it could complement or technology, researchers are using their knowledge of replace agricultural chemical products. plant and pest genetics to develop new topical solutions RNA occurs naturally in the environment. for controlling weeds, insects and viruses as well as People, animals and insects have been exposed protecting honey bee health. Specific applications include: to RNA for millennia, both through consumption •• Colorado potato beetle control: Protect crops from and by being in contact with other living things. damaging Colorado potato beetle infestations. Visit our website to learn more about •• Honey bee health: Control varroa mites and multiple BioDirect technology and our pipeline. viruses to improve health and survival in honey bees. Monsanto 2014 Sustainability Report | 24 PRODUCING enough food to make a balanced meal accessible to all • Growing the Right Amount More Efficiently Soil Health: Vital to Farmers, Consumers and the Environment Driving Water Innovation Sustainable Yield Pledge Awards Bringing a Food and Nutrition Perspective Stewarding to our Sustainable Yield Pledge Awards We strive to embed sustainability and innovation into Product Safety the culture of our company. Our annual Sustainable Heightening Food Yield Pledge Awards promote, recognize and reward Collaborating with diet and nutrition experts helps us better and Nutrition Security Monsanto employees for their efforts in advancing understand the connections between nutrition, health and sustainable agriculture around the world. agriculture. That’s why we’re engaging with professionals like Amber Pankonin. From 130 nominations in 2014, an external panel of An award-winning registered dietitian and adjunct instructor judges selected a Judges’ Choice Award winner and at the University of Nebraska-Lincoln, Amber was one of six category winners. An online vote among Monsanto the judges for our 2014 Sustainable Yield Pledge Awards. employees selected the People’s Choice Award winner. Amber is a board certified specialist in pediatric nutrition Highlights from some of these awards that is passionate about teaching nutritionists and farmers can be found throughout this report, how to effectively use social media to share healthy practices. as indicated by the following icon: In addition to being the founder of Stirlist.com, a website where farmers, ranchers and companies can connect with everyday cooks, she also is part of our Leaders Engaged in Advancing Dialogue (or L.E.A.D.) initiative, a Monsanto program aimed at engaging food and nutrition professionals (see related story on Page 89). “ Being a judge at Monsanto’s Sustainable Yield Pledge Awards was truly life changing. I had no idea what the company was doing all over the world. My favorite project was from the team in India who is working with farmers to not only produce vegetables for kids but also teaching them about nutrition. When I went home, I was able to share that ” story with my network of people and really get excited about what Monsanto is doing. – Amber Pankonin, R.D. Monsanto 2014 Sustainability Report | 25 PRODUCING enough food to make a balanced meal accessible to all • Growing the Right Amount More Efficiently Soil Health: Vital to Farmers, Consumers and the Environment Driving Water In the late 1990s, the introduction of new innovations in Innovation Heralding the Green Data Revolution: plant breeding and biotechnology drove further progress. Stewarding The Climate Corporation Product Safety Today, we stand at the cusp of another great sea There have been various inflection points in agriculture change in agricultural productivity: The Green Data Heightening Food over time that have proven instrumental in nourishing Revolution. Monsanto’s 2013 acquisition of The Climate and Nutrition Security our planet’s growing population. During the 1940s to Corporation demonstrates our level of passion and 1960s – a period known as the “Green Revolution” – commitment to this belief. advancements in plant breeding drove better harvests. The Role of Data Science in Agriculture Annually, all farmers assess risks to Today, many industries are using When agriculture combines shared Data-based insights help farmers make decisions when growing crops. data science to make informed knowledge with data science, farmers improve harvests and better Shared knowledge about these risks decisions that drive business and are able to make better-informed manage natural resources, which helps them improve harvests. improve customer experiences. decisions for greater outcomes. ensures that we all have access to an affordable, sustainable THE CLIMATE and plentiful food supply. E-COMMERCE RETAIL CORPORATION WEATHER SOIL WEED CHALLENGES HEALTH MANAGEMENT MANUFACTURING SHIPPING WEATHER FIELD INSECT MANAGEMENT DISEASE MANAGEMENT & INFORMATION CLIMATOLOGY CHARACTERISTICS AGRONOMY MORE AGRICULTURE INSIGHTS INSIGHTS FOOD FARMING DECISIONS Advancements in Crop Agriculture PRESENT PAST PLOW TRACTORS HYBRID CROP CONSERVATION PLANT GPS MOLECULAR AG DATA ADVANCEMENTS PROTECTION TILLAGE BIOTECHNOLOGY ADVANCEMENTS BREEDING BIOLOGICALS SCIENCE PRODUCTS Monsanto 2014 Sustainability Report | 26 PRODUCING enough food to make a balanced meal accessible to all • Growing the Right Amount More Efficiently Soil Health: Vital to Farmers, Consumers and the Environment Driving Water The Climate Corporation uses data science to help Innovation farmers make more informed decisions about their Farm AgVisory Stewarding operations that can improve harvests and help them Service Product Safety use resources more efficiently. That’s important because over the last five years or so the demand for more food Heightening Food Illiteracy and rural isolation can be huge challenges when it crops has largely been met by devoting additional acres and Nutrition Security comes to helping farmers in India with solutions to their crop of arable land to farming, which is simply not a sustainable challenges. In 2010, recognizing cell phone adoption is quite high solution. The world needs to grow enough food on the in rural areas and that cell phones would be an ideal platform for same number of acres we have in production today. delivering information, Monsanto launched a free service now known as the Monsanto Farm AgVisory Service (MFAS), which Data science starts with the collection of information offered a toll-free number for farmers to speak with an advisor. from the environment. We measure the soil, the field Available 365 days a year, MFAS is a customized approach to and the atmosphere. Understanding the composition providing useful information directly to farmers on a variety of of the soil is critical to developing insights and realizing topics that help them have better harvests. better outcomes on the farm. During the growing Today, there are 2.7 million farmers enrolled in the service and season, remote sensing systems in equipment can more than 90 percent of them say they are very satisfied with it. enable real-time monitoring of field conditions. More accurate and precise weather observations, such as temperature, wind speed and rainfall – gathered from radar, satellites and local weather stations – allow us to build a deeper understanding of atmospheric conditions in relation to crop production. The Climate Corporation uses all these data sources to build models that predict potential outcomes for farmers and provide insights they can use to make important crop management decisions throughout the season. This helps reduce the effects of field variability, improve harvests and decrease risk. It also helps farmers be more Monsanto 2014 Sustainability Report | 27 PRODUCING enough food to make a balanced meal accessible to all • Growing the Right Amount More Efficiently Soil Health: Vital to Farmers, Consumers and the Environment Driving Water precise about when, where and how much fertilizer, The Climate Corporation also Innovation water and crop protection products to apply to their has worked with the American Stewarding fields. This not only lowers costs for farmers, but it can Farm Bureau Federation, National Product Safety also help conserve natural resources, curb greenhouse Corn Growers Association and gas emissions and guard against runoff. other companies to develop a set Heightening Food of principles for industrywide data and Nutrition Security Farmers have told us they want to know how their use and privacy: Privacy and Security agriculture technology provider will use their data. Principles for Farm Data. In early 2014, we directly addressed these concerns with The Climate Corporation’s Guiding Principles on We believe the Green Data Revolution will Data and Privacy. Those principles, and our privacy change agriculture as we know it today, helping policy, include the following commitments: farmers grow enough food on the same acre of land while using resources more efficiently. •• The data created by a farmer, or generated from equipment the farmer owns or leases, is owned by that farmer. •• Basic data services should be free. •• A farmer’s data should be easily shared across systems. •• The Climate Corporation will regularly utilize third-party audits to ensure adherence to the Guiding Principles on Data and Privacy. Monsanto 2014 Sustainability Report | 28 PRODUCING enough food to make a balanced meal accessible to all Growing the Right Amount More Efficiently • Soil Health: Vital to Farmers, Consumers and the Environment Driving Water Innovation Stewarding Product Safety Heightening Food and Nutrition Security SOIL HEALTH: VITAL TO Partnering to Improve Soil Health FARMERS, CONSUMERS In early 2014, the National Corn Growers Association AND THE ENVIRONMENT formed the Soil Health Partnership, a five-year initiative to measure and communicate the economic and Many factors go into nourishing our growing environmental benefits of different soil management world. Among the most important is right under our strategies. Supported by Monsanto and the Walton Family feet: soil health. In pursuing a productive harvest, a Foundation with scientific advising from environmental farmer must consider a broad range of soil-related factors groups, U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) Agriculture including fertility, water retention, nutrient runoff, weeds Research Service (ARS) and several soil university experts, and pests. But healthy soil does more than just help grow the partnership will provide a set of regionally specific, food – it also plays a critical role in protecting water data driven recommendations that farmers can use to quality and lessening other environmental impacts. improve the productivity and sustainability of their farms. Monsanto is committed to helping farmers realize The Soil Health Partnership has established a network of the benefits of sound soil management. In 2014, demonstration farms to help identify, test and measure we took important steps to further this commitment management practices that improve soil health and by partnering with others to support the adoption benefit farmers’ operations. These farms will showcase of innovative farming practices. innovative approaches, including reduced tillage, cover Monsanto 2014 Sustainability Report | 29 PRODUCING enough food to make a balanced meal accessible to all Growing the Right Amount More Efficiently • Soil Health: Vital to Farmers, Consumers and the Environment Driving Water crops and advanced nutrient management. A total of 20 education conferences for farmers and hosted our own Innovation demonstration farms participated in 2014 and another 20 workshops to help farmers better understand how they Stewarding farms will join in 2015, with a goal of 100 farms by 2019 to might use cover crops – what to do and what not to do. Product Safety give local farmers firsthand knowledge of which soil health practices can help them have a better harvest year after year. How Cover Crops Benefit Farmers. After farmers harvest Heightening Food their main crop, such as corn, they plant a crop such and Nutrition Security One of the ways the Soil Health Partnership is helping as a grass or a legume, which will cover the field until to educate farmers and encourage them to try these the next corn growing season. Having a cover crop in practices is through a series of Soil Health Field Days. Held place instead of an open or bare field increases organic in five states in 2014, these events featured hands-on field matter in the soil, enhances its water holding capacity demonstrations and provided farmers with information and combats the erosion of fertile topsoil. These about soil health and the local resources available to effects set the stage for a bountiful harvest and enable them. By 2019, these live demonstrations are intended farmers to apply nutrients and water more efficiently to reach thousands of farmers and their agronomic during the growing season, saving time and money. advisors in the Midwest. How Cover Crops Benefit Nature. By enabling greater efficiency in the use of inputs needed to grow our food, cover crops advance sustainable agriculture in two Cover Crops: Supporting Healthy Soil, important ways: less nutrient runoff and lower greenhouse Protecting Natural Resources gas emissions. When nitrogen fertilizer is applied to crops, When a centuries-old technique is integrated into modern most of the nutrients are absorbed by the plant. Inevitably, agriculture, the results can be quite remarkable … and though, some amount is washed away by rain and irrigation, sustainable. One of the most promising options for entering waterways and impacting aquatic life. Fertilizer improving soil quality while protecting the environment also releases a certain amount of greenhouse gases and is the planting of cover crops – a practice growing in this effect is magnified as it breaks down in water. So, more popularity among farmers and gardening enthusiasts efficient use of nutrients means lower environmental alike. In addition to supporting the work of the Soil Health impact. Cover crops also create habitat for wildlife and Partnership, Monsanto has co-sponsored cover crop can attract honey bees and other beneficial insects. Monsanto 2014 Sustainability Report | 30 PRODUCING enough food to make a balanced meal accessible to all Growing the Right Amount More Efficiently • Soil Health: Vital to Farmers, Consumers and the Environment Driving Water Innovation Stewarding Product Safety “Soil erosion and losses in organic matter may significantly affect our ability to increase soil productivity and a safe, stable food supply. Losses in topsoil, organic matter or other areas analysis of all fields involved in the research. Our goal is to help these universities clearly identify the benefits cover crops may have in improving a farmer’s harvest and resilience to drought and other environmental stress. Heightening Food of soil health take time to fix, but we have several We’re also collaborating to help close a critical funding gap and Nutrition Security tools available to help protect our soil resources. in USDA soil research. When federal budget cuts threatened ” Cover crops have proven to be one of the most to end its long-term soil research program, the USDA turned effective tools for farmers to improve soil health. to the nonprofit group, Agricultural Technology Innovation Partnership Foundation (ATIP), for help. Working with ATIP, --Nick Goeser, Ph.D., Manager of Soil Health and Monsanto and six other organizations founded the Resilient Sustainability, National Corn Growers Association Economic Agricultural Practices (REAP) Public-Private Partnership. REAP is focused on continuing sustained research on land management practices across the varied U.S. landscape. Aiding Critical Soil Research Monsanto is supporting soil research beyond the Soil Applying Science to Soil Health Partnership. In 2014, we became involved in two key initiatives to advance new soil research and help fill key A big part of our strategy to cultivate a more sustainable food technical and funding gaps in critical long-term programs. system is helping farmers access data to aid them in their operations. In early 2014, we acquired the soil analysis business We partnered with the Agronomic Science Foundation. line of Solum, Inc., an agriculture technology company. Together, we formed the Sustainability Research Program to fund new university research. The research will Solum’s soil testing intellectual property, test lab and No-Wait initially focus on the function and effects of cover crops Nitrate platform will help provide a deeper understanding on soil and crop productivity, input use efficiency and of soil variability and nutrient profiles that is essential to environmental quality. We’ve pledged grant dollars to making effective agriculture decisions. High quality, consistent provide cover crop seed, corn and soybean seeds and soil analysis enables us to dramatically increase our ability other inputs required to manage the plots for the next to deliver better soil measurement solutions to farmers as three years. Additionally, Monsanto will support the soil well as to the retailers and agronomists who serve them. Monsanto 2014 Sustainability Report | 31 PRODUCING enough food to make a balanced meal accessible to all Growing the Right Amount More Efficiently Soil Health: Vital to Farmers, Consumers and the Environment • Driving Water Innovation Stewarding Product Safety Heightening Food and Nutrition Security DRIVING WATER The Learning Center is located on one of the most important water resources for agriculture in the United INNOVATION States, the Ogallala Aquifer. Its unique location in the middle of two diverse growing conditions – half of the Helping farmers adapt to climate and land needs to be irrigated, and the other half does not – weather conditions is a big part of what makes it ideal for studying water issues and management. Monsanto does. From water research to droughttolerant seed traits, we’re working to bring a broad Scientists at the Learning Center conduct research and range of solutions to help nourish our growing world demonstrations year-round to provide farmers with while using resources, like water, more efficiently. information about how to increase their annual crop yields through better water management. In 2014, our team evaluated the effect of different irrigation regimes on corn hybrids and seeding rates. The research Diving into Water Research showed that optimum seeding rates varied across these Gothenburg, Nebraska, is home to Monsanto’s Water irrigation regimes, which provides valuable information Utilization Learning Center, which focuses on better that can help farmers improve their harvests. understanding water and its role in growing food. Monsanto 2014 Sustainability Report | 32 PRODUCING enough food to make a balanced meal accessible to all Growing the Right Amount More Efficiently Soil Health: Vital to Farmers, Consumers and the Environment • Driving Water Innovation Introducing the World’s First strong performance showing an average yield advantage Stewarding Biotech Drought Technology over competitive products Product Safety of more than five bushels per Lack of rain can devastate farmers’ crops. That’s why acre. This is consistent with the Heightening Food we’re using biotechnology to make one of the world’s results seen in 2012 and 2013. and Nutrition Security largest acreage crops – corn – more drought tolerant. In 2013, we introduced the agriculture industry’s first-ever biotech drought tolerant seed corn system: Genuity DroughtGard Hybrids. The Genuity DroughtGard Hybrids Genuity DroughtGard Hybrids is the trait is part of a systems approach combining best agriculture industry’s first ever biotech agronomic recommendations, germplasm selected for drought tolerant seed corn system. yield potential and drought tolerance. This corn is designed to use water more efficiently, making it a good option for farmers grappling with ongoing drought issues. By 2014, over 8,000 farmers planted Genuity DroughtGard Hybrids on more than 500,000 acres primarily in the Western Great Plains. With good growing conditions and adequate moisture in most of the United States in 2014, Genuity DroughtGard Hybrids still demonstrated Monsanto 2014 Sustainability Report | 33 PRODUCING enough food to make a balanced meal accessible to all Growing the Right Amount More Efficiently Soil Health: Vital to Farmers, Consumers and the Environment Driving Water Innovation • Stewarding Product Safety Heightening Food and Nutrition Security STEWARDING We work within the industry-leading Excellence Through Stewardship (ETS) program, which includes third-party PRODUCT SAFETY audits of our stewardship programs and quality management systems. As of 2014, our ETS certification expanded to Monsanto is committed to helping nourish include our operations in two additional countries, bringing the growing number of people on our planet the total to nine: Argentina, Australia, Brazil, Canada, safely and transparently. Our seed and crop Chile, Costa Rica, India, Mexico and the United States. protection products are subject to our Life Cycle Stewardship Activities Management Process (LCStAMP). We also openly share information about our stewardship To support LCStAMP, we have created a web-based and safety programs for products and business processes, tool that enables us to monitor compliance and safety as well as label all of our products with safety information. as products move through their respective life cycles. Please visit our website for a comprehensive overview This ensures the safety and integrity of our products and of our stewardship and safety commitments. processes, from gene discovery and plant development through seed production, marketing, distribution and discontinuation. The LCStAMP program was originally Confirming the Safety of Biotech Crops designed for use with our biotechnology products, and we have recently expanded its application to our crop When using biotechnology, we take a beneficial trait that protection products. helps a living thing thrive in nature, like an ability to use Monsanto 2014 Sustainability Report | 34 PRODUCING enough food to make a balanced meal accessible to all Growing the Right Amount More Efficiently Soil Health: Vital to Farmers, Consumers and the Environment Driving Water water efficiently, and adapt that trait to a new plant so that countries there are multiple regulatory authorities each Innovation it can better survive in its environment. This process stems with the responsibility of assessing a particular aspect • Stewarding Product Safety from the breakthroughs in genetics research we’ve seen over the past 50 years, and research on biotech crops has of safety. Biotech crops are routinely subjected to review by literally hundreds of independent risk assessors been ongoing for more than 30 years. It is an extension and scientists across a wide range of disciplines. Heightening Food of plant breeding techniques that is also more precise. and Nutrition Security Recognizing that people want to know more about Once traits are inserted into a seed through where their food comes from, we are sharing studies biotechnology, the plants that grow from the seed from independent global experts from the business, go through a much more rigorous testing and review academic and nongovernmental organization (NGO) process than seed developed through traditional communities. Visit our website to access many plant breeding to ensure safety and performance. of these research studies and see the following for On average, it takes 13 years for a biotech seed what some of the world’s leading health-related to go through research, development and testing organizations have to say about biotech crops: before it is grown commercially by farmers. All U.S. and international food safety science-based authorities that have studied biotech crops have found that those on the market today are safe and no health effects attributable to their use have been found. “The production of more food, more sustainably, requires the development of crops that can make better use of limited resources. … Sustainable Since 1996, when the first biotech crops were widely agricultural production and food ” commercialized, over 60 different countries have security must harness the potential granted over 3,083 commercial use approvals on of biotechnology in all its facets. 357 different GM traits in 27 crops, according to the nonprofit organization, International Service for the --European Academies Science Acquisition of Agri-biotech Applications. In many Advisory Council, June 2013 Monsanto 2014 Sustainability Report | 35 PRODUCING enough food to make a balanced meal accessible to all Growing the Right Amount More Efficiently Soil Health: Vital to Farmers, Consumers and the Environment • Driving Water Innovation Stewarding Product Safety “Bioengineered foods have been consumed for close to 20 years, and during that time, no overt consequences on human health Targeted Control of Weeds and Insects There’s no single right way for every farmer to ” have been reported and/or substantiated protect their fields. And it wouldn’t be good for farms, Heightening Food in the peer-reviewed literature. food or the environment to use any one solution and Nutrition Security on its own, or in excess. That’s why Monsanto is --American Medical Association Council researching a diverse range of crop protection on Science and Public Health, June 2012 solutions, offering farmers more ways to apply the right protection in a more targeted way. “GM foods currently available on the international market have passed risk assessments and are not likely to present risks for human health. In addition, no In some cases, this might mean moving away from traditional pesticide sprays. For example, farmers can plant seeds within a protective shell and spray the surrounding fields less, or not at all. Another effects on human health have been shown interesting technology we are looking at triggers a natural process that already exists within plant cells, as a result of the consumption of such so plants can defend themselves against weeds, ” foods by the general population in the insects and diseases — requiring fewer chemical countries where they have been approved. treatments than in the past. We’re also exploring other agriculture biological solutions, like microbes, that can --World Health Organization, February 2002 help crops stay healthy using nature’s methods. These advances should increasingly allow farmers to apply the right protection, in the right amount, in the right place, at the right time for their specific situation. In the future, Monsanto will continue to develop better ways Monsanto 2014 Sustainability Report | 36 PRODUCING enough food to make a balanced meal accessible to all Growing the Right Amount More Efficiently Soil Health: Vital to Farmers, Consumers and the Environment Driving Water to target protection even more narrowly, so farmers choices to voluntarily label Innovation can protect their crops as precisely as possible. food products noting certain • Stewarding Product Safety A key ingredient in our Roundup branded crop protection attributes based on their customers’ preferences, products is glyphosate, one of the most studied and provided the labeling is Heightening Food widely used herbicide ingredients in the world. Farmers truthful and not misleading. and Nutrition Security who grow certain biotech crops have been able to switch to Roundup branded crop protection products which We oppose current initiatives to mandate labeling have an excellent safety profile and have enabled farmers of ingredients developed from biotech seeds to have better harvests with less environmental impact. in the absence of any demonstrated risks. Such Scientists from around the globe have conducted safety mandatory labeling could imply that food products studies on glyphosate and published their findings in containing these ingredients are somehow inferior peer-reviewed journals. The overwhelming scientific to their conventional or organic counterparts. consensus is that when used properly, glyphosate poses no unreasonable adverse effects to people, animals, soil, water Visit Monsanto’s website for a more detailed and plants. Therefore, we need to continue to educate discussion on food labeling. our direct and indirect customers. Learn more about the safety of Roundup branded herbicides and glyphosate. Satisfying Peoples’ Quest for Knowledge Increasingly, people want to know more about Communicating our Views on Food Labeling where their food comes from and how it’s made. Each country establishes its own food labeling laws. They also have questions about us, our products and Within the United States, the federal government has the decisions farmers make to manage their crops. established clear guidance with respect to labeling Monsanto is committed to addressing and answering food products containing biotech ingredients. We these questions openly and honestly. We have support this approach. We also support food companies’ invested in online vehicles for doing this, including: Monsanto 2014 Sustainability Report | 37 PRODUCING enough food to make a balanced meal accessible to all Growing the Right Amount More Efficiently Soil Health: Vital to Farmers, Consumers and the Environment 1 3 Driving Water The Conversation: Hablemos Claro Innovation This section on discover.monsanto.com (roughly translated • Stewarding Product Safety enables anyone to ask us directly about who we are and what we do. The questions and as “clear speaking”): This Spanish-language responses fall into categories encompassing website serves people in Heightening Food sustainability and the environment, collaboration Mexico and other parts of Latin and Nutrition Security and partnerships, food and nutrition, the America who seek science-based growing population, and health and safety. information on food and health. The site was developed by the Foundation of the 2 GMO Answers: This industry-driven initiative is committed to International Food Information Council and Universidad Iberoamericana and responding to people’s questions about how food is supported in part by Monsanto. is grown, with the goal of making information about GMOs in food and agriculture easier to access and understand. It is supported by Monsanto and other companies dedicated to the responsible development and application of plant biotechnology. More than 100 experts have contributed to this website, including independent authorities in leading academic institutions, industry groups and representatives from member companies. Monsanto 2014 Sustainability Report | 38 PRODUCING enough food to make a balanced meal accessible to all Growing the Right Amount More Efficiently Soil Health: Vital to Farmers, Consumers and the Environment Driving Water Innovation Stewarding Product Safety • Heightening Food and Nutrition Security HEIGHTENING FOOD AND One area that may not seem obvious is the work we do to prevent food loss, which is akin to another NUTRITION SECURITY challenge, food waste. Food loss is typically thought of as a problem in production when any of the Making a balanced meal accessible to all is crop is left in the field and cannot be harvested. a complex undertaking. It means overcoming Our research and development pipeline contains different challenges in different parts of the world. In many projects related to insect and disease control developed countries, it often boils down to people having that contribute to reducing food loss in the field. the financial and physical access to healthy meals. In developing nations it can hinge on an array of seemingly In 2009, Monsanto played an active role in the disparate but interrelated factors including production, formation of the World Economic Forum’s (WEF) infrastructure, distribution, agronomic knowledge, New Vision for Agriculture, which engages leaders technology, access to capital and cultural customs. of business, government, civil society, farmers and development partners to achieve sustainable At Monsanto, we view food security and the related agricultural growth in the face of a growing world problems of hunger, malnutrition and poverty through population. The initiative supports partnerships a multi-faceted lens. That’s why we are working with engaging 16 countries across Africa, Asia and global, regional and local partners to make a difference Latin America, including two regional partnerships where it counts, on the ground, in communities which comprise much of our participation: and in the lives of people around the world. Monsanto 2014 Sustainability Report | 39 PRODUCING enough food to make a balanced meal accessible to all Growing the Right Amount More Efficiently Soil Health: Vital to Farmers, Consumers and the Environment Driving Water •• Grow Africa. The vast majority of farmers in Innovation Sub-Saharan Africa are women tending crops Dealing with Drought and Stewarding on small areas of land to provide for their families. Insects in Africa: WEMA Product Safety With 90 percent of farmers relying on rainfall to The food supply crisis in Africa is well documented. But • Heightening Food and Nutrition Security water their crops, a period of drought can mean the difference between having enough food forecasters think it could get more grim. As the population increases and the effects of climate change on farmers’ for their children and village or not. Insects and ability to grow food worsen, the risk of hunger in Africa disease also present challenges to African farmers could rise by up to 20 percent by 2050, according to who often have few resources to manage them. a study published by the World Food Programme. Unfortunately we are seeing drought more often due to the changing climate patterns worldwide. To help tackle this daunting problem, we started working •• Grow Asia. The Association of Southeast Asian in 2008 to form the Water Efficient Maize for Africa Nations (ASEAN) region is home to 625 million people (WEMA) project, a public-private partnership that aims to across ten countries in Southeast Asia (Brunei, improve food security and livelihoods among smallholder Cambodia, Indonesia, Lao PDR, Malaysia, Myanmar, farmers in Sub-Saharan Africa by developing hybrid maize Philippines, Singapore, Thailand and Vietnam). A third (corn) seed that uses water more efficiently and resists of the population lives on less than $2 a day and food insect pests. This is important because maize is the main and nutrition security remains a constant threat. The source of food for more than 300 million Africans. ASEAN goal is to achieve food and nutrition security to feed one of the world’s youngest and fastestgrowing populations through sustainable and efficient Water Efficient Maize in Africa (WEMA) is led by the African Agricultural Technology Foundation (AATF), and funded by use of land and water resources by minimizing the the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, the Howard G. Buffett impacts of and the contributions to climate change. Foundation and the United States Agency for International Development (USAID). Key WEMA partners include the National We’re also involved in unique multi-stakeholder Agricultural Research Institutes in Kenya, Mozambique, South partnerships in Kenya and India (see stories that Africa, Tanzania and Uganda, the International Maize and follow in this section). Wheat Improvement Center (CIMMYT) and Monsanto. Monsanto 2014 Sustainability Report | 40 PRODUCING enough food to make a balanced meal accessible to all Growing the Right Amount More Efficiently Soil Health: Vital to Farmers, Consumers and the Environment Driving Water The project has exceeded original expectations. The The WEMA project is now the Innovation WEMA partnership successfully delivered its first droughtlargest tropical white maize Stewarding tolerant conventional white hybrid seed to farmers in breeding program in Sub-Saharan Product Safety Kenya a year ahead of schedule with the first WEMA Africa, and DroughtTEGO branded • Heightening Food and Nutrition Security seed harvest completed in February 2014. Farmers experienced improved grain yield under both optimal hybrids could enable farmers to harvest 20-35 percent more grain and drought stress conditions, harvesting 4.5 tons per under moderate drought conditions compared to the hectare compared to 1.8 tons per hectare harvested seed they have historically planted. WEMA’s goal is for in the first farmer-managed demonstration trials. these seeds to improve food security and livelihoods for more than 25 million people in Sub-Saharan Africa. Working with project leaders, Monsanto shared 600 elite parental lines of maize seed, our technical plant breeding WEMA’s successful management approach enabled know-how and our biotech drought-tolerant and the project partners to move quickly to address an insect protection traits. We also leveraged the expertise unforeseen issue: the Maize Lethal Necrosis (MLN) Virus, of our partners to develop locally adapted hybrids. which spread quickly across Kenya, Tanzania and Uganda in 2012. Infected plants are stunted and the leaves lose The WEMA partnership seeks to develop an accessible their green color and die around flowering time. pipeline of conventional and biotech seeds for African farmers under the brand DroughtTEGOTM. As part of our commitment, the WEMA partnership has made DroughtTEGO seed variety licenses available to all seed companies of any size to deliver these hybrid seeds Meet Bertha to farmers royalty free. In 2014, 27 new DroughtTEGO and Victor hybrids were approved for commercial release, far exceeding the original targets and timelines. New Meet Bertha and Victor, some of the first Kenyan family farmers and even better hybrids are in the development to plant the DroughtTEGO seed developed by the WEMA project. pipeline and more than 15 seed companies have Check out this short video and see firsthand the dramatic licensed new hybrids royalty free to make them difference it’s made in their lives. commercially available to African farmers. Monsanto 2014 Sustainability Report | 41 PRODUCING enough food to make a balanced meal accessible to all Growing the Right Amount More Efficiently Soil Health: Vital to Farmers, Consumers and the Environment Driving Water The combined WEMA team of researchers planted Taking a Holistic Approach in Tanzania. Agriculture is Innovation nurseries in Chile, Kenya and the United States central to Tanzania’s economy, and the government has Stewarding to identify sources of resistance and selected new made it a national priority by establishing Kilimo Kwanza Product Safety entries for the National Performance Trials for (Agriculture First), a program to achieve food security, • Heightening Food and Nutrition Security the WEMA project. Due to the quick response of the technical team, promising parental lines poverty reduction and increased economic growth. In support of this vision, in 2010, Tanzanian President showing improved tolerance were developed and incorporated into the WEMA breeding program. Jakaya Kikwete designated the Southern Agricultural Growth Corridor of Tanzania (SAGCOT) as the focus of new partnerships that aim to enable agricultural growth in this region. Monsanto has been a partner in SAGCOT since Increasing Smallholder the beginning, working with local partners to help improve Productivity: Grow Africa the maize and vegetable value chains in the region. WEF’s Grow Africa regional initiative is an African-led, In partnership with NGOs, farmer organizations, multistakeholder public-private partnership that helps researchers and the Ministry of Agriculture, Monsanto smallholder farmers have better harvests. Smallholders is focusing its resources and efforts on the following in in Sub-Saharan Africa don’t always have access to order to improve crop production systems in the region: markets, information, agro-dealer networks, crop inputs or grain buyers to assist them. We’re working within •• Supporting the Tanzania Agro-dealer Strengthening the Grow Africa commitment to build a supportive Program to train 600 agricultural input dealers. infrastructure for farmers to assist them in being more •• Expanding access to affordable financial productive and help them get their crops to market. services for farmers. Monsanto has committed $50 million over 10 years •• Providing innovative tools and training to to support Grow Africa and sustained agricultural agriculture extension workers to enhance soil health. development in Sub-Saharan Africa. We believe •• Supporting farmer outreach days to reach we can help fuel the development of systems approximately 200,000 farmers with demonstrations that increase productivity while strengthening and training opportunities of agricultural best practices. the African agricultural value chain. Monsanto 2014 Sustainability Report | 42 PRODUCING enough food to make a balanced meal accessible to all Growing the Right Amount More Efficiently Soil Health: Vital to Farmers, Consumers and the Environment Driving Water •• Working with a network of Village Advisors to train to disease. One popular variety has been virtually Innovation farmers on using improved hybrid seed; about 20,000 eliminated from use by farmers due to cassava brown Stewarding packets of hybrid seed have been distributed and used streak disease (CBSD) and cassava mosaic disease (CMD). Product Safety by smallholder farmers in field demonstrations. Monsanto is partnering with St. Louis-based Donald • Heightening Food and Nutrition Security •• Supporting tomato farmer groups to collectively purchase inputs, receive training and market Danforth Plant Science Center, the National Crops Resources Research Institute in Uganda and the Kenya their products. Agricultural and Livestock Research Organization on the Virus Resistant Cassava for Africa (VIRCA) project. Because it takes markets to make an agricultural system VIRCA aims to apply biotechnology to develop cassava work, Monsanto is exploring collaborations with grain varieties with increased resistance to CBSD and CMD. handlers and companies interested in value-added To date, no conventional sources of resistance to products. We intend for these collaborations to help CBSD have been identified, so biotechnology may raise productivity and grain quality, reduce waste provide the best solution for preventing the spread of through better storage, and support mechanisms this devastating disease. This initiative is supported by that improve grain price predictability and enhance nearly $13 million from the Monsanto Fund, along with economic opportunity for Tanzanian farmers. funding from the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, Transferring Knowledge to the Developing World. the Howard G. Buffett Foundation and USAID. Innovations that we’ve applied to our core crops of Confined field trials of the genetically engineered virus corn, cotton, canola and soybeans can help protect resistant cassava have shown promising results and critical food sources in other parts of the world. Prime researchers have made significant progress toward examples are the partnerships we’ve formed to safeguard making these ready for widespread use by smallholder two important food sources in Sub-Saharan Africa. farmers in Uganda and Kenya. The cassavas created by Virus Resistant Cassava. For 130 million people in East the VIRCA project will be readily available to farmers Africa, cassava is a dietary staple due to its natural drought in the same way traditional cassava is currently being tolerance and ability to flourish on marginal lands. offered. That means farmers will be able to freely However, this nutrient-rich root vegetable is susceptible multiply, save and share their planting materials. Monsanto 2014 Sustainability Report | 43 PRODUCING enough food to make a balanced meal accessible to all Growing the Right Amount More Efficiently Soil Health: Vital to Farmers, Consumers and the Environment Driving Water Insect Resistant Cowpea. In the dry savannas of Africa, Innovation cowpea is considered the most important food grain Enhancing Farmer Stewarding legume because it’s rich in protein and it tolerates hot, dry Opportunities: Grow Asia Product Safety conditions. This crop is grown on more than 12.5 million Grow Asia is a multistakeholder • Heightening Food and Nutrition Security hectares of land in Africa. It’s a good source of food for livestock and provides farmers with good incomes. partnership within the WEF New Vision for Agriculture to contribute to food and nutrition Unfortunately, infestation by the Maruca vitrata pod security by working across agricultural value chains. borer can reduce harvests by 80 percent and most Grow Asia supports scalable, market-based initiatives cowpea farmers lack access to effective insecticides. to encourage sustainable economic growth through To address this urgent problem, the not-for-profit agriculture with a focus on smallholder farmers. African Agricultural Technology Foundation Monsanto joined the Grow Asia partnership in (AATF) is pursuing the following strategies: 2013 and has committed to initiatives that support •• Accessing specific genes to protect national and regional agriculture development cowpea against the Maruca pod borer. priorities of the Association of South East Asian •• Facilitating licensing agreements and Nations (ASEAN), with a focus on Vietnam, Indonesia regulatory compliance for development. and the Philippines, where country populations are estimated to grow 32 to 49 percent by 2050. •• Providing product stewardship for responsible and sustainable use of the seeds. Through public-private partnerships, new sustainable and scalable models are being developed to provide To support the efforts of AATF, Monsanto is working with smallholder farmers’ greater access to inputs, financing multiple partners to promote solutions designed to help and training on improved farming practices. Grow improve cowpea productivity. Monsanto has donated Asia’s systems-based approach is designed to help intellectual property to the project under a royalty-free countries achieve self-sufficiency, sustainability, and rural license and is supplying testing materials and information development; secure a supply of grain for the domestic to advance the project toward commercialization. food and feed industry; and identify opportunities for farmers to improve crop productivity and their livelihoods. Monsanto 2014 Sustainability Report | 44 PRODUCING enough food to make a balanced meal accessible to all Growing the Right Amount More Efficiently Soil Health: Vital to Farmers, Consumers and the Environment Driving Water Vietnam Rice to Corn Project. The most mature Farmers’ access to affordable financing and credit has Innovation Grow Asia project in which we participate is the been a long-time challenge in Indonesia. The pilot Stewarding rice-to-corn partnership under the leadership project centers around helping farmers overcome the Product Safety of the Government of Vietnam and other private challenges of obtaining financing while growing corn, • Heightening Food and Nutrition Security sector partners to enable farmers to improve their harvests by choosing to introduce corn into their by making working capital available so they can procure good quality seeds, fertilizers and other inputs. rice production rotation. Longer term, the desired outcome is food security and self-sufficiency for the Core components of the project included: country (read about this initiative on Page 80). •• Access to formal finance loans from BRI WEF Partnership for Indonesia Sustainable •• The use of improved farming practices and Agriculture. The WEF Partnership for Indonesia farm inputs such as DEKALB hybrid seed corn Sustainable Agriculture (PISAgro) aims to address •• Post-harvest assistance and guaranteed national food security by increasing agricultural corn grain procurement by Cargill production and improving the welfare of smallholder farmers. The decade-long initiative is intended to The first corn planted in June 2014 delivered approximately increase agriculture productivity by 20 percent, $250 more income and 14 percent more grain per increase farmer incomes by 20 percent and decrease hectare by November 2014, when compared to previous greenhouse gas emissions by 20 percent. harvests. Project partners are exploring options to extend the scope and scale of this initiative to additional corn A pilot project, focused on improving farmer livelihoods farmers across Indonesia. Monsanto is also looking by maximizing corn crop productivity and quality, into opportunities to collaborate with others in the has delivered important market-based results. The Philippines to enable farmers access to improved crop corn ecosystem pilot project was a partnership of management practices and financing alternatives. Indonesian farmers, Bank Rakyat Indonesia (BRI), Cargill, Monsanto, and the Regional Government of East Jawa. Monsanto 2014 Sustainability Report | 45 PRODUCING enough food to make a balanced meal accessible to all Growing the Right Amount More Efficiently Soil Health: Vital to Farmers, Consumers and the Environment Driving Water Farmers received training Innovation Helping Indian Farmers Deliver on sowing, soil health and Stewarding Better Harvests: Project SHARE management, crop and Product Safety integrated nutrient management, India is focused on finding solutions to feed its rapidly • Heightening Food and Nutrition Security growing population. If India continues to produce food at its current rate, it will fall far short in feeding all its water conservation and irrigation, and pest management. Project SHARE hosted over 2,000 training events, both before and country’s people, projected to reach 1.3 billion by 2017. after harvest season. The project also set up 1,000 crop demonstrations of cotton and corn where approximately To meet this rising demand, Monsanto India 50,000 farmers saw best agronomic practices. teamed up with the Indian Society of Agribusiness Professionals (ISAP) on a five-year partnership called The positive impacts aren’t limited to just the project Project SHARE (Sustainable Harvest Agriculture, farmers – local communities have benefited from Resources, Environment) to improve the lives of Indian Project SHARE compost units, micro-irrigation farmers by giving them access to tools, technology demonstrations and water harvest and recycling and knowledge to improve cotton and corn crop demonstrations. The team also engaged and helped harvests, income and ultimately, their quality of life. establish about 330 self-help groups for women, which provided skills training to help them find profitable Completed in June 2014, Project SHARE reached work in their local area. These self-help groups more than 16,000 farmers directly and 100,000 have helped enable local communities to be more farmers indirectly from 1,050 villages across three accepting of women’s employment and recognize states in India — Andhra Pradesh, Maharashtra and the important role they play in their communities. Rajasthan. The results were extremely encouraging. During the project tenure from 2009 to 2014, cotton farmers increased their annual incomes by 36 percent ($686) and corn farmers by 59 percent ($309). Monsanto 2014 Sustainability Report | 46 PRODUCING enough food to make a balanced meal accessible to all Growing the Right Amount More Efficiently Soil Health: Vital to Farmers, Consumers and the Environment Driving Water In 2014, 17 recent fellows Innovation Supporting Rice and Wheat Research: attended the annual World Stewarding Monsanto’s Beachell-Borlaug Food Prize event as part of Product Safety International Scholars Program the program. While there, they • Heightening Food and Nutrition Security More than half of the world’s population depends on rice and wheat for food. But productivity has been received leadership training, discussed their research and made valuable connections with experts in international stagnant for decades, as research and investment development, food security and plant science. in both crops has stalled. The program is named in honor of Dr. Henry Recognizing the need to reinvigorate rice and wheat Beachell and Dr. Norman Borlaug, who devoted research, we established the Monsanto Beachellthemselves to solving problems affecting Borlaug International Scholars Program (MBBISP) in rice and wheat farmers, particularly in the 2009 to support the next generation of plant breeders developing world. Together, they are credited for these crops. With oversight from a distinguished panel with saving more than 1 billion people from of judges, the program has welcomed 70 Ph.D. fellows famine in the middle of the 20th century. from 25 countries and provided each scholar with two to three years of tuition, a living stipend and funding Visit our website to learn more about to conduct plant research in a developing nation. MBBISP. Meet one of our scholars and learn about her experiences. Since the launch of MBBISP, we have provided $13 million to fund international students seeking their doctoral degrees in rice or wheat plant breeding. Monsanto 2014 Sustainability Report | 47 CONSERVING t h e e a r t h’ s r e s o u r c e s a n d preserving the natural environment Monsanto is focused on using resources •• We pledge to reduce our operational greenhouse more efficiently both inside our own facilities gas emissions intensity in our crop protection and out on the farm. That includes working operations by 22 percent by 2020. together with others to find sustainable •• We pledge to help farmers use nutrients more solutions that encourage harmony between efficiently and curb greenhouse gas emissions agriculture and the natural habitats on 1 million acres in the United States by 2020. that enrich our work and our world. By finding ways to help farmers manage the •• We are committed to developing seeds and challenges that impact our environment, agronomic practices that by 2030 will help we can help conserve the earth’s resources farmers use one-third fewer key resources than and preserve the natural ecosystem. in 2000 per unit of output to grow crops. •• We work with NGOs and other collaborators Commitments and Guiding Principles to protect natural species and habitats •• We pledge to increase irrigation water application near areas of crop production. efficiency across our global seed production •• We engage society, farmers and sustainability operations by 25 percent by 2020. leaders in dialogue about sustainable agriculture. Monsanto 2014 Sustainability Report | 48 THE BUSINESS OF AGRICULTURE depends on maintaining and improving the health of natural ecosystems. A key component of our strategy is to find new ways to help farmers use resources more efficiently to create consistently strong harvests, including harnessing the power of data to inform decisions in the field. Kerry Preete, Executive Vice President, Global Strategy Monsanto 2014 Sustainability Report | 49 CONSERVING the earth’s resources and preserving the natural environment • Protecting and Conserving Water Mitigating and Adapting to Climate Change Protecting and Preserving the Natural Environment Environmental Performance PROTECTING AND together with farmers, researchers, nonprofit organizations, universities and others, we’re making CONSERVING WATER real progress on a broad range of solutions: •• Our teams are working hard to create seeds Water is a critical lifeline. It sustains our that can thrive in water-stressed areas through families, our communities and our planet. both traditional breeding and biotechnology. Today, nearly 70 percent of all freshwater in the world •• We’re researching and testing different is used by agriculture. By 2050, however, it’s predicted irrigation methods to help farmers water that we’ll need to double our food supply to meet the their fields more efficiently. growing demands of the world’s population – all while optimizing water use and preserving ecosystems. As the •• We’re identifying and implementing creative world’s population grows and quality of life standards ways to recycle and reuse water throughout our rise, the strain on freshwater supplies will likely increase. operations to reduce our reliance on freshwater. That’s why it’s so important to use this precious resource But we all know there’s a lot more to be done. more efficiently and recycle it whenever possible. As part of our ongoing commitment to address the We’re committed to making a difference in the global water crisis, we joined the CEO Water Mandate in best way we can: by helping farmers grow food April 2014. Launched in 2007, the UN Global Compact’s while using water more efficiently. Working Monsanto 2014 Sustainability Report | 50 CONSERVING the earth’s resources and preserving the natural environment • Protecting and Conserving Water Mitigating and Adapting to Climate Change Protecting and Preserving CEO Water Mandate is a unique public-private initiative the Natural Environment designed to assist companies in the development, Helping Farmers Environmental implementation and disclosure of water sustainability Conserve Resources Performance policies and practices. Endorsers of the CEO Water Mandate recognize that through individual and collective Monsanto made a commitment in 2008 to develop improved action they can contribute to the vision of the UN Global seeds and agronomic practices that by 2030 would help farmers Compact. Our involvement with the CEO Water Mandate use one-third fewer key resources than in 2000 per unit of output has guided our water strategy and spurred smart to grow corn, soybean and cotton. conversations about water management. Monsanto sits on the Mandate’s 2015-16 Steering Committee – Corn -6% the initiative’s main governance entity charged with Soybeans -15% strategic, administrative and financial arrangements. Cotton -22% • Ahead of Pace • On Pace • Off Pace Mapping Water Risks Resource reduction percentages are based on a three-year rolling average. Source: Field To Market (FTM); analysis by FTM staff. Reflects U.S. results only due Monsanto has recently completed a three-year to limitations on reliable data elsewhere. Key resources include land use, irrigation water, energy, soil loss and greenhouse gas emissions. journey of capturing our water footprint data. We now have the needed information to thoroughly analyze potential water risks to our facilities and surrounding communities around the world. We will be engaging with external stakeholders to ensure we are taking into account all the appropriate water stress factors including availability, quality and societal needs when conducting the analysis. We will document the risks, draw up plans to manage them and track our progress. Concurrent with this water risk mapping, we have already started conservation practices at various sites Monsanto 2014 Sustainability Report | 51 CONSERVING the earth’s resources and preserving the natural environment • Protecting and Conserving Water Mitigating and Adapting to Climate Change Protecting and Preserving worldwide targeting water efficiency strategies in water In April 2014, we pledged to increase irrigation water the Natural Environment stressed regions as discussed in the following pages. application efficiency across our global seed production Environmental The water risk mapping process will then help us focus process by 25 percent by 2020, compared to our Performance on areas that may require additional attention. 2010 baseline – a goal that could save an estimated 30 billion to 80 billion gallons of water each year, depending on the weather cycle. This industry-first Using Water More Efficiently water use efficiency commitment includes both our at our Facilities and Farms owned and leased operations, as well as the contract farms that grow seed for our company’s products. With the importance of water conservation so apparent, we believe our responsibility starts within our own By expanding the use of drip irrigation systems in global operations and is backed by the irrigation water our operations in India, Mexico and Hawaii, and application efficiency goal we established in 2014. By advanced irrigation management technology, we are learning how to improve irrigation efficiency on our already more than a quarter of the way toward reaching production acres, we will share this know-how with our goal. Drip irrigation applies water directly to a production growers and farmer customers alike. plant’s root system and can deliver water application efficiency of up to 95 percent, compared to 50 percent for flood or furrow irrigation systems. We expect Improving Our Irrigation to introduce these methods to additional locations Application Systems next year in Chile, Italy, Malawi and Turkey. Plants need water to grow, but often rain is not We also partnered with the USDA Agriculture Research enough or in the right amount at the right time. Service and land grant university experts to develop Depending on geography and local weather, crops a comprehensive irrigation handbook for farmers. often need and can benefit from additional water The handbook addresses a wide variety of irrigation provided through irrigation systems to reach their concepts and questions, including pre-season full growth potential. Providing plants with the water system checks, when and how much irrigation water they need at the right time is critical. That’s where to apply, and what types of irrigation equipment advanced irrigation technology comes into play. deliver water most efficiently. All of this information Monsanto 2014 Sustainability Report | 52 CONSERVING the earth’s resources and preserving the natural environment • Protecting and Conserving Water Mitigating and Adapting to Climate Change Protecting and Preserving is critical for farmers to understand in order to use Collecting Rainwater the Natural Environment irrigation water more effectively and efficiently. in the Netherlands Environmental Performance Over the next five years, we’ll continue to make our In countries that have regular operations more water efficient, and we plan to share our rainfall year-round, there is efforts as a model to reach greater irrigation efficiencies the great opportunity to make use in agriculture around the world. We have highlighted of this water. In the Netherlands, our greenhouse a few innovative programs below developed by our facilities are built in such a way that rainwater can be people in various parts of the world. These exemplify collected and used. As rain hits the roof of our facility, our approach of empowering our people to find locally the water is directed into various basins through relevant and adaptable ways to use water and other gutters and drainpipes. Once the water is collected, resources effectively. These and many other pilot projects it’s processed for reuse and stored in large tanks, are shared across the company, enabling other operations where it’s mixed with fertilizers to carry nutrients to to adopt or retrofit the concepts to their local situation. plants. Any water not used by the plants is captured, disinfected and reused in our greenhouses. In 2014, we used approximately 70,000 cubic meters of recycled Reusing Water in Hawaii rainwater in our production and research greenhouses. Water is a precious resource in the state of Hawaii. Water that’s recycled and cleaned in treatment plants, often Rethinking Seed Production in Peru referred to as “gray water,” can be used for irrigation, industrial processing and other non-potable uses. Located on the coastal side of Peru, the desert Ica Region is considered to be an agricultural paradise At our Piilani Farm on Maui, we use 100 percent thanks to ideal weather conditions that allow crops recycled water for agricultural and landscape to be grown year-round. Ica has one major issue, irrigation. Our Haleiwa facility also uses recycled a severe lack of water. The region’s already limited water for irrigation. Together these facilities save freshwater supply has been under pressure over the nearly 250 million gallons of freshwater each year. years due to the booming local agriculture industry. Monsanto 2014 Sustainability Report | 53 CONSERVING the earth’s resources and preserving the natural environment • Protecting and Conserving Water Mitigating and Adapting to Climate Change Protecting and Preserving Ica also is home to one of our vegetable seed Enhancing Vegetable the Natural Environment production sites, Ica Home Farm, which produces Seed Irrigation and Environmental more than half of the world’s melon seeds and is Production in India Performance one of our largest tomato seed production sites. Vegetables play a major role in Concerned with constant water supply issues, our local our efforts toward nourishing team challenged themselves to identify innovative a growing world. Each year, we provide farmers with ways to use water more efficiently. The team began vegetable seeds that help fill the shelves of grocery by creating an index that showed how much water stores and markets with produce around the world. was used per kilo of seed produced. Having this precise knowledge allows us to use less water by In recent years, our Vegetable Seeds Division in India has making sure nearly every drop is used effectively. conducted a comprehensive evaluation of their production processes in order to deliver more reliable harvests than The team also made changes to various production in the past. The India production team identified several processes that reduce the physical crop acreage required issues to address, notably, that seeds were being grown for seed production, resulting in less water needed using less efficient agricultural techniques such as flood for irrigation. These changes included moving melon irrigation, which results in using more water than necessary. production inside net houses to reduce evaporation and implementing new conduction and pruning systems. In response, the production team launched an education campaign for field staff and farmers about the benefits of drip The team’s efforts in Ica saved approximately 17 million irrigation and other best management practices. As a result, gallons of water in calendar year 2013 and an additional Indian farms have increased yields substantially, improved seed 5 million gallons in fiscal year 2014. quality and disease resistance, and experienced considerable water and electricity savings. Overall, seed production volumes But their work isn’t done yet. Ica’s soil is extremely sandy, for domestic products are expected to grow by 45 percent in the which requires constant irrigation throughout the day. next five years while using energy and water more efficiently. Our local team is studying how they can switch from growing vegetables in soil to other mediums such as peat Our team in India is exploring ways to implement similar moss, which could save 30 to 40 percent more water. initiatives for our corn and cotton seed production in the country. Monsanto 2014 Sustainability Report | 54 CONSERVING the earth’s resources and preserving the natural environment • Protecting and Conserving Water Mitigating and Adapting to Climate Change Protecting and Preserving training and education. Improved seed corn genetics the Natural Environment Finding Innovative Solutions, Together – specifically DEKALB hybrid corn – contribute Environmental to enhancing the AquaTEK system’s results. As the impacts of climate change continue to Performance be felt around the world, farms of all types are In 2013 and 2014, 16 field trial locations tested three water facing serious water challenges. To help preserve management systems – no irrigation, drip irrigation and the availability of our planet’s freshwater, we are sprinkler (drum) irrigation – on DEKALB corn to determine collaborating with farmers to implement strategies to which management system produced the best harvest use water more efficiently and look for opportunities while using the least amount of water. The University of to use these strategies in our own fields as well. Milan’s Department of Agricultural and Environmental Sciences analyzed the data and verified the reduction in the amount of resources used. Assessments carried AquaTEK: Sharing Best Practices out by Monsanto’s own Technology Development team The combination of better technology and better showed a 12 percent increase in crop yield despite a techniques is powerful. In Italy, Monsanto, the University 30 percent reduction in irrigation water use, an 80 percent of Milan and irrigation technology company Netafim are reduction in fuel use, and a 70 percent reduction in collaborating on a project that provides local farmers nutrient runoff versus traditional irrigation systems. with a systems-based approach to irrigation, combining Given these positive environmental and economic different irrigation techniques with monitoring tools to results, our Technology Development teams in Spain help farmers apply the right amount of water at the right and Portugal are looking for ways to utilize the AquaTEK time to maximize the efficiency of every drop used. irrigation approach to grow corn more sustainably in The AquaTEK system is a public-private partnership water-strained areas. that brings together key components of farm Visit our website for more information on AquaTEK. management: smart water management and farmer Monsanto 2014 Sustainability Report | 55 CONSERVING the earth’s resources and preserving the natural environment • Protecting and Conserving Water Mitigating and Adapting to Climate Change Protecting and Preserving Showing the Benefits of Drip Irrigation techniques. Since the inception the Natural Environment of this program, 99.7 percent of Our Mexico seed production group has been working farms producing seed corn and Environmental Performance in the drought-riddled northern states to share the sorghum for Monsanto in Brazil benefits of drip irrigation with farmers in the region. are now monitored, and have saved Based on extensive irrigation research started in 2012, over 3 billion gallons of water a year by the group has shown local growers the positive effect implementing better irrigation techniques as drip irrigation can have on their crops, their community a result of the information they’ve received. and the planet. To date, 64 farmers have invested in drip irrigation systems to produce more than 2,600 hectares of corn seed. Monsanto has also invested capital in drip irrigation systems on another 1,225 hectares. Together, this use of drip irrigation has saved an estimated 57.4 million cubic meters of water since the program began. Monitoring Irrigated Fields to Save Water Water scarcity continues to be a major issue in Brazil. We have been partnering with local farmers and Irriger, a technology company that monitors irrigated areas, to raise awareness about the environmental and production benefits that can be achieved by using efficient irrigation Monsanto 2014 Sustainability Report | 56 CONSERVING the earth’s resources and preserving the natural environment Protecting and Conserving Water • Mitigating and Adapting to Climate Change Protecting and Preserving the Natural Environment Environmental Performance MITIGATING AND and NGO communities can be leaders in adapting to climate change and mitigating its causes. ADAPTING TO A benefit of producing crops is that they take in carbon CLIMATE CHANGE dioxide, the most prevalent greenhouse gas, as they grow. Growing plants is an economical and sustainable Our company is entirely devoted to way to pull carbon dioxide out of the atmosphere. agriculture and focused on working The downside is that greenhouse gases are emitted with others to develop a broad range along the food and agriculture production chain. of solutions to help nourish a growing world. We feel a deep responsibility The collective industry goal must be to reduce to help ensure the world’s current greenhouse gas emissions while sustainably meeting population as well as future generations the world’s increasing demand for nutritious foods. have enough of the right foods to eat. All agricultural practices will have a role to play in dealing with the potential impacts of climate change. We are particularly attuned to changes in the Solutions will need to come from all parts of the world’s climate and global weather patterns, which world and from many groups including research are challenging and will require significant effort institutes and universities, national agricultural to address. Together, the global food, agriculture research systems, companies and farmers themselves. Monsanto 2014 Sustainability Report | 57 CONSERVING the earth’s resources and preserving the natural environment Protecting and Conserving Water • Mitigating and Adapting to Climate Change Protecting and Preserving Monsanto has focused its work in multiple collaborations the Natural Environment to help improve scientific understanding of how changes Operational Greenhouse Environmental in weather and water availability will affect farming Gas Emissions Intensity Goal Performance activities around the world. As we continually strive for efficiencies within our own Many of our products and services are designed to operations, we’ve been able to significantly reduce our enable more efficient use of agricultural inputs, like greenhouse gas footprint. In calendar year 2015, after water and fertilizer, while also delivering on every reviewing the emission trends of our operations, we farmer’s goal of a better harvest. Improved seeds and committed to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from our crop production practices enable farmers to have crop protection operations by 22 percent (per pound of active a positive impact on the environment by reducing ingredient) by 2020, relative to our baseline in 2010. This the energy and land used to produce their crops. represents a cumulative greenhouse gas emissions reduction of 45 percent when compared to 2002. We’re targeting our Through sustainable intensification, the industry can crop protection operations sector because it is the largest impact climate change by increasing crop yields contributor to our company’s carbon footprint, making it faster than the rise in food demand. In fact, from the place where we can have the greatest positive impact. 1961 to 2005, global production increased by 135 percent while agriculture’s footprint expanded by only 27 percent. This intensification helped avoid vast deforestation that would have resulted in greenhouse gas emissions up to 13.1 Gt CO2e/yr.1 This is equivalent to the emissions from almost three billion automobiles – three times the number of cars on the road today. 1 Burney et.al. | 12052–12057 | PNAS | June 29, 2010 | vol. 107 | no. 26 Monsanto 2014 Sustainability Report | 58 CONSERVING the earth’s resources and preserving the natural environment Protecting and Conserving Water • Mitigating and Adapting to Climate Change Protecting and Preserving nutrient management the Natural Environment Collaborating to Curb Agricultural capabilities, and proprietary Environmental Greenhouse Gas Emissions and industry benchmarking Performance and decision support tools. In seeking smarter ways to nourish the world, Monsanto is collaborating with partners to help shrink Initial benchmarking is driving the the food production system’s carbon footprint and development and evaluation of nutrient reduce its contribution to global climate change. action plans customized to individual farmers. GROWMARK staff will personally assist farmers In April 2014, at the Walmart Sustainable Products in the program to understand and implement Expo, we pledged to help farmers use nutrients more specific recommendations. efficiently and curb greenhouse gas emissions on 1 million acres of crop land in the United States by 2020 through continued collaboration and development of a broad range of sustainable solutions. Working Engaging with the together with Walmart, we are establishing new and Clinton Global Initiative enhanced levels of organizational collaboration, At Monsanto, we know finding solutions to the significant seeking the advice and input of farmers, consumers, challenges facing our world depends on the commitment supply chain partners and NGOs to help identify the and collaboration of many diverse stakeholders. That’s right tools and solutions to achieve this goal. why we’re proud to be a member of the Clinton Global Initiative (CGI). Since 2005, we’ve engaged with CGI and As a first step, we’re partnering with GROWMARK, a its members – Nobel Prize Laureates, government leaders, regional agricultural supply cooperative serving 250,000 NGOs, corporations, philanthropists, policymakers, farmers in more than 40 U.S. states and Ontario, Canada. entrepreneurs, journalists and other thought leaders This unique partnership brings together Monsanto – to share ideas, build partnerships and work toward seed genetics and data science tools, GROWMARK Monsanto 2014 Sustainability Report | 59 CONSERVING the earth’s resources and preserving the natural environment Protecting and Conserving Water • Mitigating and Adapting to Climate Change Protecting and Preserving meaningful commitments, particularly in the areas the Natural Environment of sustainable agriculture and global food security. Convening on Climate Environmental at the White House Performance A signature focus of CGI is the Commitment to Action. Members are encouraged to identify areas where they can take action to improve In 2014, we joined a roundtable of experts at the White House society, protect the environment and address to share new approaches for addressing the impact of climate change on the world’s food supply. The meeting focused on the critical issues such as poverty and hunger. White House Climate Data Initiative, an ambitious new effort to In 2013, we made our first Commitment to Action develop data-driven planning tools for addressing climate issues. on honey bee health (learn more on Page 65). And Our participation at the roundtable and continuing support in 2014, we looked to deepen our engagement of the Initiative is a natural extension of our mission to find with the organization by signing on as a sponsor collective solutions for some of the major agriculture-related of the CGI Annual Meeting in New York City and challenges of our time. During the meeting, we discussed serving as a strategy leader for the new Food various collaborative efforts to advance climate change Systems Track. At the conference, Monsanto CEO research: providing corn yield data to public crop modeling Hugh Grant met with other members of the track, efforts (AgMIP), building on climate change impact studies including agriculture, food and consumer product conducted by the University of Chicago, and partnering with external partners to improve corn-growth simulation models. companies and key NGOs, to discuss the critical issues facing food production around the globe. Over the next year, these food systems leaders will work together to leverage the tremendous expertise and resources of the participating organizations in finding innovative ways to address global challenges. Monsanto 2014 Sustainability Report | 60 CONSERVING the earth’s resources and preserving the natural environment Protecting and Conserving Water • Mitigating and Adapting to Climate Change Protecting and Preserving the Natural Environment Greening Our Facilities: Environmental LEED Certification Performance As our company evolves, we are embedding sustainability Energy into the structure of our company and our buildings. In early The buildings integrate a variety of technologies to reduce 2015, we broke ground on two new facilities at our Monsanto energy use. Both feature efficient LED lighting systems, daylight Research Center in Chesterfield, Mo.: a 400,000 square foot dimming systems that turn off lights when there is sufficient technology building and a 32,000 square foot building that natural daylight to meet employees’ needs and high-efficiency will house employees and greenhouse service equipment. systems that reduce the airflow necessary for cooling. The Both building designs follow the U.S. Green Building Council’s exterior of the Technology Building also maximizes sunlight Leadership in Energy & Environmental Design (LEED) principles, penetration while minimizing heat gains and losses. Given these incorporating energyand water-efficient technologies, advances, we expect this specific building to use 20 percent as well as features that foster employee health and wellless energy than a conventional building of similar size. being such as ample sunlight and good indoor air quality. Materials Water What our buildings are made of is just as important as how The Technology Building has a 15,000 gallon rainwater they’re made. The Technology Building and smaller service collection system. The rainwater is treated and used for nonbuilding contain a high percentage of materials that are potable purposes, such as flushing toilets. The building features locally sourced and made with recycled content and low and ultra-low water-use plumbing fixtures expected to wood from certified forests. Additionally, our team selected reduce potable water use by 39 percent compared to current building materials which have low levels of volatile organic fixtures used in the Research Center. The landscaped areas compounds to ensure we are providing a healthy work around the buildings incorporate native and adaptive plants environment with good air quality for our employees. that require no irrigation, providing additional water savings. Monsanto 2014 Sustainability Report | 61 CONSERVING the earth’s resources and preserving the natural environment Protecting and Conserving Water • Mitigating and Adapting to Climate Change Protecting and Preserving street lamps and fluorescent lighting. The new the Natural Environment Operational Energy Initiatives lighting sources offer an extended bulb lifespan, Environmental no potential ultraviolet radiation or mercury Performance exposure, and technical improvements such Lighting the Way to Energy Savings as compact size and improved longevity. When it comes to improving energy efficiency •• Waterman, Ill., United States – This seed production in our operations, a first step for many of our site upgraded its legacy lighting system to a more facilities is to look for opportunities to upgrade older efficient energy-saving system supported by motion lighting fixtures with automated, LED systems. We sensors. Not only will the sensor-activated system have asked all our managers globally to identify reduce energy use and cost by an estimated 50 opportunities, and, as a result, we’re seeing reductions percent, but lighting turns on instantly when an in energy use and greenhouse gas emissions while employee enters a room, boosting site safety. lowering operating costs around the world. •• Johannesburg, South Africa – In the face of rising Harnessing the Sun to electricity costs and a stressed local utility grid, Light Operations in Hawaii our Johannesburg facility conducted an energy audit and revealed that some simple changes, like Monsanto Hawaii is taking advantage of the plentiful replacing conventional lighting with LED bulbs Hawaiian sun by using a solar-powered indoor lighting paired with technology-driven solutions such as system. The plant has installed 108 solar panels at motion sensors, would result in both a reduction the Upper Kunia Farm on the island of Oahu. The in greenhouse gases and cost savings. Over the 25,000-watt system went live in September 2014 and course of one year, these upgrades have resulted is expected to generate 40,000 KWh per year of clean in up to a 75 percent reduction in energy usage. renewable energy, which reduces the farm’s carbon •• Shamirpet, India – Our manufacturing facility footprint in an amount equal to driving 65,000 fewer replaced oversized sodium and mercury lamps – miles in a typical passenger car. Monsanto Hawaii often used for street lights – with a combination anticipates its energy bill will drop by approximately of more compact, but equally as powerful LED $15,000 over the system’s first year of operation. Monsanto 2014 Sustainability Report | 62 CONSERVING the earth’s resources and preserving the natural environment Protecting and Conserving Water • Mitigating and Adapting to Climate Change Protecting and Preserving The new system is the latest in a series of efforts to United States for an entire year. Now MBT sites are the Natural Environment reduce energy consumption and waste in Hawaii, with looking for new ways to tap into the energy potential Environmental prospects to add solar panels to other Monsanto Hawaii of other waste. At our site in Woodland, Calif., we’re Performance farms. Additionally, the company’s main administrative exploring biodigesters that would directly convert wet building in Kunia, Oahu, is LEED certified, for building waste to energy and compost. Our St. Louis site is also features like efficient lighting and cooling systems. transitioning to a new local waste-to-energy facility in 2015, which is expected to significantly reduce transportation, costs and help support local businesses. Turning Plastic into Energy Understanding seed traits is critical to advancing a sustainable food system. Monsanto performs some of Tapping the Energy of Natural Byproducts the world’s most cutting-edge research in this area, Companies that create goods typically find themselves in part, through our Molecular Breeding Technologies with leftover materials that are essential to production (MBT) unit. In the course of this research, the teams at but not part of the final product. These byproducts could each MBT center use a high volume of several plastics. end up in landfills, but increasingly, innovators are finding The MBT team recognized an opportunity to create a ways to reuse or recycle them. In agriculture, much of this process to recycle the plastic by turning it into energy. material – like corn stalks and discarded cobs and seeds, MBT team members from each of the U.S.-based MBT known as biomass – can be beneficially repurposed. sites partnered with colleagues across other areas of One of the ways we’re doing this is by burning biomass the company to design a way to collect, package and as a source of renewable fuel. This reduces waste and ship materials for incineration that would not impede costs and helps us better manage our carbon footprint production or place unreasonable burdens on the teams. by offsetting our need for fossil-based fuels, like coal or More than 523 tons of plastic waste has been recycled natural gas. Burning biomass emits less greenhouse gases since the program’s inception and turned into 288,000 KWh and many experts (but not all) consider this process to of energy, offsetting the need to burn virgin fossil-based be “carbon neutral” because the plants had absorbed as fuels. That’s enough to power two dozen homes in the much carbon while growing as they release when burning. Monsanto 2014 Sustainability Report | 63 CONSERVING the earth’s resources and preserving the natural environment Protecting and Conserving Water • Mitigating and Adapting to Climate Change Protecting and Preserving Seeking Energy Independence in Brazil up at the Manufacturing, the Natural Environment Engineering, Safety and The corn seeds we provide to farmers come from Health Conference and the Environmental Performance removing kernels from the cob. From the beginning, conversation turned to managing our seed business in Brazil has tapped into the energy discarded corn. The Corn Burn of leftover corn cobs by burning them in furnaces Project at our Muscatine, Iowa, crop used for drying seeds. Today, we use this process at protection manufacturing plant was born. all our seed production sites in Brazil, repurposing more than 25,000 metric tons of cobs per year. Our U.S. corn processing plants used to pay to Not only does this derive value from our facilities’ dispose of discarded seed corn that didn’t meet largest byproduct, it cuts greenhouse gas emissions our quality standards or was excess inventory. by 21,000 metric tons per year and saves about $10 But since 2007, the Muscatine facility has been million annually compared to burning natural gas. blending a portion of the discarded seed corn with coal to burn in boilers that produce steam Our teams in Brazil are working on ways to also burn for the facility. While that may sound simple, corn dust and husks to generate heat and steam. At it is anything but. There’s complex regulatory our seed facility in Uberlandia, Brazil, this energy will requirements that must be satisfied along eventually be used to drive a steam turbine that can with efficiencies and safety considerations. generate about 5 megawatts of electricity. That’s enough to meet all the facility’s power needs, making it energy The Corn Burn Project currently can burn up to self-sufficient and saving about $1 million per year. 35 percent corn. Corn burns cleaner than coal and releases less greenhouse gases. In 2014 alone, what started as a few words between friends kept Increasing Renewable Energy in Iowa nearly 17,000 tons of carbon and 61 tons of SO2 from the atmosphere and saved the company A casual chat between colleagues can lead to great $1.6 million in energy and disposal costs. ideas. Several years ago, employees were catching Monsanto 2014 Sustainability Report | 64 CONSERVING the earth’s resources and preserving the natural environment Protecting and Conserving Water Mitigating and Adapting to Climate Change • Protecting and Preserving the Natural Environment Environmental Performance PROTECTING AND Understanding Honey Bee Health PRESERVING THE Without important pollinators like the honey bee, we NATURAL ENVIRONMENT would be unable to enjoy some of our favorite foods like fresh fruit and nuts, or our morning coffee. Natural species and habitats have an inherent value all their own, separate from But a significant decline in the honey bee population the benefits they provide the world’s human in recent years is posing a threat to a nutritious, population. At Monsanto we understand and respect accessible food supply around the world. Pollinators this. We also know that without a healthy natural affect one-third of the world’s crop production, environment, sustainable agriculture would not be increasing the output of 87 of the leading food possible. Productive farming depends on pollinators crops worldwide, according to a 2015 study like the honey bee and on natural ecosystems that help co-authored by a conservation biologist at maintain soil health and mitigate climate change. the University of California, Berkeley. Monsanto 2014 Sustainability Report | 65 CONSERVING the earth’s resources and preserving the natural environment Protecting and Conserving Water Mitigating and Adapting to Climate Change • Protecting and Preserving the Natural Environment In the United States, for example, the number of honey bee colonies that exist today is less than government, conservation and beekeeping sectors Environmental half that of historic levels due to a phenomenon are working on real and Performance known as Colony Collapse Disorder. Scientists and meaningful improvements researchers are striving to better understand why to honey bee health. this is happening and have identified the parasitic varroa mite as one of the major causes. In 2014, the HBHC unveiled the first major outcome of our collaboration, the Bee Healthy Roadmap, which Recognizing the importance of honey bees to the lays out specific priorities and actions members will future of sustainable agriculture, we are working hard, take to improve the health of pollinators while meeting alongside others, to find solutions to this complex the needs of farmers and preserving the environment. challenge. These collaborations build upon the Priority areas include improving hive management, research we’ve been involved in since 2011 when forage and nutrition, and crop pest management, we acquired Beeologics, an organization focused as well as cross-industry education and outreach. on researching and testing agricultural biological products that provide targeted control of pests As part of our commitment, Monsanto has already and diseases without harm to the honey bee. invested more than $1 million in research to discover and develop ways to control varroa mites. Combined, Honey Bee Health Coalition. In 2013, at the Clinton these efforts are intended to help sustain and grow Global Initiative (CGI) Annual Meeting, we announced honey bee populations, contributing to a more our Commitment to Action on honey bee health. An secure global food supply. important part of this commitment is our investment of time and resources in the Honey Bee Health Coalition Honey Bee Advisory Council. To help guide (HBHC), a diverse collaborative effort convened by our honey bee health research and outreach, policy think tank, The Keystone Policy Center. we looked outside our walls for counsel to form the Monsanto Honey Bee Advisory Council This independent group of more than 30 organizations (HBAC), tapping members of the beekeeping and agencies from across the food, agriculture, industry, academics and other experts. Monsanto 2014 Sustainability Report | 66 CONSERVING the earth’s resources and preserving the natural environment Protecting and Conserving Water Mitigating and Adapting to Climate Change • Protecting and Preserving the Natural Environment HBAC members include: •• Diana Cox-Foster, Ph.D., Project Apis mellifera Environmental Entomology, Penn State University (PAm) Performance •• David Mendes, commercial beekeeper and past Almond crops are a crucial part of the California agriculture president of American Beekeeping Federation industry that requires 800 commercial beekeepers and •• Gus Rouse, honey bee queen breeder more than 1.8 million honey bee colonies – transported and owner of Kona Queen Hawaii, Inc. from around the country – for pollination each year. By placing a variety of early-blooming flowers in areas adjacent •• Larry Johnson, row crops farmer to almond groves and other farmland, bees have access to and commercial beekeeper a nutritious food source during peak pollination times. •• Dennis vanEngelsdorp, PhD., Our three-year partnership with PAm, a leading organization Entomology, University of Maryland dedicated to improving the vitality of honey bee colonies, includes a $250,000 investment in educating California •• Pete Berthelson, Director of Habitat almond growers and landowners on the value of honey Partnerships, Pheasants Forever bee forage, as well as planting forage itself. With 2014 In June 2013, the HBAC collaborated with nonprofit marking the second year of the partnership, together we have planted more than 3,000 acres of forage. Project Apis m. (PAm) to host the Honey Bee Health Summit at Monsanto’s Chesterfield, Mo. campus. This first-of-its-kind meeting brought together experts in the commercial beekeeping, academic, public and private sectors to discuss the many issues impacting the work of the Bee Informed Partnership (BIP). Supported honey bee health. Participants shared research by the United States Department of Agriculture and the and discussed ways to help solve the challenges National Institute of Food and Agriculture, BIP is working facing the world’s most important pollinator. with beekeepers to better understand how to keep healthier bees. This collaboration of efforts across the Bee Informed Partnership. Monsanto’s Honey Bee United States includes leading research labs and universities Health Lead Jerry Hayes is part of a group that supports in agriculture and science. In 2014, Hayes spoke at events Monsanto 2014 Sustainability Report | 67 CONSERVING the earth’s resources and preserving the natural environment Protecting and Conserving Water Mitigating and Adapting to Climate Change • Protecting and Preserving the Natural Environment hosted by BIP and more than two dozen other organizations dedicated to honey bee health. Milkweeds, which monarch butterflies depend on to nurture their young, have “ Environmental Performance declined across their migration Over time the Bee Informed Partnership range as agricultural production will inform a direction for consistent, systems have evolved. Since agriculture successful beekeeping, which translates production and wildlife habitat are both needed, it is into stronger pollination-based agriculture, critical that we find ways as a society to achieve both. ” a more diverse green environment and We are currently collaborating with experts from sustainability of this important insect. universities, nonprofits and government agencies focused on the establishment of monarch habitat in Conservation --Jerry Hayes, Monsanto Honey Bee Health Lead Reserve Program land, on-farm buffer strips, roadsides, utility rights of way, government-owned land and our own facilities. In March 2015, we announced that we are Supporting the Flight partnering with the National Fish and Wildlife Foundation of the Monarch Butterfly to provide $3.6 million over three years to the Monarch Butterfly Conservation Fund – which will support habitat Experts agree – the number of monarch butterflies restoration, education, outreach and milkweed seed in the United States has declined. Many studying production to benefit monarch butterflies – as well as monarchs think a number of factors are contributing other support for the efforts of experts working to benefit to lower numbers, including logging in Mexico, monarch butterflies. We’re also part of a newly formed weather at overwintering sites and during migration, coalition, convened by The Keystone Policy Center, which land use changes and the loss of habitat. The declining is bringing together a diverse group of conservationists, availability of milkweed plants for butterfly habitat farmers, scientists and landscape professionals from in the United States is certainly a contributing factor. across the country to find solutions to the challenges facing The challenge is complicated. Monarchs need milkweeds monarchs and other pollinators. Monsanto is committed to survive but farmers consider the plant a weed which to making a difference by exploring ways for agriculture to competes with their crops for water and nutrients. co-exist with natural wonders like the monarch butterfly. Monsanto 2014 Sustainability Report | 68 CONSERVING the earth’s resources and preserving the natural environment Protecting and Conserving Water Mitigating and Adapting to Climate Change • Protecting and Preserving the Natural Environment Controlling Pests Responsibly way to apply the right amount of pesticides at the right time for their specific needs, they periodically complete Environmental pesticide training and certification process for their region. At every stage in their growing cycle, plants are threatened Performance by diseases and pests including weeds and insects. Monsanto looks at the factors that might affect future The BioAg Alliance crop growth and works with others to help create solutions to protect plant health and minimize impact Protecting crops from pests and disease and enhancing on the environment. Some of the ways that we’re helping plant health is an essential part of growing the food the farmers control pests and protect their crops, include: world needs. To this end, we partnered with Denmarkbased Novozymes, a leader in sustainability, to form •• Agricultural biologicals: Topical or seed treatment The BioAg Alliance in 2014, a long-term strategic products that contain natural materials like plant initiative aimed at transforming the research and extracts or beneficial microbes that can complement commercialization of microbial products for farmers. or replace traditional agricultural chemical products for weed, insect and disease control and honey bee Microbes are tiny organisms, like bacteria and fungi, health improvement. See related story on Page 24. that live in our environment and interact with plants, people and animals in beneficial ways. The BioAg Alliance •• Biotech crops: Insect-protected biotech crops that require unites Novozymes’ extensive experience developing fewer insecticide sprays. See related story on Page 36. and manufacturing products based on microbes with •• Data science/precision agriculture: Using weather, Monsanto’s experience researching, field testing and climate and soil data to target when and where to apply commercializing agriculture products. The goal is to help crop inputs like fertilizers or pesticides to maximize their farmers sustainably meet the world’s food demands by effectiveness while minimizing the chance for them to exploring new solutions derived from naturally occurring impact the environment. See related story on Page 26. microbes. The BioAg Alliance has already introduced •• Pesticides are one tool farmers can use, but they also two types of microbial products: inoculants, which help understand it’s not sound agriculture to use them alone plants absorb nutrients, and biocontrol products, which or in excess. That’s why, for many farmers, pesticides are help protect plants against pests, disease and weeds. one option that they use precisely and judiciously to help To learn more about how microbes support protect their crops. To ensure that farmers know the best healthy plants, view this informative video. Monsanto 2014 Sustainability Report | 69 CONSERVING the earth’s resources and preserving the natural environment Protecting and Conserving Water Mitigating and Adapting to Climate Change • Protecting and Preserving the Natural Environment Reseeding Ecosystems with species and contributed to global climate change, as trees Environmental Conservation International and other vegetation absorb carbon from the atmosphere. “ Performance Partnerships like the one we have with Past efforts to restore the Cerrado forests Monsanto are the kind we need worldwide to have been met with mixed results. The seeds planted for ” preserve and develop sustainable ecosystems reforestation were often not native species and struggled to and limit the disruption to our climate. thrive. Additionally, many local farmers were unaware of the economic benefits that healthy ecosystems provide to them. -Peter Seligmann, Chairman-CEO, Conservation International To increase the success of restoration efforts, Monsanto and CI worked with local communities and farmers to Recognizing the integral relationship between a healthy introduce a technique called “muvuca,” whereby native natural environment and sustainable, productive farming, seeds combined with corn, beans, crotalaria and sand, Monsanto launched a five-year partnership in 2008 with are planted near riverbeds. This technique is economical Conservation International (CI) aimed at preserving and and helps ensure results with great adaptation to local restoring Brazilian habitats in the Cerrado Plains Region. conditions. The native seeds were gathered by local In 2014, this partnership was extended to the second women, providing new jobs and creating economic phase, “Sustainable Agriculture Landscape” in Brazil, and value in the community. With the help of 50 area due to its success we are now replicating it in Indonesia. families, 10,000 hectares have been restored in this way with more planned in the future. The natural Cerrado habitat is home to an astonishing array of plant and animal species. However, the region The partnership also helped coordinate a study that has undergone a significant amount of deforestation, demonstrated the economic value of maintaining leading to topsoil erosion and the movement of sediment 20 percent of rural lands as indigenous Cerrado into regional rivers, lowering their capacity to hold water forest, as required by Brazilian law. Together we used by communities and farmers alike. Deforestation conveyed this message throughout the country also has reduced habitat for beneficial pollinator and worked to help prevent illegal deforestation. Monsanto 2014 Sustainability Report | 70 CONSERVING the earth’s resources and preserving the natural environment Protecting and Conserving Water Mitigating and Adapting to Climate Change Protecting and Preserving the Natural Environment • Environmental Performance ENVIRONMENTAL Important Note about PERFORMANCE Environmental Data In fiscal year 2014, Monsanto executed on In the environmental metrics on the following pages, we its three-year commitment to significantly have included data for calendar year (CY) 2013, in addition expand the scope of our environmental to our fiscal year (FY) 2014 data. Since we have switched footprint data collection. This data represents the to a fiscal year reporting basis and broadened the scope of full operational footprint for Monsanto and includes for our reporting, especially on water metrics, the data from the first time, logistics and procurement, our mining CY 2013 is not directly comparable with our FY 2014 data. operation and Monsanto contracted agricultural land. We The water related totals in particular will be significantly also began reporting environmental data based on our higher in FY 2014 than in CY 2013 because we have added fiscal year rather than calendar year, as we have done in contracted-land water metrics to our reporting scope. the past. Due to the evolution of our operational footprint We have included 2013 data for historical purposes. metrics and scope, we have established fiscal 2014 as The majority of our FY 2014 data-driven environmental metrics the new baseline year for reporting environmental data. have been externally assured by Bureau Veritas. See the GRI Index starting on Page 148 for more information, and see the Bureau Veritas Assurance Letter at the end of this report. Monsanto 2014 Sustainability Report | 71 CONSERVING the earth’s resources and preserving the natural environment Protecting and Conserving Water Mitigating and Adapting to Climate Change Protecting and Preserving the Natural Environment Energy Use and Emissions • Environmental Performance CROP PROTECTION CY’13 FY’14 SEEDS & TRAITS CY’13 FY’14 COMPANY VEHICLES CY’13 FY’14 COMPANY TOTAL CY’13 FY’14 Direct Energy Consumption (1000 GJ) Natural Gas and other Gaseous Fuels 5,050 4,830 2,830 2,960 7,880 7,790 Oil (including Diesel) 140 526 730 1,040 1,760 870 3,330 Coal, Coke and other Solid Fuels 1,260 1,010 0.1 3.9 1,260 1,010 Waste Fuel 2,220 2,190 0 0 2,220 2,190 TOTAL 8,670 8,560 3,560 4,010 1,760 12,200 14,300 Biomass Fuels Used in Direct Energy Generation 195 200 764 811 960 1,010 Biomass Fuels Shipped Off Site for Energy Generation 1.4 1.4 2,180 3,120 2,180 3,130 Indirect Energy Consumption (1000 GJ) Purchased Electricity 6,800 6,940 1,660 1,850 8,460 8,780 Imported Steam 1,640 1,970 *7.1 7.1 *1,650 1,970 TOTAL 8,440 8,900 1,670 1,860 10,100 10,800 Consumed Primary Sources in Electricity Generation (percent of total Indirect Energy) •• Hydro, Biomass, Geothermal, Nuclear, Solar, Wind *50% 50% *35% 35% *46% 46% •• Natural Gas and other Gaseous Fuels *17% 18% *18% 18% *18% 18% •• Coal, Coke and other Solid Fuels *32% 32% *40% 41% *34% 34% •• Oil (including Diesel) *1% 1% *7% 7% *3% 3% The total amount of electricity is shown above along with the fractional amount of raw materials estimated to be necessary to produce this electricity. The conversion factors for electricity to raw material resources were taken from the USEPA eGRID and the International Energy Agency (IEA) databases. KEY FOR ENVIRONMENTAL DATA TABLES GJ = gigajoules • mt = metric tons • m3 = cubic meters • CO2 = carbon dioxide • CO2e = carbon dioxide equivalent • NOx = nitrous oxide • PO4 = phosphate SOx = sulfur oxide • VOC = volatile organic compound • POTW = Publicly Owned Treatment Works • = Not Applicable or Data Not Collected Reported data in the environmental tables, including totals, are rounded to three significant digits or, for small values, presented as no less than one tenth the indicator reporting unit. This approach enhances data usability while providing sufficient detail without becoming numerically cumbersome. Calendar year 2013 items noted with an * were updated from what was previously reported to reflect corrections and/or changes to the data or calculation methodology. Monsanto 2014 Sustainability Report | 72 CONSERVING the earth’s resources and preserving the natural environment Protecting and Conserving Water Mitigating and Adapting to Climate Change Protecting and Preserving CROP PROTECTION SEEDS & TRAITS COMPANY VEHICLES COMPANY TOTAL the Natural Environment CY’13 FY’14 CY’13 FY’14 CY’13 FY’14 CY’13 FY’14 • Environmental Performance Energy Consumption Summary (1000 GJ) Total Energy Consumption (Direct and Indirect) 17,100 17,500 *5,230 5,860 1,760 22,300 25,100 Energy Consumption Outside the Organization Scope 3 (1000 GJ) Logistics and Business Travel 5,950 Contracted Land Fuel & Electricity 2,340 Biomass Fuels Used in Direct Energy Generation 93.4 Biomass Fuels Shipped Off Site for Energy Generation 3.8 Energy Intensity (GJ per $1,000 Revenue) Total Direct and Indirect Energy Intensity (Scopes 1 & 2) 1.58 Total Direct GHG Emissions Scope 1 (1000 MT) Direct GHG Emissions (CO2e) 1,240 1,210 210 239 118 1,450 1,570 GHG Emissions from Biomass Fuels •• CO2e from Biomass Used (Consumed) On Site 23.3 24.0 82.4 88.2 106 112 •• CO2e from Biomass Sold for Off Site Energy Generation 0.2 0.2 239 362 240 362 Total Indirect GHG Emissions Scope 2 (1000 MT) Indirect GHG Emissions (CO2e) *777 793 *261 287 *1,040 1,080 Monsanto 2014 Sustainability Report | 73 CONSERVING the earth’s resources and preserving the natural environment Protecting and Conserving Water Mitigating and Adapting to Climate Change Protecting and Preserving CROP PROTECTION SEEDS & TRAITS COMPANY VEHICLES COMPANY TOTAL the Natural Environment CY’13 FY’14 CY’13 FY’14 CY’13 FY’14 CY’13 FY’14 • Environmental Performance Total Direct and Indirect GHG Emissions (1000 MT) Total GHG Emissions (CO2e) (Scopes 1 & 2) *2,020 2,010 *471 526 118 *2,490 2,650 Other Indirect GHG Emissions Sources Scope 3 (1000 MT) Logistics and Business Travel 443 Contracted Land 204 GHG Emissions from Biomass Fuels •• CO2e from Biomass Used (Consumed) On Site 10.2 •• CO2e from Biomass Sold for Off Site Energy Generation 0.5 GHG Emissions Intensity (MT per $1,000 Revenue) Total Direct and Indirect Emissions (CO2e) (Scopes 1 & 2) 0.167 Other Emissions (MT) Sulfur Oxide (SOx) Emissions, Combustion and Process 1,670 1,560 40.0 43.2 1,710 1,610 Nitrous Oxide (NOx) Emissions, Combustion and Process 3,190 3,110 581 653 3,770 3,770 Volatile Organic Compound (VOC) Emissions 78.0 92.8 0.9 78.0 93.7 Greenhouse Gas emissions (GHGs) are calculated using various standardized emissions calculation methodology and factors, including the World Resources Institute and World Business Council on Sustainable Development Greenhouse Gas Protocol, USEPA Emission Factors, USEPA eGRID, IEA Country Specific factors and other site or case specific factors and calculations as reviewed by our third-party assurance auditors. Monsanto 2014 Sustainability Report | 74 CONSERVING the earth’s resources and preserving the natural environment Protecting and Conserving Water Mitigating and Adapting to Climate Change Protecting and Preserving the Natural Environment Water Use • Environmental Performance CROP PROTECTION CY’13 FY’14 SEEDS & TRAITS CY’13 FY’14 CONTRACTED LAND CY’13 FY’14 COMPANY TOTAL CY’13 FY’14 Fresh Water Withdrawal (ML 1000 m3) Surface Water 2,630 2,300 5,460 7,920 451,000 8,090 460,000 Ground Water *14,900 15,600 4,630 9,590 433,000 *19,500 458,000 Municipal Water 1,530 1,370 5,530 5,870 37,800 7,060 45,000 Collected Rainwater 119 110 253 411 58.7 372 580 Purchased Wastewater for Reuse (R1) 0 0 213 212 681 213 893 Purchased Bottled or Lab Water 0.3 0.7 2.6 3.2 0.9 2.9 4.8 TOTAL *19,200 19,400 16,100 24,000 920,000 *35,300 964,000 Water Reuse and Recycling (ML 1000 m3) Volume of Condensate/Cooling Tower Water Recycled/Reused 340,000 342,000 31,800 31,800 371,000 373,000 Volume of On Site Process Waste Water Recycled/Reused 264 225 76.4 85.3 340 311 TOTAL 340,000 342,000 31,900 31,900 372,000 374,000 Process Waste Water Discharged (ML 1000 m3) (Process waste water only; does not include domestic sewage, per GRI Guidelines) Discharged to Off Site Treatment 811 635 378 469 1,190 1,100 (e.g. publicly owned treatment works) Permitted Discharges to the Environment Subsurface 1,890 1,980 48.5 2.2 1,940 1,980 (e.g. deepwell/leachfield) Permitted Discharges to the Environment Surface Water 16,300 16,200 169 262 16,500 16,500 (e.g. river) TOTAL 19,000 18,800 596 733 19,600 19,600 Process Waste Water Quality Data for Direct Surface Water Discharges (MT) •• Biological Oxygen Demand 41.9 54.0 41.9 54.0 •• Nitrate (as N) 35.1 53.8 35.1 53.8 •• Phosphates (as PO4 ) 187 217 187 217 •• Total Suspended Solids (TSS) 52.2 63.4 52.2 63.4 Monsanto 2014 Sustainability Report | 75 CONSERVING the earth’s resources and preserving the natural environment Protecting and Conserving Water Mitigating and Adapting to Climate Change Protecting and Preserving the Natural Environment Wastes Shipped Off Site or Composted • Environmental Performance The total waste shipped off site or composted in FY 2014 was 314,000 metric tons. Approximately 3 percent of the waste is classified as hazardous with the remaining 97 percent being non-hazardous. In addition, no forms of waste were exported or imported by Monsanto across country borders. 12% Energy Recovery 5% Incineration 10% Landfill 2% Other Reuse/Recycle/ Composting 71% Monsanto 2014 Sustainability Report | 76 IMPROVING t h e l iv e s o f f a r m e r s , workers and communities Our people are dedicated to finding solutions that Commitments and Guiding Principles make life better today and contribute to a better •• We have set a goal to help improve the lives of tomorrow. We’re supporting an inclusive work 5 million resource-poor farm families by 2020. environment that protects the safety and rights of workers. We’re collaborating with community •• We’re working together with leaders in today’s leaders to add value to the places where we critical conversations about food and nutrition. operate. We are engaging in new conversations •• We are committed to providing seeds to grow about improving health and nutrition. And nutritious foods like broccoli, carrots, cauliflower, we’re looking to the future supporting Science, cucumbers, melons, peppers and tomatoes. Technology, Engineering and Math (STEM) education, empowering women and girls, and •• We invest in STEM education and the more. By investing in causes where we can empowerment of women and girls. make a genuine difference, we improve the •• We support and embrace diversity, inclusion lives of farmers, workers and communities. and human rights around the world. Monsanto 2014 Sustainability Report | 77 IMPROVING LIVES IS THE HEART OF OUR MISSION. That’s why we focus our efforts on creating a positive experience for our workforce, supporting the communities where we live and work, and contributing to the conversation around issues that shape the world around us. Martha Burmaster, Director, Human Rights Monsanto 2014 Sustainability Report | 78 IMPROVING the lives of farmers, workers and communities • Improving Farmer Livelihoods Empowering Women and Girls Around the World Investing in the Future Advancing the Food and Nutrition Dialogue Community Engagement Serious About Service: Volunteerism at Monsanto The People IMPROVING FARMER of Monsanto Improving LIVELIHOODS Lives Forging the Way in Human Rights Monsanto exists today because of farmers. 4.2 MILLION $5.62 BILLION They are our primary customers, and we are committed to ensuring their success by developing tools and resources that can help farmers sustainably grow enough for their Smallholder Farmers in Additional Net Income as a families, their communities and people around the world. Adopting Biotech Result of Technology Adoption That’s why we set an ambitious goal back in 2008 to Based on global meta-analysis data compiled by ISAAA and PG Economics help improve the lives of 5 million resource-poor farm families by 2020 through their adoption of biotechnology. Goal: helping to improve lives, including 5 million resource-poor farm families by 2020 A big part of helping farm families and communities is providing them with the seeds and other products and services that contribute to a better harvest (read about those efforts in the Producing section to help farmers think about new ways to use their starting on Page 19). But it goes beyond just that. land, gain ready access to educational resources and We’re collaborating with others around the world do their part in bettering their own communities. Monsanto 2014 Sustainability Report | 79 IMPROVING the lives of farmers, workers and communities • Improving Farmer Livelihoods Empowering Women and Girls Around the World Investing in In 2014, Monsanto piloted a third America’s the Future Supporting Farming Farmers program, Grow Ag Leaders, to add to the Advancing the Food Communities Across America suite of America’s Farmers community outreach and Nutrition Dialogue programs. In 2015, Grow Ag Leaders will give students America’s Farmers outreach programs work with pursuing a career in agriculture the opportunity Community farmers to strengthen rural communities. The programs, to earn a scholarship toward their education. Engagement Grow Communities and Grow Rural Education, with Serious About Service: support from the Monsanto Fund, awarded over Volunteerism at Monsanto $5.6 million to rural America communities in 2014. Improving Farmer Incomes in Vietnam The People The America’s Farmers Grow Communities program of Monsanto In Vietnam, farming plays a huge role in the health of gives farmers the chance to win a $2,500 donation the country and its families. In recent years, demand Forging the Way to direct toward their favorite local nonprofit in Human Rights from other countries for Vietnamese-grown rice organization. In fiscal 2014, the program supplied has dropped dramatically, directly impacting the grants to nonprofits in nearly 1,300 counties across livelihoods of Vietnamese in the Mekong Delta. 39 states, investing more than $3.2 million in rural America through the program. These donations help Farmers were left with a challenge – how to convert nonprofits fight rural hunger, purchase life-saving from their traditional rice operations to crops that are fire and emergency medical services equipment, in higher demand. The Vietnamese government began support agriculture youth leadership programs, buy working to help farmers transition their rice paddy much needed classroom resources and more. fields to corn and soybean fields as part of Vietnam’s Agricultural Restructuring Plan, all while preserving the The America’s Farmers Grow Rural Education program rice-growing ecosystem that is still important to Vietnam. partners with farmers to nominate their local public school districts to apply and compete for a meritIn connection with our commitment to the World based grant of up to $25,000 for math or science Economic Forum New Vision for Agriculture, our education. In fiscal 2014, $2.3 million was awarded Monsanto Vietnam team introduced a rice-to-corn to school districts across the United States. Monsanto 2014 Sustainability Report | 80 IMPROVING the lives of farmers, workers and communities • Improving Farmer Livelihoods Empowering Women and Girls Around the World Investing in rotation process to assist farmers in growing both crops, team saw an opportunity to the Future while minimizing the impact to the environment. collaborate with farmers and Advancing the Food implement sustainable farming and Nutrition Dialogue Working alongside the Vietnam government, practices to successfully grow Monsanto trained 5,000 rice farmers on corn planting corn during the dry season. The Community techniques, including how to use minimum-tillage project focused on cultivating corn Engagement farming and mechanization techniques to improve instead of wheat after the rice growing season, Serious About Service: their crops. Within just three months, farmers in two using conservation tillage practices that use the Volunteerism at Monsanto regions converted 2,200 hectares from rice to corn, prior season’s crop residue to reduce soil erosion. The People increasing their income by up to 400 percent. of Monsanto The team collaborated with local organizations and The new crop rotation process helped farmers while universities, including the International Maize and Forging the Way improving water efficiency and reducing the use of Wheat Improvement Center (CIMMYT) and Bihar in Human Rights pesticides and fungicides by breaking up the pest cycle. Agricultural University, to make the vision a reality. The process also decreased labor and other costs by as much as 80 percent. The result was a savings of $1 Field demonstrations of DEKALB hybrids were million, improving livelihoods for thousands of farmers. conducted on 85 fields, with approximately 3,000 farmers to share corn hybrid information and highlight conservation tillage practices. When Getting More from Corn in India compared to conventional tillage, this new cropping system provided an additional 35 percent savings in South Bihar, a state in eastern India, is known for its the cost of irrigation. It also impacted the livelihoods wheat production. But with a hot, dry climate that of 91 smallholder farmer participants, who saw limits the wheat growing season, the Monsanto India net incomes rise 150 percent by planting corn. Monsanto 2014 Sustainability Report | 81 IMPROVING the lives of farmers, workers and communities Improving Farmer Livelihoods • Empowering Women and Girls Around the World Investing in the Future Advancing the Food and Nutrition Dialogue Community Engagement Serious About Service: Volunteerism at Monsanto The People EMPOWERING WOMEN AND opportunities, our efforts are making a difference in the lives of women and girls around the world. of Monsanto GIRLS AROUND THE WORLD Forging the Way in Human Rights Investing in women and girls delivers huge From Trash to Treasure in Brazil returns in local communities and for society as a whole. In certain areas of the world where In Camaçari, Brazil, home to one of our production opportunities for women and girls are limited, we’ve facilities, unemployment is a serious concern, especially worked with others to implement innovative programs to for women who make up a small portion of the workforce. help them develop new skills and achieve a better future. When a group of women began a sewing and art project at Camaçari’s community center as a way to support their On small farms in some parts of the world, a bad harvest families, Monsanto wanted to get in on the ground floor. means that a mother does not have enough food to nourish her children. We are committed to helping rural We use industrial-strength plastic liners to safely store farmers – many of them women – learn how to best grow raw materials used in the production of our products. more of the foods needed to maintain a balanced diet. However, if the liners have any imperfections, they are never put into service and are removed from circulation. And we remain committed to key initiatives designed to Rather than disposing of imperfect liners, in 2013 we encourage women to pursue careers in STEM-related began donating them to Camaçari’s community center fields. From educational programs to employment to provide the seamstresses with starter fabric. Monsanto 2014 Sustainability Report | 82 IMPROVING the lives of farmers, workers and communities Improving Farmer Livelihoods • Empowering Women and Girls Around the World Investing in The donated materials have resulted in a steady source across 250,000 acres. We are the Future of work and income for the women of Camaçari. hoping to scale this project Advancing the Food Since Monsanto’s involvement, the seamstresses have and see even greater impact. and Nutrition Dialogue sold thousands of bags and accessories while helping divert hundreds of pounds of waste from landfills. Community Educating and Elevating: Engagement View the Fabric of Change video to get a firsthand Project AASHA Serious About Service: look at how the women of Camaçari and their In India, a large number of female workers on seed Volunteerism at Monsanto community are benefiting from this initiative. farms come from rural backgrounds and orthodox The People families. Many of these women lack social status of Monsanto and formal education, limiting their career prospects Helping Women Farmers and putting them at risk for oppressive situations. Forging the Way in Human Rights and Workers in India To help protect the health and interests of India’s most vulnerable rural populations, Monsanto India launched Project Better Cotton Harvests AASHA (a Hindi word for “hope” ) to improve women’s health, education and safety through a series of training sessions With the support of India’s Department of Agriculture, focused on proper hygiene, food handling and cooking Monsanto India provided smallholder cotton farmers safety. The program has benefited more than 400 female with best practices and tools to help them achieve stable contract workers, teaching them new skills and boosting harvests. The program has touched more than 100,000 their self-confidence. After Project AASHA’s successful farmers, including 1,600 women farmers, providing training pilot at our site in Bangalore, we’ve expanded the program prior to planting, field visits, soil tests and educational to include sites in Aurangabad, Hyderabad and Sonipat. information. Past program participants have now assumed the role of mentors for other female farmers in the region. In 2014, Project AASHA received Monsanto’s President’s Award, the highest honor for safety and ethics within our Through the efficient use of seeds and nutrients, and company. The project was personally selected by members application of sustainable farming practices, this project of Monsanto’s Executive Team in recognition of the helped increase the cotton harvests of these smallholder program’s profound impact on women laborers in India. farmers by an average of 15 percent to 20 percent Monsanto 2014 Sustainability Report | 83 IMPROVING the lives of farmers, workers and communities Improving Farmer Livelihoods Empowering Women and Girls Around the World • Investing in the Future Advancing the Food and Nutrition Dialogue Community Engagement Serious About Service: Volunteerism at Monsanto The People INVESTING IN THE FUTURE Advancing STEM in Rural Communities: of Monsanto America’s Farmers Grow Rural Education Forging the Way Today, expertise in STEM has become in Human Rights central to meeting the challenge of Today, it’s more important than ever for young farmers nourishing a growing population to have a solid foundation in STEM disciplines. But while protecting natural resources. in many small rural communities, public schools face a gap in resources due to funding allocations The sustainability of our business and the future of based on student populations. With less funding, our world depends on bringing new ideas to life. many schools in farming communities are unable That’s why we’re committed to investing in the next to fund the technologies associated with math and generation of scientists, from grade school through science programs on par with urban school districts. their graduate studies. By sponsoring community In response, Monsanto Fund is working together with science fairs to engaging with top-flight universities, farmers to help schools in their local communities we support programs designed to advance STEM enhance their STEM programs, through the America’s education and attract more young people to STEM Farmers Grow Rural Education program. careers. In 2014, in our headquarters city of St. Louis alone, we reached more than 40,000 young people In fiscal year 2014, more than 83,000 farmers nominated with science-related events and information. rural school districts for math and science grants, which Monsanto 2014 Sustainability Report | 84 IMPROVING the lives of farmers, workers and communities Improving Farmer Livelihoods Empowering Women and Girls Around the World • Investing in the Future resulted in 163 school districts around the United States receiving grants. Students in those districts are now showcase their independent research and compete for Advancing the Food benefiting from $2.3 million awarded for classroom millions of dollars in prizes at the and Nutrition Dialogue technology, greenhouses, school gardens, cutting-edge Intel International Science and science labs and professional development for teachers. Engineering Fair (ISEF) – the world’s Community largest international pre-college science Engagement competition. ISEF’s mission to inspire young people to Serious About Service: Cultivating Excitement in be science and technology leaders closely aligns with Volunteerism at Monsanto our efforts to promote STEM careers, which is why we’re Science: FIRST ® Robotics The People committed to the competition’s continued success. In 2014, of Monsanto To encourage young people’s interest and participation we funded three awards recognizing the best student in science and technology, we are heavily involved in research in plant science innovation. In addition to Forging the Way the annual FIRST Robotics international competition, monetary prizes for the top three plant science research in Human Rights a program that immerses young students in real-world projects, we also flew the first and second place winners engineering experiences. FIRST challenges teams of to our research headquarters in Chesterfield, Mo., to tour students to design, build and program their own robot our facilities and present their work to our researchers. to perform prescribed tasks against a field of competitors. In 2014, more than 200 Monsanto employees volunteered more than 875 hours of their time to support the FIRST Closing the STEM Gender Gap Robotics global competition. Two Monsanto employees also served on a panel focused on career opportunities With women significantly under-represented in for women in STEM as part of FIRST events. STEM-based careers, we remain committed to not only educating young girls in STEM but also inspiring an interest and passion for it early. Promoting Hands-On Research: The Intel International Science and Engineering Fair In St. Louis we’ve partnered with a local all-girls school to help sponsor its Coding Club, which teaches girls Each year, more than 1,700 high school students from how to build their own websites. Representatives from around the world are awarded the opportunity to Monsanto will help the girls prepare for the upcoming Monsanto 2014 Sustainability Report | 85 IMPROVING the lives of farmers, workers and communities Improving Farmer Livelihoods Empowering Women and Girls Around the World • Investing in the Future national competition in Washington, D.C., where they will be vying for thousands of dollars in scholarships. Developing Young Ambassadors in Pakistan Advancing the Food Monsanto is covering the entry fees and travel expenses and Nutrition Dialogue for each girl that participates in the national competition. Knowing that great opportunities for learning often happen outside the classroom, the Monsanto Pakistan Community team has partnered with local colleges to launch a flagship We’ve also begun partnering with several Girl Scout troops Engagement in Missouri to lead new programs specifically designed to ambassador program devoted to student development. The Serious About Service: get young girls interested in science. From sessions about goal: share our passion for sustainable agriculture and help Volunteerism at Monsanto where food ingredients come from to demonstrations students understand the opportunities for successful careers on DNA extraction, our STEM programming with the Girl at Monsanto and other agriculture organizations. Through The People of Monsanto Scouts reached more than 4,600 young girls in 2014. participation in college career fairs, tours of local Monsanto facilities, field trial showcases and briefings on technology Forging the Way in agriculture, Monsanto employees are connecting in Human Rights with the next generation of agricultural scientists. Building Relationships and Our Future These student ambassadors are recommending Monsanto University outreach is an integral part of our efforts to to their peers and sharing a positive perspective on identify and develop the next generation of innovators. the important work we do to help farmers meet the One way we achieve this is through mentoring and challenges of feeding the world’s growing population. sponsoring key student organizations and events Thanks to the program’s success, Monsanto has added throughout the world. These include: the GlobeMed 10 interns and has hired two as full-time employees. student conference, the International Genetically Engineered Machine competition and the Synberc research program, to name a few. Through our participation in these efforts, we help cultivate a wide range of scientific knowledge to address future challenges and opportunities. Monsanto 2014 Sustainability Report | 86 IMPROVING the lives of farmers, workers and communities Improving Farmer Livelihoods Empowering Women and Girls Around the World Investing in the Future • Advancing the Food and Nutrition Dialogue Community Engagement Serious About Service: Volunteerism at Monsanto The People ADVANCING THE FOOD around the world. Our seeds represent 22 different crop families, including broccoli, carrots, cauliflower, of Monsanto AND NUTRITION DIALOGUE cucumbers, melons, peppers, tomatoes and more. Forging the Way We use traditional and advanced plant breeding to in Human Rights Monsanto is committed to working with provide farmers with the best seeds possible: ones others to bring a broad range of solutions that that have the potential to not only limit the impacts help nourish the planet. We provide farmers with of diseases and pests — so there’s less food waste and seeds that, when harvested, produce some of the food more at harvest time — but also provide consumers we find on our plates, including vegetables, melons, eye-appealing, great-tasting vegetables on their plates. grain and plant-based protein. And, we’re working with food and nutrition experts inside the company More than 98 percent of our research and development and externally on issues related to feeding a growing investment in vegetables is on plant breeding. Two global population and what it means to help ensure of our vegetable crops today include biotechnology that a nutritious meal is within reach for everyone. innovations. One is sweet corn, which benefits from insect protection traits that can help reduce the use of insecticides. The other is squash, which benefits from Supporting Healthy Eating: virus protection that helps to prevent crop failure. Monsanto Vegetable Seeds Ideal flavor is part of the solution to eating more Monsanto offers more than 2,000 vegetable seed fruits and vegetables. But, there is more to it than varieties, which are available in more than 160 countries that. If the produce doesn’t look, feel and smell Monsanto 2014 Sustainability Report | 87 IMPROVING the lives of farmers, workers and communities Improving Farmer Livelihoods Empowering Women and Girls Around the World Investing in appealing, getting people to take that first bite can be At about one-third of the the Future challenging. If it doesn’t stay fresh long enough, it may size of a traditional bell • Advancing the Food and Nutrition Dialogue result in waste. And, the more slicing, dicing, peeling or packaging that consumers have to deal with, the more pepper, BellaFina peppers provide a more convenient potential barriers to increasing produce consumption. serving size for many consumers, Community reducing the chance for waste. Engagement Some consumers are also looking for convenience in And, like all peppers, BellaFina are Serious About Service: the produce aisle and are seeking certain attributes an excellent source of vitamin C. Volunteerism at Monsanto when it comes to their fresh produce, such as smaller, •• Melons. Melōränge wintertime melon is one The People snack-sized melons and vegetables. of the sweetest melons available in North of Monsanto America in winter months. Melons are a natural Through plant breeding, we’re able to combine these Forging the Way source of essential nutrients and antioxidants, important factors to produce vegetables that are in Human Rights which provide important health benefits. more pleasing to consumers, and that can be a big help in boosting consumption of these nutritious •• Lettuce. Monsanto’s plant breeders combined the foods including: best attributes of iceberg and romaine lettuce to develop Frescada lettuce, a variety with the sweet •• Tomatoes. We know from our sensory research taste and crispy texture of iceberg, but greener that many consumers prefer tomato varieties with in color and with more flavor. It also contains a sweeter flavor. Our plant breeders found a great 246 percent of the folate and 174 percent of source for sweetness in wild tomatoes and were able the vitamin C in ordinary iceberg lettuce. to breed these taste traits into a commercial variety, boosting the sweetness factor. These improvements •• Broccoli. Beneforte broccoli delivers more led to higher levels of lycopene, which is the than double the amount of the phytonutrient component that gives the tomato its bright color. compound that boosts our bodies’ antioxidant enzyme levels than other broccoli varieties, plus •• Bell Peppers. Our BellaFina bell peppers offer supports the good work of vitamins A, C and E. consumers sweet taste and cooking convenience. Monsanto 2014 Sustainability Report | 88 IMPROVING the lives of farmers, workers and communities Improving Farmer Livelihoods Empowering Women and Girls Around the World Investing in the Future Supporting Engaging on Health and • Advancing the Food and Nutrition Dialogue Better Oils Nutrition – Inside and Out Vistive Gold soybeans produce high-oleic, low saturate, Interest in food – from seed to supermarket to Community low-linoleic soybean oil that, on a per-serving basis, has sauté pan – is growing. That’s why we’re working Engagement 85 percent less saturated fat than palm oil (1 gram vs. together and learning from external leaders involved Serious About Service: 7 grams), 70 percent less saturated fat than fry shortening in conversations about food and nutrition, including Volunteerism at Monsanto (1 gram vs. 3 grams) and 50 percent less saturated fat culinary specialists, dietitians, food and nutrition (1 gram vs. 2 grams) than conventional soybean oil. science academics, and their organizations and The People Vistive Gold soybean oil can provide food companies societies. We’re openly sharing information, access of Monsanto with more stable oil for frying with an extended fry life and insights with these food community leaders as Forging the Way and baking applications that can help to reduce levels of we gain a deeper understanding of everything from in Human Rights trans fats because it does not require hydrogenation. healthy consumer behaviors to food policy decisions. We have another soybean oil seed far along in our In 2014, Monsanto created Leaders Engaged in development pipeline that contains omega-3 fatty Advancing Dialogue (L.E.A.D.) to support regular acids. Supportive but not conclusive research shows conversations with food and nutrition professionals that consumption of EPA and DHA omega-3 fatty about the intersection of food, nutrition, health acids may reduce the risk of coronary heart disease. and agriculture. A recent L.E.A.D. event was held Once commercialized, our stearidonate (SDA) with 16 nutrition professionals from throughout omega-3 soybean oil will enable food companies the country, focused on sustainable agriculture to offer a wide variety of omega-3 enriched foods intensification and food systems, modern agriculture, such as dairy products, soups, sauces, beverages biotechnology, advanced plant breeding, crop and bars without compromising product quality. protection, precision agriculture and more. Monsanto 2014 Sustainability Report | 89 IMPROVING the lives of farmers, workers and communities Improving Farmer Livelihoods Empowering Women and Girls Around the World Investing in But before we reached out to these industry leaders, our vegetable seed breeders, as the Future we added food and nutrition expertise to our company. well as the modern production • Advancing the Food and Nutrition Dialogue Monsanto has taken the important step of creating two new roles and hiring registered dietitians to fill them. practices of today’s family farmers, including biotechnology. We delved into sustainable Community agriculture techniques, global trends that Engagement Immersing Food and Nutrition drive consumer preferences and purchases in the Serious About Service: Professionals in Agriculture produce aisle, and discussed the collective role of the Volunteerism at Monsanto food, nutrition and agriculture community in making a The People What better way to give dietitians a firsthand look at how balanced meal accessible to a growing population. of Monsanto food, nutrition and agriculture intersect than take them straight to the source. That was the philosophy behind Forging the Way two unique and immersive multiday experiences we Bringing Nutrition Stakeholders Together in Human Rights hosted in August 2014; one at our Monsanto Vegetable Seeds Research and Development Headquarters Knowing that it takes a range of stakeholders from around in Woodland, Calif., and one in Des Moines, Iowa, the world to reach common goals, in June 2014 Monsanto near our Research Centers in Ankeny and Huxley. facilitated two related events more than 8,000 miles apart. But it’s not something we did alone. In addition to In early June, Monsanto’s Africa Corporate Engagement representatives from Monsanto’s seed, research and staff spent the day in Nairobi, Kenya, with the Chief bee health groups, we brought in farmers, food industry Science Officer of the Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics associations and nonprofits, food and nutrition academics, (Academy) and the National Education Director of its consultants and “Supermarket Guru,” Phil Lempert. Nearly Foundation, for a visit with the people who are focused 75 invited guests attended the events, which took them on bringing food and nutrition security to this rapidly well beyond the conference room to tour Monsanto growing nation. Representatives from the Water Efficient research facilities, family farms, melon and vegetable fields, Maize for Africa (WEMA) program (see related story a grocery store and, of course, back to the dinner table. on Page 40), Kenya Agricultural Livestock Research Organization (KARLO) and Kenya Medical Research As part of the experience, we shared information about Institute shared how their work is helping to make more the traditional and advanced plant breeding activities of nutritious meals available to families throughout Africa. Monsanto 2014 Sustainability Report | 90 IMPROVING the lives of farmers, workers and communities Improving Farmer Livelihoods Empowering Women and Girls Around the World Investing in In a follow-up communication, Academy leaders noted and ongoing engagement, and praised Monsanto for hiring the Future three critical areas of focus for the nutrition community to two registered dietitians dedicated to such engagement. • Advancing the Food and Nutrition Dialogue support the fight against global hunger and malnutrition in Nairobi and similar regions. Specifically, there is a need to: Monsanto followed up on the recommendation for ongoing engagement by hosting a delegation of Community •• Develop, implement and evaluate educational eight Academy and Academy Foundation staff and Engagement strategies for consumers, agricultural and medical elected leaders at Monsanto’s world headquarters in professionals about the connection of food, St. Louis in December 2014. The delegation toured Serious About Service: Volunteerism at Monsanto agriculture biotechnology, nutrition and health. the Monsanto Research Center in Chesterfield, Mo., •• Raise awareness of, scale up and develop new talked openly with key Monsanto leaders regarding The People of Monsanto successful public-private partnerships that our agricultural innovation and business practices, integrate food, agriculture, nutrition and health. and discussed our mutual desire to advance food and Forging the Way nutrition security, as well as potential opportunities in Human Rights •• Build capacity for dietetics and nutrition for collaboration. The following sentiment was professionals within healthcare systems shared by the Academy following our meeting: at all levels to improve population health. Later that month, we hosted a town hall meeting with global Monsanto participation that included a panel of representatives from the Academy, Walmart and National “Thank you and your staff for the invitation to visit and learn more about the work ” Corn Growers Association. They provided perspectives that goes on at Monsanto. It was an on the food and agriculture environment. Each noted excellent and transformative visit for me. the importance of engagement within the agriculture, --President-Elect, Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics food, nutrition and retail realm. Specifically, the Academy shared that some dietetic professionals believe that modern agriculture is headed in the wrong direction, stressed the importance of the agriculture perspective Monsanto 2014 Sustainability Report | 91 IMPROVING the lives of farmers, workers and communities Improving Farmer Livelihoods Empowering Women and Girls Around the World Investing in the Future Advancing the Food and Nutrition Dialogue • Community Engagement Serious About Service: Volunteerism at Monsanto The People COMMUNITY Community Advisory Panels of Monsanto ENGAGEMENT Forging the Way One of the formal ways we engage in some communities in Human Rights Working in collaboration with our neighbors where we’re located is through Community Advisory to promote shared values allows our business Panels (CAPs). CAPs include a cross-section of local and the communities where we operate to residents and community leaders who meet regularly prosper and thrive. with representatives from our facility management team to discuss Monsanto’s operations in the community, We take being a good neighbor very seriously and actively environmental concerns, safety, emergency preparedness, seek input from the communities where we operate to community involvement and any other issues the panel help guide our actions. Approximately 90 percent of our deems pertinent. Each group follows a consistent model sites around the world undertake some level of formal to solicit feedback and counsel from neighbors and proactive community engagement. Many of them, for build meaningful relationships within the communities example, conduct environmental impact assessments surrounding our plants, while helping to inform our and ongoing monitoring and feature occupational health operational decision-making. and safety councils with employee representation. Monsanto 2014 Sustainability Report | 92 IMPROVING the lives of farmers, workers and communities Improving Farmer Livelihoods Empowering Women and Girls Around the World Investing in The CAPs model is guided by five primary principles: the Future Listening in Louisiana, Advancing the Food United States and Nutrition Dialogue 1 Establish and improve 4 Provide factual information about • Community Engagement communications with our neighbors our company’s operations and One of our first Community Advisory Panels (CAPs) was established at our production plant in Luling, La., in 1987. actions that Since its launch, it has become a model for CAPs across our Serious About Service: 2 Obtain feedback network. Luling’s panel members have been instrumental in Volunteerism at Monsanto could impact and listen to alerting our operations team to issues within the community the community The People concerns raised early, giving us the time to develop thoughtful responses 5 of Monsanto that benefit both the community and the company. by the community Support our Forging the Way neighbors in in Human Rights 3 Be responsive to community charitable programs that benefit the concerns and issues community Taking a Global Approach to Formal CAPs have been established at all our chemical Community Health and Safety manufacturing facilities for years and new groups are launched based on local stakeholder needs and The health of the people in the communities where interests. As of 2014, we have facilitated CAPs across we operate is imperative; they are our employees, their the United States, Argentina, Belgium, Brazil, Puerto families and our neighbors. We invest in community health Rico and more. We will continue to expand the number and safety initiatives on a global scale. From organizing of CAPs and town hall forums held in conjunction with disease prevention seminars to distributing first-aid kits, our locations to further local interaction and dialogue. our sites implement vital programs to tackle pressing issues impacting the well-being of our communities. Monsanto 2014 Sustainability Report | 93 IMPROVING the lives of farmers, workers and communities Improving Farmer Livelihoods Empowering Women and Girls Around the World Investing in Community Health in Latin America. While the Future treatable when detected •• India: Nearly 1,000 children registered with the Advancing the Food early, many people don’t Indian Red Cross Society suffer from thalassemia, and Nutrition Dialogue experience symptoms until an inherited blood disorder that can lead to anemia • Community Engagement and requires regular blood transfusions. With so many children in need, employees at our sites in they reach the chronic stage. To address this community health issue, our sites held a Chagas disease prevention Shamirpet and Manyata decided to host blood Serious About Service: program for employees and members of the Volunteerism at Monsanto drives with their local blood banks. Close to 120 community, educating roughly 450 people on employees participated. We also conducted six The People ways to protect against the disease. We also hosted “Know Your Stats” health camps that were open of Monsanto a general health orientation for the community to the community, featuring free eye, body mass that reached more than 1,000 individuals. Forging the Way index, blood glucose level and blood pressure in Human Rights screenings. The health camps reached more than •• United States: Our employees participated in 400 individuals, and eye testing was later extended to multiple charitable walks and bike rides to promote students at local schools in Kallakal and Shamirpet. awareness and research for health issues including juvenile diabetes, breast cancer, heart disease and •• Brazil: Through the launch of our Women’s multiple sclerosis (MS). In 2014, the Monsanto Health Program, Monsanto is working to improve Mavericks participated in Bike MS for the 13th health outcomes in the Camaçari community, consecutive year. The team raised nearly $50,000 located near one of our production sites. The for services to benefit those affected by MS. program provides women with free educational resources and examinations for breast cancer, cervical cancer and sexually transmitted diseases. Community Safety Though in its infancy, the program is already yielding promising results in the prevention and Monsanto’s Off-the-Job Safety (OTJ Safety) efforts early detection of women’s health issues. reached over 1 million people globally in fiscal year 2014. This includes OTJ Safety site and community outreach •• Latin America: Chagas is an inflammatory, infectious events impacting employees, families, communities disease caused by a parasite commonly found and customers. For example, our multiyear global Monsanto 2014 Sustainability Report | 94 IMPROVING the lives of farmers, workers and communities Improving Farmer Livelihoods Empowering Women and Girls Around the World Investing in Home Emergency Preparedness Initiative provides the Future important resources to help employees also remain Helping Farmers Advancing the Food safe away from work. In 2014 (October-November), the Grow Safely and Nutrition Dialogue focus of this program was Home Fire Safety in North • Community Engagement America. We provided over 15,000 fire extinguishers to employees for their homes and provided hands-on Farming can be a risky business. In fact, agriculture ranks among the most hazardous industries, with farmers at high fire extinguisher training. Other examples include: risk for fatal and nonfatal on-the-job injuries. In 2014, we Serious About Service: •• Chile: With a rise in carbon monoxide related developed Growing Safely, a video series focused on promoting Volunteerism at Monsanto deaths in Chilean households over the past five safety in agriculture. The initiative highlighted seven safety The People years, we implemented a regional awareness risk topics – tractor operations, grain auger operations, rural of Monsanto campaign to educate local families about carbon road travel, sun affecting vision, all-terrain-vehicle (ATV) operations, towing and backing trailers, and grain bin safety. Forging the Way monoxide risks from hot water gas boilers and The Growing Safely videos are hosted on our Off-the-Jobin Human Rights kerosene heaters. The initiative reached more than Safety YouTube channel for employees and external audiences 300 employees and community members. to share. They’ve collectively received more than 9,000 •• United States: In Soda Springs, Idaho, our views. Feedback to the video series has been overwhelmingly employees performed seat belt safety checks positive, and we plan to continue the program in 2015. at five area high schools, reaching more than 950 students. The program is already driving quantifiable behavior change. Since implementing the checks, seat belt usage at Soda Springs High School has increased 16 percent. Investing in Causes that Matter: The Monsanto Fund •• India: We successfully organized a two-wheeler motorized vehicle safety awareness workshop As the philanthropic arm of the company, the including helmet demonstrations at the University Monsanto Fund, a U.S.-based 501(c)(3) nonprofit of Agricultural Sciences, Dharwad. The fourorganization funded by Monsanto, seeks to substantially day initiative educated more than 100,000 and meaningfully improve lives by providing sustainable farmers on the importance of vehicle safety. assistance to both farming communities and the Monsanto 2014 Sustainability Report | 95 IMPROVING the lives of farmers, workers and communities Improving Farmer Livelihoods Empowering Women and Girls Around the World Investing in communities where we live and work globally. Since through the program are filled with freshly grown the Future needs vary in different parts of the world, we collaborate vegetables and feed more than 150,000 children Advancing the Food with communities and their partners to prioritize critical daily. For some, it is their only meal of the day. and Nutrition Dialogue issues and appropriate solutions. This strategy allows So far, around 400 farmers from neighboring • Community Engagement us to strengthen our community relationships and increase local ownership in projects to drive impact. •• villages are directly involved in the project. Seedbed of the Future: Some examples of Monsanto Fund projects include: In rural Argentina, access to higher education Serious About Service: Volunteerism at Monsanto is extremely limited. With little opportunity at •• Community Gardening: In Petrolina, Brazil, nearly home, many rural young people flee to the The People half of residents live in poverty, and many suffer cities but their lack of education and vocational of Monsanto from hunger. But thanks to more than $100,000 in training leaves them unqualified for good-paying grants from the Monsanto Fund, INMED Partnerships jobs. The Monsanto Fund is helping to stem Forging the Way in Human Rights for Children has established a new community this cycle of poverty by funding Seedbed of garden to help families improve nutrition and the Future, which in turn supports projects that reduce food expenditures. Nearly 1,000 people help young people find viable work in their own are estimated to benefit from the project. rural communities. In 16 Argentine provinces •• School Nutrition in India: Nutritional deficiencies alone, Seedbed of the Future has helped more are commonplace in Jaipur, India. To combat this, than 48,000 individuals through its programs. the Akshaya Patra Foundation created a kitchen garden made possible by a grant from the Monsanto Fund. The hot, cooked school meals prepared Monsanto 2014 Sustainability Report | 96 IMPROVING the lives of farmers, workers and communities Improving Farmer Livelihoods Empowering Women and Girls Around the World Investing in the Future Advancing the Food and Nutrition Dialogue Community Engagement • Serious About Service: Volunteerism at Monsanto The People SERIOUS ABOUT SERVICE: through service grants that support the organizations that they support. Service grants range from $250 of Monsanto EMPLOYEE VOLUNTEERISM for individual volunteer efforts and up to $5,000 for Forging the Way in Human Rights AT MONSANTO team-based volunteer events. For every 20 hours of service an employee volunteers at an eligible nonprofit, he or she can earn $250 for that organization. From our CEO to our newest hires, Monsanto employees regularly roll up their sleeves to In fiscal year 2014, 5,231 employees volunteered more than make a difference in the communities where 100,000 hours across the many countries in the Americas. we operate. As a company, we work to strengthen Their efforts resulted in $450,000 in service grants being our employees’ charitable efforts through programs that provided to 455 different nonprofit organizations. Since encourage and magnify the benefits of their hard work. its launch, the Monsanto Together Volunteer Program has recorded more than 280,000 volunteer hours and gifted more than $1.5 million in service grants. United in Service: Monsanto Together Volunteer Program In 2015, we plan to expand the Monsanto Together Volunteer Program globally to all of our regular In 2010, we launched the Monsanto Together Volunteer full-time employees. The 2015 global launch will be Program in the Americas, which not only encourages accompanied by a newly designed website available our employees to volunteer for causes that matter to in five different languages, as well as a simplified service them, but also rewards them for their time and effort grant-vetting process for international nonprofits. Monsanto 2014 Sustainability Report | 97 IMPROVING the lives of farmers, workers and communities Improving Farmer Livelihoods Empowering Women and Girls Around the World Investing in town more sustainable through the planting of trees the Future Volunteering Around the World during monsoon season. More than 2,000 people in Advancing the Food the community participated, and the event received and Nutrition Dialogue Our commitment to volunteerism is alive in communities extensive publicity helping to spread the word about around the world. From food education programs to the importance of protecting the environment. Community major renovation projects, employees across our global Engagement •• Mexico: The collective volunteer efforts of employees operations are getting their hands dirty in projects • Serious About Service: Volunteerism at Monsanto making a real impact in the lives of those in need. allowed the team in Los Mochis to earn $2,000 through the Monsanto Together Volunteer Program. •• Argentina: In Buenos Aires, a group of 140 Monsanto Employees participated in a range of volunteer activities, The People volunteers joined forces with local suppliers to update from visiting the elderly to restoring public spaces, in of Monsanto the city’s fire department headquarters and a local order to raise funds for Organization Pro Education Forging the Way retirement home. The volunteers helped paint walls, of Ahome, a nongovernmental organization that in Human Rights repair garden benches, install crash barriers, create addresses critical education issues in the community. space for bicycle parking and assist with landscaping The $2,000 contribution will be used to assist with to improve the functionality of both institutions. daily operation costs and support the organization’s •• Brazil: Nearly 80 employees celebrated Children’s Day, educational and parent formation programs. volunteering at Casa do Zezinho, a nongovernmental •• United States: America’s farmers are among the most organization that helps at-risk youth achieve their full productive and efficient in the world. Still, 3 million potential. Employees divided into teams to assist in the rural households struggle to put enough food on their coordination of entertainment, games and workshops tables. In 2014, 80 percent of our U.S. production and for more than 1,500 children over the course of 10 days. manufacturing sites partnered with local food banks •• India: Employees and their families from Monsanto’s and hunger relief organizations as part of Monsanto’s cotton seed production facility in Nandyal celebrated third annual Rural Hunger Volunteer Campaign. In World Environment Day by organizing the “5K Go total, more than 1,000 Monsanto employees across Green Walk.” The event aimed to raise awareness of 27 states logged nearly 3,200 hours of volunteer environmental conservation and efforts to make the service to address hunger in their local community. Monsanto 2014 Sustainability Report | 98 IMPROVING the lives of farmers, workers and communities Improving Farmer Livelihoods Empowering Women and Girls Around the World Investing in the Future Advancing the Food and Nutrition Dialogue Community Engagement Serious About Service: Volunteerism at Monsanto • The People of Monsanto THE PEOPLE our employees and help them achieve their professional goals. It’s part of our culture of continuous improvement OF MONSANTO and helps ensure that our next generation of leaders Forging the Way are prepared to guide our business for years to come. in Human Rights Bringing together diverse perspectives to the table is the most effective way to develop creative solutions that tackle some Paving the Way for the Future: of the world’s biggest challenges. To ensure Monsanto’s Leadership Exchange Program the success of our employees, we invest in worldWe’ve built a comprehensive approach that empowers our class resources, training and development, embrace employees to accelerate their professional development their diversity and protect their well-being. and help the company identify and nurture strong leadership candidates. This includes the Monsanto Leadership Exchange Program, a targeted training Employee Development designed for individuals at three key career milestones: As we continue to evolve our business and help build a •• Global Leadership Exchange: Created for leaders sustainable food system, it’s more important than ever who manage other leaders within Monsanto that our employees feel challenged by and well rewarded and have demonstrated high levels of potential for their work. Each year, we invest in efforts to develop and performance. This six-month program gives Monsanto 2014 Sustainability Report | 99 IMPROVING the lives of farmers, workers and communities Improving Farmer Livelihoods Empowering Women and Girls Around the World Investing in participants an opportunity to engage in dialogue the Future with executive team members about Monsanto’s Leadership Exchange Spotlight: Advancing the Food global businesses, expand their skills in business Kelly, Plant Scientist and Nutrition Dialogue planning processes and strategy, and enhance their capabilities as senior leaders. In 2014, 37 employees Community Kelly joined Monsanto as a researcher in 2011. With her participated in the Global Leadership Exchange. Engagement exceptional talent and a passion to lead others, Kelly was •• Regional Leadership Exchange: Developed for nominated to participate in the Local Leadership Exchange in Serious About Service: leaders of projects or teams who already hold a 2014. Through the program, Kelly learned how to apply different Volunteerism at Monsanto formal leadership role within Monsanto and have leadership styles, foster creativity and develop co-workers. • The People of Monsanto demonstrated high levels of potential and performance. This six-month program empowers participants Shortly before completing the program, Kelly earned her first leadership position at Monsanto. Now she oversees a Forging the Way to discuss challenges and opportunities facing team of researchers dedicated to helping farmers experience in Human Rights Monsanto’s businesses within their region, expand better harvests while using resources more efficiently. In her their business acumen and improve their ability to management role, Kelly credits the Local Leadership Exchange influence and lead effectively. In 2014, 145 employees with helping her succeed. participated in the Regional Leadership Exchange. “It’s been critical,” Kelly said. “It’s made me more self-aware •• Local Leadership Exchange: Designed for future in how I show up as a leader and given me a language to talk leaders who are typically early in their career about different leadership styles with my mentors.” but have already shown high levels of leadership potential. This nine-month program allows participants to gain a deeper understanding of Monsanto’s businesses, hone their critical and People Leader Learning Series strategic thinking skills, and understand Monsanto’s expectations of leaders. The program also gives The best ideas come from collaboration and teamwork. young leaders an opportunity to network with their As part of our efforts to help employees bring out peers and senior leadership. In 2014, 118 employees the best in each other, we created the People Leader participated in the Local Leadership Exchange. Learning Series (PLLS) – a classroom training program Monsanto 2014 Sustainability Report | 100 IMPROVING the lives of farmers, workers and communities Improving Farmer Livelihoods Empowering Women and Girls Around the World Investing in that focuses on enabling and further developing Designed to cover both fundamental management the Future leadership skills critical for managers at Monsanto. theories and practical business case studies, the Business Advancing the Food Forum Functional Training offers four tracks focused and Nutrition Dialogue The program is designed to foster a high degree on critical areas of management: product, strategic, of interaction among participants, allowing for a supply chain and finance. These week-long modules Community lively exchange of best practices and discussion also equip employees with expertise for their current role Engagement of practical applications. We feel so strongly and provide exposure to another critical business area. Serious About Service: about PLLS that all people managers are highly Volunteerism at Monsanto encouraged to complete this training program. • Improving Opportunities for Women: The People Content for the series includes individual Monsanto’s Apprenticeship Program of Monsanto oneto two-day modules, each on: Forging the Way Many of our sites require the use of increasingly in Human Rights sophisticated equipment resulting in specialized •• The role of leadership •• Assessing work requirements for employees. Monsanto is performance •• Selecting talent committed to ensuring that a diverse population •• Understanding has the skills and training needed for these positions. •• Goal setting employment laws •• Understanding how In 2013, we launched the Monsanto Apprenticeship •• Building intercultural to motivate and Program at our Soda Springs, Idaho, mining facility to competency develop others promote skilled labor opportunities, primarily for women. This 55-week paid program gives apprentices specialized mechanical and on-the-job training in preparation for a Business Forum Functional Training full-time position at Monsanto upon successful completion Monsanto has partnered with the Olin Business of the program. Since the launch of the program, we School at Washington University in St. Louis to deliver have engaged eight female apprentices, six of whom are a series of hands-on classroom training sessions to either still in the program or have been hired full time. prepare employees for the next step in their career. In 2015, we expect to bring on six additional apprentices who would complete the program by May 2016. Monsanto 2014 Sustainability Report | 101 IMPROVING the lives of farmers, workers and communities Improving Farmer Livelihoods Empowering Women and Girls Around the World Investing in Educating and Empowering ask for their help,” said the Future Seasonal and Contract Workers one worker, who took the Advancing the Food Complementary Studies course. and Nutrition Dialogue Learning the Basics. We work to provide best“Maybe now I can manage alone.” in-class working conditions for seasonal workers Community around the world, often going beyond local legal Protecting Worker Well-being. Engagement requirements to accommodate their needs. Our Monsanto improved living conditions for migrant laborers Serious About Service: site in Buenos Aires Province is a prime example. in our Western Argentina Vegetable business, setting up Volunteerism at Monsanto After recognizing a need for learning opportunities four modern, comfortable camps to house more than • The People of Monsanto among seasonal workers, we piloted an adult education program that was transformative for 350 seasonal workers. The team ensured that Monsanto facilities provided both protective gear and weekly doctor participants. The program included three courses: visits – features not common to the area. In a region Forging the Way noted for a lack of available labor, these moves helped in Human Rights •• Complementary Studies (training in reading, secure quality workers and improved productivity, while writing, addition and subtraction) setting a good example for the larger harvesting industry. •• Productive Projects (management tools for developing family businesses in hometowns) We also expanded the North American Seasonal Nurse Program to advance the health of our seasonal workers •• Course for Cooks (training in nutrition and at plant breeding sites across the continent. Through health, based on food available in hometowns) the program, nurses provide workers with nursing care and education on preventative health measures, such In the first year, 85 workers took advantage of as steps to reduce heat-related illnesses. The project the courses – decisions that changed their lives. has expanded from nine sites in 2008 to 28 in 2014. “I am very proud, because since my children have The success of this program was recognized in completed primary school education, I had to always 2014 as a Sustainable Yield Pledge Award finalist. Monsanto 2014 Sustainability Report | 102 IMPROVING the lives of farmers, workers and communities Improving Farmer Livelihoods Empowering Women and Girls Around the World Investing in the Future Our People: By the Numbers Advancing the Food and Nutrition Dialogue FISCAL YEAR 2014 Community The total workforce broken down by New hires during reporting period. Engagement employees and supervised workers. Full Time 2,495 Employees 22,401 Part Time 4 Serious About Service: Supervised Workers 0 TOTAL 2,499 Volunteerism at Monsanto TOTAL 22,401 • The People of Monsanto Note: We do not centrally track contract workers. Our Environmental, Safety & Health Group applies an algorithm to New hires during reporting period, by gender. the total number of hours worked by contract workers to derive Female 838 Forging the Way a Full Time Employee equivalent for OSHA reporting purposes. Male 1,661 in Human Rights TOTAL 2,499 The total number of permanent employees broken down by employment type. Full Time 21,960 Rate of new hires during Part Time 441 reporting period, by gender. Female 3.74% TOTAL 22,401 Male 7.41% OVERALL 11.16% Total workforce by region. Asia Pacific 852 Brazil 2,771 New hires during reporting period, by age group. Canada 305 Under 30 1,171 China 111 30-50 1,201 EMEA 3,956 Over 50 127 India 976 TOTAL 2,499 Latin America North 1,172 Latin America South 1,416 United States 10,842 TOTAL 22,401 Monsanto 2014 Sustainability Report | 103 IMPROVING the lives of farmers, workers and communities Improving Farmer Livelihoods Empowering Women and Girls Around the World Investing in the Future Rate of new hires during Number of employees leaving employment Advancing the Food reporting period, by age group. during the reporting period, by gender. and Nutrition Dialogue Under 30 5.23% Female 565 30-50 5.36% Male 1,381 Community Over 50 0.57% TOTAL 1,946 Engagement OVERALL 11.16% Serious About Service: Rate of employees leaving employment Volunteerism at Monsanto New hires during reporting period, by region. during the reporting period, by gender. • The People of Monsanto Asia Pacific Brazil 122 540 Female Male OVERALL 2.52% 6.16% 8.69% Canada 72 Forging the Way China 1 in Human Rights EMEA 366 Number of employees leaving employment India 111 during the reporting period, by age group. Latin America North 97 Under 30 429 Latin America South 145 30-50 1,091 United States 1,045 Over 50 426 TOTAL 2,499 TOTAL 1,946 Rate of new hires during Rate of employees leaving employment reporting period, by region. during the reporting period, by age group. Asia Pacific 0.54% Under 30 1.92% Brazil 2.41% 30-50 4.87% Canada 0.32% Over 50 1.90% China 0.00% OVERALL 8.69% EMEA 1.63% India 0.50% Latin America North 0.43% Latin America South 0.65% United States 4.66% OVERALL 11.16% Monsanto 2014 Sustainability Report | 104 IMPROVING the lives of farmers, workers and communities Improving Farmer Livelihoods Empowering Women and Girls Around the World Investing in the Future Number of employees leaving employment Percentage of employees in minority groups.* Advancing the Food during the reporting period, by region. 23.43% and Nutrition Dialogue Asia Pacific 89 *United States only. Excludes Caucasian males and Caucasian females. Brazil 330 Community Canada 21 Engagement Percentage of employees, by age group. China 120 EMEA 238 Under 30 16.18% Serious About Service: Volunteerism at Monsanto India 140 30-50 62.02% • Latin America North 132 Over 50 21.80% The People Latin America South 160 TOTAL 100.00% of Monsanto United States 716 TOTAL 1,946 Percentage of individuals on Forging the Way in Human Rights board of directors, by gender. Rate of employees leaving employment % By Total Leaders during the reporting period, by region. Female 23% Asia Pacific 0.40% Male 77% Brazil 1.47% TOTAL 100.00% Canada 0.09% China 0.54% EMEA 1.06% Percentage of individuals on board of directors in minority groups.* India 0.62% Latin America North 0.59% % By Total Leaders Latin America South 0.71% TOTAL 15.79% United States 3.20% *Excludes Caucasian males and Caucasian females. OVERALL 8.68% Percentage of individuals on board Percentage of employees, by gender. of directors by age group. Female 31.54% 30-50 30% Male 68.46% Over 50 70% TOTAL 100.00% TOTAL 100.00% Monsanto 2014 Sustainability Report | 105 IMPROVING the lives of farmers, workers and communities Improving Farmer Livelihoods Empowering Women and Girls Around the World Investing in Employee-led councils are responsible for the various the Future Employee Health, Wellness and Safety elements of the site’s safety programs, which increases Advancing the Food engagement and ownership in the safety process. All We strive to promote a culture of balance, where and Nutrition Dialogue of our sites are governed under our environment, safety employees not only contribute to meaningful work and health (ESH) policies, of which a basic underlying Community but also enjoy healthy, well-rounded lives. The safety principle is that employees will be actively involved or Engagement and health of our employees has always been a core represented within the site’s ESH councils or committees. Serious About Service: value of our culture. We manage our business in a Volunteerism at Monsanto way that our employees are educated to make better Additionally, we have programs and policies in place to • choices at work, on the road or at home with their enhance safety leadership and ownership and to provide The People families. That’s why we’ve invested in a number of recognition for outstanding safety performance. of Monsanto world-class health, wellness and safety programs. Forging the Way Annual Safety Pause. All of our locations participate in Human Rights in Monsanto’s Annual Safety Pause, which gathers Putting Safety First employees and leadership together at a designated time to discuss safety-related topics relevant to their At Monsanto, working to ensure the safety of our particular site. Each site is provided with a presentation employees and contract workers is a part of our everyday document, facilitator guide and employee workbook as culture. Our employees at all our sites globally are part of the program. Site leaders review with the group actively engaged in safety and health. Where we have and engage employees in conversations about how a formal occupational health and safety council, our the information relates to their work and off-the-job employees are represented and participate in creative environments. These events help employees get into problem solving to further reduce the risk of injuries the habit of having conversations about safety and on the job. In addition, they take what they learn about provide a forum for sharing personal safety stories. safety and health at work home to their families and neighbors so that the community benefits as well. Monsanto 2014 Sustainability Report | 106 IMPROVING the lives of farmers, workers and communities Improving Farmer Livelihoods Empowering Women and Girls Around the World Investing in Vehicle Safety. Our employees drive more than •• Have a Total Recordable Injury/Illness Rate the Future 192 million miles annually. Monsanto takes a proactive that is less than half of the industry average. Advancing the Food approach to help them improve their safety, both •• Successfully complete a corporate Environmental, and Nutrition Dialogue on the job and off the job. Globally, we have wellSafety, Health, and Occupational Medicine audit developed vehicle safety programs and training to Community in which programs are reviewed, facilities are keep employees — both drivers of company and nonEngagement inspected and employees are interviewed. company vehicles — informed on a variety of safety Serious About Service: topics such as defensive driving, controlling driving Once a given site has demonstrated that it meets Volunteerism at Monsanto speed, preventing rollover accidents, seat-belt usage, these criteria, a Monsanto Star Committee votes • The People of Monsanto texting and driving dangers, and drowsy driving. to approve the designation. Monsanto currently has over 140 Monsanto Star sites out of more than We have also adopted driver feedback technology, which 400 sites and continues to add new sites each year. Forging the Way has demonstrated a significant impact on our employees’ in Human Rights driver safety performance. We extend our vehicle safety Global Safety and Ethics Awards. Monsanto’s messages to communities through outreach and our Global Safety and Ethics Awards annually recognize Monsanto Off-the-Job Safety YouTube Channel. the top safety projects developed and implemented throughout the year. In 2014, there were more than Monsanto Star Program. Since the early 1990s, we have 100 location and project award applications submitted recognized outstanding safety and health performance from around the world. Typically there are 15 sites at our sites with the Monsanto Star designation. In and 10 projects awarded this recognition each year. order to be considered for a Monsanto Star rating the location must meet the following criteria: Third-party Safety Recognition. In 2014, our safety •• Demonstrate that a third-party auditor performance was recognized by key third parties has confirmed that the site’s safety and around the world. Some examples include: health programs are solid and robust. Costa Rica •• Successfully address any outstanding safety •• Vehicle Safety Program Award: Our Cañas and health issues that may have been cotton breeding site was recognized by the identified through the third-party audit. Monsanto 2014 Sustainability Report | 107 IMPROVING the lives of farmers, workers and communities Improving Farmer Livelihoods Empowering Women and Girls Around the World Investing in National Insurance Institution on behalf of •• Occupational Safety and Health Gold Class Award: the Future the Costa Rican government for the best Our Pasir Gudang site was also recognized for its Advancing the Food car accident prevention program. continued effort, discipline and commitment by all and Nutrition Dialogue employees to ensure that safety requirements and •• Incident Prevention Management Award systems are implemented in an orderly manner. Community Agriculture: Our Cañas cotton breeding site Engagement also won this recognition from the Costa Rican Mexico government for its voluntary participation and Serious About Service: commitment to employee vehicle safety. •• Maximum Excellence in Safety and Occupational Volunteerism at Monsanto Medicine Award: Our Nextipac row crops site • The People of Monsanto India received this award from the Secretaria del Trabajo y Prevision Social, a Mexican federal labor agency, for •• Kaizen Award: Our Hyderabad seed production demonstrating outstanding results in legal compliance Forging the Way site won first prize in a national competition for in Human Rights for safety, occupational medicine standards and its ergonomics program from the Confederation safety and health management systems. of Indian Industry, a premier industry-managed organization with over 100,000 enterprise members. Malaysia •• CCIM Responsible Care Awards: Our crop protection site in Pasir Gudang received the gold award for employee health and safety and silver awards for pollution prevention and process safety. Given by the Chemical Industries Council of Malaysia (CCIM), this award recognizes outstanding efforts to improve environmental, health and safety performance. Monsanto 2014 Sustainability Report | 108 IMPROVING the lives of farmers, workers and communities Improving Farmer Livelihoods Empowering Women and Girls Around the World Investing in Safety and Health Data the Future Safety and health data are included for both employees Advancing the Food and Nutrition Dialogue and contract workers by region in the charts that follow. For injury data, minor injuries that require only on-site Community first-aid treatment are not included in the reported rates. Engagement The “Lost Days Rate’’ is based on calendar days and Serious About Service: begins one day after the injury or illness occurred. Volunteerism at Monsanto • Injury Rate (IR), Occupational Disease Rate (ODR), Lost Days The People Rate (LDR) and Total Recordable Rate (TRR) are calculated of Monsanto using the following formula and are based on U.S. Occupational Forging the Way Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) guidance: in Human Rights Total Number of Injuries IR = x 200,000 Total Hours Worked Total Number of Occupational Disease Cases ODR = x 200,000 Total Hours Worked Total Number of Lost Days LDR = x 200,000 Total Hours Worked Total Number of Injuries + Occupational Diseases TRR = x 200,000 Total Hours Worked The factor 200,000 is derived from 50 working weeks at 40 hours per 100 employees. By using this factor, the resulting rates are related to the number of workers, rather than the number of hours. Monsanto 2014 Sustainability Report | 109 IMPROVING the lives of farmers, workers and communities Improving Farmer Livelihoods Empowering Women and Girls Around the World Investing in EMPLOYEES AND SUPERVISED CONTRACTORS — FISCAL YEAR 2014 the Future (CONTRACT WORKERS SUPERVISED BY MONSANTO EMPLOYEES) INJURY & OCC DISEASE RATE BY REGION/ INJURY RATE OCC DISEASE RATE LOST DAYS RATE (TOTAL RECORDABLE Advancing the Food ILLNESS/INJURY/GENDER (IR) (ODR) (LDR) RATE [TRR]) and Nutrition Dialogue Asia Pacific Community (China/Taiwan, India, Asia Pacific) 0.30 0.00 0.60 0.00 Engagement Recordable Illness (ODR) 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Serious About Service: Female 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Volunteerism at Monsanto Male 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 • The People of Monsanto Recordable Injury (IR) Female 0.30 0.32 0.00 0.00 0.60 0.32 0.30 0.32 Male 0.29 0.00 0.70 0.29 Forging the Way in Human Rights EMEA (Europe, Middle East, Africa) 0.45 0.03 4.48 0.48 Recordable Illness (ODR) 0.00 0.03 0.33 0.03 Female 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Male 0.00 0.04 0.49 0.04 Recordable Injury (IR) 0.45 0.00 4.15 0.45 Female 0.66 0.00 4.06 0.66 Male 0.34 0.00 4.20 0.34 Latin America North 0.17 0.00 1.48 0.17 Recordable Illness (ODR) 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Female 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Male 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Recordable Injury (IR) 0.17 0.00 1.48 0.17 Female 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Male 0.26 0.00 2.20 0.26 Monsanto 2014 Sustainability Report | 110 IMPROVING the lives of farmers, workers and communities Improving Farmer Livelihoods Empowering Women and Girls Around the World Investing in EMPLOYEES AND SUPERVISED CONTRACTORS the Future (CONTRACT WORKERS SUPERVISED BY MONSANTO EMPLOYEES) INJURY & OCC DISEASE RATE BY REGION/ INJURY RATE OCC DISEASE RATE LOST DAYS RATE (TOTAL RECORDABLE Advancing the Food ILLNESS/INJURY/GENDER (IR) (ODR) (LDR) RATE [TRR]) and Nutrition Dialogue Community Latin America South 0.32 0.00 7.96 0.32 Engagement Recordable Illness (ODR) 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Serious About Service: Female 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Volunteerism at Monsanto Male 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 • The People of Monsanto Recordable Injury (IR) Female 0.32 0.25 0.00 0.00 7.96 9.81 0.32 0.25 Male 0.35 0.00 7.20 0.35 Forging the Way in Human Rights North America (Canada, Puerto Rico, United States) 0.80 0.11 10.19 0.91 Recordable Illness (ODR) 0.00 0.11 0.43 0.11 Female 0.00 0.28 1.34 0.28 Male 0.00 0.04 0.00 0.04 Recordable Injury (IR) 0.80 0.00 9.76 0.80 Female 1.00 0.00 9.11 1.00 Male 0.70 0.00 10.07 0.70 TOTAL 0.57 0.06 7.70 0.63 Monsanto 2014 Sustainability Report | 111 IMPROVING the lives of farmers, workers and communities Improving Farmer Livelihoods Empowering Women and Girls Around the World Investing in CONTRACTORS NOT SUPERVISED — FISCAL YEAR 2014 the Future BY MONSANTO EMPLOYEES INJURY & OCC DISEASE RATE BY REGION/ INJURY RATE OCC DISEASE RATE LOST DAYS RATE (TOTAL RECORDABLE Advancing the Food ILLNESS/INJURY/GENDER (IR) (ODR) (LDR) RATE [TRR]) and Nutrition Dialogue Asia Pacific Community (China/Taiwan, India, Asia Pacific) 0.24 0.00 1.59 0.24 Engagement Recordable Illness (ODR) 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Serious About Service: Female 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Volunteerism at Monsanto Male 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 • The People of Monsanto Recordable Injury (IR) Female 0.24 0.41 0.00 0.00 1.59 0.97 0.24 0.41 Male 0.19 0.00 1.80 0.19 Forging the Way in Human Rights EMEA (Europe, Middle East, Africa) 0.90 0.00 8.67 0.90 Recordable Illness (ODR) 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Female 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Male 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Recordable Injury (IR) 0.90 0.00 8.67 0.90 Female 0.98 0.00 15.54 0.98 Male 0.87 0.00 6.16 0.87 Latin America North 0.16 0.02 1.26 0.18 Recordable Illness (ODR) 0.00 0.02 0.04 0.02 Female 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Male 0.00 0.03 0.05 0.03 Recordable Injury (IR) 0.16 0.00 1.23 0.16 Female 0.28 0.00 2.71 0.28 Male 0.11 0.00 0.53 0.11 Monsanto 2014 Sustainability Report | 112 IMPROVING the lives of farmers, workers and communities Improving Farmer Livelihoods Empowering Women and Girls Around the World Investing in CONTRACTORS NOT SUPERVISED the Future BY MONSANTO EMPLOYEES INJURY & OCC DISEASE RATE BY REGION/ INJURY RATE OCC DISEASE RATE LOST DAYS RATE (TOTAL RECORDABLE Advancing the Food ILLNESS/INJURY/GENDER (IR) (ODR) (LDR) RATE [TRR]) and Nutrition Dialogue Community Latin America South 0.41 0.32 7.58 0.72 Engagement Recordable Illness (ODR) 0.00 0.32 0.58 0.32 Serious About Service: Female 0.00 2.90 5.03 2.90 Volunteerism at Monsanto Male 0.00 0.13 0.25 0.13 • The People of Monsanto Recordable Injury (IR) Female 0.41 1.74 0.00 0.00 7.00 27.10 0.41 1.74 Male 0.31 0.00 5.54 0.31 Forging the Way in Human Rights North America (Canada, Puerto Rico, United States) 0.79 0.00 8.91 0.79 Recordable Illness (ODR) 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Female 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Male 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Recordable Injury (IR) 0.79 0.00 8.91 0.79 Female 1.12 0.00 0.67 1.12 Male 0.55 0.00 8.10 0.55 TOTAL 0.41 0.11 5.06 0.52 Monsanto 2014 Sustainability Report | 113 IMPROVING the lives of farmers, workers and communities Improving Farmer Livelihoods Empowering Women and Girls Around the World Investing in We also seek to give our employees a sense of ownership the Future Rewarding Great Work in the company and a chance to share in the rewards of Advancing the Food our success. As a result, all regular full-time and part-time At Monsanto, we have a global philosophy of providing and Nutrition Dialogue management-level employees are eligible for long-term competitive rewards and benefits that maximize incentives, such as restricted stock and stock options. Community performance and attract and retain the best talent around Engagement the world. We strive for simplicity and commonality in Monsanto also provides regular full-time and part-time Serious About Service: our approach so employees can understand the links employees with additional benefits that help attract and Volunteerism at Monsanto between performance and pay. Our total compensation retain employees. These benefits are tailored to specific • package for regular full-time employees includes: regions. For example in the United States we provide: The People of Monsanto •• Market-competitive base and equal pay for all •• Paid Parental Leave – Mothers and fathers of recognizing skills, experience and role responsibilities. newborns or adopted children under the age of Forging the Way Base pay increases as market rates increase and if 18 may receive up to seven business days of paid in Human Rights the scope and responsibilities of the role increase. parental leave that may be taken consecutively We perform regular reviews of base pay to ensure or individually as needed within 12 months of continued competitiveness across the globe. the birth or adoption. Paid parental leave is in •• Performance-based annual cash awards recognizing addition to disability leave if the mother is a the achievement of team and individual goals. Monsanto employee who gives birth to a child. Through our Development, Performance and •• Adoption Assistance Program – Adopting a child Rewards (DPR) process, employees set clear goals, is a life-changing decision that is filled with both receive ongoing feedback and are rewarded for the great anticipation and uncertainty. Our employees, results they deliver. The annual DPR process firmly including new hires, are eligible to receive up to establishes a link between development, performance $7,500 toward adoption costs. Monsanto’s newly and rewards through the annual cash incentive. launched Family Network adoption group focuses on educating and supporting employees as they Monsanto 2014 Sustainability Report | 114 IMPROVING the lives of farmers, workers and communities Improving Farmer Livelihoods Empowering Women and Girls Around the World Investing in go through the process of adopting a child. In gender, gender identity and expression, sexual orientation, the Future 2014, Monsanto was named to the Dave Thomas disability, race, work style and more. Our efforts Advancing the Food Foundation for Adoption® 100 Best Adoptionfoster an environment of openness and inclusion. and Nutrition Dialogue Friendly Workplaces in the United States. Community •• Fertility Benefit – From day one of employment, Business Resource Networks Engagement all employees are covered to receive fertility treatments through Monsanto’s medical plan. A key example of our culture of inclusion is the Serious About Service: We pay for unlimited artificial inseminations and Business Resource Networks (BRNs) we support. These Volunteerism at Monsanto two infertility treatment procedures per person. are employee-led groups that enhance and diversify • The People of Monsanto Employees can also receive up to $5,000 to pay for prescription drugs for infertility treatments. our company through initiatives focused on careers, customers, culture and community at Monsanto. As Forging the Way of 2014, we have expanded the nine main networks •• WealthGard Financial Planning Program – Through in Human Rights to create 21 local BRN chapters across 13 locations. this program, employees have free, unlimited access Membership has grown 58 percent in the past to third-party financial planning and education two years. In fact, approximately 15 percent of our professionals as well as financial planning tools global employee base is a member of one of these and financial education workshops. The entire employee-led groups. In 2014, our BRNs included: cost of the program is paid by Monsanto. •• Access: Supports employees, their family members and our customers with visible and Embracing the Power of Diversity & Inclusion non-obvious disabilities through awareness, facility access consultation and resources. Honoring and embracing diversity drives broad employee •• African-Americans in Monsanto: Focuses on engagement and business success. At Monsanto, we sustaining an inclusive environment that enables define diversity as the collective makeup of who we African-Americans to be successful while adding are, including age, beliefs, culture, ethnicity, education, value to our company and communities. Monsanto 2014 Sustainability Report | 115 IMPROVING the lives of farmers, workers and communities Improving Farmer Livelihoods Empowering Women and Girls Around the World Investing in •• Encompass: Provides an environment of learning, the Future sharing and communication for Monsanto’s gay, Awards and Advancing the Food lesbian, bisexual and transgendered employees. Recognition and Nutrition Dialogue •• The Family Network: Helps employees balance their Community work contributions with family responsibilities at Our work to promote an inclusive work environment and be Engagement home through programs, groups and connections a best-in-class employer has been widely honored in 2014 to those with similar circumstances. with the following recognitions: Serious About Service: Volunteerism at Monsanto •• Monsanto Asian Connection: Provides an Asian •• DiversityInc Top 50 Companies for Diversity: Monsanto • The People of Monsanto employee lens to our multicultural business while fostering leadership growth through career was recognized as one of the DiversityInc Top 50 Companies for Diversity for the seventh consecutive year, ranking 46 development and community outreach. on the list out of almost 1,300 companies that applied for Forging the Way the recognition. Monsanto was acknowledged for its strong in Human Rights •• Monsanto Latin Network: Enhances the Monsanto leadership support for diversity, robust talent-development experience by creating development opportunities, initiatives and a deep commitment to community philanthropy. fostering leadership, leveraging and raising the •• Glassdoor Employees’ Choice Award: Recognizing the awareness of Latin diversity and creating a 50 Best Places to Work in 2015, Monsanto ranked 39 on sense of community. the list and was the only company focused on agriculture •• VanGuard: Focuses on bringing together Monsanto to be included. employees who supported their country or state •• World’s Best Multinational Workplaces: Awarded by the through military service. Great Place To Work Institute, Monsanto was named eighth among the World’s Best Multinational Workplaces in 2014. •• St. Louis Women’s Network: Seeks to further the professional development of women, foster leadership •• Corporate Equality Index: Monsanto earned a perfect growth and create a sense of community to enhance score of 100 percent through a national workplace equality success at Monsanto. Beyond St. Louis, chapters of benchmarking survey administered by the Human Rights this BRN have started in Brazil, Central America, China, Campaign Foundation. India, Indonesia, Netherlands, Pakistan and Vietnam. Monsanto 2014 Sustainability Report | 116 IMPROVING the lives of farmers, workers and communities Improving Farmer Livelihoods Empowering Women and Girls Around the World Investing in •• Young Professionals Network: Provides Business Resource the Future young professionals and early career talent Network Spotlight: Advancing the Food with opportunities to connect with peers VanGuard and Nutrition Dialogue and management, explore Monsanto’s global business, gain leadership experience After decades of war, Afghanistan’s Community agricultural base had been largely and give back to the community through Engagement agriculture-related service projects. destroyed, with many farmers turning to Serious About Service: illegal crops to support their families. To help •• IamMonsanto (Iam) Networks: Where no critical Volunteerism at Monsanto Afghan farmers better develop an improved mass of a particular demographic exists in certain • The People of Monsanto sites, these business resource networks channel the impact of each of the above networks through agricultural system for legal crops, the U.S. National Guard Agricultural Development Teams (ADT) deployed to the country. Forging the Way representatives via a site-based network that in Human Rights represents all groups in one. IamMonsanto Monsanto’s VanGuard Network, consisting mostly chapters exist at Luling, La.; Research Triangle of veterans and National Guardsmen, worked with Park, N.C.; and a combined group across both the ADT to help teams stationed in Afghanistan our Oxnard and Woodland, Calif., locations. promote sustainable agriculture. However, efforts to revitalize Afghanistan’s farming community slowed Service is a major component of our Business Resource when ADT’s platoon was attacked by the Taliban, Networks. All are led by employee volunteers, and many destroying the barracks and all of the supplies of members participate in service events that support their the team. Monsanto’s VanGuard Network quickly group’s mission. In 2014, our executive leadership hosted mobilized for action, collecting donations from a Business Resource Network recognition event to honor Monsanto employees to resupply the platoon the efforts of employees who went above and beyond with items lost in the attack. Within three weeks, to advance diversity and service within Monsanto. More the VanGuard Network packed and shipped than 60 committed BRN leaders were recognized for nearly 50 boxes of donated items to the ADT. their network leadership and project contributions. Monsanto 2014 Sustainability Report | 117 IMPROVING the lives of farmers, workers and communities Improving Farmer Livelihoods Empowering Women and Girls Around the World Investing in Management Advisory Committee Monsanto’s Diversity & Inclusion Council the Future (MAC) Diversity & Inclusion Council Charter encompasses five focus areas: Advancing the Food Our mission to make diversity a priority starts at the 1 and Nutrition Dialogue Provide strategic direction, top. In 2007, we formed the MAC Diversity & Inclusion Community oversight and leadership Council. MAC represents our top leaders across the Engagement globe. A cross-functional subset of these top leaders, Serious About Service: Volunteerism at Monsanto 22 in total, form our Diversity & Inclusion Council. To ensure that we attract, develop and retain a diverse 2 Integrate our diversity and inclusion strategy with overall business priorities • The People workforce and leverage best practices regarding of Monsanto Forging the Way supplier diversity, the MAC Diversity & Inclusion Council is charged with providing strategic direction around 3 Ensure diverse representation in priorities, discussions and decisions diversity and inclusion in a way that promotes innovation, in Human Rights builds trust and maintains our competitive advantage. In 2014, CEO Hugh Grant became the MAC Diversity 4 Use metrics to measure our progress & Inclusion Council sponsor. Under his leadership, the Council has commissioned a new sponsorship initiative, a more integrated Business Resource Network strategy 5 Provide consistent, integrated messaging at all levels and a communications strategy to build awareness of diversity and drive inclusion throughout the organization. Monsanto 2014 Sustainability Report | 118 IMPROVING the lives of farmers, workers and communities Improving Farmer Livelihoods Empowering Women and Girls Around the World Investing in the Future Advancing the Food and Nutrition Dialogue Community Engagement Serious About Service: Volunteerism at Monsanto The People FORGING THE WAY and applies to our sites and business partners who provide manual labor for field trials and the production of Monsanto IN HUMAN RIGHTS • of seeds. The Policy focuses on nine key areas: child Forging the Way labor, forced labor, compensation, working hours, in Human Rights Respecting and protecting the dignity of harassment and violence, discrimination, safety, every worker is a long-held commitment freedom of association and legal compliance. of Monsanto. To this end, we have practices in place to ensure that the fundamental human rights In some cases, our Policy goes beyond what is required of workers are upheld. In 2014, we strengthened our by law or what is customary in a region of the world. The commitment with new programs and enhancements United Nations’ Universal Declaration of Human Rights to improve working conditions throughout the world and the International Labor Organization’s Fundamental and facilitate open communication with our workers. Principles and Rights at Work are widely recognized international standards on which our Policy is based. Our Human Rights Policy To familiarize new employees with our Policy, in 2014 we again required all new Monsanto employees to complete In 2006, we formalized our commitment to human a computer-based training module providing a basic rights with the establishment of our Human Rights overview of all the elements of Monsanto’s Human Rights Policy, which is grounded in international labor standards Policy, with examples of violations. We also introduced a Monsanto 2014 Sustainability Report | 119 IMPROVING the lives of farmers, workers and communities Improving Farmer Livelihoods Empowering Women and Girls Around the World Investing in more in-depth computer-based training targeted at field the Future labor supervisors, their managers and human resource Human Rights: Advancing the Food generalists. This training focused on four Policy elements From Farm to Fashion and Nutrition Dialogue where field laborers may be particularly vulnerable to abuses: working hours, compensation, discrimination Community We believe the full realization of human rights starts and harassment and violence. Participants learned Engagement with awareness. In November 2014, we co-sponsored how to identify potential issues early and implement From Farm to Fashion, a community forum in our global Serious About Service: appropriate solutions should an issue arise. More headquarters city of St. Louis with six area universities Volunteerism at Monsanto than 4,200 individuals participated, representing a to explore human rights issues in the various steps of The People 99.9 percent completion rate. Including the new hire cotton’s journey from seed to a retail clothing store. of Monsanto training, this represents 4,315 hours of human rights More than a dozen prominent experts from business, • training completed by Monsanto employees in 2014. Forging the Way academia and NGOs shared their insights into human in Human Rights rights challenges facing the production of cotton To safeguard our sites and our workers, we employ and its use in the fashion apparel industry, providing security professionals around the world. All of our security attendees a window into a world the public rarely sees. employees and individual security contractors have been trained on our Human Rights Policy. In some world areas, The speakers covered a range of human rights issues, we may also contract with security companies. In 2014, including child labor, wages, worker safety, human our Human Rights Champions (see Page 122) began trafficking and working hours. Guests discussed best practices for addressing these issues, from audits to law providing training to groups of employees from these enforcement to technological tracking solutions. More than companies, reaching more than 400 security officers. 200 individuals attended, including many young leaders who will shape the future of human rights advocacy. We also host special events to refresh workers’ awareness and understanding of our Policy and emphasize the role View the From Farm to Fashion video each individual plays in advancing human rights throughout our organization and beyond. In 2014, we conducted human rights awareness events at 192 technology sites and 85 seed manufacturing sites, training almost 20,000 employees and seasonal workers in our operations. Monsanto 2014 Sustainability Report | 120 IMPROVING the lives of farmers, workers and communities Improving Farmer Livelihoods Empowering Women and Girls Around the World Investing in the Future Protecting the Dignity of Every Worker Providing Access to Clean Drinking Water, Advancing the Food Sanitation and Hygiene Education (WASH) and Nutrition Dialogue Ensuring that our people have safe and fair working conditions is more than a priority. It’s an imperative. That’s Community why we invest in numerous programs to make certain In 2014, Monsanto became the first agriculture company to Engagement sign onto the WBCSD WASH Pledge reinforcing our longthat workers are treated with dignity and respect. standing commitment to ensuring safe drinking water and Serious About Service: adequate sanitation for employees. As a member of the WBCSD Volunteerism at Monsanto Tracking Our Progress global coalition, we also participate in its Water Leadership The People Working Group. As an agricultural leader, we believe we can of Monsanto We strive to identify and do business with partners improve lives by sharing good WASH practices within our • Forging the Way in Human Rights who share our commitment to human rights and ethical business practices. In 2014, we developed a global supply chain and encouraging others in the industry to participate in the WASH program. For more information about our WASH pledge, please visit our 2013 Spring Progress Report. new human rights screening profile for our suppliers to collect basic information about their employment practices and policies. The questionnaire was integrated into Monsanto’s new purchasing system, which is in the partners we work with are contracted indirectly, but the the process of a phased rollout around the world. party that contracts with the business partners is expected Suppliers will be required to register in the system in to cascade the contract language to uphold our standards. order to be paid. With this new screening process, we will be able to identify and prioritize suppliers In addition to preliminary screenings, we also conduct to receive monitoring or detailed assessments. periodic audits of our suppliers to ensure they are acting consistently with our Human Rights Policy. In 2014, we For the business partners with whom we contract directly, conducted more than 11,000 assessments of business 100 percent of their contracts have a human rights clause partners globally. In 2015, we will be rolling out a new that binds them to uphold the elements of our Human management system to handle these audits and track Rights Policy. In certain countries, a significant number of completion of corrective actions, as necessary. Monsanto 2014 Sustainability Report | 121 IMPROVING the lives of farmers, workers and communities Improving Farmer Livelihoods Empowering Women and Girls Around the World Investing in In 2014, we visited 10 of our corn seed production Championing the Future sites in the United States to evaluate documents Human Rights Advancing the Food and audit the payroll of our farm labor contractors and Nutrition Dialogue who provide seasonal labor services for us. Each site Monsanto has established a received individualized recommendations based on network of Human Rights Champions Community the results of their audit, and we plan to conduct a located around the world to heighten Engagement follow-up audit in 2015. awareness of human rights issues and resolve Serious About Service: concerns swiftly in their respective regions. Our Volunteerism at Monsanto When violations of our policy are identified, we take Champions play an integral role in efforts to The People the appropriate corrective action. Our first choice is provide a safe and healthy workplace as they talk of Monsanto to work with our business partners to improve their with workers in the field, conduct audits, coordinate • practices to ensure compliance with our standards human rights initiatives and implement new Forging the Way and advance the workers’ full realization of their solutions to create better working conditions. in Human Rights human rights. The successful implementation of these practices is best for the business partners, their Our Human Rights Champions Network is employees and communities, and for Monsanto. growing. In 2014 Monsanto expanded the scope Sometimes, however, business relationships need to of the program to include representatives from be terminated. In 2014, we decided not to renew our our Breeding and Biotechnology organizations, contracts with five business partners in the United which resulted in four additional Champions, States and 47 in India as a result of violations of our expanding the global network to 26. stated policies (see Page 124 for information on how we’re working to fight human rights violations in India). Monsanto 2014 Sustainability Report | 122 IMPROVING the lives of farmers, workers and communities Improving Farmer Livelihoods Empowering Women and Girls Around the World Investing in the Future Innovative Solutions, Positive Results: Advancing the Food Human Rights Champions and Nutrition Dialogue “ ” Community My dream is that every person Engagement Pablo and the team to make some improvements. on the planet is treated the same way. “It was a fair challenge, and I think they’ll be happy – Pablo, Trade and Compliance Manager, Monsanto Serious About Service: to see that we did take action,” notes Pablo. Volunteerism at Monsanto We continuously strive to improve communication with Thanks to suggestions submitted through the mobile workers, and we leverage the passion of our Monsanto The People phone survey, we have improved communications Human Rights Champions to bring innovative solutions of Monsanto with workers regarding their compensation and made to life. One outstanding example of this leadership in • Forging the Way in Human Rights action is Pablo, Monsanto’s Human Rights Champion for the Latin America South region. In 2014, Pablo led a enhancements to the temporary housing we supply. We made these improvements across our entire seasonal workforce in Argentina, not just the workers covered by mobile phone survey pilot program in Western Argentina the pilot project. We also leveraged the mobile phone designed to solicit anonymous feedback from seasonal survey to evaluate changes implemented several years laborers about their working and living conditions. ago to address concerns about gender discrimination Pablo was instrumental in ensuring that workers felt and harassment at one of our sites in Central America. comfortable taking the survey, and participants appreciated The survey results confirmed that the corrective actions the opportunity to share their opinions. They also challenged have resulted in a better, more respectful environment. Monsanto 2014 Sustainability Report | 123 IMPROVING the lives of farmers, workers and communities Improving Farmer Livelihoods Empowering Women and Girls Around the World Investing in any child laborers we find and follow through to enroll the Future Protecting Human Rights in High-risk Areas these children in school. This group meets monthly during Advancing the Food crop seasons and suggests and implements program and Nutrition Dialogue The culture for respecting the rights of workers can enhancements to educate rural villagers, monitor child vary from region to region. As a result, we routinely Community labor data and provide intervention when needed. assess the working conditions in fields supporting our Engagement business and take action to correct potential issues. One aspect of this intervention may be to place a child in a Serious About Service: bridge school, which is an accelerated program, sometimes Volunteerism at Monsanto Our priorities are guided by a global risk assessment, live-in, where a child can get special help to get caught which evaluates each country where we have field The People up with their educational level. It is a significant barrier of Monsanto operations against the nine elements of our Human to get a child back in school if they are way behind Rights Policy. In 2014, we updated our global risk • Forging the Way in Human Rights assessment, which identifies high-, mediumand low-risk countries, allowing us to focus on improving their age group, which can happen if they have worked in the fields for a long time. Several bridge schools are operated by the NGOs on the CCP committee. conditions in areas with the greatest human rights risks. In 2014, our child labor monitoring program recorded Helping Eradicate Child Labor only 0.3 percent child labor in our business partners’ hybrid cotton seed fields in India. This amounted to The use of child labor is a systemic problem 53 children in total, of which 87 percent were throughout India. While 14-17 year olds can be enrolled in school and working outside school hours legally employed for non-hazardous work in this – a substantial improvement compared to previous country, we focus on eliminating younger children years. Similarly, in our business partners’ vegetable fields working in our business partners’ fields. in India, only one child was found working, resulting in 0.01 percent of workers observed and reported. To help us meet this goal, we created the Child Care Program (CCP), a group that consists of NGOs and One of the ways we work to eliminate child labor in another multinational seed company, that oversees India is through our Social Mobilizer program. “Social efforts to monitor our business partners’ fields, remove Mobilizers” are women trained in social work, who we Monsanto 2014 Sustainability Report | 124 IMPROVING the lives of farmers, workers and communities Improving Farmer Livelihoods Empowering Women and Girls Around the World Investing in the Future Advancing the Food and Nutrition Dialogue hire to follow reported instances of child labor and meet with farmers, families, women’s groups, school officials and local leaders to promote the benefits of sending children to school rather than work. “Despite an unfavorable environment in the industry, Monsanto has done extremely well Community Another way Monsanto is minimizing instances of child in addressing the issue of Engagement labor in India is through our “model village” designation, child labor in its suppliers’ farms Serious About Service: a title awarded to communities with at least 50 growers in India. The sustained efforts of the Volunteerism at Monsanto or 16 production hectares that have had no child labor company with the collaboration of other The People observed by the CCP monitoring during the season. As stakeholders has provided positive of Monsanto an incentive to keep children in school and out of the results and reduced the incidences of • fields, Monsanto provides in-kind donations to schools in Forging the Way child labor substantially. The company every model village. In 2014, model village designations in Human Rights grew from around 30 percent of production villages has put a robust system in place through ” in prior years to 70 percent of the eligible villages. its Child Care Program to address the systemic incidences of child labor. Mexico is another country where child labor is widespread in agricultural settings. Nearly 60 percent of -Dr. Davuluri Venkateswarlu, child labor expert and our locations in Mexico were honored by the Secretaria Director, Glocal Research Institute, Hyderabad, India del Trabajo y Previsión Social (STPS) department of the Mexican government in 2014 for having fields free of child labor. This was the second consecutive year that Monsanto was recognized by the Mexican government for efforts to eradicate the employment of minors. Monsanto 2014 Sustainability Report | 125 C O R P O R AT E GOVERNANCE touches every aspect of our company As a global, publicly traded company Commitments and Guiding Principles committed to effective corporate governance, •• We believe that sound corporate governance is our policies and processes serve as checks essential to deliver strong business performance and balances as we set and pursue our and long-term shareowner value. objectives, monitor our performance and actions and make changes where needed. •• Our commitment to sustainability starts at the Through our corporate governance, rights board level with oversight from our Sustainability and responsibilities are shared among and Corporate Responsibility Committee. the board, management, shareowners •• Our business conduct governance structure and other stakeholders, and the interest embeds compliance ownership and accountability of these different groups are better with employees at every level of the company aligned. Corporate governance indeed in every region of the world. touches all aspects of our company. •• We are committed to the United Nations Global Compact and its ten principles within Human Rights, Labor, Environment and Anti-corruption. Monsanto 2014 Sustainability Report | 126 OUR COMMITMENT TO SUSTAINABILITY is a key component of who we are. Through our Sustainability and Corporate Responsibility Committee, we’re addressing critical issues and engaging with stakeholders about our progress. David Snively, Executive Vice President, Secretary and General Counsel Monsanto 2014 Sustainability Report | 127 C O R P O R AT E GOVERNANCE touches every aspect of our company • Our Corporate Governance Framework Codes of Conduct Recognizing Integrity OUR CORPORATE Sustainability and Corporate Responsibility Committee (SCRC), which is charged with reviewing and monitoring GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK the company’s sustainability performance and risks. In this capacity, the SCRC represents and reports Monsanto is committed to the values of back to the full board of directors. effective corporate governance and high ethical standards. Our board of directors believes that The experience and expertise of SCRC members these values are conducive to strong performance and span multiple industries and disciplines including creating long-term shareowner value. Our governance food, energy, agriculture, government, academia, framework gives our highly experienced directors, technology and healthcare. These diverse 12 of 13 who are independent, the structure necessary backgrounds help ensure that the committee to provide appropriate oversight to the company. has a comprehensive view of the sustainability issues that impact our company, the environment, communities, customers and other key stakeholders. Sustainability and Corporate The SCRC reviews the company’s sustainability goals Responsibility Committee and reporting and meets periodically with stakeholders to hear external perspectives and to identify and investigate Central to Monsanto’s commitment to sustainability is significant emerging issues. It also receives periodic oversight from our board of directors, particularly our reports on our business conduct program, progress Monsanto 2014 Sustainability Report | 128 C O R P O R AT E GOVERNANCE touches every aspect of our company • Our Corporate Governance Framework Codes of Conduct related to our Human Rights Policy and our charitable and When evaluating potential board candidates, the Recognizing political contributions and lobbying expenses, including Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee Integrity authorizing funding for contributions and appointing takes into consideration the Desirable Characteristics senior management to manage political contributions. of Directors outlined in our board charter, which includes consideration of diversity. At present, three In 2014, the SCRC reviewed and discussed many of our 13 directors are female, two are Africanof the topics covered throughout this report and American and one is from outside the United States. other Monsanto sustainability communications. The The committee also considers whether potential committee approved this report, including the materiality candidates will likely satisfy the independence standards assessment that informed its content. Some of the for service on the board and its committees. specific matters presented to and discussed by the SCRC in 2014 included water usage and risks, sustainability For more information, see our board charter, bylaws in our supply chain, and honey bee and monarch and Pages 30-31 and 98 of our 2014 proxy statement. butterfly health and populations. The committee is also responsible for reviewing and considering such topics as biotechnology approvals and product launches, Board Independence GMO labeling and the company’s reputation. Our board charter provides that no more than two For more information, see the Sustainability and board members may be nonindependent under the Corporate Responsibility Committee charter. independence criteria set by the New York Stock Exchange. Currently, 12 out of our 13 directors are independent. Our CEO, Hugh Grant, is the only Board Composition management director. Our board has fixed the number of directors at Leadership Structure. Our board believes that its current 13 members. Beginning with our 2014 annual leadership structure, in which the roles of chairman meeting, we began phasing out board classes. and CEO are held by one person, is best for Monsanto By 2016, we will have a fully nonclassified board and its shareowners at this time. In this dual role, the with annual elections of all directors. chairman and CEO is able to use the in-depth focus Monsanto 2014 Sustainability Report | 129 C O R P O R AT E GOVERNANCE touches every aspect of our company • Our Corporate Governance Framework Codes of Conduct and perspective gained in running the company to Recognizing effectively and efficiently guide our board. He works Monsanto Appoints First Integrity closely with our independent lead director, who is elected International Director annually by the independent directors of our board. The board has structured the role of our independent Marcos M. Lutz was elected to the Monsanto board in 2014 and lead director to strike an appropriate balance to the is a member of the Science and Technology and Sustainability and Corporate Responsibility Committees. Mr. Lutz brings an combined chairman and CEO role and to fulfill the important international perspective to the Monsanto board. He important requirements of independent leadership. has been the chief executive officer of Cosan S.A. Indústria e Among other duties, the independent lead director Comércio since October 2009 and also has served as the chief chairs executive sessions of the independent directors commercial officer of Cosan Ltd. since 2007. Cosan and its to discuss certain matters without management present. subsidiaries engage in the production and sale of sugar and ethanol worldwide, distribution of fuels and lubricants in Brazil, During fiscal 2014, we took the following new and operation of port and rail logistics. governance actions: •• Added a director who is based in Brazil, a key region for our business. •• Refreshed our board committees by changing the membership of several committees. Director Training and Assessment •• Adopted changes to our stock ownership requirements for directors and executive officers, Upon joining the board, directors are provided with including increasing ownership requirements for an in-depth orientation about our company, including our CEO from five times to six times base pay in business operations, strategy and governance, and a visit order to further incentivize long-term thinking. to one of our facilities. New directors without previous experience as a director of a public company are expected For more information about our governance structure and to enroll in a director education program. We provide processes, see Pages 10-24 of our 2014 proxy statement. our directors with ongoing education opportunities Monsanto 2014 Sustainability Report | 130 C O R P O R AT E GOVERNANCE touches every aspect of our company • Our Corporate Governance Framework Codes of Conduct to help them remain abreast of developments in Recognizing corporate governance and critical issues relating Board Role in Risk Oversight Integrity to the operation of public company boards. and Assessment The board also conducts annual self-evaluations As a company focused on technology and innovation, to determine whether it and its committees are taking risk is important to pursuing future growth for functioning effectively, and whether its governing Monsanto. We also must manage our assets for the benefit documents continue to remain appropriate. The of our company, our shareowners and our stakeholders. process is designed and overseen by the Nominating Our board oversees management as it balances risk and and Corporate Governance Committee, which is reward opportunities and is responsible for motivating chaired by our lead independent director, and the and challenging management to properly assess, mitigate results of the evaluations are discussed by the full and take risks. In fulfilling its oversight responsibilities, our board. Our board’s self-evaluation is facilitated board receives periodic in-depth reports on management’s by a wide range of questions related to topics enterprise risk assessment process and frequent updates including operations, composition of the board, on management’s assessment of current and future risks. responsibilities, governing documents and resources. When requesting approval for a project, management Each committee, other than the Executive is responsible for fully describing the relevant risks and Committee and the Restricted Stock Grant mitigating factors to the board. The board is then able to Committee, annually reviews its own performance fully assess the project within our risk-reward parameters. and assesses the adequacy of its charter, and Our board oversees many risks at the board level, reports the results and any recommendations but allocates certain risks to its committees for a to the board. For more information, see deeper review. For a summary of key risk oversight Page 18 of our 2014 proxy statement. responsibilities of our board and its committees, see Page 23 of our 2014 proxy statement. Monsanto 2014 Sustainability Report | 131 C O R P O R AT E GOVERNANCE touches every aspect of our company • Our Corporate Governance Framework Codes of Conduct Recognizing Engaging with Shareowners Our Compensation Integrity Philosophy We engage in dialogue with our major shareowners throughout the year about various corporate Our executive compensation program governance topics, including executive compensation is designed to attract, motivate and retain and sustainability. In 2014, we proactively reached exceptional talent to drive our business objectives out to a significant portion of our top 150 investors and strengthen long-term shareowner value. and beyond. The smallest holdings in this group of We structure our program to accomplish our investors represented voting authority for less than key objectives by focusing on our core principles 0.1 percent of our outstanding shares. We encourage and aligning executive pay with company and shareowners to contact our board, independent individual performance. lead director or management team through our website or by regular mail at the following address: We believe that our fiscal 2014 program successfully implements these principles and incorporates best practices in executive compensation. For more Monsanto information about our compensation practices, c/o David F. Snively, Corporate Secretary see Pages 46-69 of our 2014 proxy statement. (for our lead independent director use: c/o Office of the Lead Director) 800 North Lindbergh Boulevard, Mail Stop A3NA St. Louis, Missouri 63167 We will continue to seek opportunities for dialogue with our investors on sustainability, executive compensation and, more broadly, corporate governance. For more information, see Page 51 of our 2014 proxy statement. Monsanto 2014 Sustainability Report | 132 C O R P O R AT E GOVERNANCE touches every aspect of our company Our Corporate Governance Framework • Codes of Conduct Recognizing Integrity CODES OF CONDUCT Our Supplier Code of Conduct extends these commitments to third-party providers in support of our efforts to do business with only those who Integrity, in alignment with the Monsanto share our values. Pledge, helps us earn and retain the trust of people with whom we do business. Our To get from seed to grocery store shelves more board adopted a Code of Business Conduct (Code) sustainably, Monsanto relies heavily on collaborating that applies equally to all employees, officers and with our partners across the global supply chain. As directors of Monsanto, as well as all of our subsidiaries a global company, Monsanto engages thousands of worldwide. Furthermore, we expect our suppliers, suppliers for services, equipment and raw materials, consultants, agents, sales representatives, distributors as well as contracted seed suppliers, all of whom and independent contractors to uphold similar standards. contribute to our efforts. All new suppliers must We aspire to do business only with third parties that have complete a sustainability questionnaire. Our ambition a reputation for integrity. In essence, anyone representing is to help improve lives around the world by the Monsanto name or working on our company’s procuring goods and services in ways that behalf is expected to act consistently with our Code. conserve and protect natural resources and are ethically and socially responsible. For more information, see our Code of Business Conduct. Monsanto 2014 Sustainability Report | 133 C O R P O R AT E GOVERNANCE touches every aspect of our company Our Corporate Governance Framework • Codes of Conduct For more information about our efforts to promote a Recognizing sustainable supply chain, see our 2013 Fall Progress Report. Ensuring Compliance Integrity with Our Code Third-party Audit. To uphold our commitments Business Conduct Office to ethical business practices, we engaged an independent third party to conduct a comprehensive Monsanto maintains an open-door policy with all employees audit of our anti-corruption compliance program. and business partners who have questions about how The audit concluded that our program is effective to manage difficult work situations or have concerns and that Monsanto has established a strong tone about business actions. Through our board-chartered of compliance, starting with the board of directors global Business Conduct Office (BCO), we implement and permeating throughout the organization. compliance and ethics initiatives through working groups Moreover, the audit revealed that we excel in and dedicated facilitators in each of our global business maintaining appropriate, centralized oversight regions. As allowed by local law, employees may submit and control of the compliance program. concerns or questions to the BCO via a private post office box, an internal toll-free telephone number or an Automated Due Diligence Reporting System. email address dedicated to business conduct matters. To maintain compliance with our Code of Business Conduct more efficiently and effectively, we contracted In 2014, we addressed a total of 241 inquiries, 137 of which with a third-party vendor to provide a secure, webwere requests for guidance regarding compliance and based system for managing our compliance functions business ethics, and 104 were comments about employee globally through a single portal. Not only has this new work environments, proper stewardship of corporate assets system enabled our personnel to be more efficient and and observed behaviors that might be inconsistent with productive, but it has improved the consistency of how our policies or codes of conduct. Of these inquiries, six we categorize, respond to and report critical data. were allegations of discrimination. All six were investigated, and five were found to be unsubstantiated. One allegation required intervention and was swiftly resolved. Monsanto 2014 Sustainability Report | 134 C O R P O R AT E GOVERNANCE touches every aspect of our company Our Corporate Governance Framework • Codes of Conduct through self-assessment. Monsanto applied for Recognizing Excellence in Trade Compliance this program in 2012 and worked with CBP for two Integrity years to prove our qualifications and commitment Exporting and importing are a daily part of Monsanto’s to the program. This process included a thorough global operations, and we are committed to compliance government audit of our entire import process with all U.S. export and applicable non-U.S. export and a three-day, on-site interview and audit at regulations that govern the transportation of our products our world headquarters in St. Louis. In March across international borders. In fact, we are certified with 2014, Monsanto received ISA certification in several voluntary trade compliance programs, including: recognition of our “commitment to the highest •• Customs-Trade Partnership Against Terrorism level of trade compliance.” Monsanto now joins (C-TPAT): C-TPAT seeks to safeguard the world’s roughly 0.02 percent of all U.S. importers who vibrant trade industry from terrorists, adopting have achieved membership into the ISA program. measures to add security without having a chilling effect on trade. After thorough vetting by the U.S. government, Monsanto became a validated member of C-TPAT in 2007, and we have maintained our member status through revalidations in 2009, 2011 and 2013. •• Importer Self-Assessment (ISA) Program: The ISA program is an initiative of U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) that partners with importers who can demonstrate their readiness to manage and monitor their trade compliance Monsanto 2014 Sustainability Report | 135 C O R P O R AT E GOVERNANCE touches every aspect of our company Our Corporate Governance Framework • Codes of Conduct Recognizing Political Protecting Integrity Contributions Customer Data We believe that participating constructively in the political Monsanto takes the safeguarding of process is essential to our company’s long-term success, our customers’ data very seriously, and and we contribute to U.S. political candidates in a manner has been active in establishing company policies that is compliant with all applicable laws and reporting and supporting industrywide efforts (see related requirements. Our board of directors Sustainability and story on Pages 26-28). The Climate Corporation division Corporate Responsibility Committee has oversight regarding established a set of principles to protect the data all political contributions made by our company to ensure that farmers transfer and share when they use The proper compliance. In 2014, the Center for Political Climate Corporation’s advanced data science tools. Accountability (CPA), a nonpartisan, nonprofit organization created to bring transparency and accountability to That’s why when computer security was breached at corporate political spending, ranked Monsanto in the top our Precision Planting unit in March 2014, we worked 25 percent of 300 companies on the CPA-Zicklin Index with state and federal authorities to investigate and in recognition of our efforts to promote transparency in resolve the matter. While we don’t believe the breach political disclosures in the United States. We continue to was an attempt to steal customer information, we champion transparency in this important area and proudly notified customers and offered complimentary credit work with centers like the CPA to improve our disclosures. monitoring services for a year and added enhanced data system protection measures to prevent further breaches. Please see our website for more information about the ways in which we participate in the political process. Monsanto 2014 Sustainability Report | 136 C O R P O R AT E GOVERNANCE touches every aspect of our company Our Corporate Governance Framework Codes of Conduct • Recognizing Integrity RECOGNIZING INTEGRITY conducting business in a way that clearly demonstrates a commitment to integrity. Each year, we recognize employees who •• Compliance in Action Award: For initiatives or demonstrate integrity in exceptional actions that detect and address internal control ways with our Business Conduct Awards. weaknesses that may lead to noncompliance issues. Developed by the Business Conduct Office, in •• Operational Excellence Award: For ideas and cooperation with other functional areas, the program resulting action plans that create meaningful honors group or individual employee contributions process improvements and efficiencies that serve to strengthen Monsanto’s culture of to existing compliance activities. integrity, recognize and address compliance with all legal, regulatory and company policy requirements, or •• Courage in Integrity Award: For demonstration create efficiencies in existing compliance practices. of individual courage and foresight to recognize and proactively address observed noncompliance The Business Conduct Awards focus on four under adverse conditions. key categories: We recognized both regional award and global award •• Integrity Champion Award: For compliance winners who contributed in a meaningful way to Monsanto’s awareness or educational projects or initiatives corporate culture of integrity in ways that hold the potential that result in employees, vendors or customers for improvement across all or multiple business units. Monsanto 2014 Sustainability Report | 137 C O R P O R AT E GOVERNANCE touches every aspect of our company Our Corporate Governance Framework Codes of Conduct • Recognizing Integrity External Recognition Integrity Champion Award Our efforts to govern our business in line with the highest ethical standards have also been widely recognized by key third parties. Some of the In 2014, members from our Latin America South Commercial, awards received in 2014 include: Corporate Affairs and Procurement teams received Monsanto’s Integrity Champion Award in recognition of their cross•• 100 Best Corporate Citizens: functional initiative to promote sustainability within our supply CR Magazine ranked Monsanto No. 38 on its chain. These teams invited 180 of Monsanto’s suppliers to an “100 Best Corporate Citizens” list based on seven educational event aimed at explaining Monsanto’s position and key areas associated with corporate responsibility. vision on sustainable agriculture, and later created a workshop This is the fifth time Monsanto has been included that was attended by 80 percent of involved suppliers. Their on the magazine’s ranking of corporate responsibility work embodies the very essence of what our Integrity Champion performance of major U.S. companies. Award category is all about: spreading integrity and goodwill in a meaningful way and building trust. •• International General Counsels’ Awards: Recognizing outstanding legal professionals from around the globe, Monsanto’s law department was named the “Best USA Legal Department” in the Industrial and High Tech Sector category. •• Corporate Governance Awards: Corporate Secretary named Monsanto to its shortlist for “Best Shareholder Engagement” and “Best Ethics and Compliance Program.” In 2013, Monsanto was named to the shortlist in the “Best Shareholder Engagement” category. Monsanto 2014 Sustainability Report | 138 C O R P O R AT E GOVERNANCE touches every aspect of our company Our Corporate Governance Framework Codes of Conduct • Recognizing Integrity Our Pledge The Monsanto Pledge is our commitment to how we do business. It is a declaration that compels us to listen more, to consider our actions and their impact broadly, and to lead responsibly. It helps us to convert our values into actions, and to make clear who we are and what we champion. Integrity is the foundation for all that we do. Integrity includes honesty, decency, consistency and courage. Building on those values, we are committed to: Dialogue: We will listen crops, and to help farmers Act as Owners to Achieve carefully to diverse points in developing countries. Results: We will create clarity of view and engage in of direction, roles, and Benefits: We will use sound thoughtful dialogue. accountability; build strong and innovative science and We will broaden our relationships with our thoughtful and effective s p ar e n c y understanding of issues customers and external T r an stewardship to deliver highue S in order to better address partners; make wise og ha quality products that are al r in the needs and concerns decisions; steward our Di g beneficial to our customers of society and each other. company resources; and take and to the environment. responsibility for achieving INTEGRITY Transparency: We will Respect: We will respect agreed-upon results. pect Benefi ensure that information the religious, cultural, Re s ts is available, accessible, Create a Great Place to Work: and ethical concerns of and understandable. We will ensure diversity of A t people throughout the Ow ct as rea e people and thought; foster ner A G plac Sharing: We will share world. The safety of our k s Wor innovation, creativity and knowledge and technology employees, the communities learning; practice inclusive to advance scientific where we operate, our teamwork; and reward and understanding, to improve customers, consumers, recognize our people. agriculture and the and the environment will environment, to improve be our highest priority. Monsanto 2014 Sustainability Report | 139 REPORTING our sustainab ilit y s t r at e g ie s , e ff or ts, impact and progress Monsanto is committed to embedding Commitments and Guiding Principles sustainability throughout our business, •• We are reporting in accordance with the a key driver of which is reporting on our Core option of the Global Reporting Initiative progress — not only to document where (GRI) G4 voluntary Sustainability Reporting we’ve been and where we’re going, but Guidelines, while incorporating many also to identify gaps, opportunities and aspects of the “Comprehensive” option. challenges. We view sustainability reporting as both a communications vehicle and a •• We are committed to issuing an annual GRIstrategic management tool. By engaging based sustainability report and a UN Global key stakeholders in our reporting process Compact Communication on Progress. we are able to incorporate information •• We have conducted a formal materiality and concepts that truly matter to our assessment to ensure that the content company, our shareowners, our customers included in this report reflects Monsanto’s and the communities where we operate. significant economic, environmental and social impact or substantively influence the assessments and decisions of stakeholders. Monsanto 2014 Sustainability Report | 140 WE’RE COMMITTED to seeking input from our stakeholders, reporting our progress transparently and collaborating with a diverse set of partners to make a positive impact on our stakeholders and thereby our business, our farmer customers and the global community. Martha Schlicher, Global Sustainability and Stakeholder Engagement Lead Monsanto 2014 Sustainability Report | 141 REPORTING our sustainability strategies, efforts, impact and progress • Reporting What Matters Where Impacts Occur GRI/UNGC REPORTING Building on our original materiality assessment published in our 2012 report, we conducted a materiality WHAT MAT TERS assessment update during 2013 and 2014 to refresh and review the sustainability issues and topics that Understanding our impact, the context of have the most impact on the success of our business our work and what matters to the people and and that are important to external stakeholders. communities we touch daily are key to any successful sustainability journey. At Monsanto, We queried representatives from NGOs, academia, we’re taking stock of our position at the beginning of research institutions, public health organizations, the food value chain. We’re analyzing our commitments government, the food industry, consumers, and business practices and tapping into the passion community neighbors and our farmer customers. and strengths of our more than 20,000 employees Our engagement with external stakeholders took worldwide. And we’re inviting in a broad range of outside place across several forums including listening perspectives to learn more about what’s important to sessions and one-on-one interviews. We also stakeholders and how we can collectively innovate to looked at what similar companies were doing and help sustainably feed a growing global population. topics that garnered significant media coverage. Formal stakeholder engagement and consumer listening Internally, we interviewed Monsanto leaders from sessions have helped shape not only the content of this around the world about key business drivers and report, but also who we are as a company now, and what they believed external stakeholders considered where we want to go. important from a sustainability perspective. Monsanto 2014 Sustainability Report | 142 REPORTING our sustainability strategies, efforts, impact and progress • Reporting What Matters Where Impacts Occur GRI/UNGC A scoring system was Materiality Matrix applied to the results (see issue definitions on Pages 10-11) that enabled us to plot the issues on a matrix that visually represents where each topic falls Global Food Security Product Safety relative to its importance & Stewardship to our company and Ethical Business Water our stakeholders. Operations Climate Change Continuous Management Agriculture Innovations Through this process, Nutrition Importance to Stakeholders Farmer we identified that the Livelihoods Environmentally fiscal year 2014 updated Conscious Operations Dialogue, materiality assessment Transparency, Biodiversity Collaboration areas were similar to Technology Local what we reported before. Innovation Communities & Access However, we felt it was necessary for us to expand the definitions Legacy Human Rights Talent of the assessment Matters Management categories to better Youth in Sustainable Agriculture reflect the feedback Supply Chain & Science we received from stakeholders and provide greater transparency. Impact on Business Success Monsanto 2014 Sustainability Report | 143 REPORTING our sustainability strategies, efforts, impact and progress Reporting What Matters • Where Impacts Occur GRI/UNGC WHERE IMPACTS OCCUR Drawing A key principle of the GRI G4 Guidelines is Boundaries to determine and report where a company’s material issues impact the business, key The scope of information covered in this report varies based on stakeholders and society at large. An impact the type of content provided. Footnotes to data tables designate can be positive, like improving farmer livelihoods, or the scope and reporting period covered by the applicable data. potentially negative, like causing or affecting water Unless otherwise noted, the information pertains to our global Seed scarcity. The tables on the following pages summarize and Traits and Crop Protection segments and corporate functions the issues that both external stakeholders and regional including consolidated subsidiaries, but excluding joint ventures. internal teams identified as most important and where Environmental, health and safety data and human rights data are the impacts of these issues occur relative to our based on fiscal year 2014, which runs from September 1, 2013, to business, our suppliers, farmers and consumers. August 31, 2014. There is some anecdotal information, as noted, from calendar years 2012-2014 and limited information from early calendar 2015. For anecdotal information we do not distinguish between fiscal and calendar years. Locations referenced throughout this report without a country name are within the United States. Monsanto 2014 Sustainability Report | 144 REPORTING our sustainability strategies, efforts, impact and progress Reporting What Matters • Where Impacts Occur GRI/UNGC Mapping Where Material Issue Impacts Occur – External Stakeholder Groups This table maps the most important sustainability issues and topics from an external stakeholder perspective. The displayed order of the issues is intended to be directional and does not represent absolute rankings. Some stakeholder groups, such as NGOs, had heavier representation than others, so an absolute ranking by stakeholders would not be illustrative of the results. ENVIRONMENT, PUBLIC GOVERNMENT & FOOD S O CIAL & ACADEMICS & HEALTH GOVERNMENT INDUSTRY FOOD GOVERNANCE NGOS RESEARCHERS ORGANIZATIONS DEVELOPMENT GROUPS COMPANIES FARMERS 11 Ethical Dialogue, Dialogue, Dialogue, Continuous Product Safety Global Food Business Transparency, Transparency, Transparency, Agriculture & Stewardship Security Operations Collaboration Collaboration Collaboration Innovations 12 Dialogue, Ethical Ethical Ethical Food Food Transparency, Water Business Business Business Security Security Collaboration Operations Operations Operations 13 Environmentally Continuous Technology Dialogue, Global Food Conscious Agriculture Innovation Water Transparency, Nutrition Security Operations Innovations & Access Collaboration 14 Continuous Global Food Farmer Global Food Agriculture Nutrition Nutrition Security Livelihoods Security Innovations 15 Ethical Ethical Dialogue, Global Food Talent Farmer Business Business Transparency, Security Management Livelihoods Operations Operations Collaboration Monsanto 2014 Sustainability Report | 145 REPORTING our sustainability strategies, efforts, impact and progress Reporting What Matters • Where Impacts Occur GRI/UNGC Mapping Where Material Issue Impacts Occur – Regions of the World This table maps the most important sustainability issues and topics from an internal perspective for each region of the world in which we operate based on regional business assumptions and regional trends. As part of the materiality assessment process, representatives from our global operations helped identify which issues matter most in the different regions. L ATIN L ATIN MIDDLE EASTERN WESTERN AMERICA AMERICA NORTH AFRICA EAST EUROPE EUROPE SOUTH NORTH BRAZIL INDIA PANSEA AMERICA 11 Dialogue, Global Technology Dialogue, Technology Continuous Technology Water Water Water Transparency, Food Innovation Transparency, Innovation Agriculture Innovation Collaboration Security & Access Collaboration & Access Innovations & Access 12 Global Continuous Environmentally Dialogue, Product Global Global Dialogue, Farmer Food Agriculture Conscious Water Transparency, Safety & Food Food Transparency, Livelihoods Security Innovations Operations Collaboration Stewardship Security Security Collaboration 13 Technology Product Continuous Ethical Dialogue, Farmer Local Farmer Innovation Safety & Agriculture Business Water Transparency, Nutrition Livelihoods Communities Livelihoods & Access Stewardship Innovations Operations Collaboration Monsanto 2014 Sustainability Report | 146 REPORTING our sustainability strategies, efforts, impact and progress Reporting What Matters • Where Impacts Occur GRI/UNGC Mapping Where Material Issue Impacts Occur – Business and Stakeholders The table below maps the most important sustainability impacts across the following areas: Monsanto’s business, suppliers, farmers and consumers. A cross-sectional group of Monsanto employees executed the mapping exercise, taking into consideration stakeholder input, global trends and business assumptions. Material Issues MONSANTO SUPPLIERS FARMERS CONSUMERS Product Safety & Stewardship Continuous Agriculture Innovations Global Food Security Water Farmer Livelihoods Ethical Business Operations Dialogue, Transparency, Collaboration Nutrition Environmentally Conscious Operations Climate Change Management Local Communities Talent Management Biodiversity Technology Innovation & Access Youth in Agriculture & Science Human Rights Sustainable Supply Chain Legacy Matters Monsanto 2014 Sustainability Report | 147 REPORTING our sustainability strategies, efforts, impact and progress Reporting What Matters Where Impacts Occur • GRI/UNGC GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE AND UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT TABLES GRI G4 Index GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES GRI INDICATOR LOCATION / DESCRIPTION G4-1 CEO Letter, Page 3 CEO Letter, Page 3; Hello. We are Monsanto., Pages 14-18; Producing, Pages 19-47; G4-2 Conserving, Pages 48-76; Improving, Pages 77-125; 2014 10-K, Items 1, 1A, 7A Organizational Profile G4-3 Monsanto Company G4-4 Hello. We are Monsanto., Pages 5-8 G4-5 St. Louis, Missouri, United States G4-6 Hello. We are Monsanto., Page 6; 2014 10-K, Item 8, Note 26 G4-7 Certificate of Incorporation Monsanto 2014 Sustainability Report | 148 REPORTING our sustainability strategies, efforts, impact and progress Reporting What Matters Where Impacts Occur • GRI/UNGC GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES GRI INDICATOR LOCATION / DESCRIPTION G4-8 Hello. We are Monsanto., Pages 7-8; 2014 10-K, Item 1 G4-9 Hello. We are Monsanto., Page 6; Improving, Pages 103-105; 2014 10-K, Item 8 G4-10 Improving, Pages 103-105 In excess of 15 percent of Monsanto’s regular employees are covered G4-11 by a collective bargaining agreement. G4-12 Corporate Governance, Page 133; Monsanto 2013 Fall Progress Report, Page 5 G4-13 2014 10-K, Items 1, 2, 7 G4-14 Producing, Page 34 (Stewarding Product Safety) External Charters/Principles CEO Water Mandate, Customs-Trade Partnership Against Terrorism (C-TPAT), International Labour Organization’s Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work, Privacy and Security Principles for Farm Data, United Nations Global Compact (UNGC), United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights, U.S. Green Building Council’s Leadership in Energy & Environmental Design (LEED) Principals, WASH Pledge Advocacy Groups African Agricultural Technology Foundation (AATF), Clinton Global Initiative (CGI), Field to Market Alliance, Honey Bee Health Coalition, Institute for Sustainable Agriculture (IAD), Soil G4-15 Health Partnership, Sustainability Consortium, World Business Council for Sustainable Development G4-16 (WBCSD), World Economic Forum (WEF) New Vision for Agriculture and Climate Leadership Group Industry Groups American Production and Inventory Control Society (APICS), Biotechnology Industry Organization, Confederação Nacional da Indústria (CNI), Council of Supply Chain Management Professionals (CSCMP), CropLife International, International Seed Federation, US-ASEAN Business Council, Inc. Diversity Groups Minority Business Development Agency Business Center Chicago, National Minority Supplier Development Council, WEConnect International, Women’s Business Development Center, Women’s Business Enterprise National Council (WBENC) Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries G4-17 All entities included in our Consolidated Financial Statements are covered in this report. G4-18 Reporting, Pages 142-143 G4-19 Hello. We are Monsanto., Pages 10-11; Reporting, Pages 144-147 G4-20 Conserving, Pages 71-75 (Environmental Data); Improving, Pages 109-113 (Safety and Health), G4-21 103-105 (Our People: By the Numbers); Reporting, Page 144 Monsanto 2014 Sustainability Report | 149 REPORTING our sustainability strategies, efforts, impact and progress Reporting What Matters Where Impacts Occur • GRI/UNGC GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES GRI INDICATOR LOCATION / DESCRIPTION G4-22 Some calendar year 2013 environmental data has been restated. See Pages 72-75 G4-23 Environmental data scope expanded (see Conserving, Page 71) Stakeholder Engagement G4-24 Reporting, Pages 142, 145; Corporate Governance, Page 132; See also G4-15 and G4-16 Monsanto stakeholders include organizations that have interest in agriculture production, water, soil health, human rights, climate change, food and nutrition security, biodiversity, science and technology innovation, diversity and inclusion, youth development, community health and other issues related to our business. We interact with organizations and individuals on an ongoing basis as part of regularly G4-25 planned visits, technical seminars, conferences, telephone calls and updates. Although the frequency G4-26 of our engagement varies, the intent to stay engaged on areas of mutual interest is foremost in our minds. The groups identified throughout the report provide significant insight into how they see our role in society. No groups or individuals were engaged specifically for the preparation of this report, but are instead part of our ongoing effort to engage with stakeholder organizations. Hello. We are Monsanto., Page 16; Improving, Pages 37-38; Reporting, Page 145; G4-27 Also discussed throughout this report. Report Profile G4-28 Fiscal year 2014; See also Reporting, Page 144 G4-29 Calendar year 2012 with Spring and Fall Progress Reports for calendar year (CY) 2013. G4-30 Moving forward we plan to report on our sustainability commitments annually on a fiscal year basis. G4-31 tami.j.craig.schilling@monsanto.com This report was prepared in accordance with the GRI G4 “Core” option and contains many G4-32 elements of the “Comprehensive” option. We have sought and received external assurance for the majority of our data-driven environmental indicators. See Assurance Letter on Page 164. The majority of our data-driven environmental indicators have been externally assured by Bureau Veritas; see Assurance Letter on Page 164. G4-33 Financial data in our 2014 10-K has been assured by DeloItte & Touche LLP; see Assurance Letter, Item 9A Monsanto 2014 Sustainability Report | 150 REPORTING our sustainability strategies, efforts, impact and progress Reporting What Matters Where Impacts Occur • GRI/UNGC GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES GRI INDICATOR LOCATION / DESCRIPTION Governance G4-34 G4-35 G4-36 G4-37 G4-38 G4-39 G4-40 Corporate Governance, Pages 126-132 G4-41 G4-42 G4-43 G4-44 G4-45 G4-46 G4-47 G4-48 The Board of Directors Sustainability and Corporate Responsibility Committee G4-49 2014 Proxy Statement, Pages 12, 24 We have various ways of gathering concerns across company functions and regions of the world including: customer product inquiries, employee and contractor inquiries, consumer G4-50 online contacts via monsanto.com, discover.monsanto.com, and world areas websites. Each concern has an established process and business owner for addressing the situation. Summary reports for each area flow to regional, functional or executive leaders. G4-51 2014 Proxy Statement, Pages 46-69 G4-52 G4-53 2014 Proxy Statement, Pages 44, 51 Ethics and Integrity G4-56 G4-57 Corporate Governance, Pages 133-134, 137-139 G4-58 Monsanto 2014 Sustainability Report | 151 REPORTING our sustainability strategies, efforts, impact and progress Reporting What Matters Where Impacts Occur • GRI/UNGC SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES GRI INDICATOR LOCATION / DESCRIPTION Category: Economic Aspect: Economic Performance G4-EC1 2014 10-K, Item 8 Climate change and associated impacts, like higher temperatures, more frequent droughts and floods and evolving pest pressures, requires us to explore even more ways to mitigate these conditions through our R&D pipeline. We are currently studying the potential effects of a changing climate on seven field G4-EC2 crops to understand how we should focus our resources. At the same time, we are exploring ways to sequester more carbon from each acre of land through the use of reduced tillage practices, cover crops and double cropping systems while supporting sustainable biofuel and biomass development. G4-EC3 2014 Annual Report, Pages 78-81 Aspect: Indirect Economic Impacts Monsanto supports a variety of infrastructure investments through its philanthropic G4-EC7 arm, the Monsanto Fund, a U.S.-based 501(c)(3) nonprofit organization funded by Monsanto. For more information, see the Monsanto Fund Report. Producing, Pages 39-47 (Heightening Food and Nutrition Security); Conserving, Page 70 (Reseeding Ecosystems with Conservation International); Improving, Pages 79-81 (Improving G4-EC8 Farmer Livelihoods), 82-83 (Empowering Women and Girls Around the World), 84-86 (Investing in the Future); 2013 Fall Progress Report, Pages 14-15 (Collaboration and Advocacy) Category: Environmental Aspect: Energy/Greenhouse Gas Emissions G4-EN3 G4-EN4 G4-EN5 G4-EN15 G4-EN16 Conserving, Pages 72-74 (Environmental Data Energy Use and Emissions) G4-EN17 G4-EN18 G4-EN21 (all indicators externally assured) Monsanto 2014 Sustainability Report | 152 REPORTING our sustainability strategies, efforts, impact and progress Reporting What Matters Where Impacts Occur • GRI/UNGC SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES GRI INDICATOR LOCATION / DESCRIPTION G4-EN6 (Partially reported) Conserving, Pages 61-64 G4-EN19 Producing, Pages 26-28 (Heralding the Green Data Revolution); G4-EN7 Conserving, Page 51 (Helping Farmers Conserve Resources) Aspect: Water G4-EN8 G4-EN10 G4-EN22 Conserving, Page 75 (Environmental Data Water) (all indicators externally assured) G4-EN9 (Partially reported) Conserving, Page 51 (Mapping Water Risks) Aspect: Biodiversity Several of our U.S. sites have been awarded the Wildlife Habitat Council’s Wildlife at Work certification. While G4-EN11 we do not yet centrally collect the data to report on EN11, we are building capacity to do so in the future. (Partially reported) Conserving, Pages 65-69 (Protecting and Preserving the Natural Environment), G4-EN12 69 (Controlling Pests Responsibly), 70 (Reseeding Ecosystems with Conservation International) G4-EN13 Conserving, Page 70 (Reseeding Ecosystems with Conservation International) G4-EN14 We are building capacity to answer this indicator moving forward, but do not currently collect this data. Aspect: Effluents & Waste G4-EN23 Conserving, Page 76 (Environmental Data Waste) Accidental, Episodic Spills and Releases: In fiscal year (FY) 2014, the following two releases from our facilities were significant enough to be reported to one or more governmental agencies. Neither release caused lasting adverse effects on human health or the environment. In both cases, we identified and addressed the root causes of the releases. G4-EN24 •• In December 2013, 2.2 lbs of chlorine gas were released to the air during maintenance activities (externally assured) at our Luling, Louisiana, facility. Three workers were exposed to the vapor, received medical attention for it, and have fully recovered. •• In February 2014, 4.2 lbs of chlorine gas were released to the air during maintenance activities at our Luling, Louisiana, facility. There were no injuries or environmental impacts associated with the release. G4-EN25 Conserving, Page 76 (Environmental Data Waste) Monsanto 2014 Sustainability Report | 153 REPORTING our sustainability strategies, efforts, impact and progress Reporting What Matters Where Impacts Occur • GRI/UNGC SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES GRI INDICATOR LOCATION / DESCRIPTION (Partially reported) Across the globe, Monsanto complies with a diverse set of regulatory programs designed to protect water bodies and related habitats. Beyond these legal requirements, Monsanto regularly performs self-assessments of all of our chemical manufacturing operations to confirm that we are not causing adverse impacts to neighboring water resources. At our phosphate mining operations in southeastern Idaho, we are pursuing a multifaceted water protection program that is aimed at protecting sensitive habitats within the Upper Blackfoot River watershed and species like the Yellowstone G4-EN26 Cutthroat Trout. We have implemented a state-of-the-art water management program at our existing mine, ensuring that impacted runoff does not reach surface waters or habitats. We are performing extensive studies on the environmental conditions of our former mines, with the goal of identifying and performing any remediation that may be appropriate. Looking beyond our mining operations, we are a key member in the Upper Blackfoot Confluence, a partnership of industry and environmental nonprofits working together on regional projects to enhance wildlife habitat along the Blackfoot River. Aspect: Products & Services G4-EN27 Conserving, Pages 36-37 (Targeted Control of Weeds and Insects) Monsanto does not measure this on a global basis but we are partners in agricultural container recycling programs globally. For example, the Ag Container Recycling Council (ACRC) has been successful in G4-EN28 recycling agriculture crop protection containers in the United States into useful industrial purposes for over 20 years. More recently, we were recognized in 2014 by a nongovernment environmental organization (AMOCALI) for Monsanto’s contribution on the recycling chain of empty agrochemical bottles in Mexico. Aspect: Compliance Monsanto conducted an internal review and did not identify any material fines or nonmonetary G4-EN29 sanctions for noncompliance with environmental laws and regulations. Additional information is provided in Monsanto’s Form 10-K for the fiscal year ending August 31, 2014, in Note 25 – (externally assured) Commitments and Contingencies, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Outlook, and the Legal Proceedings sections. Aspect: Transport G4-EN30 Conserving, Pages 72-74 (Environmental Data Energy Use and Emissions) Aspect: Supplier Environmental Assessment Our suppliers are required to complete a computer-based profile that covers a range G4-EN32 of sustainability topics, including environmental issues. For more information on our approach to assessing our supply chain, see our 2013 Fall Progress Report. Monsanto 2014 Sustainability Report | 154 REPORTING our sustainability strategies, efforts, impact and progress Reporting What Matters Where Impacts Occur • GRI/UNGC SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES GRI INDICATOR LOCATION / DESCRIPTION Our suppliers are required to complete a computer-based profile that covers a range G4-EN33 of sustainability topics, including environmental issues. For more information on our approach to assessing our supply chain, see our 2013 Fall Progress Report. Aspect: Environmental Grievance Mechanisms Monsanto does not centrally track the number of environmental grievances, but we have various ways of gathering concerns across company functions and regions of the world. Each G4-EN34 concern has an established process and business owner for addressing the situation. Summary reports for each area flow to regional, functional or executive leaders, as appropriate. Category: Social Subcategory: Labor Practices and Decent Work Aspect: Employment G4-LA1 Improving, Pages 103-105 G4-LA2 Improving, Pages 114-115 Aspect: Labor/Management Relations (Partially reported) We comply with the notification periods required in the regions of the world where we work. When an area has no specified notification policy, we build our communication timeline in a G4-LA4 way that accounts for the needs of our employees and their circumstances. Where collective bargaining agreements are in place, Monsanto follows the notification guidelines established in these agreements. Aspect: Occupational Health & Safety G4-LA5 Improving, Page 106 (Putting Safety First) G4-LA6 Improving, Pages 109-113; In FY 2014 there was one Monsanto employee fatality (male). G4-LA7 Improving, Pages 109-113 (Safety and Health Data) Aspect: Training & Education (Partially reported) Average hours of employee training per category: communications, two hours; people management (for people-managers), eight hours; business G4-LA9 conduct (for people-managers), one hour; safety (all employees) 10 hours. Also see Improving, Page 120 (human rights training); See also G4-SO4 Monsanto 2014 Sustainability Report | 155 REPORTING our sustainability strategies, efforts, impact and progress Reporting What Matters Where Impacts Occur • GRI/UNGC SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES GRI INDICATOR LOCATION / DESCRIPTION G4-LA10 Improving, Pages 99-102 (Employee Development) G4-LA11 97 percent of Monsanto employees received performance reviews in FY 2014. Aspect: Diversity & Equal Opportunity G4-LA12 Improving, Page 105 Aspect: Supplier Assessment for Labor Practices Our suppliers are required to complete a computer-based profile that covers a range of G4-LA14 sustainability topics, including labor. For more information on our approach to assessing G4-LA15 our supply chain, see our 2013 Fall Progress Report. Aspect: Labor Practices Grievance Mechanisms G4-LA16 Corporate Governance, Page 134 (Business Conduct Office) Subcategory: Human Rights Aspect: Investment Significant investment agreements for human rights are defined for 2014 as seed supply and G4-HR1 labor provider contracts. In 2014 we had contracts with 11,215 such entities and 100 percent of them contained human rights clauses, which differ according to country laws. G4-HR2 Improving, Pages 119-120 (Our Human Rights Policy) Aspect: Non-discrimination G4-HR3 Corporate Governance, Page 134 (Business Conduct Office) Aspect: Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining (Partially reported) Our Human Rights Policy supports the rights of workers to associate freely and G4-HR4 bargain collectively. In situations where these rights are restricted under law, Monsanto facilitates an open line of communication with management so workers can freely voice concerns. Monsanto 2014 Sustainability Report | 156 REPORTING our sustainability strategies, efforts, impact and progress Reporting What Matters Where Impacts Occur • GRI/UNGC SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES GRI INDICATOR LOCATION / DESCRIPTION Aspect: Child Labor G4-HR5 Improving, Pages 124-125 (Helping Eradicate Child Labor) Aspect: Forced or Compulsory Labor G4-HR6 Our business partner assessments did not identify any instances of forced labor in FY 2014. Aspect: Security Practices G4-HR7 Improving, Pages 119-120 (Our Human Rights Policy) Aspect: Assessment We have several methods for assessing human rights impacts in our owned operations, but have not had a system to capture the percentage of operations assessed. This is changing under our new quality management system. Our G4-HR9 Human Rights Champions assess the operations in their geography, with priority on the highest risk countries, and report and remedy any concerns. The ESH Corporate Audit team also conducts human rights assessments when they visit high and medium risk country sites that have not been recently assessed. This is on their rotating schedule. Aspect: Supplier Human Rights Assessment Our suppliers are required to complete a computer-based profile that covers a range of sustainability topics, G4-HR10 including human rights. Also see our 2013 Fall Progress Report, Page 11, for information on human rights assessments in countries identified as high risk. Our suppliers are required to complete a computer-based profile that covers a range of sustainability G4-HR11 topics, including Human Rights. See Improving, Pages 121-122 (Tracking our Progress) and our 2013 Fall Progress Report, Page 11, for information on human rights assessments in countries identified as high risk. Aspect: Human Rights Grievance Mechanisms G4-HR12 Improving, Pages 121-122 (Tracking our Progress); Corporate Governance, Page 134 (Business Conduct Office) Subcategory: Society Aspect: Local Communities GR-SO1 Improving, Pages 92-93 (Community Engagement) Monsanto 2014 Sustainability Report | 157 REPORTING our sustainability strategies, efforts, impact and progress Reporting What Matters Where Impacts Occur • GRI/UNGC SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES GRI INDICATOR LOCATION / DESCRIPTION We take substantial measures to limit the potentially negative impact that our sites GR-SO2 may have on the local communities where we operate. In some cases, we have had to alert the community when traffic would be increasing during harvest. Aspect: Anti-corruption GR-SO3 (Partially reported) Corporate Governance, Page 134 (Ensuring Compliance with Our Code) Anti-corruption policies and procedures have been communicated to all 13 members of our board of directors, GR-SO4 100 percent of our employees (22,138) and 100 percent of our business partners (via the Supplier Code of Conduct). Anti-corruption training has been executed with our board of directors and 54 percent (11,913) of our employees. Aspect: Public Policy GR-SO6 Political Disclosures Aspect: Anti-competitive Behavior GR-SO7 2014 10-K, Note 25 Aspect: Compliance Monsanto conducted an internal review and did not identify any material fines or nonmonetary sanctions for noncompliance with laws and regulations. Additional information is provided in Monsanto’s Form 10-K for the GR-SO8 fiscal year ending August 31, 2014, in Note 25 – Commitments and Contingencies, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Outlook, and the Legal Proceedings sections. Aspect: Supplier Assessment for Impacts on Society Our suppliers are required to complete a computer-based profile that covers a range of sustainability GR-SO9 topics, including social issues. For more information on our approach to assessing our supply chain, see our 2013 Fall Progress Report. Our suppliers are required to complete a computer-based profile that covers a range of sustainability GR-SO10 topics, including social issues. See Improving, Pages 121-122 (Tracking our Progress) and our 2013 Fall Progress Report, Page 11, for information on human rights assessments in countries identified as high risk. Monsanto 2014 Sustainability Report | 158 REPORTING our sustainability strategies, efforts, impact and progress Reporting What Matters Where Impacts Occur • GRI/UNGC SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES GRI INDICATOR LOCATION / DESCRIPTION Aspect: Grievance Mechanisms for Impacts on Society We do not have a formal mechanism that collects this information. We deal with each societal issue on a case-by-case basis and work to resolve it in an agreed-upon way. We have fulltime security at many GR-SO11 of our larger locations to address neighbors’ inquiries or requests. See also, Corporate Governance, Page 134 (Business Conduct Office) Subcategory: Product Responsibility Aspect: Customer Health and Safety G4-PR1 Producing, Pages 34-36 (Confirming the Safety of Biotech Crops), 36-37 (Targeted Control of Weeds and Insects) Monsanto conducted an internal review and did not identify any material incidents of noncompliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning the health and safety impacts of products and services G4-PR2 during their life cycle. Additional information is provided in Monsanto’s Form 10-K for the fiscal year ending August 31, 2014 in Note 25 – Commitments and Contingencies, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Outlook, and the Legal Proceedings sections. Aspect: Product and Services Labeling •• Sourcing of components of the product or service: no •• Content, particularly with regard to substances that might produce an environmental or social impact: yes •• Safe use of the product: yes G4-PR3 •• Disposal of the product and environmental/social impacts: yes Our crop and vegetable seeds and crop protection products are covered by and assessed for compliance with the procedures identified above. Monsanto conducted an internal review and did not identify any material incidents of noncompliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and service information and labeling. G4-PR4 Additional information is provided in Monsanto’s Form 10-K for the fiscal year ending August 31, 2014 in Note 25 – Commitments and Contingencies, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Outlook, and the Legal Proceedings sections. Monsanto 2014 Sustainability Report | 159 REPORTING our sustainability strategies, efforts, impact and progress Reporting What Matters Where Impacts Occur • GRI/UNGC SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES GRI INDICATOR LOCATION / DESCRIPTION Based on a large survey of our farmer customers across a wide range of countries executed each year, both large and small acre farmers who raise row crops and vegetables report the following: high marks G4-PR5 to our seed brand performance, strong satisfaction for biotech trait seed performance and a growing number respond that they would be willing to recommend Monsanto’s products to a friend. Aspect: Marketing Communications Producing, Pages 34-36 (Confirming the Safety of Biotech Crops), 36-37 (Targeted G4-PR6 Control of Weeds and Insects), 37 (Communicating our Views on Food Labeling) Monsanto conducted an internal review and did not identify any material incidents of noncompliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing communications. Additional information is G4-PR7 provided in Monsanto’s Form 10-K for the fiscal year ending August 31, 2014, in Note 25 – Commitments and Contingencies, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Outlook, and the Legal Proceedings sections. Aspect: Customer Privacy G4-PR8 Corporate Governance, Page 136 (Protecting Customer Data ) Aspect: Compliance Monsanto conducted an internal review and did not identify any material fines for noncompliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services. Additional G4-PR9 information is provided in Monsanto’s Form 10-K for the fiscal year ending August 31, 2014, in Note 25 – Commitments and Contingencies, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Outlook, and the Legal Proceedings sections. Monsanto 2014 Sustainability Report | 160 REPORTING our sustainability strategies, efforts, impact and progress Reporting What Matters Where Impacts Occur • GRI/UNGC DISCLOSURES ON MANAGEMENT APPROACH OF MATERIAL ISSUES LOCATION / DESCRIPTION See Pages 10-11 for definitions of each material issue listed below. Product Safety & Stewardship Producing, Pages 34-37 (Stewarding Product Safety) Producing, Pages 21-28 (Growing the Right Amount More Efficiently), Continuous Agriculture Innovations 29-31 (Soil Health: Vital to Farmers, Consumers and the Environment) Producing, Pages 39-46 (Heightening Food and Nutrition Security), 47 (Supporting Global Food Security Rice and Wheat Research: Monsanto’s Beachell-Borlaug International Scholars Program) Water Producing, Pages 32-33 (Driving Water Innovation); Conserving, Pages 50-56 (Protecting and Conserving Water) Farmer Livelihoods Improving, Pages 79-81 (Improving Farmer Livelihoods) Corporate Governance, Pages 128-132 (Our Corporate Governance Framework), Ethical Business Operations 133-136 (Codes of Conduct), 137-139 (Recognizing Integrity) Hello. We are Monsanto., Page 9 (Collaborating with Stakeholders to Grow Enough Food), 12-13 (Promoting Dialogue and Taking Action), 16 (Confronting Tough Issues Head-on) Dialogue, Transparency, Collaboration Producing, Pages 37-38 (Satisfying Peoples’ Quest for Knowledge) Corporate Governance, Page 132 (Engaging with Shareowners); Reporting, Pages 140-147 Producing, Pages 39-46 (Heightening Food and Nutrition Security); Nutrition Improving, Pages 87-91 (Advancing the Food and Nutrition Dialogue) Conserving, Pages 48-71 Environmentally Conscious Operations See also our Environmental Management Guidelines Monsanto 2014 Sustainability Report | 161 REPORTING our sustainability strategies, efforts, impact and progress Reporting What Matters Where Impacts Occur • GRI/UNGC DISCLOSURES ON MANAGEMENT APPROACH OF MATERIAL ISSUES LOCATION / DESCRIPTION Producing, Pages 26-28 (Heralding the Green Data Revolution: The Climate Corporation), 29-31 (Soil Health: Vital to Farmers, Consumers and the Environment), 32-33 (Driving Water Innovation), Climate Change Management 40-42 (Dealing with Drought and Insects in Africa: WEMA) Conserving, Pages 57-60 (Mitigating and Adapting to Climate Change) Improving, Pages 82-83 (Empowering Women and Girls Around the World), 84-86 (Investing in the Future), Local Communities 92-93 (Community Engagement), 97-98 (Serious About Service: Employee Volunteerism at Monsanto) Talent Management Improving, Pages 99-118 (The People of Monsanto) Producing, Page 24 (Researching New Sustainable Solutions for Increasing Productivity and Managing Pests: Biodiversity Agricultural Biologicals); Conserving, Pages 65-70 (Protecting and Preserving the Natural Environment) Producing, Pages 21-28 (Growing the Right Amount More Efficiently), 34-37 (Stewarding Product Technology Innovation & Access Safety), 32-33 (Driving Water Innovation), 39-46 (Heightening Food and Nutrition Security) Youth in Agriculture & Science Improving, Page 80 (Supporting Farming Communities Across America), 84-86 (Investing in the Future) Human Rights Improving, Pages 119-125 (Forging the Way in Human Rights) Improving, Pages 121-122 (Tracking Our Progress); 2013 Fall Progress Report Sustainable Supply Chain (This report focuses on our supply chain) Under various agreements, today we manage several legacy liabilities stemming from former businesses. These matters include product liability suits and environmental cleanup actions that, in most cases, Legacy Matters have nothing to do with our business today. Regardless, we take our commitments seriously and strive to resolve these liabilities responsibly and fully. See our website for more information. Monsanto 2014 Sustainability Report | 162 REPORTING our sustainability strategies, efforts, impact and progress Reporting What Matters Where Impacts Occur • GRI/UNGC UN Global Compact Index THE TEN PRINCIPLES PRINCIPLE LINK / PAGE / REFERENCE / NOTES Human Rights Businesses should support and respect 11 the protection of internationally Improving, Pages 119-125 (Forging the Way in Human Rights) proclaimed human rights. 12 Businesses should make sure that they are Improving, Pages 121-122 (Tracking Our Progress); not complicit in human rights abuses. 2013 Fall Progress Report (This report focuses on our supply chain) Labour Businesses should uphold the freedom of 13 Improving, Page 119 (Our Human Rights Policy); 2013 Fall Progress Report association and the effective recognition (This report focuses on our supply chain); GRI/UNGC, Page 149 (G4-11), 156 (G4-HR4) of the right to collective bargaining. 14 Businesses should uphold the elimination of Our business partner assessments did not identify any instances of forced labor in FY 2014. all forms of forced and compulsory labour. 15 Businesses should uphold the Improving, Page 119 (Our Human Rights Policy), 124-125 (Helping Eradicate effective abolition of child labour. Child Labor); 2013 Fall Progress Report (This report focuses on our supply chain) Businesses should uphold the elimination Improving, Pages 115-118 (Embracing the Power of Diversity & Inclusion), 119 (Our Human Rights 6 of discrimination in respect of employment Policy); Corporate Governance, Page 129 (Board Composition), 134 (Business Conduct Office) and occupation. Environment Businesses should support a precautionary Producing, Pages 34-37 (Stewarding Product Safety), 32-33 (Driving Water Innovation); Conserving, Pages 57-60 7 approach to environmental challenges. (Mitigating and Adapting to Climate Change), 65-70 (Protecting and Preserving the Natural Environment) Businesses should undertake initiatives to 8 promote greater environmental responsibility. Conserving, Pages 48-70 Producing, Pages 21-28 (Growing the Right Amount More Efficiently), 29-31 (Soil Health: Vital To Farmers, Businesses should encourage Consumers and The Environment), 32-33 (Driving Water Innovation); Conserving, Pages 50-56 (Protecting 9 the development and diffusion of and Conserving Water), 59 (Collaborating to Curb Agricultural Greenhouse Gas Emissions), 59-60 environmentally friendly technologies. (Engaging with the Clinton Global Initiative), 65-70 (Protecting and Preserving The Natural Environment) Anti-corruption Businesses should work against Corporate Governance, Pages 133-134 (Codes of Conduct), 137-139 (Recognizing Integrity) 10 corruption in all its forms, See also G4-SO4, Page 158 including extortion and bribery. Monsanto 2014 Sustainability Report | 163 INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE STATEMENT Introduction and objectives of work Bureau Veritas North America, Inc. (BVNA) has been engaged by Monsanto to conduct an independent assurance of selected environmental indicators for Monsanto’s Fiscal Year 2014 (September 1, 2013 to August 31, 2014) to be presented in Monsanto’s 2014 Sustainability Report. This Assurance Statement applies to the environmental indicators listed within the scope of work described below. The determination of the environmental indicators and other information presented in Monsanto’s 2014 Sustainability Report is the sole responsibility of the management of Monsanto. BVNA was not involved in the determination of environmental indicators included in the Report. Our sole responsibility was to provide independent verification of the accuracy of selected information as described below. Scope of work Monsanto requested BVNA to verify the accuracy of the following environmental metrics associated with GRI G4 Environmental Indicators for the Fiscal Year 2014 reporting period: G4-EN3: Energy consumption within the organization G4-EN4: Energy consumption outside of the organization associated with business travel and logistics G4-EN5: Energy Intensity G4-EN8: Total water withdrawal by source G4-EN10: Total volume of water reused and recycled G4-EN15: Direct (Scope 1) Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions G4-EN16: Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions G4-EN17: Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions associated with business travel and logistics G4-EN18: GHG emissions intensity ratio G4-EN21: Other air emissions – NOx, SOx and VOCs G4-EN22: Total process water discharged by destination G4-EN22: Process waste water quality for direct surface water discharges G4-EN24: Total number and volume of significant spills G4-EN29: Significant fines for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations Excluded from the scope of our work is any verification of information relating to:  Other information (e.g., text and data) associated with Monsanto’s 2014 Environmental Sustainability Report that is outside the scope of work Monsanto 2014 Sustainability Report | 164 Monsanto Assurance Statement Page 2  Activities outside the defined verification period of Fiscal Year 2014 Methodology As part of its independent verification, BVNA undertook the following activities: 1. Interviews with relevant personnel of Monsanto regarding data collection and reporting systems; 2. Review of Monsanto’s data and information systems and methodology for collection, aggregation, analysis and internal audit of information used to determine the environmental data; 3. Review of documentary evidence produced by Monsanto; 4. Audit of environmental and energy data traced back to the source for Monsanto facilities located in Oxnard, California, USA; Boone, Iowa, USA; Ankeny, Iowa, USA; Muscatine, Iowa, USA and Chesterfield, Missouri, USA during site visits; 5. Audit of select environmental and energy data traced back to the source for Monsanto facilities located in Sao Jose dos Campos, Brazil; Cachoeira Dourada, Brazil; Soda Springs, Idaho, USA; Kunia, Hawaii, USA; Kihei, Hawaii, USA, Molokai; Hawaii, USA; Rock Springs, Idaho, USA based on information provided remotely and through telephone interviews; and 6. Review of the centralized data, methods for consolidation of site data and site data available in the centralized data management system during a visit to Monsanto’s headquarters location in St. Louis, Missouri, USA. Our assurance work was conducted in accordance with the International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000 and ISO Standard 14064-3 Greenhouse Gases Part 3: Specification with Guidance for the Validation and Verification of Greenhouse Gas Assertions. In accordance with our internal procedures for limited assurance, we use these as our reference standards. The work was planned and carried out to provide data verification to a limited assurance level and we believe it provides an appropriate basis for our conclusions. Our findings On the basis of our methodology and the activities described above:  Nothing has come to our attention to indicate that the reviewed information within the scope of our verification as detailed above is not materially correct.  Nothing has come to our attention to indicate that the reviewed information is not a fair representation of the actual environmental and energy data for Fiscal Year 2014.  It is our opinion that Monsanto has established appropriate systems for the collection, aggregation and analysis of quantitative data within the scope of work specified herein. Monsanto 2014 Sustainability Report | 165 Monsanto Assurance Statement Page 3  A summary of data within the scope of assurance for Fiscal Year 2014 is attached. Statement of independence, impartiality and competence BVNA is part of The Bureau Veritas Group, an independent professional services company that specializes in Quality, Health, Safety, Social and Environmental management with almost 180 years of history in providing independent assurance services, and an annual 2014 revenue of 4.2 Billion Euros. No member of the verification team has a business relationship with Monsanto, its Directors or Managers beyond that required of this assignment. We have conducted this verification independently, and there has been no conflict of interest. BVNA has implemented a Code of Ethics across the business to maintain high ethical standards among staff in their day to day business activities. Attestation: David Reilly, Lead Verifier Trevor Donaghu, Project Reviewer Senior Project Manager Senior Project Manager Bureau Veritas North America, Inc. Bureau Veritas North America, Inc. Costa Mesa, California April 28, 2015 Monsanto 2014 Sustainability Report | 166 Monsanto Assurance Statement Page 4 Environmental Metric Description Value G4-EN3: Energy Consumption within the organization (1000 GJ) 25,100 G4-EN4: Energy Consumption outside of the organization associated with business travel and logistics (1000 GJ) 5,950 G4-EN5 Energy Intensity Ratio (GJ per $ Revenue) 1.58 G4--EN8: Total water withdrawal by source (1000 M3) 964,000 G4EN10: Total volume of water reused and recycled (1000 M3) 374,000 G4-EN15: Total Direct GHG Emissions Source (1000 MT of CO2e) 1,570 G4--EN16: Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions (1000 MT of CO2e) 1,080 G4-EN17: Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions associated with logistics and business travel (1000 MT of CO2e) 443 G4-EN18: Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions intensity ratio (MT CO2e per $ revenue) 0.167 G4-EN21: Other air emissions (MT) Sulfur Oxide (SOx) Emissions, combustion and process 1,610 Nitrous Oxide (NOx) Emissions, combustion and process 3,770 Volatile Organic Compound (VOC) Emissions 94 G4EN22: Total process water discharged by destination (1000 M3) Discharged to Off-site Treatment (e.g., POTW) 1,100 Permitted Discharges to the Environment Subsurface (e.g., deep well injection, leach field) 1,980 Permitted Discharges to the Environment Surface Water (e.g., river) 16,500 G4-EN22: Process waste water quality for direct surface water discharges (MT) BOD 54.0 Nitrate (as N) 53.8 Phosphates (as PO4) 217 Total Suspended Solids (TSS) 63.4 G4-EN24: Total number and volume of significant spills (agency reportable releases) 2 G4-EN29: Significant fines for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations (fines >$100,000) 0 GJ = gigajoule MT = metric ton M3 = cubic meters CO2e = carbon dioxide equivalent Monsanto 2014 Sustainability Report | 167 Trademarks and service marks owned by Monsanto Company and its subsidiaries are italicized throughout this report. All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners. © 2015 Monsanto Company
