To our Stakeholders Tofuture Oy (Tofuture) is a sustainability specialist combining knowledge and technology to help its customers to manage and report their sustainability performance. Tofuture is a registered limited liability company located in Espoo Finland. The company has been established in 1997 and has operations in Nordic countries. Tofuture CSM (Corporate Sustainability Management) helps the customers to improve collecting, analyzing and consolidation of the information needed for sustainability management according to various regulations and standards and for reporting to their stakeholders. Tofuture Oy is an Organizational Stakeholder for GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) and a Certified Training Partner for GRI in the Nordic countries. Tofuture CSM-solution is a GRI G3 and G4 certified solution and fulfills also the requirements for GHG Protocol, UNGC and various other international sustainability related standards and recommendations. Tofuture develops and improves sustainability through consulting, training and software services to its customers. Tofuture CSM-solution is used by companies acting in more than 80 countries in services, logistics and retail and in various industries like energy, metal and engineering, chemical and forest industries. The focus on sustainability management covers monitoring and managing the impacts caused directly or in the value chain of our customers. The CSM-solution is offered as a service (SaaS) and hosted by an outside professional service provider. We have focused in the software development. In addition to our own personnel we have a network of consultants, resellers and specialists to serve the customers with consulting, implementing the solution and developing their sustainability reporting. Tofuture CSM is the market leader in Finland having more than 25 % of the market value of Helsinki stock exchange list of companies as its customers. In addition to listed companies we deliver services to several non-listed or state owned organizations. Based on our role and market share on home markets we have the responsibility to maintain and develop our services so that our customers can manage and report their sustainability performance according to evolving sustainability management and reporting needs and requirements. Tofuture is building partner network for CSM sales and support services in neighboring countries and in Central Europe. We require the same standards and performance from our partners as for our own operations. Tofuture Oy, Communication on Progress 7th March 2015 Sustainability is moving to mainstream in organization management and reporting. International standards and their implementation are moving forward. The ten principles of UNGC and The six Principles of PRI for responsible investment are generally accepted. Social and environmental issues are more dominant and their economic implications better understood. European Union Directive for non-financial and diversity information requires bigger companies to report. The IIRC (Integrated reporting) is taking its shape. Various local or country specific rules and regulations increase the demand for sustainability management and reporting. Tofuture CSM is a GRI G4 certified solution and offers a solid base for all sustainability management and reporting. Tofuture Oy is committed to follow the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. The 10 principles Global Compact is based upon, are integrated in our company culture and policy. In addition, the principles are defining the base for our professional services. Tofuture Oy joined the UN Global Compact in 2010. For a small consulting and software company this means taking good care of our employees and to protect their rights and well-being. In our own operations we focus on energy efficiency in our offices, efficient processes and business travel. The greater impact to the global sustainability is created through our services. Therefore, we focus both on our internal responsibility, and on external impact that we are able to generate with our CSM-SaaS software services supporting the ten principles. Espoo, Finland, March 7th 2015 Veli Kalle Tavakka CEO, Tofuture Oy Tofuture Oy, Communication on Progress 7th March 2015 Global Compact Principles What it means for Tofuture Oy Targets and ambitions Human rights Principle 1: Support and respect the Human rights and occupational health and We continue to develop our health and safety protection of internationally proclaimed human safety policies are incorporated into Tofuture’s practices though policies and training, and rights and daily practices. We provide timely and accurate improve the well-being of our employees. In payment of wages, provision of different types addition, we encourage and support our of employment leave and medical benefits for employees to develop their skills and Principle 2: Make sure that we are not all our employees. competencies through participating on seminars complicit in human right abuses and working groups related on IT and/or sustainability. We also consult and train our clients to develop Tofuture offers better terms in occupational measure and manage their human right topics healthcare, insurance and training opportunities and to report on those to stakeholders. Our than the local legislation or the association software assist our clients to manage and agreements require. measure their practices related to human rights. The comparable amount of sickness leave has reduced by 37 % from 2013 to 2014. The We strictly resist any kind of human rights amount of time for taking care of the children at abuses. home when they are ill has remained on the same level as in earlier years. We develop our training, consulting and the software to meet the emerging and evolving needs of clients to better understand, measure and manage the impacts of their operations in the fields of human rights. Furthermore, through our services, our clients can have a better management and control to their supply chain to resist human right abuses. Tofuture Oy, Communication on Progress 7th March 2015 Global Compact Principles What it means for Tofuture Oy Targets and ambitions Labour standards Principle 3: the freedom of association and the We operate in the Nordic countries and obey the We obey the local legislation in all our effective recognition of the right to collective local legislation related to labour standards. We operations, and resist any kind of bargaining respect our employees' freedom of association discrimination or labour abuses. and labour agreements, and strictly resist any abuse of labour. We grant the freedom of association for our personnel. Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of We provide equal opportunities for every forced and compulsory labour individual that joins our company. We accept We do not use any form of forced, compulsory individual regardless of gender, age, religion or or child labour, and do not accept any kind of nationality. discrimination in our own operations. Principle 5: the effective abolition of child We request the same standard and quality labour and We also consult and train our clients to develop measure and manage their practices related to regarding personnel policies and practices labour standards. Our software is used by our from our partners who support the customers in sensitive business, including rawsustainability consulting, certified GRI training, Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination material sourcing globally, food, energy and CSM-SaaS implementation and support for the in employment and occupation. wood harvesting. The software enables the customers. customer companies to measure and manage We develop our training, consulting and the impacts of their operations and also follow-up CSM-software to meet the evolving needs of the performance of the supply-chain. clients to better understand, measure and manage the impacts of their operations in the fields of labour standards. We will increasingly focus on the aspects related to supply chain management in a responsible manner. Tofuture Oy, Communication on Progress 7th March 2015 Global Compact Principles What it means for Tofuture Oy Targets and ambitions Environment Principle 7: support precautionary approach to Tofuture encourages its employees to respect the We continue to work to mitigate our negative environmental challenges; environment, and to use natural resources in a impact on the environment through efficient responsible and efficient manner. use of energy and materials in our operations. We consider environmental implications for all We have moved in to a modern office building Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote our decisions and strategic choices. with excellent commuting opportunities and environmental responsibility; and also reduced our office space by 30 % We evaluate our performance by following compared with the previous year. selected key performance indicators. l Principle 9: encourage the development and We save the use of materials. All waste is diffusion of environmentally friendly sorted and collected separately for proper technologies. processing The use of internet meetings has reduced the need to travel significantly, 63 % fewer days and 61% less driven kilometers per person for business travel in 2014 than in 2013. Car traveling resulted only 573 kg CO2 equivalent emissions in 2014. The use of partner network has improved our customer service and sales. At the same time it has also enabled us to reduce the amount of flying. Tofuture‘s own flying kilometers reduced by 30 % per person in 2014 compared to previous year. Our carbon footprint for air travel was 2788 kg CO2 equivalent. Tofuture Oy, Communication on Progress 7th March 2015 Global Compact Principles What it means for Tofuture Oy Targets and ambitions Environment Principle 7: support precautionary approach to Even more important than our own activities Tofuture is the first certified training partner environmental challenges; regarding environmental responsibility are, for GRI organization in the Nordic countries however, our training and software services that and has renewed the certified training partner encourage and assist our clients to take greater license. Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote responsibility for the environment. We develop our training services and the environmental responsibility; and We train our clients to measure, manage and software to meet the needs of our clients to develop their sustainability performance. better understand, measure and manage the Together with our clients, we have a great impacts of their operations on the Principle 9: encourage the development and indirect impact on the environment though environment. diffusion of environmentally friendly reducing the negative impacts and increasing technologies. environmentally positive solutions. By supporting UNGC, GHG Protocol, PRI for responsible investment, CDP for ESG reporting and other investor related standards and recommendations, we make it easier for the customers to do their part in developing sustainable environmental policies and practices and in measuring their performance development. CSM has been developed also to help to manage and monitor environmental impacts occurring in the supply chain both upstream and downstream. Tofuture Oy, Communication on Progress 7th March 2015 Global Compact Principles What it means for Tofuture Oy Targets and ambitions Anti-corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against Tofuture does not accept any kind of corruption We resist any kind of corruption in our own corruption in all its forms, including extortion in its own or its partners’ operations. operations and also including our partners’ and bribery activities. There have not been any reported or even suspected cases regarding corruption in the company’s history. We also encourage and support our customers to avoid corruption in their businesses. Tofuture CSM SaaS solution is supporting the EU directive for non-financial and diversity information, the UN and OECD guidelines for internationally operating companies. The scalability and configurability of the CSM system makes it easier for our customers to organize the needed processes internally and for their supply chain to prevent corruption in their operations. Tofuture Oy, Communication on Progress 7th March 2015
