UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2014 Company name Pfizer Corporation Austria Gesellschaft m.b.H. Address Floridsdorfer Hauptstrasse 1, 1210 Wien Country Austria Membership date 2009/04/14 Number of employees 258 Contact name Robin Rumler Contact position CEO Sector Pharmaceuticals & Biotechnology Date July 2015 Brief description of nature of business Pfizer Corporation Austria is the Austrian branch of Pfizer Inc., one of the world’s leading suppliers of innovative medicines in the field of human medicine. Pfizer began operating in Vienna, Austria in 1956. Since then, Pfizer has contributed significantly to economic and workforce development, invested heavily in innovation and research to support the development of new medicines, and given back to the community through new partnerships and philanthropic ventures. Located in Vienna, Floridotower, Pfizer has been one of the leading pharmaceutical companies in Austria and is a reliable partner for patients, doctors, pharmacists, and the healthcare system. More than 100 Pfizer products are available on the Austrian market. Our portfolio includes medicines and vaccines as well as many of the world‘s best known consumer health care products. As of December 2014, Pfizer Inc. has acquired a manufacturing facility in Orth an der Donau. Our mission Good health is vital to all of us, and finding sustainable solutions to the most pressing health care challenges of our world cannot wait. That's why we at Pfizer are committed to applying science and our global resources to improve health and well-being at every stage of life. We strive to provide access to safe, effective and affordable medicines and related healthcare services to the people who need them. Our strategic imperatives 1. Innovate and lead: Improve Pfizer's ability to innovate in biomedical R&D and develop a new generation of high value, highly differentiated medicines and vaccines. 2. Maximize Value: Invest and allocate our resources in ways that create the greatest long-term returns for our shareholders. 3. Earn Greater Respect: Earn society's respect by generating breakthrough therapies, improving access, expanding the dialogue on healthcare and acting as a responsible corporate citizen. 4. Own Our Culture: Build and sustain a culture where colleagues view themselves as owners, generating new ideas, dealing with problems in a straightforward way, investing in open and candid conversations and working as teammates on challenges and opportunities. Statement of support Ladies and Gentlemen, We have made it our responsibility to make a significant contribution to a healthier world with our business activities. We accomplish this by conducting intensive research with the goal of developing new, innovative therapies for illnesses such as rheumatism, cancer and pain. But we also act responsibly and take accountability to our stakeholders, such as our employees, customers and business partners very seriously. Not only on a global level, but also here in Austria our actions and activities are governed by the principles of UN Global Compact, with Pfizer Inc. being a founding member and with Pfizer Austria having become a member of its own in 2009. With that we commit ourselves to implement the principles and obj ectives of the UN Global Compact in our business strategies and day-to-day operations on a long-term basis and to report on our progress. It fills me with pride to see what we have already accomplished in recent years. For instance, we have relocated our central drug warehouse from Germany to Austria in order to shorten transport routes and have been re-audited as a family-friendly employer in 2014. In October we have celebrated the 10th Anniversary of the Pfizer Kids Initiative, a project that supports traumatized children and adolescents, who are threatened or affected by poverty, violence and suffering, to overcome their problems in daily life. As of December 2014, Pfizer has acquired a manufacturing facility in Orth an der Donau, Austria. At the manufacturing site in Orth an der Donau Pfizer produces the vaccines FSME Immun® (tick -borne encephalitis) and NeisVac® (meningococcus C) for the worldwide demand. I am personally convinced that what makes us successful as a company is the combination of innovative strength and responsible actions. Therefore, I assure you that we will continue to pursue this direction in the future. We have already set ourselves ambitious goals for the near future. Sincerely yours, Prof. Dr. Robin Rumler Country Manager Pfizer Austria Facts & Figures 2014 Business 2 business segments Human Health & OTC (over the counter) ® ® ® ® ® Top 5 products Enbrel , Lyrica , Zyvoxid , Fragmin and Vfend R&D about 20 significant clinical trials in Austria Facts & Figures EUR Revenues/net turnover 199.095.755,31 Operating income 4.992.961,84 Taxes on income and profit 771.813,10 Annual net profit 4.221.148,74 Total assets 142.810.955,84 Personnel expenditure 23.630.059,06 Headcount (employees and contractors) 258 Social expenditures EUR Social operating expenses 648.549,03 Drug donations 11.251,95 Social sponsoring 15.062,44 Donations 103.450 thereof support for patient organizations 51.350 Workforce structure Pfizer Contractor Overall number of staff: 258 205 53 Full-time staff 154 44 Part-time staff 37 9 Staff exempted from ordinary duties 2 Staff on leave of absence (maternity leave) 12 4 Number of male staff 61 19 Percentage male staff 30% 36% Number of female staff 144 34 Percentage female staff 70% 64% Healthcare m easures Number of vaccinations against tick-borne encephalitis 25 Number of influenza immunizations 62 Number of medical health checkups 71 First Aid refresher course 15 Total number of sickness leave days 1459 Average number of sickness leaves per employee 5.6 Handicapped persons 5 Hom e office days Number of home office days used 2207 Consum ption of resources Electric pow er in kWh 394.685 Air-conditioning/cooling in kWh 146.366 Heating in kWh 167.256 Water consumption in m³* 1617,45 Paper consumption in sheets 957.500 CO2 consumption by paper in tons** 5,1 Data source for electricity: Wien Energie GmbH (Data rounded to whole numbers); data source for cooling, heating and water: 2011: Strauss & Partner Immobilien GmbH, 2012 and 2013: PORREAL Immobilien Management GmbH; data source for paper consumption: Xerox supplies-center. *Does not correspond to the actual water consumption by Pfizer Austria as water consumption at the company site is subdivided proportionally by of f ice surf ace area. ** Basis f or calculation: Sustainability calculator www.initiativ e-papier.de Mobility data Fuel consumption in liters 194,595.27 Share of gasoline 6,553.03 Share of diesel 188,042.24 Total costs in Euro 262,832.94 Overall CO2 emission of Pfizer car fleet in tons 525.41 Average CO2 emission of Pfizer car fleet in g/km 125.9 Job tickets (free-of-charge annual pass for Vienna Public 41 Transport System) Making a Difference: CSR Highlights 2014 Pfizer Kids Initiative – 10th Anniversary Many families in Austria are affected by poverty, homelessness, and stressful life situations – w hich can cause massive mental stress in children. In 2004 together w ith Caritas of the Archdiocese of Vienna, Pfizer Austria started to help close this gap under the motto “Hope for Tomorrow – making life w orth living again”. The project named “Pfizer Kids” celebrated its 10th anniversary in October 2014. The core objective of this initiative is to support traumatized children and adolescents, w ho are threatened or affected by poverty, violence and suffering, to overcome their problems in daily life. With approximately 10,700 therapy hours since its start, the project has helped 100 boys and girls overcome their traumatic and psychological stress factors. On average, the “Pfizer Kids” undergo 2.5 years of therapy; how ever, the duration of therapy is based on the diagnosis, available existing resources, and progress of the therapy. Corporate Volunteering Days Pfizer Austria is encouraging its employees to give back to their communities by volunteering to help those in need. Main partner in this initiative is Caritas Vienna. Tw o to four Pfizer employees can help out once a month in social institutions. For this, they are released from their w ork duties, but continue to receive their salary. There is a w ide range of activities that employees can choose from including for example, trips w ith young adults w ho suffer from mental or physical impairments; serving meals to homeless people or lending a hand in furnishing new apartments or supporting activities at the Caritas’ w omen’s residence. In 2014 Pfizer Austria employees have volunteered a total of 136 hours. Fam ily-Friendly Certified Since 2009, Pfizer Austria has been certified as a family-friendly company. The project initiated in 2008, w as again recognized in 2014 by the Austrian Federal Ministry for Family and Youth for the second time w ith the full certificate. The company’s commitment to the compatibility of career and family convinced the external expert in the implementation and the high degree of target achievement. Sustainability Reporting Pfizer is the first pharmaceutical company in Austria to report sustainability in line w ith the Global Reporting Initiative Guidelines, since 2009, as validated by an external auditor. Three reports are available under: http://w w w .pfizer.at/verantw ortung/nachhaltigkeitsberichte.html Support of Bicyclists Pfizer Austria supports employees using their bicycles to go to w ork (show ers, special bicycle parking space) and emphasizes this commitment by annual participation in the campaign „Österreich radelt zur Arbeit“(„Austria Cycles to Work“). This is a country-w ide campaign enhancing environmental aw areness and promoting increased use of bicycles. In 2014, 11 Pfizer colleagues took part in this campaign covering an overall 1.515,9 kilometers by bicycle. As compared to the same distance driven by car 241 kg carbon dioxide (CO2), 113,7 g nitrogen oxides (NO2) and 106,1 g fine particulate could be avoided. Key Investments and Collaborations 2014 Manufacturing Innovation As of December 2014, Pfizer has acquired a manufacturing facility in Orth an der Donau, Austria. At the manufacturing site in Orth an der Donau Pfizer produces the vaccines FSME Immun® (tick-borne encephalitis) and NeisVac® (meningococcus C) for the w orldw ide demand. Currently, ~230 employees w ork in Orth an der Donau. Prof. Dr. Robin Rumler is the Country Manager for the site, PGS Orth Site Lead is Martin Dallinger. Rahm enpharm avertrag Since 2008, Pfizer Austria, as part of the Austrian Pharmaceutical Industry Association (PHARMIG), supports the social sick funds to maintain the high quality medical care in Austria by paying a revenue refundment. Since then, the pharmaceutical industry has contributed € 82 Million, w here € 62 Million w as specifically dedicated for Children Health Related Prevention Programs. In 2014, Pfizer has invested more than € 1 Million. As president of PHARMIG, Pfizer Austria’s Country Manager Prof. Dr. Robin Rumler is part of the advisory board determining w hich Prevention Programs for children w ill be funded in the future. Kw idza Pharm adistribution Gm bH To meet the logistical challenges of the future, Pfizer Austria changed its distribution strategy. For a future-oriented, flexible, environmentally friendly and customer-oriented supply chain, the products stored in tw o former w arehouses (Karlsruhe/ Germany and Vienna) w ere merged into one new Logistics Service Provider at the end of September 2014. Warehousing and Distribution is now managed via Kw izda Pharmadistribution GmbH in Leopoldsdorf close to Vienna. Unrestricted Medical Research Grants For several years Pfizer Austria has encouraged medical research in Austria, both through supporting several specific research projects as w ell as through the promotion of science prizes such as the ÖGR-Pfizer Science Aw ards from the Austrian Society of Rheumatology & Rehabilitation and the Heinrich-Auspitz Aw ard from the Austrian Society of Dermatology & Venerology. Total 2014: 22.000 EUR Patient Organizations Pfizer Austria collaborates w ith several social initiatives and projects, especially in collaborations w ith patient organizations. A list of supported patient organizations is available at w w w .pfizer.at/patienten/ patientenorganisationen.html. Total amount in 2014: 51.350 EUR The 10 Principles – Our Progress 2014 Principles Commitment Systems Goals achieved Principle 1 Pfizer fully supports the principles  Corporate  The Works Council ensures and verifies absence of any violations of Businesses should support and in United Nations Declaration on principle human rights. respect the protection of internationally Human Rights and the  Code of  Continuous sensitization of employees to recognize any abuses and proclaimed human rights. International Labour Organization Business empower all employees to report and stop any violations. Declaration on Fundamental Conduct (Pfizer  Human rights Principle 2 The Fair Play Network, a part of the global Diversity & Inclusion Group Businesses should make sure that Principles and Rights at Work, and Blue Book) consists of a team of Pfizer colleagues supporting and promoting they are not complicit in human rights strives to uphold human rights in  UN Global equal chances and opportunities for all qualified office staff and field abuses. all our business activities. Compact force and the compatibility of family and career. Pfizer Austria also requires its Principles business partners to observe human rights. Principle 3 Equal opportunities and fairness in  Company  Continue “OWN IT!” the initiative for culture change with the goal of Businesses should uphold the freedom the workplace are fundamental guidelines and promoting a culture of responsibility within Pfizer. of association and the effective features of Pfizer Austria‘s Pfizer  Re-certification of “audit berufundfamilie:” which honors Pfizer Austria recognition of the right to collective business activity. We undertake to Imperatives as a family-friendly employer. bargaining. show respect, honesty and  Code of  Home Office: online survey for all employees regarding the use and Principle 4 fairness to one another. We shall Business satisfaction of home office/flex work Businesses should support the do this regardless of ethnic Conduct (Pfizer elimination of all forms of forced and background, religion, sexual Blue Book)  Expansion of virtual jobs (holding international positions without always having to change countries). compulsory labour. orientation, age, gender, family  Pfizer Austria Principle 5 status, pregnancy, illness or leadership  Support of Pfizer employees in virtual positions through targeted Businesses should support the disability. We guarantee fair charter training sessions. effective abolition of child labour. conditions for all employees,  Pfizer OWN IT! applicants and business partners. Labour Principle 6 Initiative Businesses should support the Strict sanctions are stipulated in elimination of discrimination in respect the event of any violations of our of employment and occupation. principles. Principle 7 One of Pfizer‘s key aims is to  UN Global  Relocation of the central warehouse for Pfizer Austria from Karlsruhe Businesses should support a operate in an environmentally Compact (Germany) to Austria in order to optimize the pathways to the precautionary approach to friendly way and to continuously Principles customer. environmental challenges. reduce its carbon footprint. Pfizer  Labelling of products upon supply from the Austrian central warehouse Principle 8 Austria is focusing in particular on  Pfizer’s Green for increasing awareness (eg. Caution: Cytoxic Substances, Caution: Journey Businesses should undertake reducing its CO2 emissions, Glass) Program initiatives to promote greater developing environmentally  Further optimization of e-invoicing (electronic invoicing) for the public environmental responsibility. friendly working processes and sector Environment Principle 9 reducing waste.  Particular products packed in which the seals can no longer be Businesses should encourage the reverted to its original state after the initial opening. Goal: Preventing development and diffusion of manipulation of the content environmentally friendly technologies.  Promoting the use of environmentally friendly transportation for the commute to work (“Radelt zur Arbeit”)  Continuation of the “job ticket” for Pfizer employees Principle 10 Preventing corruption and  Pfizer  Implementation of the EFPIA and PHARMIG guidelines regarding the Businesses should work against violations against fair competition Compliance distribution of advertising aids to medical specialists: Since January 1, corruption in all its forms, including is a top priority at Pfizer Austria. System 2014, Pfizer Austria refrains from the distribution of advertising aids to Anti-corruption extortion and bribery. Transparency and compliance with  Code of physicians and members of expert groups. relevant laws, regulations and Business  Gradual implementation of the new PHARMIG Guidelines of Conduct industry guidelines are key Conduct (Pfizer with regard to the disclosure of benefits and remuneration for components of our corporate Blue Book) physicians/members of expert groups. These payments will be policy.  Pharmig Code published beginning in 2016 but retroactively for 2015. of Conduct  Regular publication of all support services and donations to patient organizations and self-help groups Actions planned in 2014 for 2015/16 Human rights Goals Measure Status LGBT Increased focus and building of awareness for the topic of LGBT (Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual and Planned for 2015 Transgender) and increased networking with the European and international OPEN network within Pfizer Labour Goals Measure Status Corporate Culture Continue “OWN IT!” the initiative for culture change at Pfizer Ongoing Developing, experiencing and „living” ONE Pfizer culture, e.g. with joint activities for the two Planned for 2015 Austrian sites with regard to staff, e.g. joint Christmas celebrations Family-friendly Implementation of a Step-by-Step-Guide to facilitate reintegration into the workplace after a leave Planned for 2015 Personnel Policies Increasing Increase of meal subsidy from 3,80 EUR to 4,40 EUR per day Planned for 2015 Employee satisfaction Health Promotion Creation of additional measures for corporate health promotion on the basis of a survey to Planned for 2016 evaluate work-related physical and emotional stress factors in 2013. Development of additional services for corporate health support based on the survey for the Planned for 2016 evaluation of work-related physical and psychological stress in the year 2015 in close cooperation with EHS Introduction of free-of-charge vaccinations not only for employees, but also for their family Under review 2015 members for the full portfolio of the company’s vaccines Personnel Implementation of a new mentoring program and Mentor Match Tool: Comprehensive Planned for 2015 Dev elopment information regarding the mentoring program of Pfizer and creating access to the program for all employees Support of Pfizer employees in virtual positions through targeted training sessions ongoing Work-Life-Balance Assessment whether providers of „social or family“ services, e.g. „consentiv“ as partner for the Under evaluation and PFM Orth an der Donau can be offered as additional support service for the staff possible implementation in 2015, as needed Environment Goals Measure Status Green Behav iour Increase of awareness/focus of information on the topic of disposal of chemical substances Planned for 2015 Increase of awareness/focus of information on the topic of disposal of drug products Planned for 2015 Information focus/campaign for employees to save energy, water “Wir sparen” Planned for 2015 Implementation of e-invoicing (electronic invoicing) for wholesalers and public sector Planned for 2015/16 Green office Audit Energy efficiency Planned for 2015 Conversion to electronic pay slips: Implemented for PMA employees. Planned for 2015 Green Transport Continual adaptation and development of car pool policy to ensure use of the newest vehicle Planned for 2015/16 models to be obtained also providing for the most state -of-the-art technologies for ensuring CO 2 output reduction and fuel economy. Expansion of fuel efficiency training. Planned for 2016 Promoting the use of environmentally friendly transportation for the commute to work Ongoing/PMA planned for 2015 Evaluation of wholesalers/ordering processes Optimization of delivery and ordering frequency Planned for 2016 & building of appropriate awareness Anti-corruption Goals Measure Status Transparency Regular publication of all support services and donations to patient organizations and self-help Ongoing since 2010 groups. Implementation of the new EFPIA/PHARMIG Guidelines of Conduct with regard to the disclosure Planned for 2015/ go of benefits and remuneration for physicians/ members of expert groups. These payments will be live 2016 published beginning in 2016 but retroactively for 2015. Publication of Pfizer lobbyists in the Austrian lobbying and stakeholder registry Update planned for 2015 Compliance Implementation of the EFPIA and PHARMIG guidelines regarding the distribution of advertising Gradual aids to medical specialists: Since January 1, 2014, Pfizer Austria refrains from the distribution of implementation, goadvertising aids to health care professionals. live planned for 2016 Updating and expansion of the “Pfizer Blue Book”. Planned for 2015 Optimization and a more transparent structure of the Pfizer anti-corruption guideline: the existing Planned for 2015/16 “Pfizer anti-corruption policy” and the guideline “Global conduct for collaboration with physicians” will be combined into a new policy, called MAPP (My Anti -Corruption Policy and Procedure). Likewise, systems and processes will be structured more transparently in order to promote integrity among employees. Establishment of a “Whistle blowing Compliance Helpline”: establishment of a hotline that Planned for 2015 enables employees to communicate any type of concern, problem or suggestion. (subject to approval by Data Protection Commission) Society and social responsibility Goals Measure Status Corporate Extension of facilities that participate in the corporate volunteering Program Planned for 2015 Volunteering Employee survey regarding the Corporate Volunteering Days & continued development of the Planned for 2015 initiative. Expansion: Secondments & transfer of know-how Maintenance of Maintenance of long-term collaboration with social establishments such as Caritas and the ongoing partnerships Austrian Youth Red Cross. CSR Extension of sustainability management (quarterly CSR Team meetings, internal workshop on Planned for 2015 sustainability strategies, introduction of ISO 26000) Reporting Sustainability Report according to GRI 4 Planned for 2016 CSR Stakeholder survey on Materiality Matrix Planned for 2015 Health-related Expansion of digital information options Planned for 2015/16 Measures and Support of Patients Impact Introduction of impact measurement for measuring the effects of our social activities on society. Planned for 2016 Measurement Products & Drug Safety Goals Measure Status Product and Drug Improved education on the subject of falsified medicines including an online information focus in Planned for 2015 Safety Austria. In the context of the EU Falsified Medicines Directive: Addition of a 2D safety code to all Pfizer Partial implementation, product packaging by 2018/19 that will facilitate identification and traceability of each individual go live planned for 18 packaging. This will prevent falsified medicines in the legal distribution chain. Introduction of packaging in which the seals can no longer be reverted to its original state after Partial implementation, the initial opening. Goal: Preventing manipulation of the content go live planned for 2018/19 Labelling of products upon supply from the Austrian central warehouse for increasing awareness Ongoing (eg. Caution: Cytoxic Substances, Caution: Glass) Continued Creation of new, digital information and communication channels for our products in addition to Ongoing expansion of the established channels via e-mail (with corresponding agreement by physicians) and digital information expansion of Tele-Detailing (Online discussion with sales representative) options Expansion of Implementation of pfizermed.at, a platform for healthcare professionals Planned for 2015 Information Multilingual product information leaflets for patient information / patient education Offers for Dialog Stakeholder survey on service offers of > www.pfizer.at Planned for 2015 Groups Expansion of pfizermed.at with the aim of providing healthcare professionals continually with Planned for 2015/16 updated product information, further training and patient material regardless of time and place (optimization of user surface, usability tests) Expansion of the Webinar channels for providing information/training and education with sight Planned for 2015/16 and sound
