Social Responsibility Report Company name: JSC “Švyturys-Utenos alus” Country: Lithuania Sector: production and sales of beer, cider, soft drinks, alcoholic drinks and cocktails The report is presented for the year 2014. 1 2 6 M ES SA 7 GE AB FR OU OM T TH 8 JS E JS C CE C “Š O “Š VY VY TU 9 TU RY JS C RY S“Š SUT VY UT EN 11 TU EN OS SO RY OS CI SAL AL UT AL US 17 RE EN US ” SO SP O ”B CI ON S US AL SI B AL IN RE US ES 23 SP IL I ”S S SO TY OC PH CI ON AN IA YL 25 AL SI B D LR OS RE IL I IT OP SO SP TY S ES PO HY CI ON RE AN Content AL LA NS SI B D TI IB RE IL I W ON IL I SP TY OR TY ON AN K TO PO EN SO SI B D VI CI LIC IL I EN RO ET Y TY VI RO NM Y AN D NM EN T FI EN GH T T AG PR AI OT NS EC T T IO CO R N RU PT IO N 4 MESSAGE FROM THE CEO It has been for the seventh time already that JSC “Švyturys-Utenos alus” presents its social responsibility actions report for the public consideration as well as to the United Nations Global Compact organization. We are seeking to be the leading company not only in the beverage industry, but also with regard to social responsibility. We also want to be an example to other Lithuanian companies, demonstrating that social responsibility and profitable business can be perfectly compatible. The environment in which it operates has always been important for JSC “Švyturys-Utenos alus”. We pay the utmost of our attention towards the ecological solutions not only within our working environment at the breweries, but also taking care of nature and environment of our communities. For example, we contributed to the Curonian Spit forest conservation, after its devastation and ravage caused by fire. This way we not only keep financing the social projects, but also make them kind of an internal culture, at the same time encouraging all staff of the company to get involved into this. We also support young talents of our country, a variety of cultural and social initiatives. We are glad to support the strongest Lithuanian basketball team – “Žalgiris” and also basketball teams “Juventus” and “Neptunas” – from the cities which are important to us – Utena and Klaipėda, the country’s national basketball team too. The social report of JSC “Švyturys-Utenos alus” has been prepared in Rolandas Viršilas accordance with the global agreement principles of the United Nations General Manager of JSC “Švyturys-Utenos alus” “Global Compact” organization, while the principles covering the protection of human rights , improvement of employee relations, environmental sustainability and the fight against corruption. 5 6 ABOUT JSC “ŠVYTURYS– JSC “Švyturys-Utenos UTENOS ALUS” alus” BUSINESS PHYLOSOPHY Mission Provide people with the opportunity to enjoy the best drinks. Vision Be Lithuanian beverage market leader with the strongest brands, representing Lithuania in the world with the maximum use of the distributional network and ensuring the highest level of management. The main shareholder of JSC “Švyturys-Utenos alus” is the Danish company “Švyturys-Utenos alus” a step ahead while satisfying the needs of “Carlsberg”, which acquired the major part of the leading Lithuanian breweries’ shares in 1999. “Carlsberg” has shared its outstanding long term experience, customers and consumers, using modern technologies and introducing upgraded the company, increased production capacity, raising the skills of the innovations to the market. “Švyturys-Utenos alus” a desirabler employer staff, invested into quality improvement of the product. and most reliable business partner. Sales volume of Lithuania’s beverage industry leader “Švyturys-Utenos alus” as of the year 2014 was 185.06 million litres of beer and this made 6.8 % more than in 2013. The company’s turnover amounted to 142.01 million. EUR and was 4 % higher compared to 2013. The company remains the strongest amongst beer and cider categories in Lithuania. Values In 2014 JSC “Švyturys-Utenos alus” paid special attention towards biggest • We focus on customers brands – “Švyturys” and “Utena” beer. The “Švyturys” image has been reinforced, its main features have been identified, the “Utena” beer brand • We are stronger together positioning has been renewed. The “Brick by Brick” project attracted special attention and had great success, showing the development of the craft beer • We have the power of creating changes culture in Lithuania. In 2014 “Švyturys” Brewery said its 230 year anniversary. For this occasion “J.W. Reincke” – the special beer dedicated to the founder of • We are socially responsible the brewery – was produced. • We have great passion – to win Production volumes of JSC “Švyturys-Utenos alus” Production of beer and other Year beverages (mln. litres) 2013 173,34 2014 185,06 7 8 JSC “ŠVYTURYS-UTENOS ALUS” SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY POLICY JSC “Švyturys-Utenos Alus” , in accordance with “Carlsberg’s” corporate responsibility principles, carries out its activities in a responsible manner and towards the community, employees, partners and other subjects and persons of concern, adheres to high standards of fairness, decency and safe working conditions. This report is based on 10 principles of the Global Settlement, the Global Reporting and “Carlsberg” Group guidelines. Ten principles of the Global Settlement: Businesses should support and respect international human rights protection within Principle 1: their sphere of influence; Principle 2: The aim is to ensure that businesses are not complicit in human rights abuses; Businesses should uphold the freedom of associations and ensure the recognition Principle 3: of the right to the effective collective bargaining; Principle 4: The aim is to eliminate any of forced and compulsory work; Principle 5: The aim is to eliminate child work; Principle 6: The aim is to eliminate discrimination, related to employment and profession; Businesses should support the prevention programmes, ensuring environment Principle 7: protection; Principle 8: Businesses should take initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; Businesses should promote the environment friendly technology development Principle 9: and pervasion; Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms (including against Principle 10: extortion and bribery). [http://www.unglobalcompact.org/aboutTheGC/TheTenPrinciples/index.html] 9 10 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AND ITS RELATION TO SOCIETY Social responsibility issue to JSC “ŠvyturysIn 2014 “Švyturys-Utenos alus” products Utenos alus” means the important were awarded the most prestigious European ongoing company policy, which is planned taste and quality prize of “iTQi Superior Taste strategically, taking into consideration Award”. Connoisseurs jury “Utena Classic”, opinions of various communities and subjects “Švyturio Extra” and “Švyturio Baltas” has or persons of concern. given the beer the highest three-star-rating. Traditional collection beer types such as Klaipeda and Utena breweries are open “Baltija” and “Old Port Ale” produced at to the public and the modern educational “Švyturys” brewery have also won the brewing centre is operating in Utena. In 2014 awards at the ceremony. during the educational program “Transparent quality” the centre was visited by over 8 In 2014 “Švyturio Extra” beer earned thousand of visitors. worldwide recognition. This beer was the recipient of gold medal in Lager category Since 2013 JSC “Švyturys-Utenos alus” has during “World Beer Awards” and recognised been arranging its activities in accordance as the best Dortmunder style beer in Europe. with its developed model of social organization of business and that is the The company is open to customers – if model “L3”: the company purchases most of having noticed any irregularities about the the raw materials, goods and services from products consumers may report it on the Lithuanian suppliers, thereby contributing free quality line. to the country’s long-term sustainable economy growth. Implementation of business Consumer related issues model “L3” allows maximum use of the Lithuanian economy resources, promoting the In 2014 “Švyturys-Utenos alus” advertising investment in local communities, creating jobs was further developed in accordance with and stimulating sustainable development, self-regulated honour code of the Lithuanian reducing the impact on the environment. Brewers Guild. Based on the principles of responsibility, advertisements did not appear Products and Quality showing people who are younger than 25, non-alcoholic beer and cider ads have “Švyturys-Utenos alus” is very much appeared no earlier than at 10 p.m. Prior to concerned about the product quality presenting the advertising to be produced, consistently invests in the production and the preventive consultations were received manufacturing processes. from Drug, Tobacco and Alcohol Control Department (Lith. Abbrev. NTAKD) During 2014 “Utena” brewery continued investment in the quality of beer (brewery In 2014 “Švyturys-Utenos alus” together meets the ISO 9001 quality standards) and with Lithuanian Brewers Guild initiated the presentation standards. They allowed the social responsibility campaign “Drunk Driver brewery significantly expand part of the beer Respond or Ignore?”. During this social produced for export. experiment two tests were carried out: public 11 12 opinion polling and unique study right in the • Basketball Club “Neptūnas”; street. The study recorded public reaction to • Klaipėda City Ball Dances Band “Žuvėdra”; a drunk driver (actor) trying to get into his car. • Klaipėda Football Team “Atlantas”. An experiment showed that public opinion does not correspond with reality though. Utena: Although the majority of survey participants • Utena City Festival; advocate that they would duly respond to a • Basketball Club “Juventus”; drunk driver, but the real situation showed • Utena Basketball Club “Aukštaitis”; that many people just ignored the drunk • Other driver: from 323 people actively participating in the experiment, only 16 percent responded The company distinguishes the actively. The results showed that the public sponsorship into three parts: is indifferent and there is a lack of awareness. • Communities; Therefore, this social experiment aimed at • Culture; drawing public attention and promoting a • Sport; responsible approach to drunk driving. • Environment protection. In accordance with the Code of Honour of Lithuanian Brewers all “Švyturys-Utenos Community investments alus” web sites have the installed preventive In 2014 the utmost attention was paid security measures against under-age. towards the Klaipėda and Utena communities social and cultural projects. Sponsorship. 2014 In Klaipėda “Švyturys Klaipėda Fund of In 2014 the utmost attention of JSC Origin” has been proceeding in its activities. “Švyturys-Utenos alus” went to the The support to Klaipeda has been growing for communities of Utena and Klaipėda. Total three consecutive years: in 2012 the seaport amount that the company allocated to town was supported by EUR 195 000, in 2013 support various Lithuanian organisations, the support amounted to EUR 206 000. The the ongoing initiatives and projects in 2014, support to Klaipėda in 2014 increased by 12 made 598 934 EUR. percent and amounted to EUR 231 000. Last year “Švyturys” brewery celebrated its JSC “Švyturys-Utenos 230-th Anniversary and invited everybody alus” sponsorship: to commemorate the International Brewers Day for the first time in Lithuania. The free “Švyturys” staff guided brewery tours were Klaipėda: attended by nearly 1 500 beer lovers, the • Anniversary of the Sea Festival; festival attracted more than 5 500 people. • The Lighthouses Day; The event is intended to be made the annual • The elections of Woman – Klaipėda Citizen tradition of the city, bringing together people and Man – Klaipėda Citizen of the Year; not only from the seaport town but also • “Švyturys” Midsummer Night Regatta; from the other corners of the country. With • Events of the association “Klaipėda Jazz this initiative “Švyturys-Utenos alus” aims to Festival”: “Klaipėda Castle Jazz Festival” and foster the traditions of the city and promote “Young Jazz Wave”; community spirit and citizens’ involvement in • Lithuanian Musicians Support Fund Grants; the activities carried out. 13 14 In 2014 great attention was paid to Utena same year and in 1999 in Munich the team community too. JSC “Švyturys-Utenos alus” became the Euroleague winner. organized the City Festival in which more than 6 thousand members of Utena community For many years the company has been participated. Three live sound concerts were supporting the Lithuanian national men’s arranged during the Festival, also various basketball team. The support was reflected entertainments, tours in “Utena” brewery. in the Lithuanian men’s basketball team On the eve of the Festival “Utena” brewery victories in golden Stockholm, silver was awarded Utena District Badge and the Ljubljana and bronze in Sydney and Istanbul. Mayor of Utena gratitude was acknowledged Company’s support for basketball in 15 years for close cooperation with the Utena District reached almost 5.8 million EUR, being a Municipality, regular cultural and sports significant contribution not only to victories, sponsorship. but also the rise of club teams in the European tournament participants ranks. Cultural sponsorship The support is also provided to Vladas Garastas Cup Tournament, the city of Young talent promotion is especially amateur basketball league, for football important to “Švyturys-Utenos alus” team “Atlantas” and the other sportsmen, company. With regard to this, in 2014 “Švyturys” Klaipėda future scholarship’ was glorifying the country. established. This is support granted to young Klaipėda citizen for social, cultural, sport related and artistic activity implemented in the city. 2014 scholarship was awarded to the first winner Adele Daunoraviciute, Klaipeda Stasys Šimkus Conservatory and Klaipėda University Art Faculty Graduate, pianist, the winner of various competitions. Funds have been allocated for Lithuanian Musicians Support Fund grants and other activities to support the country’s artists too. Sport sponsorship Unforgettable sports related initiatives include the following: in 2014 JSC “ŠvyturysUtenos alus” supported the strongest Lithuanian basketball teams and clubs, Lithuanian Olympic movement, other teams and sportsmen. In 2014 “Utenos alus” started supporting Kaunas basketball club “Žalgiris”. “Utenos alus” have become the sponsors of the team “Žalgiris” for the first time in 1998 already and significantly contributed to the fact that Kaunas club won the European Cup in the 15 16 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AND During 2014 as many as 27 employees of the company were promoted or their souvenirs. While implementing the program, 23 employees were awarded during the WORK ENVIRONMENT responsibilities expanded. year 2014. 57 employees were awarded “For the loyalty” (record year of continuous As every year, in 2014 “Švyturys-Utenos employment anniversary) in 2014. alus” awarded the employees 10 “Golden JSC “Švyturys-Utenos alus” cares about the employees and tries to provide each of them Hop Prizes” for their contribution to fostering with favourable working conditions. The company is considered one of the most desirable corporate values. In 2014 nine best managers Employee Oriented employers in the country. In addition, “Švyturys-Utenos alus” for several years actively helps students offering them to practice, so that after the completion of the studies it would be of the year were also awarded. In order Initiatives to boost the initiatives and motivate, easier for them to integrate into the labour market. In 2014 fifteen students practiced during value ambassadors who were awarded December 2014 the company held a the student placement in the company. with “Golden Hop prizes” and the best traditional “Good job” month, during which managers of the year were provided with in various towns employees of the company Research on employee Equal opportunities for the possibility to go to the trip to Milan for got involved in various charity and support opinion employees visiting the EXPO exhibition as well as have tour in Milan’s one of the “Carlsberg” group projects. The company’s internal labour and JSC “Švyturys-Utenos alus” continued breweries “Birrificio Angelo Poretti”. On the occasion of winter holidays JSC environmental climate is measured by the to successfully secure work environment “Švyturys-Utenos alus” organized Christmas research on employee opinion called “My free of harassment, discrimination and In 2014 JSC “Švyturys-Utenos alus” continued celebrations for employees’ children with Voice”, which provides the feedback on both with motivational awards program “Thank repressions. Taking into consideration the age festive performances after which Santa Claus the management of the business, estimates You”, during which clients’, managers’, distribution among employees, it is important handed out gifts, games took place, dances made by management, improvement colleagues’ gratitude for successful projects, to emphasize that in 2014 no reports of were held and poems were said. opportunities, work environment and climate excellent performance, outstanding discrimination were recorded. and the level of employee engagement into initiatives is expressed to the employees the company’s operations. handling in the diplomas of gratitude and 2014 Headcount by age Research Favourable change in areasanswers % comparison Age Number By percent dimensions 2014 to 2013 19 – 29 115 25% Employee engagement 89% +3% 30 – 39 125 28% Performance 40 – 49 104 23% 92% +4% Older than 50 107 management and change 24% Senior 93% +3% Training and Professional management Leadership 90% +3% Development Work and improvement 87% +4% “My Voice” questionnaire of 2014 was filled in by JSC “Švyturys-Utenos alus” constantly 98% of employees. invests into employee training and The research performed by “Švyturys-Utenos professional development. In 2014 year 97 alus” in 2014 revealed that 93% of staff is 312,3 EUR was allotted to employee training. proud of working here, 95% are satisfied with During the year the following training was “Švyturys-Utenos alus” as the company they performed: sales strategies training for sales work for and as much as 90% of employees managers, training of successful leadership, would recommend the company as a good personal leadership, feedback training, place to work. The average experience of “Internal Coaching Academy” training and work in the company makes more than 12 other. years. 17 18 Occupational Safety operating the potentially dangerous situations reporting system. The system involves and Health employees into constant professional JSC “Švyturys-Utenos alus” pays the utmost risk assessment process, helps to collect of attention towards employee occupational information about the emerging safety hazards safety and health. within production and logistic units, as well as Since 2014 “Utena” brewery and Utena logistic helps to foresee and provide the appropriate warehouse has been having the integrated preventive measures and implement them Quality System (according to LST EN ISO consistently, using the experience, observations 9001:2008), Environment Protection System and suggestions of the staff. (according to LST EN ISO 14001:2005) and During 2014 “Švyturys” brewery recorded 74 Employee Occupational Safety and Health reports of potentially dangerous situations, Management System (according to LST of which 65 removed (88 percent), “Utena” 1977:2008 BS; OHSAS 18001:2007). brewery received 117 reports of potentially The company’s primary goal of occupational dangerous situations, of which 94 removed safety and health is to carry out a permanent (80 percent). “Utena” beer logistics warehouse prevention of the occurrence of any accidents received 96 reports of potentially dangerous at work. The Company has been successfully situations, of which 80 removed (83 percent). Occupational Safety Improvement in 2014 Occupational safety and Funds, Comments health EUR measures Providing the staff with Lease of work wear, acquisition of personal protective equipment: hearing, eye, personal 63 796 respiratory protective equipment , work boots, cold-resistant jackets, work gloves, protective brightly-coloured jackets, etc. equipment • Training of unit managers and specialists according to the employer‘s authorized persons work safety training program; • Training of potentially dangerous equipment masters and hazardous operations managers; Staff training • Training of staff, carrying out dangerous work: forklift drivers, electric carriage according to drivers, training of power staff to get an electricity safety category, training of formal and workers performing work in high-altitude, training of those working with chemicals, informal 8 978 those working at noise and handling consignment by hand; training • Training of staff, operating potentially dangerous equipment, i. e., refrigeration programs compressors operator, air compressors operator, heat stations operators; • Professional training of electric welder, drivers; • Fire protection trainings; • Compulsory training on first aid and hygiene skills. Occupational risk assessment has been carried out in the following workplaces: Occupational “Utena” advertising supply warehouse forklift driver loader, the storekeeper forklift risk 869 driver, storekeeper accountant, “Švyturys” supply and logistics warehouse forklift assessment driver – loader. Drinks for employees 11 390 Drinks are provided free of charge to the employees. Health of Periodic health check of employees, vaccination against influenza, medicine, employees 3 846 bandages, first aid kits acquisition for first aid set. TOTAL: 88 879 19 20 Additional staff costs Implemented technical Benefits paid under Amount, collective agreement measures to improve EUR Notes labour safety: Payment for the first two days of sick leave 95 % 1 833 Improving working conditions at Improving work conditions at Support for families (when raising 3 or more “Utena” brewery 3 509 Paid to 12 families. “Švyturys” brewery and “Švyturys” children or a single parent raising children) • Employee meeting room established; supply and logistics warehouse: September 1st benefits 9 939 Paid to 131 child. • Floor repaired at the corridor of the • Marked pedestrian walkways and forklift industrial building, in the draught workshop; traffic routes in the warehouse and at the Funeral allowance 7 530 Paid to 20 employees. site; • Electrical and automation bar room reconstructed; • Mounted the safety fence between Festive allowance at child birth 3 551 Paid to 12 newborn parents. footpath and KEG barrel keeping site; • New lighting installed at spare parts Festive allowance on the occasion of wedding 3 846 Paid to 13 employees. warehouse; • Renewed storage equipment – forklifts, mechanical charts; Vacation premium • Ergonomic chairs acquired for draught (33% earning the lowest salaries) 22 950 Paid to 121 employee. workshop operators; • Installed automatic water meter data According to the collective agreement, during study collecting system; • Tool keeping carts acquired for draught Study vacation 8 192 vacation, provided fields of study related to the position, the employee is paid the average salary, and if not related to workshop, mechanical bar; • New gates installed with complementary the official responsibilities – paid a minimum. exit door for pedestrians; Improving work conditions at • Production premises repaired and beer Additional vacation according to 5 678 For additional holidays, which we provide for those who are employed under conditions that do not meet the normal Collective Agreement “Utena” beer logistic warehouse: aging cellars; working conditions and for work in shifts. • A lounge and dining room established for • Conditioning system renewed in KEG barrel the employees of supply and advertising unit; Accident insurance 1 897 6 employees received insurance payment. warehouses; • Spots for keeping employee personal stuff Under the Labour Code (LC), if there are deviations from • Area asphalt surface repaired; arranged at workshops; normal working conditions, work in such conditions is paid Compensation for conditions that deviate by increased rate compared with normal conditions rate. • Improved lighting of product collecting • Special means acquired for the safe storage from normal working conditions 216 901 Specific payment rates shall be determined in collective of chemicals; agreements and employment contracts. LC does not specify area; the size of the increased wage rate. • Marked pedestrian walkways and traffic During 2014 total amount spent for labour Overtime, for work on days off and/or routes in the warehouse and at the site; holidays 11 857 safety improvement made 88 879 EUR. . • Renewed goods assemblers rest and eating TOTAL 297 683 facilities; • The floor repaired at warehouse R5 and finished production warehouse; • Wall covering and roofing renewed at warehouse R2; • Equipment storage warehouses reconstructed; • Caustic soda warehouse moved to production building complex; 21 22 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AND The company pays great attention to employee education on environmental Foundation” allocated funds for restoration of the ravaged forest. This way the company ENVIRONMENT PROTECTION issues, especially emphasizing waste stimulated environmental and sustainable sorting. Furthermore, waste sorting periodic development initiatives. Immediately after checks are performed. In 2014 the company the fire disaster the support has been very successfully reduced quantities of mixed provided amounting to 8 700 EUR, which In 2014 the seamless continuation of Electricity consumption municipal waste disposed in landfills, thus was used to further forest conservation production efficiency improvement and Alteration % (kWh) contributing to nature conservation. In 2014, and prevention. Also within the period resources austerity program occurred. compared with 2013, quantities of the mixed from April, 2014 disaster to the very end “Švyturys-Utenos alus” -4.49 municipal waste at “Utena” brewery fell by of the year “Švyturys” allocated 5 cents of At “Utena” brewery production 10. 5 tons and at “Švyturys” – by 4.3 tons. Litas (0,014 EUR) of each sold bottle of the Water consumption “Memelbrau” beer of cup: total collected • Modernized CAN line tunnel pasteurizer Alteration % The company takes care of ecological (m 3) amount made 5 000 EUR. “Švyturys” unit, reducing steam consumption; solutions not only for its breweries, but also support has been provided to the Directorate “Švyturys-Utenos alus” in protecting the environment. In 2014 JSC -9.58 of Curonian Spit National Park, the funds • PET line equipped with Short neck – production “Švyturys-Utenos alus” involved in handling utilized for the salaries of dunes guardians, (shorter) PET bottle neck unit, reducing the campaign “Let’s do it”: the company’s who have worked in Nagliai Nature Reserve environment pollution as far as plastic Waste water Alteration % employees participated at cleaning event at and Grobštas Nature Reserve as well as to segment is concerned; (m 3) the breweries of “Utena” and “Švyturys”. finance the woody vegetation removal works • In PET and glass lines modernisation “Švyturys-Utenos alus” carried out in autumn. -9.33 production In 2014 after the Curonian Spit was performed of filling level blocking units devastated by fire, “Klaipeda Origin Švyturys “Heuft” to ensure a uniform filling level of Atmosphere pollution: CO2 bottles; emission (g/1l of product) Alteration % • Optimized PET compressor which reduces Average depending on -15,23 energy costs; quantities produced Packaging waste “Švyturys” brewery Packaging usage and (or) Recycled, t recycling tasks, % • Modernized steam supply, reducing steam 2012 49% 2459 consumption; 2013 48% 2486 2014 50% 2365 • Construction of a steam boiler, steam is generated from gas. During 2014 the installed equipment upgrades at JSC “Švyturys-Utenos alus” breweries in Klaipėda and Utena have significantly improved CO² emission indexes. Improvement of production and introducing the latest innovative solutions, the company reduced energy and resources. JSC “Švyturys-Utenos alus” has responsibly contributed to water saving a major food and beverage industry resource. It has also been used 7.43 percent less of energy. 23 24 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AND FIGHT AGAINST CORRUPTION Since 2011 “Švyturys-Utenos alus” has been keeping to “Carlsberg” group business policy. This order defines the company’s codes of conduct to ensure that everything would be treated ethically in business and the company would comply with all relevant laws and regulations in the company. Policy of the “Carlsberg” group business ethics covers eight basic areas: Bribery. “Carlsberg” group and its Confidential information. “Carlsberg” employees must avoid any form of bribery group employees have no right to disclose or taking bribes. or misuse any confidential business information. Confidential records on relations Urgency taxes. “Carlsberg” group is opposed of the “Carlsberg” group and parties of to the urgency of tax practice. interest are secured. Gifts, hospitality and entertainment. Gifts, Compliance with competition laws. hospitality and entertainment offered to “Carlsberg” group and its staff ensure that or accepted from “Carlsberg” group and its the company “Carlsberg” business practices employees, must be adequate. “Carlsberg” would always comply with the applicable group and its employees cannot provide with competition rules, laws and internal policy of legitimate business purposes unrelated gifts, the “Carlsberg” company’s business ethics. hospitality and entertainment to public or private parties as well as cannot receive such Fraud. “Carlsberg” group employees cannot gifts, hospitality or entertainment from them appropriate the company’s assets and either. resources. Employees may use company property or company resources only for Donations. “Carlsberg” group does not make “Carlsberg” group business objectives. political contributions and does not benefit Employees must comply with the “Carlsberg” from donations to gain improper business group accounting policy frauds firewall advantage. procedures. Conflicts of interest. “Carlsberg” group In order to ensure full compliance with this employees are not engaged in activities policy, a telephone line has been established which may cause the private and the for reporting incidents. This can also be “Carlsberg” group conflict of interest. done online. The system ensures complete confidentiality and anonymity. 25 26 Corporate social responsibility report announcing and Social Responsibility Report is published on JSC “Švyturys-Utenos alus” website publicity (www.svyturys.lt) and therefore intended for consideration of “UN GlobalCompact” partners. The report will also be made available to all interested parties using the contact details provided below. Contact person for comments and additional information: Dainius Smailys, Director Corporate Affairs Tel.: +370 5 2397600, e-mail: dainius.smailys@svyturys.lt 27 2
