Urbanization Quality Growth With hundreds of shopping centers visited by millions of consumers, our business affects not only our stakeholders, but communities worldwide. Corporate Responsibility Report 2013-2014 Urbanization Quality Growth With hundreds of shopping centers visited by millions of consumers, our business affects not only our stakeholders, but communities worldwide. Table of CONTENTS A Message From Our President 36 Section 3 48 Section 4 60 Section 5 About This Report Labor Practices Social Environmental & Human Rights Performance Performance 8 28 Section 1 Benefiting the community Green Building Labor Practices About Gazit-Globe HR Programs Support the community Conservation & Recycling Recruitment Customer satisfaction Energy A Message from our President Job Training and Career Anti-Corruption Energy conservation Our Vision Development Risk management Water Global Presence Section 2 Performance Reviews Anti-competitive behavior Emissions Sewage & Waste Binding Values Economic Transitioning to Retirement Health and safety Code of Conduct & Ethics Global Compact Performance Diversity and Equal 92 Opportunity Maala Direct Economic Value FTSE4GOOD Index Human Rights Green Building Indirect Economic Influence Global Compact Corporate Governance Community – Charitable Investment Forced and Board of Directors Financial Implications & Risks Compulsory Labor Executive Management and Opportunities Due to Child Labor Compensation of Senior Employees Climate Change Freedom of Association Section 6 Stakeholders Global Reporting Shareholders Initative (GRI) Board of Directors Subsidiaries Information Employees Customers: Tenants and Consumers Suppliers Regulatory Authorities Analysts & Institutional Investors Media Community Environment Membership in Associations 2 | Gazit-Globe CSR 2013-2014 Gazit-Globe CSR 2013-2014 | 3 A Message From Our President Dear Stakeholder, It is with pride that we present Gazitmost exacting models of environmental Globe’s Corporate Responsibility performance through initiatives such Report for the years 2013-2014. Gazitas building or renovating our shopping Globe has for some years endeavored centers by applying Leadership in to establish, maintain and expand its Energy and Designs (LEED) protocols, Kista Galleria, Stockholm, Sweden position as a responsible corporate and aligning our group operations with citizen in all of the regions and up-to-date energy conservation and communities in which our businesses consumption standards or methods. operate. Furthermore, Gazit-Globe strives to Gazit-Globe is dedicated to minimizing rigorously implement robust corporate Gazit-Globe aims to continue applying the environmental impact of its governance standards that advocate its policies of social responsibility so activities, with particular emphasis on a relentless commitment to complete sustainability. Our shopping centers transparency, as well as a stringent as to foster higher standards of living Gazit-Globe is dedicated to and enhance the quality of life in the are deliberately located in high density code of conduct that mandates communities in which we are active. minimizing the environmental urban areas in all our regions of activity, the highest ethical standards in the We are motivated by a sincere desire to impact of its activities, with particular with the intention that they become the ‘main streets’ of the modern era. Our conduct of our businesses. We aspire to model corporate citizenship emphasis on sustainability. Our continually monitor the conduct of our in the global community of which we malls are designed to facilitate a strong form an inseparable part, while forever shopping centers are deliberately businesses, managers and employees sense of community, and to invite so as to ensure that our goals are mindful of the obligation to diligently located in high density urban areas people to meet, socialize and spend accomplished without compromising and relentlessly pursue growth and in all our regions of activity, with the time with friends and family. GazitGlobe feels a heightened sense of our ethical standards. profitability for our stakeholders. intention that they become the ‘main responsibility to improve the individual Finally, we firmly believe in the promotion streets’ of the modern era. and collective experiences of all our of academic achievement and donate customers, tenants and employees generously to charitable and social Rachel Lavine, CEO by upholding the highest social and programs in several countries as part environmental standards in these vital of our ongoing commitment to support common spaces. This policy manifests the wellbeing of the communities in itself in our many efforts to embrace the which our businesses operate. 4 | Gazit-Globe CSR 2013-2014 Gazit-Globe CSR 2013-2014 | 5 About This Report The Global Compact This report covers Gazit-Globe’s external advisors. This committee Israeli privately held subsidiary, Gazit The Global Compact is an initiative developed by the UN aiming to mobilize Corporate Responsibility activities helped us determine the appropriate Globe Israel (Development) Ltd. Their the international business community for the adoption in their business during 2013-2014 and follows our content, scope and structure of this operations reflect our values and practices of internationally accepted values which are represented in 10 three previous reports for the years 2011-2012, 2009-2010 and 2007report, and in general assists us in engaging in Corporate Responsibility our commitment to promote and implement Corporate Responsibility. GC1 Businesses should GC5 the effective fundamental principles in the areas of Human Rights, Labor Standards, Environment and Anti-Corruption. Gazit-Globe has been 2008. In this report, we describe our best practices. All data compiled by our subsidiaries support and respect abolition of child a signatory of the Global Compact since 2010. the protection labor; and business approach, our operations regarding economic, environmental, of internationally proclaimed human and how they affect the communities, In producing this document, we have human resources and other metrics rights; and which we serve and operate in, utilized the G3 Global Reporting was formulated in accordance with the environment, our employees Initiative (“GRI”) reporting standard, Best Practices. and other stakeholders, as well the economy, in general. This report is a widely-accepted and inclusive reporting framework that has also In this report, Equity One and First GC10 GC1 an important tool in our continuing been adopted by our subsidiaries, to Capital Realty are often referred to efforts to communicate with our promote transparency and adherence as “EQY” and “FCR”, respectively. GC2 GC6 GC9 An t iC o r ru p ti o n Huma GC2 stakeholders, and it reflects our to internationally accepted standards. Selected data from the following make sure that they the elimination nR are not complicit in of discrimination En policy of maintaining a high level of We also highlight our participation reports of our subsidiaries were human rights abuses. in respect of ts employment and igh vironmen transparency. and leadership in other initiatives that included in this report: occupation. promote Corporate Responsibility In describing our relationship with around the globe. Equity One Inc.: 2014 GC8 t r GC3 various stakeholder groups, this Corporate Responsibility and o report sheds light on who is impacted This report includes material Sustainability Report b L a directly or indirectly by our information relating to GazitFirst Capital Realty Inc.: 2014 business activities, and with whom we have day-to-day interaction or a Globe, as well as data collected by several of our subsidiaries abroad, Corporate and Sustainability (CRS) Report GC3 Businesses should GC7 Businesses should GC7 GC4 mutual dialogue, or wish to engage including Equity One in the United Citycon Corporation: 2014 uphold the freedom support a precautionary GC5 of association and the approach to environmental in one. States (“EQY”), First Capital Realty Annual and Sustainability Report effective recognition of the right to challenges; GC6 in Canada (“FCR”), and Citycon in collective bargaining; We publish our Corporate Northern Europe in the reporting All information contained in this Responsibility reports on a bi-annual period. report was prepared by qualified basis. This report also includes professionals, and all calculations some information related to activities These publicly traded companies have been based on widely-accepted following the reporting period, which represent Gazit-Globe’s major standards. We have noted when is noted accordingly. holdings in which we conduct a specific calculation models have material portion of our activities, and been used. GC4 GC8 GC9 GC10 We have established a Corporate these holdings are fully consolidated the elimination of all undertake initiatives encourage the Businesses should forms of forced and to promote greater development work against Responsibility Steering Committee in our financial reports. The report compulsory labor; environmental and diffusion of corruption in all its responsibility; and environmentally forms, including that comprises management and also includes information from our friendly technologies. extortion and bribery. 6 | Gazit-Globe CSR 2013-2014 Gazit-Globe CSR 2013-2014 | 7 Click back to content Section 1. About Gazit-Globe Shoppes at Dundas, Ontario, Canada A ia, US nta, Georg tatio n, Atla ead S Buckh In our business, good corporate citizenship is not an option, it is a must. 8 | Gazit-Globe CSR 2013-2014 Introduction Our Vision As of December 31, 2014, with 524 position in each of our markets, we The following principles define our vision for properties in over 20 countries, Gazitwork to extend our presence in all of the Company: Globe is one of the largest owners our focus areas while also expanding As of December 31, 2014, and operators of supermarketinto new markets. Creation of value for excellence in all our operations Creation of value With 524 properties anchored shopping centers in shareholders: and maintain high quality for shareholders in over 20 countries, the world. We own and operate Our shares are listed on the New We seek to maximize shareholder standards. In practice, this takes assets valued at approximately York Stock Exchange (NYSE: value over time by growing and the form of an intensive focus Gazit-Globe is one of US$21 billion, representing a gross GZT), the Toronto Stock Exchange enhancing our global real estate on the countless small details the largest owners leasable area of approximately 6.3 (TSX: GZT) and the Tel Aviv Stock platform, our cash flow and our that comprise our strategies and Expanded global and operators of million square meters and a gross Exchange (TASE: GZT). In addition, dividends. ongoing work plans. presence and annualized income of approximately the shares of our public subsidiaries market dominance supermarket-anchored US$1.8 billion. We engage in the are traded on a variety of international Expanded global presence and Enhanced corporate shopping centers in the acquisition, development and exchanges, including the New market dominance: responsibility: world. We own and management of quality incomeYork Stock Exchange, the Toronto With the goal of continually We embrace Corporate operate assets valued producing supermarket-anchored Stock Exchange, the Helsinki Stock strengthening our position as a Responsibility, in its broadest Think Global, shopping centers in growing, highExchange, Euronext Amsterdam and leading multinational real estate sense, as a guide and framework Act Local at approximately density urban markets in North the Vienna Stock Exchange. company, we strive to increase for our worldwide activities. For US$21 billion, America, Europe, Israel and Brazil. our market presence, both in the us, Corporate Responsibility representing a gross leasable regions in which we are already includes the mandate to be Our primary objective is to create active and in new regions. socially aware, to contribute to, Micro focus in our area of approximately value through long-term maximization and aid the communities in which macro operations 6.3 million of cash flow and capital appreciation Think Global, Act Local: we operate, to adopt ethical and square meters and a while increasing our dividends over We believe that the best way to transparent modes of conduct gross annualized time. We do this by investing in quality, necessity-driven retail assets build our company is through the and do the utmost to conserve income of approximately combination of global and local the world’s natural resources. Enhanced corporate in key locations in primary cities management teams, thereby Gazit-Globe is committed to responsibility US$1.8 billion. with high urban densities and above combining the Group’s overall leading processes, which reflects average income levels. This sector expertise and best practices with its beliefs, and aims to set an has consistently demonstrated our local management teams’ example of good corporate an ability to generate strong and keen regional insight. citizenship. sustainable cash flow through different economic cycles. Our Micro focus in our macro properties are typically located in operations: countries characterized by stable As a key to maximizing economies and strong credit ratings. our growth, we insist upon With the goal of achieving a leading 10 | Gazit-Globe CSR 2013-2014 Gazit-Globe CSR 2013-2014 | 11 Global Presence Edmonton Stockholm Oslo Talinn Helsinki Vancouver Montreal Moscow Calgary Warsaw Toronto Prague San Francisco Boston New York Los Angeles Tel Aviv Miami Sao Paulo 12 | Gazit-Globe CSR 2013-2014 Gazit-Globe CSR 2013-2014 | 13 Organization Chart Subsidiaries United States ISRAEL Canada Equity One (“EQY”) is a publicly traded Gazit-Globe’s headquarters are located in 44% company that owns, develops and Israel. First Capital operates shopping centers located in Gazit-Globe Israel Development is a privatelyRealty (FCR) strategic metropolitan areas across the US. held company that is active in the acquisition, These properties are anchored by leading development and management of shopping supermarkets, pharmacies and retailstore centers in Israel. chains. BRAZIL USA ProMed Properties is a privately held subsidiary engaged in managing medicalGazit Brazil, a wholly-owned subsidiary 43.3% related properties in the US. of Gazit-Globe, is active in the acquisition, Equity One (EQY) development and management of shopping CANADA centers in Brazil. 100% ProMed Properties First Capital Realty (“FCR”), a publiclytraded company, is Canada’s leading owner, developer and operator of supermarket Brazil and drugstore-anchored neighborhood and community shopping centers located 100% predominantly in growing and metropolitan Gazit Brazil areas. EUROPE Citycon is a publicly-traded company that owns, develops and operates shopping centers Europe and commercial properties primarily anchored by supermarkets. Citycon is the market leader 42.8% in Finland, is also active in Sweden, and has Citycon (CTY) a firm foothold in the Baltic countries and Denmark. 41.2% 100% Atrium European Gazit Atrium European Real Estate is a publiclyReal Estate (ATR) Development traded company that specializes in the (Bulgaria and acquisition, development and management 100% Macedonia) of shopping centers in Central and Eastern Gazit Germany Europe, with a focus on Poland. Gazit Germany is a privately held company Israel that is active in the shopping center sector in Germany. 84.7% Gazit Globe Israel 84.9% (Development) U.Dori Group 14 | Gazit-Globe CSR 2013-2014 Gazit-Globe CSR 2013-2014 | 15 CODE OF BUSINESS CONDUCT We believe that conducting our business ethically is a fundamental Global Compact Maala FTSE4Good Index value, and we work diligently to instill Our strategies and management Our values are also expressed and For the fifth consecutive year in a this value in all of our employees. The practices, as well as how we work refined through our association with row, Gazit-Globe has been named attitudes, values and behavior of our in the field, are guided and shaped Maala, an Israeli non-profit organization a constituent company in the managers and employees impact not by the principles of the UN’s Global that assists Israeli companies in FTSE4Good Index Series, a global only our tenants, suppliers and the Compact initiative, which we adopted developing and implementing responsible investment index created consumers who shop in our malls, in 2009. Corporate Responsibility strategies by the FTSE Group, the global but also their fellow employees. and that helps them integrate social, index company, and designed to Global Compact is a strategic policy environmental and ethical values into identify companies that meet globally Our Code of Business Conduct initiative for businesses that are their business strategies. recognized corporate responsibility (“Code”) outlines the Company’s committed to aligning their operations standards. duties and attitudes towards our and strategies with 10 universally As part of its program, Maala ranks stakeholders and includes moral accepted principles in the areas of its member corporations according principles, such as avoiding conflict human rights, labor, environment and to their performance using a variety of interests, conducting business anti-corruption. We are committed to of Corporate Responsibility criteria. fairly and creating a decent work this initiative and have incorporated Gazit-Globe was awarded Maala’s environment. This document serves the Global Compact’s principles as Platinum ranking for the past six years as a reference for our employees part of our business practices. Our (from 2009-2014), and received a regarding decisions made in the former Corporate Responsibility Platinum Plus ranking for 2014. course of everyday business LEED® Building reports, for the years 2009-2010, behavior, especially in the case of Providing guidance on the (including an expected violation) 2011-2012 and 2013-2014 included Our Corporate Responsibility activities ethical dilemmas. An Administrative Enforcement Officer meaning and implementation of of a law. The Code states that the our adoption of the principles of the United Nation’s Global Compact have earned us additional recognition as follows: Standard the Code; Company undertakes, subject to responsible for the implementation of the provisions of any law and to initiative and incorporated them as the Company’s enforcement program Reporting periodically Several of our subsidiaries conform the extent possible, to treat the part of our business practices. The European Public Real Estate deals with routine compliance affairs to management on the their building activities to LEED® information reported as confidential Association (EPRA) cited our and has overall responsibility for the implementation and effectiveness (Leadership in Energy and Design), information and to maintain the Citycon subsidiary’s Corporate following: of the Code and other the internationally recognized green confidentiality of the “whistleResponsibility report as one of the compliance matters. building certification system. Resolving concerns raised by blower’s” identity. best in the real estate sector for A LEED® certification demonstrates employees or others in matters 2013 and 2014. Citycon has been Under the Code, employees may that a construction project is ecodescribed in the Code; The Code applies to all employees awarded EPRA’s gold award in the submit a report anonymously friendly. of Gazit-Globe Ltd. as well as to the Financial Best Practices series for Reviewing the Code in reference regarding a violation and/or a employees of its private subsidiaries. five consecutive years, as well as to developments in the law; concern regarding a violation sustainability awards (gold-level) by EPRA and a ‘Green Star’ in the GRESB survey. 16 | Gazit-Globe CSR 2013-2014 Gazit-Globe CSR 2013-2014 | 17 Corporate Governance We are committed to sound principles of corporate governance. Our Board of Directors (see below) is The Board currently has five standing committees: Audit and Financial Statement Review, Investment, Nominating Board of Directors Gary Epstein, Director Mr. Epstein chairs the Global Corporate and Securities responsible for outlining the policy of the Company, and Corporate Governance, Compensation, and Department at Greenberg Traurig, LLP, an international Chaim Katzman, Chairman overseeing and monitoring the performance of our senior Corporate Responsibility. law firm. Mr. Chaim Katzman is the founder, controlling management team, the body that is charged with the shareholder and Chairman of Gazit-Globe and Norstar day-to-day conduct of our business. The fundamental The Corporate Responsibility Committee is responsible Douglas Sesler, Director Holdings, the parent company of Gazit-Globe, and the responsibility of the Board is to exercise business for supervising Corporate Responsibility activities of the Mr. Sesler is a private real estate investor. Chairman of Equity One, First Capital Realty, Atrium judgment on matters of strategic and critical significance Company, ethical matters, fair employment issues, European Real Estate and Citycon. to the Company in furtherance of the best interests of the our relationship with our suppliers, social investment in the Ronnie Bar-On, External Director Company and its shareholders. communities in which we operate, environmental matters Mr. Bar-On served in a variety of governmental positions Arie Mientkavich, Deputy Chairman and other important Corporate Responsibility issues in Israel from 2003 to 2013 including Minister of Mr. Mientkavich is Active Deputy Chairman of the Board The Company also complies with rules of the NSYE, TSX that may affect our performance, business activities and Finance. of Directors of the Company and Chairman of the Board and the TASE on which markets the Company’s shares are reputation. of Gazit-Globe Israel (Development). traded. Rachel Lavine, Director In addition to approving strategic CR policies and activities Mrs. Lavine is the Chairperson of the Board of Directors Dori Segal, Executive Vice Chairman As of December 31, 2014, our Board is comprised of of the Corporate Responsibility Committee, the Board of Gazit Globe Israel (Development) Ltd., Mr. Segal is Executive Vice-Chairman of Gazit-Globe, eleven members, three of whom were appointed in takes an active interest in CR matters, including social Vice Chairperson of the Board of Directors of ATR and President and CEO of First Capital Realty; Vice 2012 and one in 2013. Four of the board members investment, and is regularly updated about executive Director of CTY. Chairman and Director of Equity One; and Director of are considered to be external according to the Israeli management decisions related to CR. Gazit-Globe Israel (Development), U. Dori Group and Companies Law (two male and two female), and three are Norstar Holdings. considered to be independent of the Company according Shareholders, employees and other interested parties to the Israeli Companies Law (all of whom are males). are invited to contact Board members directly. Written communications to Board members may be forwarded to Haim Ben Dor, Director Executive Management Mr. Ben Dor is a corporate consultant in the field of Board members may serve for up to three years, after Gazit-Globe’s headquarters. finance and investment. Our executive management is responsible for the ongoing which they are eligible for re-election (excluding external management of the Company according to the Company’s directors whose terms are determined according to Israel’s Noga Knaz, External Director vision and goals, and for executing the strategic plans and Companies Law). The criteria, which qualify candidates Ms. Knaz is the Vice Chairperson of the Board of policies established by our Board of Directors. for the Board include, among other things, business Directors of Rosario Capital Ltd. knowledge; expertise; integrity; experience related to the Our executives cooperate with the management of our Company’s core business activities; proven leadership Yair Orgler, External Director privately held subsidiaries and support them in their qualities; and proven ability to exercise sound judgment. Mr. Orgler was Chairman of the Board of the Tel Aviv activities. The management of Gazit-Globe’s publiclyStock Exchange until 2006, and a Director of Bank held subsidiaries is carried out by their independent Hapoalim until 2010. management teams. Gazit-Globe is involved in the activities of these public companies through representation Shaiy Pilpel, Director on their respective boards. In general, our management Mr. Pilpel is the CEO of Wexford Capital Israel Ltd. team strives to maximize knowledge share, capabilities and 18 | Gazit-Globe CSR 2013-2014 Gazit-Globe CSR 2013-2014 | 19 Stakeholders Shareholders, including Institutional Investors Board of Environment Directors Community Media Subsidiaries Regulatory Customers: Authorities Tenants and Consumers Suppliers Financial Promenada, Warsaw, Poland Analysts Employees synergies between all the members of the Gazit-Globe Group. Compensation of Senior Employees The members of our Executive Management include the following individuals: In September 2013, the Company’s general meeting approved, after receiving the approval of the Company’s Rachel Lavine, CEO since September 1, 2015 Board of Directors and its Compensation Committee, Gil Kotler, Senior Executive Vice President and the adoption of a compensation policy for the officers Chief Financial Officer of the Company. For details regarding the policy, please Adi Jemini, CFO assuming his position in 2016 see Regulation 21 in Chapter D of Gazit-Globe’s Periodic Rami Vaisenberger, Vice President and Controller Report for 2014. Varda Zuntz, VP of Corporate Responsibility and In identifying our stakeholders and parties who are Our Corporate Responsibility reports serve as an Member of the Executive Committee impacted directly or indirectly by our business activities, important mechanism for informing our stakeholders of Liad Barzilai, Chief Investment Officer since we used the following parameters: groups with whom the our Corporate Responsibility activities. Together with November 15, 2015 Company has day-to-day interaction, and groups with other materials, they are meant to cultivate a transparent Shlomo Cohen, Controller whom the Company holds a mutual dialogue, or wishes to dialogue with our stakeholders. They also include contact Revital Cahalon, Company Secretary engage in one. information to enable members of our stakeholder groups Itzhak Naftalin, Internal Auditor to reach out to us regarding issues that are important to Our ‘internal’ stakeholders include our shareholders, them. In 2015, Mr. Soffer stepped down as President and Rachel Board of Directors, subsidiaries and employees. Our Lavine assumed the position of President and CEO. For ‘external’ stakeholders are our customers, including The following section further defines our stakeholder further information, see our Financial Statements for the tenants and consumers, as well as regulatory authorities, groups and the methods by which we interact with them. relevant period. our suppliers, the media, financial analysts, the community and the environment. 20 | Gazit-Globe CSR 2013-2014 Gazit-Globe CSR 2013-2014 | 21 We also hold quarterly conference calls in both Hebrew and Stakeholder: We maintain a Work–Life Balance policy to help English during which our CEO and CFO review financial and employees achieve a balance between their work other events of the preceding financial reporting period and Subsidiaries and their personal lives. When possible, we make allow for questions from participants on the call. A press an effort to meet the needs of our employees by conference is also held following the publication of our Gazit-Globe is a major shareholder in four publicly-held providing flexible work hours and enabling them to Stakeholder: annual financial results every year in March. In addition, we companies. Gazit-Globe also controls a number of privatelyheld companies throughout the world. work from home. We also host events for employees Shareholders, including conduct investor days to provide information to institutional and their families, including family vacations and holiday investors. Institutional Investors For further information, see Financial Statements for the gatherings. In addition, we encourage employees to Our contact information (telephone numbers and email 2014 and visit our web-site: http://www.gazit-globe.com/. continue their academic studies by adjusting their Shareholders in the Company participate in the addresses) is published on our website, as well as on employment conditions to allow for study periods and management of our organization through their votes at all of the written materials that we disseminate to our Through our intensive interaction with our privately held unpaid leave. We maintain an “Open Door” policy shareholder meetings. shareholders and to the exchanges in which our securities subsidiaries, we help guide their management teams thereby encouraging our employees to communicate are traded. with their strategic direction. We also sit on the Boards with our management. A shareholder holding 1% or more of the Company’s of Directors of our publicly held companies thereby contributing to their management. We organize an annual voting rights is entitled to suggest a topic for inclusion on Our employees attend a bi-annual training sessions management conference attended by all of our subsidiaries the agenda of our next General Meeting. Any shareholder related to ethics and sexual harassment designed which is hosted by a different subsidiary each year. holding 5% or more of the Company’s outstanding equity to allow for dialogue between management and These gatherings include brainstorming and interaction. and 1% or more voting rights, or any shareholder holding employees. In addition, we hold regular conference calls with the 5% or more of the voting rights of the Company, can call Stakeholder: management of our subsidiaries to discuss ongoing for a Special Meeting of Shareholders. Board of Directors business issues and activities. We communicate with our shareholders through our Our Board of Directors designs Company policy and Annual Meetings of Shareholders where decisions are supervises its performance, business functions and Stakeholder: operations. During 2014, the Board held 20 meetings, taken by our shareholders through a voting process the Audit Committee conducted 15 meetings and the Customers: Tenants and that is mandated by the law. As a corporation registered Investment Committee assembled two meeting during Consumers Stakeholder under the laws of the State of Israel, we comply with the 2014. In 2013, the Board met 17 times, the Audit Stakeholder: Israel Companies Law, as amended, which states that the following corporate issues must be discussed and approved Committee met 9 times. Employees Our customers include not only end-user consumers who shop for products and services in our shopping centers or at a general meeting of shareholders: Our Board of Directors governs our Company by As of December 31, 2014 we have 22 employees working visit our properties, but also our tenants who rent space in establishing broad policies and objectives; selecting, at our headquarters in Tel-Aviv. the shopping centers and our medical office buildings. company regulations and jurisdiction of the Board appointing, supporting and reviewing the performance of Among the activities we engage in to interact with our appointment our executive team; ensuring the availability of adequate employees are the following: termination and work terms of the auditing accountant financial resources; approving annual budgets; setting the appointment of external directors salaries and compensation of Company management; We conduct employee satisfaction surveys to obtain approval of transactions with interested parties and accounting to our stakeholders for our Company’s feedback on management performance, employees’ increase of registered capital stock performance. In addition to ensuring the Company’s overall satisfaction and the Company’s volunteer merger activities prosperity by collectively directing the Company’s affairs and activities. The results of the surveys are distributed Stakeholder: meeting the appropriate interests of our shareholders and We also communicate with our shareholders through our stakeholders, our Board deals with challenges and issues to employees and serve as a basis for discussions at Tenants meetings attended by employees and management. website, as well as through our annual, quarterly and other relating to Corporate Responsibility. We engage in annual performance reviews of We interact with our tenants in several ways: negotiating periodic financial reports and immediate reports. employees, which are attended by each employee’s agreements with them, conducting satisfaction surveys manager and the CEO. to obtain feedback, and holding tenant focus groups to ascertain their needs. The managers of our centers maintain 22 | Gazit-Globe CSR 2013-2014 Gazit-Globe CSR 2013-2014 | 23 contact with tenants to ensure harmonious business Attorneys, accountants, economists, marketing and fees. These authorities include the following: dealings with them, and to respond to their concerns. Many advertising professionals, public relations managers, Securities Authorities: We report financial and other of our subsidiary companies employ a ‘tenant relations human resources compensation consultants, and research information related to our business activities to the managers’ whose duties include: companies assist us to ensure that we conform to New York Stock Exchange (NYSE), the Toronto Stock Stakeholder: regulatory and other requirements. Exchange (TSX) and the Tel Aviv Stock Exchange Media developing relationships with tenants and acting as a (TASE), on which Gazit-Globe’s shares are listed, as one-point source of contact; Our goal is to incorporate Corporate Responsibility criteria required by these exchanges’ rules. In addition, we and The economic press and media organizations throughout facilitating meetings between tenants and our into our background checks of major potential suppliers our subsidiaries maintain an ongoing dialogue with the the world review our business activities and financial results executives to coordinate leasing, property management in which we plan to engage in long term relationships. We security authorities of several jurisdictions as required of in their newspapers, magazines, television shows, web do this by requesting that they complete a questionnaire and asset management issues; publicly traded companies. sites, news blogs and other media, thereby providing the about their Corporate Responsibility activities. During 2014, maintaining retailer information; general public with objective information on our Company. we obtained confirmation from our top ten suppliers that proactively assisting agents by providing them with Tax authorities: We submit regular filings to Israeli and they reviewed our Code of Business Conduct and that they leasing information. As part of our ongoing efforts to increase transparency and agree to follow the Code’s guidelines in the conduct of their other tax authorities, as required by those authorities’ enable stakeholders to make informed decisions, we issue businesses. laws and regulations. press releases for broad media distribution that contain information regarding material developments or financial We are concerned that our subcontractors conduct their Local authorities: We cooperate fully with local results of the Company. An archive of these press releases business activities according to accepted norms and authorities to obtain building licenses and to conduct can be found on the Company’s website. In addition, our regulations, especially with respect to employment. At our our businesses according to municipal building codes management is regularly requested by traditional and headquarters in Tel Aviv, we conduct annual checks of our and other legislation. online media, to comment on various issues relating to our Stakeholder: sub-contractors’ pay slips to confirm that they pay salaries company and the commercial real estate industry. and benefits to their employees as required by law. Consumers Environmental authorities: We cooperate fully with federal and local environmental agencies, and maintain Our leasing representatives attend trade shows and continuous contact with environmental personnel conferences throughout the year, some of which are held to ensure compliance with environmental standards in conjunction with local chambers of commerce, where maintained by them. brokers and tenant representatives are invited to obtain Stakeholder: Stakeholder: information about space available for lease in our shopping centers. Our subsidiaries’ websites also provide information Community for potential tenants, including contact information. Regulatory Authorities Our shopping centers play a significant role in hundreds We rely upon the approvals of a broad range of of communities around the world. As a result, these governmental and municipal regulatory authorities to conduct our business. These include development Stakeholder: communities are also stakeholders in our business. In addition to serving as shopping destinations, our centers authorities and others that are responsible for urban Financial Analysts provide community services, entertainment and places to Stakeholder: planning and zoning, as well as local building and planning socialize. Many analysts representing different financial institutions Suppliers committees that approve architectural, engineering follow the Company’s activities and progress. A list and environmental protection plans. Many of these We also influence the communities in which we operate governmental bodies and authorities also pass laws, of analysts covering our Company and their contact through our philanthropic activities directed to a variety Contractors, appraisers, architects, engineers, supervisors regulations and directives, which directly affect how we information is available on Gazit-Globe’s website. of organizations and social projects that educate, aid the and suppliers of raw materials act as suppliers to our company. They provide us with the products and services conduct our businesses in their jurisdictions. poor, distribute food, support underprivileged children and We communicate with analysts on a regular basis. We youth, and others. Our employees are also encouraged to we need to develop our properties and maintain them. We interact with governmental authorities through the conduct an investor day to provide information to financial volunteer their time to non-profit organizations and volunteer Our goal is to ensure that they provide for the needs of our applications that we submit to them for approvals, periodic analysts and institutional investors. In addition, management programs. tenants and end-user customers. reports that we file with them on our activities, and makes itself generally available to analysts to answer their payments that we make to them in the form of taxes and queries about the Company. 24 | Gazit-Globe CSR 2013-2014 Gazit-Globe CSR 2013-2014 | 25 We conduct surveys of the populations of the communities in which we operate in order to assess their shopping environmentally responsible and resource-efficient progress throughout a building’s life-cycle: from ‘siting’ to design, Membership in Associations habits and to obtain feedback on their particular needs. This construction, operation, maintenance, renovation and enables us to create a proper mix of goods and services for demolition. Green buildings are designed to reduce the each shopping center that we operate. overall impact of the built environment on human health and the natural environment. They do so by efficiently using Gazit-Globe and its subsidiaries maintain memberships in the following industry and Our contributions to the community are determined by energy, water, and other resources, protecting occupant other organizations: an internal charitable activities group that is comprised of health and improving employee productivity, and reducing members of our management. This group establishes our pollution. corporate giving goals and identifies target areas in which EPRA: European Public Real Estate NAREIT: National Association of Real we will focus our charitable activities. We comply with rules and regulations mandated by Association Estate Investment Trusts Israel’s Ministry of Environmental Protection, as well as the environmental ministries of other countries in which we conduct our business activities. We interact with nonICSC: The International Council of NAIOP: Commercial Real Estate governmental organizations (“NGO’s”) that are active in Shopping Centers Development Association protecting the environment, and hire consultants to assist us in assessing the environmental impact of our activities. Stakeholder: They advise us in the use of green construction methods GRI: Global Reporting Initiative Environment and in reducing our environmental impact. This benefits not only us, but our tenants, who reduce their electricity and water costs. Israel America Chamber of We continue to progress in our efforts to incorporate Commerce green building practices into our development program. Green construction, or sustainable building, refers to Israel Canada Chamber of Commerce REALpac: Real Property Association of Canada RAKLI: The Finnish Association of Building Owners and Construction Clients BOMA: Building Owners and Building Council of Canada CaGEB: Canadian Real Building Council CREW: Corporate Real Estate Women Focus Mall in Bydgoszcz, Poland 26 | Gazit-Globe CSR 2013-2014 Gazit-Globe CSR 2013-2014 | 27 Click back to content Section 2. Economic Performance of sho With hun pping dreds visited center s of con by million s s our bu umers, s affect iness Sheridan Plaza, Hollywood, Florida, USA s our st not only ak but co eholders, m aba, Is rael world munities G KfarS wide. 28 | Gazit-Globe CSR 2013-2014 Gazit-Globe CSR 2013-2014 | 29 Introduction Direct Economic Value As a global real estate company managing and operating restaurants, banks and service centers. Our development Our primary objective is to create value through long-term our properties through our publicly traded and privately income-producing properties around the world, our and redevelopment activities also have an economic impact maximization of cash flow and capital appreciation, and held subsidiaries, has driven this substantial and consistent operations have both a strong direct and indirect economic by creating work opportunities for the construction industry. to increase our dividends over time. We do this through growth. We leverage our expertise to grow and improve the impact on the communities in which we operate. Our economic impact also extends to our contributions to a differentiating focus on a recession-resilient, necessity operations of our subsidiaries, maximize our profitability, various non-profit organizations to support their activities in driven asset class, which has demonstrated an ability to mitigate our risk and create value for shareholders. We act as a spur to the creation and growth of businesses, the community. generate strong and sustainable cash flow through different commercial activity and jobs. We promote substantial economic cycles. Please refer to our website for all financial disclosures, economic growth by leasing space to tenants who including our 2014 Annual Report, at employ tens of thousands of people in their supermarkets, The business model that we have developed and http://gazitglobe.com/financial-reports. drug stores, clothing chains, specialty shops, cafes and implemented over the years, whereby we own and operate Prado Shopping Center, Campinas, State of Sao Paulo, Brazil Atrium Mosty, Plock, Poland 30 | Gazit-Globe CSR 2013-2014 Gazit-Globe CSR 2013-2014 | 31 Direct Economic Value Key Figures (NIS millions) 16.7% average total annual return to our shareholders from 2000 ‫א‬o 2014 2014 2013 2012 Rental Revenue NOI FFO NOI DIVERSIFICATION 2014 As of December 31 (NIS billions) (NIS billions) (NIS millions) 598 Total Assets 69,984 67,927 71,034 585 Brazil Investment Properties 59,334 56,399 59,753 Israel 5.25 3.54 3.46 533 4.72 5.15 4.91 3.33 Interest Bearing Liabilities 36,359 38,167 40,834 6% 1% 3.20 Shareholder’s Equity Including Minority 25,870 22,353 22,297 USA Shareholder’s Equity 8,023 7,802 7,681 405 Europe 23% 41% Net Debt to Total Assets 51.0% 55.1% 56.2% Domestic credit rating (S&P Maalot / Midrog, Moody's subsidiary) ilAA/ Aa3 ilAA/ Aa3 ilA+ / Aa3 Total liquidity in the company and it's subsidiaries NIS 11.5 billion NIS 9.6 billion NIS 8.2 billion 29% Total occupancy 95.9% 95.0% 95.0% Canada Same property NOI* 1.7% 3.4% 3.9% * Excluding foreign exchange fluctuation. 12 13 14 12 13 14 12 13 14 * Based on proportionally consolidated NOI 11 11 11 NOI Breakdown by Credit Rating Consistent Dividend Growth for 16 years Demonstrated long-term value Creation (NIS per share) 94% from Investment Grade 1.80 1.84 Countries 1.60 1.72 1.56 10.2% CAGR 1,200 1.48 Below Investment 1.42 Grade Countries 1.24 1,000 Gazit-Globe (TASE) (Compound Annual Growth Rate) 1.08 6% 800 1.00 0.89 Other 600 Investment 0.71 0.76 0.64 Grade 0.47 0.57 400 Countries 0.39 TA-100 Index 200 S&P Index EPRA Global 26% 0 68% AA+ and above 31 Dec 99 30 June 00 30 Dec 00 31 June 01 31 Dec 01 31 June 02 31 Dec 02 31 June 03 31 Dec 03 31 June 04 31 Dec 04 31 June 05 31 Dec 05 31 June 06 31 Dec 06 31 June 07 31 Dec 07 31 June 08 31 Dec 08 31 June 09 31 Dec 09 30 June 10 31 Dec 10 30 June 11 31 Dec 11 30 June 12 31 Dec 12 30 June 13 31 Dec 13 30 June 14 31 Dec 14 Countries * Based on proportionally consolidated NOI 99 00 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 E2015 32 | Gazit-Globe CSR 2013-2014 Gazit-Globe CSR 2013-2014 | 33 INDIRECT ECONOMIC Financial Implications & INFLUENCE Risks and Opportunities Due to Climate Change Our hundreds of income producing properties throughout the world have a strong indirect economic influence. Our tenants include supermarkets, drug stores, banks, appliance stores, apparel shops, and other shops and service providers. They market and sell goods and services Spotlight: CITYCON valued at hundreds of millions of dollars a year, employ thousands of people and pay taxes to the local jurisdictions in which our centers are located. To drive economic growth, we make our commercial Risks associated with climate change may affect centers easily accessible, convenient and a pleasant Citycon’s business environment in the long term. environment in which to shop. In addition to leasing space For example, extreme weather conditions could to large department stores and supermarket anchors, we increase maintenance costs and erode profitability. also rent space to small and medium-sized businesses Also, biodiversity could become a topic of legislation that benefit by being located adjacent to larger stores, that may well address the threat that land use and which attract strong traffic. To best serve consumers, construction may disrupt ecosystems. In connection we also focus on creating a consumer friendly and safe with risks related to land use, an environmental environment, a diverse shopping experience, and easy impact assessment is conducted in connection with accessibility for disadvantaged populations. We also most zoning work and major projects. strive to build and operate our commercial centers in an environmentally friendly way, by employing green construction methods and conservation methods in an effort to create additional economic and other benefits for the communities where we operate. Our indirect economic influence also extends to the taxes we pay in the jurisdictions in which we operate. These taxes help to finance government activity aimed at improving the welfare of citizens in the countries in which we operate. 34 | Gazit-Globe CSR 2013-2014 Gazit-Globe CSR 2013-2014 | 35 Click back to content Section 3. LABOR PRACTICES & Who is Gazit-Globe? It’s our people and the experience, talent and commitment they bring to HUMAN RIGHTS building our business and making a difference. The Marketplac e, Davis, Californ ia, USA n, Israel City, Ris hon LeZio G Cente r Cinema 36 | Gazit-Globe CSR 2013-2014 Gazit-Globe CSR 2013-2014 | 37 Stock Options Introduction GC1 GC2 GC3 GC4 GC5 GC6 HR Programs Saving Plans Loans Vacation Parental HR Leave Gazit-Globe’s employees and Dealing fairly with our employees is one of the basic fundamentals of our The primary focus of our HR programs is to management are our most important Code of Business Conduct. We pride ourselves on conducting our business influence employee commitment, motivation and Holiday asset. That is why we and our without discrimination based on race, origin, religion, gender, sexual preference, engagement through best practices, rewards and Social Gifts subsidiaries are focused on finding age or disability. Our recruitment, employment, training, promotion, transfer performance. Activities the right people to work in our and termination of employees are based solely on the employee and his/her business and providing them with ability, achievements, experience, conduct and other reasonable business We strive to create a rewarding, stimulating and competitive pay and benefits, strong considerations. GC6 fun place to work where individuals are treated with Professional Social training, educational opportunities and respect and dignity. While we have a broad base Benefits Development of best practices, the graphic to the right illustrates Days opportunities for career advancement. One of the core values of our company is human rights. Our commitment to several benefits that we provide to our employees. Their health and safety, as well as support and protect human rights is central to our global business. Our company that of our tenants and customers, is Basic Tuition supports the principles of the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Disability Reimbursement very important to us and we employ Rights, which calls for equality, civil and political rights and economic, social and Coverage Travel methods to conform with industry cultural rights. We believe in the freedom of association of our employees and Allowance standards in these areas. their right to join labor unions as mandated by law. We also strongly oppose child Spotlight: labor and employment of underage minors, as well as forced or compulsory labor. GC1 GC2 GC3 GC4 GC5 FCR 2012 Monetary Value of 2013 Monetary Value Of 2014 Monetary Value of 2014 Versus Employee Benefits Employee Benefits Taken Employee Benefits Taken Employee Benefits Taken 2013 Change by Employees ($) By Employees ($) by Employees ($) (%) The following table illustrates the number of employees working at Gazit-Globe Vacation $1,586,480 $1,976,010 $2,240,340 13 corporate headquarters, as well as at several of our major subsidiaries and Personal days $317,300 $205,030 $238,260 16 holdings included in the scope of this Report, as of December 31, 2014: Life insurance $135,100 $147,910 $169,380 15 Health care $1,076,770 $1,179,600 $1,211,820 3 Geographic % Full-time % Permanent contract Company Employees Region employees employees Maternity/paternity leave $0 $0 $39,890 N/A Gazit-Globe Headquarters Israel 22 98% 100% Gym membership $70,750 $48,090 $18,340 -62 Gazit Israel Israel 74 93% 100% Tuition reimbursement $40,130 $39,330 $27,020 -31 First Capital Realty Canada 433 97% 96% Company’s contribution to employee RRSPs $705,670 $728,590 $817,590 12 Equity One USA 156 99% 95% Employee assistance $18,720 $19,680 $20,400 4 Citycon Europe 151 96% 86% program Professional $24,540 $23,140 $18,380 -21 development days Seminars/courses $146,670 $301,760 $582,460 93 TOTAL $4,122,130 $4,669,140 $5,383,880 15 38 | Gazit-Globe CSR 2013-2014 Gazit-Globe CSR 2013-2014 | 39 Job Training and Career Development Spotlight: FCR Our job training strategy focuses on enhancing skills, motivation and ethical behavior and we also work to Spotlight: encourage and develop employee skill levels and positive 2012 2013 2014 2014 VERSUS 2013 CHANGE (%) attitudes to maximize our operations. We also strive to increase the skill base of our employees by supporting CITYCON EMPLOYMENT CATAGORY MALES FEMALES TOTAL MALES FEMALES TOTAL MALES FEMALES TOTAL MALES FEMALES TOTAL Senior Management 17 23 20 22 24 23 22 16 19 -2 -32 -15 long term self-development, for instance, through further or advanced studies. In addition to its 151 employees, Citycon indirectly Middle Management 16 22 18 13 16 15 18 15 16 39 -8 11 employs a large number of people through the procurement of various services. One of the key Professional/Technical 6 5 5 14 32 26 18 8 12 33 -75 -54 To retain our valued employees and advance their careers, we offer career development opportunities, where possible. HR priorities is to build One Citycon by enhancing Administrative 0 3 3 N/A 21 21 N/A 14 14 N/A -32 N/A Due to the size and geographic scope of our operations, in-house cooperation and interaction across both Building Support 0 N/A 0 34 N/A 34 N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A -32 where appropriate we encourage our employees to move operational and geographic boundaries. During from one position to another within our organization in order 2014, there were 419 days of training sessions during TOTAL 9 7 8 17 25 22 20 14 17 17 -46 -23 to advance their careers. the year, the equivalent of 2.9 days per employee. During the years 2013 and 2014, management spent a All employees have personal competence cumulative 320 hours engaged in training programs, and development plans which are updated every year in professional employees spent a cumulative 230 hours on discussion with their supervisors. In addition, tailored training. Administrative staff spent approximately 195 hours development programs are planned for specific personnel groups. on training. This information relates to staff at Gazit-Globe’s Spotlight: Spotlight: headquarters. FCR EQY FCR encourages its employees to advance in their As part of EQY’s commitment to understand the careers and they are encouraged to take professional needs and wants of its employees, EQY conducted development courses and seminars. FCR provides an employee survey in 2014. With an 80% response internal training related to its programs and process rate, it identified key target areas for improvement changes, and as a result of its significant growth, initiatives and additional lines of communication. many FCR employees have expanded their skills EQY’s annual performance review process is a key and expertise. FCR also offers a generous employee element in its human resource strategy and allows it training and assistance program to its full-time to analyze employee skill levels and performance on permanent employees in which employees can a regular basis. The main focus of its HR program receive up to $1,500 annually towards tuition is to influence employee commitment, motivation, reimbursement to advance their current work and engagement through best practices, rewards, activities or to develop new skills. performance management, and communication as well as to develop and retain top talent. 40 | Gazit-Globe CSR 2013-2014 Gazit-Globe CSR 2013-2014 | 41 Performance Review Transitioning to Retirement GC6 Our managers are required to conduct annual performance appraisals of their employees to ensure Spotlight: that expectations are understood, and performance acknowledged and rewarded. They include providing FCR the employee with feedback for the previous period, establishing targets for the coming period and tailoring Spotlight: FCR provides transition assistance for retiring and terminated employees, including the use of a a personal short and long term development plan. At Gazit-Globe, the CEO personally meets with all employees on an annual basis. CITYCON third-party provider to support the employee in his/her transition, as well as to provide investment information and guidance to employees and employment counseling where appropriate. At Citycon, employee performance review is an essential tool for managing target-oriented activity and employee skills. In 2014 99% of employees were reviewed once, while 73% were reviewed twice. Diversity and Equal Opportunity Spotlight: Our recruitment, employment, training, promotion, transfer While we and our subsidiaries do everything possible FCR and termination of employees are based solely on the employee and his/her ability, achievements, experience, to prevent cases of discrimination in the workplace we understand that there is a need to establish suitable conduct and other reasonable business considerations. We mechanisms for handling them, if and when they occur. conduct our business without discrimination based on race, GC6 origin, religion, gender, sexual preferences, age or disability. Percentage of employees who received formal performance GC6 reviews by gender and employment category: 2012 2013 2014 2014 VERSUS 2013 CHANGE The following graph illustrates the composition of our management according to their gender (as of December 31, 2014): (%) EMPLOYMENT CATAGORY MALES FEMALES MALES FEMALES MALES FEMALES MALES FEMALES Geographic Company Women Men Total Region Senior Management 100 100 100 80 100 100 0 25 Gazit-Globe Headquarters Israel 1 4 5 Middle Management 100 100 100 100 100 100 0 0 Professional/Technical 100 100 96 97 100 100 4 4 Gazit Israel Israel 2 5 7 Administrative 75 98 100 97 100 100 0 3 First Capital Realty Canada 3 5 8 Building Support 92 N/A 97 N/A 100 100 3 N/A Equity One USA 2 7 9 Citycon Europe 1 4 5 42 | Gazit-Globe CSR 2013-2014 Gazit-Globe CSR 2013-2014 | 43 Spotlight: Employee group by gender CITYCON 80% Male 20% Female 3.3% Management Committee 47.8% Male 52.2% Female 15.3% Other Directors Hambertown, Toronto, Canada 52.7% Male 47.3% Female 36.7% Managers 47.8% Male 52.2% Female 44.7% Spotlight: Other Employees FCR 2014 employment category by gender Board Age Composition Spotlight: Male EQY 100% Female 97% 11% 41-50 yrs 60% 63% 23% 71-80 yrs 52% 48% 40% 37% 33% 51-60 yrs 3% 0% 33% 61-70 yrs Senior Middle Professional/ Administrative Building Management Management Technical Support 44 | Gazit-Globe CSR 2013-2014 Gazit-Globe CSR 2013-2014 | 45 Performance Review GC1 GC2 GC6 GC1 GC2 GC3 GC4 GC5 GC6 GC7 GC8 GC9 GC10 We are proud that during 2014 no incidences of harassment or discrimination against employees were reported at GazitGlobe headquarters. GC6 Global Compact In addition to our Code of Business Conduct, our subsidiaries have formulated procedures for promoting equality and In 2010, we adopted the principles of the United Nation’s Global Compact initiative and incorporated them as part protecting their employees from insult and harassment, including procedures for dealing with sexual harassment. of our business practices. A summary of the Global Compact principles, and how we align our business practices with them, can be found on page 5. GC1 GC2 GC3 GC4 GC5 GC6 GC7 GC8 GC9 GC10 We also respect and support the principles of the United Nations’ Universal Declaration of Human Rights, which, in addition to equality, include civil and political rights as well as economic, social and cultural rights. GC1 GC2 Spotlight: Spotlight: CITYCON FCR In all of our years of operations, there has never been a single complaint, investigation or action pertaining to forced, compulsory or child labor at Gazit-Globe. GC4 GC5 During the year 2014, there were no reports of During the reporting year, there were There are no labor unions at Gazit-Globe. GC3 harassment or discrimination against employees. no reported incidents of harassment or Citycon conducts personnel surveys which are a discrimination. key workplace well-being indicator. Spotlight: Human Rights CITYCON Upholding human rights is one of the core values at Gazit-Globe and our commitment to support and protect human rights Respect for Human Rights and Labor Rights respects the right of all personnel to decide on joining is an inherent part of Gazit-Globe’s multinational business practices. Our respect for humanity is a top priority. Employees Within its sphere of influence and legal requirements in trade unions and other associations. Citycon’s Code working for the Company are granted basic rights as mandated by law such as fair wages, rest times, annual leave, the countries where our Citycon subsidiary operates, of Conduct lays the foundation for employee relations convalescence, etc., as well as additional benefits such as social activities, holiday gifts and families gatherings. GC1 GC2 Citycon respects and supports internationally and human rights-related matters. Citycon’s supply acknowledged human rights as expressed in the chain includes low-wage tasks, and the hiring people United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights for these jobs may involve risk factors related to work and the basic labor rights stated in the ILO Declaration conditions and human rights. on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. Citycon will not employ forced labor or child labor and 46 | Gazit-Globe CSR 2013-2014 Gazit-Globe CSR 2013-2014 | 47 Click back to content Section 4. Social Car ical. our E th eful . The Help ful. Performance gui se a oper de st re atin ars bus ga in ines glob con s a scie with a l nce. Buckhead Station, Atlanta, Georgia, USA razil aulo, B Sau P g Mais, Shppin 48 | Gazit-Globe CSR 2013-2014 Gazit-Globe CSR 2013-2014 | 49 introduction Spotlight: FCR We are committed to acting as a model corporate citizen. in which our businesses operate. We also appreciate that In 2014 FCR provided $402,000 to sponsor numerous initiatives, including real estate industry events and We express this through our daily business activities and through our financial support and the volunteer activities organizations, children’s community sports teams, underprivileged school programs and cultural events. by making substantial contributions to numerous charitable of our employees, we can make a difference in the lives of organizations and initiatives in the areas of education, at risk populations, in educating future generations and in health, welfare, the arts and culture. advancing culture. During the reporting period, we were not subject to any legal action for anticompetitive behavior, antiCharitable organizations supported We firmly believe that our business of developing, managing trust, or monopoly practices. and operating shopping centers and medical office 2014 Versus 2013 Type of Charity 2012 ($) 2013 ($) 2014 ($) buildings has a strong positive effect on the communities Change (%) Community 71,900 131,000 86,800 -34 Cultural 0 10,000 1,000 -90 Health 41,000 32,400 11,000 -66 Benefiting the Community Miscellaneous 19,800 19,400 27,000 39 Total 132,800 192,800 125,800 -35 Our shopping centers are predominantly anchored by supermarket or drug stores, and also include discount retailers, restaurants, banks, medical clinics as well as smaller local businesses. They provide a variety of basic necessities, products and services that are typically required on a regular basis and offer a diversity of shopping experiences for consumers in one easily accessible location. Spotlight: CITYCON In 2014 Citycon’s shopping centers continued to environment. The winner will be awarded with business cooperate with a Finnish national youth service premises in one of Citycon’s shopping centers for three organization to increase its tenants’ understanding months and will receive support and guidance in starting of young people, for which Citycon was granted the up a business. Citycon also operates a digital library at its ‘Shopping Center Act of the Year’ award by the Finnish Kista Galleria, and launched a welfare program to recycle Council of Shopping Centers. Citycon also launched used children shoes which are sent to people in need in a unique ‘Citycontest’ program to enable students Africa and Eastern Europe. to try their business ideas in a real shopping center | 50 > Gazit-Globe Gazit-GlobeCSR Corporate 2013-2014 Responsibility Report 2011-2012 Charitable Investment Supporting the Community Above and beyond our business activities, Gazit-Globe Social Responsibility of Gazit-Globe employees: As believes that it is both a duty and a privilege to contribute to part of strengthening ties with the local community, we the community. For more information, see “Supporting the encourage our employees to volunteer for appropriate Community” in Section 4 – Social Performance below. social activities and projects. We offer several options for volunteering in the areas of education and welfare such as In the health field, for over 10 years we have been a major the “Larger than Life” and “Etgarim” projects so that every supporter of organization whose goal is to improve the employee can select a manageable opportunity in which he/ quality of life and well-being of children with cancer and their she can contribute. families. We also support hospitals and other organizations providing medical care. In the field of arts and culture, we During 2013-2014, the annual volunteer time of Gazitsupport museums and theaters, and in the field of welfare, Globe employees was higher in comparison to the average we support underprivileged families with food and by volunteer time of other companies. Our manager of funding summer camps for children. Corporate Responsibility activities is responsible for day-today activities supported by Company employees. Donations by the group 2014 Above and beyond our business activities, we believe donations of Gazit-Globe that it is both a duty and a privilege to contribute to the A total of NIS 10,901,000 was donated by the Group during 2014. community. Several years ago, we formulated a Social The breakdown of donations per sector was as follows: Investment Policy which outlines our Group’s commitment 10,713 10,901 to contribute, invest and assist the community, as well as our philanthropic activities and opportunities for employees 80% 4% who wish to volunteer their time to various organizations. The policy is established by our Corporate Responsibility Education Welfare Committee, which is comprised of Gazit-Globe board 5,790 5% 1% members and management. The committee determines the guidelines of contributions, monitors their effectiveness and 5,220 3,830 Social & Israel & Dispora 2,981 the influence of sponsored projects, as well as employee Environment 1% volunteerism. 5% IDF Health care 4% 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Culture 52 | Gazit-Globe CSR 2013-2014 Gazit-Globe CSR 2013-2014 | 53 Among Gazit-Globe’s community initiatives in Israel during 2014 were the following: Spotlight: “Supporting the South” – the Company invested NIS 7 million to support educational systems in towns in Israel’s Gazit-Globe Real Estate Institute at the Interdisciplinary Center (IDC) in Herzlia, Israel, which supports research FCR Negev region, assisting in funding the operation of youth on real estate issues, including academic conferences on centers, awarding scholarships to 115 students and housing, housing prices and financing, among others; FCR donated approximately $193,000 to charitable providing financial support to 10 primary schools and 10 organizations in 2013, including $100,000 to high schools; Financial support of social welfare, health and cultural Calgary flood relief efforts. It also provided in-kind organizations, as well as assistance to soldiers, Diaspora donations valued at $368,000. FCR employees “Yeruham City of Education” initiative designed to Jews and the environment. are also encouraged to volunteer their time to noncreate a quantum, sustainable leap in the city’s educational profit organizations and volunteer programs. system; Customer Satisfaction We regard client satisfaction as a top priority. Clients of Gazit-Globe’s subsidiaries can be divided into two groups: tenants, who rent stores in our shopping centers, and consumers who use the facilities and stores in Spotlight: the shopping centers. We check the satisfaction level of these two CITYCON client groups through surveys at our shopping centers. These surveys In 2014 Citycon conducted tenant satisfaction enable management to understand surveys at all of its shopping centers in order the needs of our clients and to receive ideas for further development of its consumers and result in improved centers. 350 tenants responded to the survey. service and greater satisfaction on their part. 54 | Gazit-Globe CSR 2013-2014 Gazit-Globe CSR 2013-2014 | 55 Anti-Corruption GC10 For a discussion of our Anti-Corruption policy, please see our website: http://www.gazit-globe.com/. GC10 Spotlight: FCR FCR has clearly defined its expectations of employees, officers and directors in its Code of Conduct and Ethics, Anti-Corruption Compliance Policy and Whistleblower Policy. Employees, officers and directors are required to Spotlight: acknowledge having read these documents and agree to comply with these policies upon joining CITYCON the organization and annually thereafter. FCR’s VP, Business Process and Risk Management, In line with its ethical business principles, tracks and reports to the EVP and CFO compliance with this directive, which was 97 Citycon is explicitly opposed to corruption and bribery. Apart from gifts of only token monetary Risk Management Anti-Competitive percent for 2014. During the reporting period there were no reported incidents of harassment value or reasonable hospitality, Citycon or persons acting on its behalf must not offer or Behavior Risk Management includes our ability to identify, assess and or discrimination. accept any benefits, gifts or hospitality that treat deliberate, systematic and consistent risks that threaten could influence its ability to make objective and The Group meets all statutory requirements and our achievement of goals and objectives, as well as the ability honest decisions. Similarly, it refrains from trying avoids any practices intended to subvert or eliminate to analyze events, draw conclusions and take actions to reduce to affect objective and honest decision-making competition and refrains from price-fixing contracts damage and prevent future recurrences. by a public authority, client, partner or any other and price discrimination. During the reporting period, party. Appropriate travel and representation the Company was not subject to any legal action for We engage in risk mapping, and it specifies specific activities practices are specified in Citycon’s Travel and anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, or monopoly for managing the material risks inherent in our operations and Representation Policy which was updated in practices. in corporate control, including financial risk management. In 2014. No corruption, fraud or bribery cases addition, we implement internal audits and control activities, and were brought to Citycon’s attention in 2014. comply with Israel’s ‘Goshen‘ ISOX Committee requirements, as well as Sarbanes Oxley laws in the US. We are working systematically and consistently to strengthen our corporate governance as well as our risk management. 56 | Gazit-Globe CSR 2013-2014 Gazit-Globe CSR 2013-2014 | 57 Health & Safety We regard the health and safety of our employees, tenants and customers with the utmost importance and take all possible measures to ensure conformity Spotlight: FCR with the strictest standards. Our subsidiaries arrange training for security personnel, develop crisis management protocols and implement comprehensive health and safety policies for the In addition to providing health care and optimal operation of their properties and the safety of life insurance, FCR provides an Employee employees and customers. Assistance Program to help employees and their immediate family members deal with everyday work, health and life issues, as well as with major life challenges. Spotlight: CITYCON Spotlight: Citycon’s centers offer a wide variety of wellbeing and health services: medical centers, EQY dentists, eye specialists, maternity clinics, gyms and pharmacies. Its Liljeholmstorget Galleria EQY’s wellness program is an integral part of houses the largest municipal health center in our ongoing efforts to aid in the positive health Stockholm. To ensure the safety of its shopping and wellbeing of its employees, and includes center personnel and customers, Citycon uses tools for stress management, interactive lunchthe services of security guards and security and-learn lessons and other helpful information. officers from its partners and it organized a EQY administers safety protocols through regular number of different training events during internal communication channels and maintains 2014, ranging from crisis education to fire drills. a crisis management plan to ensure that all Participants included Citycon’s personnel, as pertinent personnel are fully trained to respond to well as those of its tenants and partners. potential man-made and natural disasters. 58 | Gazit-Globe CSR 2013-2014 Gazit-Globe CSR 2013-2014 | 59 Click back to content Section 5. Environmental Performance Galeria Dominikanska, Wroclaw, Poland env For u sta ironms, fir rts w enta s i gro t sho th th lism un vel e ter, Sz czecin , d. in Molo S h opping Cen the Po la n d 60 | Gazit-Globe CSR 2013-2014 Gazit-Globe CSR 2013-2014 | 61 Introduction GC7 GC8 GC9 Spotlight: CITYCON We believe that protecting the environment is important increasing our use of recycled materials. For instance, The following graph illustrates the strategic objectives for environmental responsibility from both an environmental and a long-term economic we promote responsible use and conservation of water that have been established by Citycon, as well as new annual objectives: point of view. This belief translates into action: We in all of our operations. We are sensitive to protecting the adhere to innovative green-construction principles and biodiversity of species in their natural habitats, examining building standards in a growing number of our projects biodiversity issues in our efforts to obtain LEED certification Targets for 2014 Performance for 2014 throughout the world. Our overriding goal is to improve for our projects, as well as building permits and zoning the environmental footprint of our operations, become variances. Several of our subsidiaries have implemented more energy efficient and minimize environmental damage a variety of waste, emissions and sewage management Yearly reduction of greenhouse gas emission In l-f-l shopping centers-2.1% associated with our activities. GC7 GC8 GC9 policies. In general, we strive to carry out the activities that by 2-3% have an environmental impact, such as the construction An integral part of our strategy for minimizing our and maintenance of our commercial buildings in an Yearly reduction of energy consumptin (electricity, In l-f-l shopping centers-5.7% environmental footprint is to decrease our use of natural environmentally responsible manner. GC7 GC8 GC9 heating and cooling) by 2-3% resources, energy and nonperishable materials, while Carrying out a renewable energy feasibility Achieved study in (re)development projects An average level of water consumption In l-f-l shopping centersless than 3.7 litres per visitor 3.3l / visitor Shopping centre waste recycling rate at least 80% 89% Landfill waste a maximum of 20% of total waste 11% All major projects ongoing un 2014 Achieved assessed with LEED criteria Development projects located in built-up enviroments, 100% witin reach of good public tranport connection Achieved The yearly targets of 2014 are based on the strategic targets set in 2010. In 2014 we renewed our longterm goal setting. 62 | Gazit-Globe CSR 2013-2014 Gazit-Globe CSR 2013-2014 | 63 GREEN BUILDING GC7 GC8 GC9 GC7 GC8 GC9 Spotlight: Over the past few years, we have made major strides as operating energy required to provide services such as FCR forward in our efforts to incorporate green building heating and power for equipment. To reduce operating practices. According to the US Environmental Protection energy use, high-efficiency windows and insulation in walls, In 2006 FCR made a commitment to build all Agency, green building is defined as “the practice of creating ceilings, and floors increase the efficiency of the building new developments to LEED standards, the first structures and using processes that are environmentally envelope and solar water heating further reduces energy shopping center developer in Canada to make this responsible and resource-efficient throughout a building’s costs. GC7 GC8 GC9 commitment. LEED is an internationally recognized life-cycle from siting to design, construction, operation, green building rating system which uses a wholemaintenance, renovation and deconstruction. This practice The energy used to heat and power buildings accounts for building approach to sustainability by addressing expands and complements the classical building design a substantial amount of CO2 emissions and greenhouse five key areas: sustainable site development, water concerns of economy, utility, durability, and comfort. gas (GHG) emissions. Measures to reduce GHG emissions and energy efficiency, material selection and indoor Green building is also known as a ‘sustainable’ or ‘high from buildings fall into one of three categories: reducing environmental quality. As of December 31, 2014, performance building’.” GC7 GC8 GC9 energy consumption and embodied energy in buildings, 62 projects comprising 1.4 million square feet of switching to low-carbon fuels including a higher share of GLA, or 5.6% of FCR’s GLA, were certified to LEED, Green building often includes taking measures to reduce renewable energy, or controlling the emissions of non-CO2 and FCR has another 84 projects comprising 2.8 energy consumption – both the energy required to extract, GHG gases. GC8 million square feet of GLA registered to obtain LEED process, transport and install building materials, as well certification. Some of our achievements in green building include: Spotlight: CITYCON Spotlight: Gazit Israel Citycon has LEED certificates for four of its properties representing approximately 18% of the total fair value Gazit Israel constructs its new shopping centers of its property portfolio. During 2014, Citycon was according to Israeli standards related to preventing awarded the Green Star status in the global GRESB air and water pollution, sewage, waste, and (Global Real Estate Sustainability Benchmark) noise. Among other things, the company places assessment for the third year in a row. It also reached an emphasis on climate control in its structures the gold level in EPRA (European Public Real Estate especially in places where there are large internal Association) sustainability reporting. In addition to spaces, and is careful to use the appropriate glass its sustainability reporting, its financial reporting also sheathing. GC8 won a gold medal, making CityCon a double winner. Hambertown, Toronto, Canada 64 | Gazit-Globe CSR 2013-2014 Gazit-Globe CSR 2013-2014 | 65 BOMA BEST (Building Environmental Standards) GC9 Spotlight: Spotlight: Spotlight: FCR EQY FCR In 2011, FCR began a process to seek BOMA BESt certification for its existing properties. BOMA BESt is the largest During 2014, EQY continued to evaluate ways to In 2014 FCR spent $4.1 million on waste recycling/ environmental assessment and certification program for existing buildings in Canada. Building owners complete a maximize responsible office supply purchasing by disposal costs across its entire portfolio. It also has questionnaire that critically evaluates six key areas of environmental performance and management: energy, water, creating a list of acceptable office purchases that a comprehensive waste reporting system in 49% of waste, emissions and effluents, indoor environment and environmental management systems. In 2014, 34 of FRC’s are both cost-efficient and reduce overall impact on its portfolio representing 11.4 million square feet of properties comprising 2.9 million square feet received BOMA BESt certification. As of December 31, 2014, 87 the environment. The preferred product list currently GLA. For each property in these regions, a waste properties comprising over 7.6 million square feet or 31% of the Company’s GLA were certified to these standards. includes 37 general office supply and cleaning report is generated identifying the recycling/waste products that contain post-consumer recycled fiber. stream, quantity of recycling/waste generated and method of disposal or diversion. CONSERVATION AND RECYCLING 2014 waste profile of non hazardous waste Our Company and its subsidiaries use a variety of 74% resources and materials in our commercial offices General waste and shopping centers, ranging from energy and water to office equipment, paper, ink toner, bottles and packaging. An integral part of our strategy 15% Cardboard for minimizing our environmental footprint is to decrease our use of natural resources, energy and non-perishable materials, while increasing our use 5% of recycled materials. We also strive to collect used Paper/mixed fibre products and materials for recycling and/or re-use. In our shopping centers, we employ conservation 4% Organics measures wherever possible, ranging from the installation of water-saving devices in restrooms to the employment of ‘dry garden’ principles in 2% landscaping, the recycling of packaging materials Mixed glass/ and the use of low energy lighting and alternative metal/plastic energy sources. GC9 66 | Gazit-Globe CSR 2013-2014 Gazit-Globe CSR 2013-2014 | 67 Energy Spotlight: Spotlight: FCR Gazit Globe Energy in the form of natural gas and electricity supplies heating, cooling and power to FCR’s properties. In The Company has completed construction of a new center in Yavne, which most cases, tenants in its open air shopping centers are separately metered for natural gas and electricity has been opened since September 2014. The Company has avoided building consumption and they pay utility companies directly for their consumption. 38% of FCR’s energy consumption a central air conditioning system, which is energy and water consuming. was sourced from renewable power, i.e., wind, solar, or hydraulic generation. Instead, each store in the center has its own air condition system. 2011-2014 Energy Consumption for energy consumption by asset class and from entire portfolio Gazit-Globe’s Headquarters (kWh) Open air shopping centers 313,103 Enclosed shopping centers Office buildings GLA (ft2) Consumption GLA (ft2 ) 163,190 165,360 (eMWh) 180,000 157,120 183,072 -25,000 142,420 150,000 123,433 -24,000 120,000 -23,000 90,000 -22,000 60,000 30,000 -21,000 -20,000 2012 2013 2014 2011 2012 2013 2014 68 | Gazit-Globe CSR 2013-2014 Gazit-Globe CSR 2013-2014 | 69 ENERGY CONSERVATION GC7 GC8 GC9 We consume significant amounts of energy to light, heat and cool our properties. As such, we are increasingly focused on Spotlight: the conservation of energy in all of our operations, and on the utilization of alternative energy sources where possible to CITYCON operate our shopping centers and other properties. This is an ongoing process which has not yet been implemented fully throughout our operations. GC7 GC8 GC9 Energy consumption at Citycon’s properties is mostly indirect consumption, i.e., procured energy. Only one of its shopping centers is equipped with a heating plant, and the fuel used by it is reported as direct energy consumption. Citycon Spotlight: purchased 180.5 GWh of electricity in 2014, and its total energy consumption was 247.4 GWh. Its consumption decreased in like-for-like shopping centers EQY properties by 5.7% compared to 2013. Energy intensity of Energy intensity of Heating and shopping centers shopping centers electricity Electricity (Kwh) kWh/visitor kWh/sq.m charges EUR million 272,800 High Street-Tenant 1.83 321 1.55 273 280 25.1 23.2 666,520 1.49 1.51 1.43 263 251 High Street-Retail 1,113,837 Healthcare 1,208,231 Office 28,397,321 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2013 2014 Retail Shopping Center 70 | Gazit-Globe CSR 2013-2014 Gazit-Globe CSR 2013-2014 | 71 Spotlight: Ecology and Economy EQY Spotlight: Spotlight: 821,101 Electricity (Kwh) 16,894,000 CITYCON EQY Common Area Landlord Control At Citycon, ecology and economy go hand in hand. EQY began installing electric car charging stations Drivers of responsibility include Citycon’s strategic at its shopping centers in 2012 which have been choice to pursue sustainable development, stricter successful and provide substantial environmental legislation on energy and emissions, energy prices benefits while providing convenience for customers 126,139 839,521 and material costs, cost-efficiency and achieving at its centers. EQY is following a strategic approach 5,230,036 5,443,601 150,705 a competitive advantage, offering attractive retail to installing additional charging units throughout its 2,933,565 properties and improving risk management. portfolio and to furthering its commitment to promote alternative transportation at its centers. California Florida Northeast Southeast Electric car charging station Spotlight: Spotlight: Existing Sites FRC EQY Future Sites In 2014 FCR continued to implement energy During 2014, EQY continued its strategy to conservation measures in its portfolio, reduce its overall energy usage at its properties recommissioning investigations at 11 of its properties with LED parking lot lighting conversions and and identifying more than 6 million ekWh of annual sophisticated fixture-level lighting controls that The Gallery at Westbury savings. Recommissioning is a systematic process eliminate unnecessary lighting during off hours Plaza & Westbury Plaza to optimize the operation and maintenance of a being the main focus of these efforts. Using a building to improve occupant comfort and energy combination of technologies, EQY reduced its Potreo Shopping Center performance and enhance operational capabilities. energy consumption at one center by around Serramonte Center Many recommissioning findings, including optimizing 200,000 kWh per year. EQY was recently Buckhead Station HVAC equipment, retrofitting more than 2,500 recognized by LEEP (Lighting Energy Efficiency South Beach Regional lighting fixtures with LED lighting, and installing new in Parking Campaign) for the best use of lighting boilers, pumps and fans, were implemented by FCR controls in a single facility. Sheridan Plaza & Shops at Skylake in 2014. As a result of implementing these findings in 2014, FCR expects to realize annual cost savings Boca Village Square of $375,000. 72 | Gazit-Globe CSR 2013-2014 Gazit-Globe CSR 2013-2014 | 73 Water GC7 Water Conservation and Management Measures Our properties use water to support cleaning activities, supply landscape irrigation and to provide sewage conveyance, as well as for consumption by our employees, tenants and their customers. In most cases, municipal water treatment plants Spotlight: CITYCON provide our properties with potable water, and our wastewater is sent to municipal treatment plants. We recognize the vital importance of promoting the responsible use and conservation of water in all of our operations. GC7 Citycon’s total water consumption in 2014 was 723,423 cubic meters. Water consumption increased by 20% compared to the previous year as a result of changes in its property portfolio and in reporting coverage, however, water consumption of Citycon’s like-for-like shopping centers decreased by 5.4%. Citycon undertook measures, such as the installation of user-specific water meters, to reduce its water consumption. GC8 Spotlight: Energy intensity of shopping centers FRC kWh/visitor Spotlight: FCR’s properties use water to supply drinking water, support maintenance cleaning activities, supply landscape FRC 4.1 4.3 irrigation and provide sewage conveyance. 3.8 4.0 3.7 Water Consumption FCR continued to implement water conservation measures in its portfolio in 2014. To minimize the use of water for irrigation, native and drought resistant 2014 versus 2013 ASSET CLASS 2012 (m3) 2013 (m3) 2014 (m3) plants were planted at two of its centers in British change (%) Columbia and Toronto, and irrigation systems were Open-air shopping centers 936,400 945,010 893,410 -5 commissioned at another property to enhance Enclosed shopping centers 345,860 399,880 368,670 -8 efficiency. In addition, semi-annual inspections of common areas and tenant-leased premises at many Office buildings 78,140 72,650 65,140 -10 properties were conducted for sources of leaking Total 1,360,410 1,417,540 1,327,220 -6 water. GC8 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 74 | Gazit-Globe CSR 2013-2014 Gazit-Globe CSR 2013-2014 | 75 Responsible Corporate Operations Water Sewer (Cu3) Common Area Landlord Control 199,391 Spotlight: EQY 44,281 As part of its corporate initiatives and IT 82,510 infrastructure upgrades, our EQY subsidiary implemented an automated utility data collection system that tracks all electric, gas and water 2,539 1,669 consumption under EQY’s control. The system allows EQY to analyze energy consumption data California Florida Northeast Southeast across its property portfolio to better discover inefficiencies and provide opportunities for capital improvements for long-term reductions in utility expenditures for savings and enhancement of value. Water Sewer (Cu3) 1,306 Office water consumption 1,492 High Street-Tenant Total water Like-for-like total water Total water consumption consumption (m3) consumption (m3) in shopping centers (m3) 1,670 2010 562,604 487,275 Healthcare 2011 639,457 573,626 2012 632,306 581,990 2,413 High Street-Retail 2013 603,014 474,415 560,464 2014 723,423 449,765 685,898 404,257 Change-% 2014/2013 20.0 -5.2 22.4 Retail Shopping Center Change-% 2014/2010 28.6 40.8 76 | Gazit-Globe CSR 2013-2014 Gazit-Globe CSR 2013-2014 | 77 GC8 GC9 GHG Emissions Spotlight: FCR Spotlight: Gazit Israel GHG emissions at FCR properties result from burning fossil fuels to provide power, heating and cooling to its properties as well as the transportation of water to and from properties. In 2014, FCR’s GHG emissions decreased 3% from 2013 levels in spite of a 3% increase in GLA reporting GHG emissions, a 1% increase in energy consumption, and a 40% average Our Israeli subsidiary has completed the construction of a new center in Yavne according to Israeli Standard that increase in electricity emission factors. 2014 emissions were lower compared to the previous year because FCR consumed calls for surface runoff water to drain into aquifers. To meet this standard, the Company created a complex drainage less electrical energy in Alberta where its electricity emission factor was the highest. system, which includes drilling a hole into the subsurface. GC8 GC9 Our subsidiaries vary in their levels of implementation of water conservation measures. In each center in Israel, the GHG Emissions Company used special faucets in the public lavatories which has fixed quantities of water that prevent water waste. GC8 2012 2013 2014 2014 versus 2013 Asset Class (CO2e Tonnes) (CO2e Tonnes) (CO2e Tonnes) change (%) Open-air Shopping Centers Scoop 1Natural Gas 2,860 2,840 3,300 17 Scoop 2 Electricity 8,210 7.080 6,550 -7 Scoop 3 Water 120 120 120 -1 Emissions, Effluents & Waste Total for Asset Class 11,190 10,040 9,990 0 Enclosed Shopping Centers Scoop 1Natural Gas 4,490 5,380 5,660 5 Scoop 2 Electricity 9,530 9,560 8,960 -6 Scoop 3 Water 50 50 50 -1 Total for Asset Class 14,070 14,990 14,670 -2 Spotlight: Gazit Israel Office Buildings Scoop 1Natural Gas 1,880 2,070 2,110 2 Scoop 2 Electricity 2,780 2,280 1,860 -18 The following graph illustrates Gazit Israel’s GHG emissions for the period: Scoop 3 Water 10 10 10 -1 Gazit Israel GHG Emissions (Ton) Total for Asset Class 4,660 4,360 3,980 -9 Entire Portfolio 2011 2012 2013 2014 Scoop 1Natural Gas 9,230 10,280 11,090 8 Scoop 2 Electricity 20,520 18,930 17,380 -8 1,190 1,332 1,013 638 Scoop 3 Water 170 170 170 -1 Total 29,920 29,390 28,640 -3 78 | Gazit-Globe CSR 2013-2014 Gazit-Globe CSR 2013-2014 | 79 GHG Emissions GC8 GC9 Waste Disposal Data Spotlight: Spotlight: CITYCON FCR Citycon’s carbon footprint increased by 8.3% in 2014 Total Direct and Indirect Greenhouse gas emissions compared to the previous year as a result of changes in its property portfolio, including the inclusion of its Kista Galleria in its environmental reporting for the first time in 2014. Citycon’s carbon footprint in relation to TnCO2e 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 property area decreased compared to the previous year, and its carbon footprint of like-for-like shopping Electricity in common areas 20,880 20,850 21,112 21,079 17,180 centers decreased by 2.1%. The carbon footprint is Tenants’ Electricity supplied by the landlord* 34,036 25,626 25,261 23,222 18,001 not entirely comparable between 2014 and earlier years because emission factors were updated in 2014. District heating and cooling in properties 23,365 26,196 27,484 25,314 32,335 Electricity and heat in office occupation 17 53 63 61 51 GREENHOUSE gas intensity from building energy CRE3 Wastewater in properties 762 225 234 239 210 kg CO2 e/sqm Spotlight: Waste in properties 86 75 74 77 68 Gazit Israel Business travel 300 317 303 275 473 Commuting 90 73 76 78 117 53 50 50 47 Paper consumption and mail 3 3 3 4 2 45 The subsidiary put a lot of emphasis on the quality of the effluents, which our centers Total 79,538 73,419 74,612 70,347 68,439 pore into the municipal sewage system. Therefore, in most centers we increased the frequency of the cleaning procedures of our septic tanks, and introduced more stringent Due to varying local recycling and waste markets across based recycling/waste management companies to rules for restaurants regarding their house the country, FCR currently does not have a national transport and to recycle/dispose FCR’s property recycling/ keeping procedures. GC8 GC9 comprehensive, recycling/waste program for its properties. waste streams. In 2014, FCR spent $4.1 million on A number of factors contribute to this situation including recycling/waste disposal costs across its entire portfolio. local market conditions and reliance on several regionally 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 80 | Gazit-Globe CSR 2013-2014 Gazit-Globe CSR 2013-2014 | 81 Waste Disposal Data Spotlight: FCR Quantity of non-hazardous waste generated Spotlight: FCR 2014 waste profile of non hazardous waste 74% 2012 2013 2014 2014 VERSUS 2013 General waste Type of waste (tonnes)1 (tonnes)1 (tonnes)1 CHANGE (%) Paper/mixed fibre 730 2,400 830 -65 15% Cardboard Cardboard 1,660 2,040 2,350 15 Organics Mixed glass/metal/plastic 430 200 550 230 550 240 0 4 5% Paper/mixed fibre General waste 9,070 8,350 11,190 34 TOTAL 12,080 13,570 15,150 12 4% Organics 1 2 3 Data represented waste generated in 10.1 million ft2 (40%) of the portfolio. Data represented waste generated in 116 million ft2 (48%) of the portfolio. Data represented waste generated in 11.4 million ft2 (49%) of the portfolio. Municipal services provide waste and recycling services at 2% 1.3 million square feet of the portfolio/ Mixed glass/ metal/plastic 82 | Gazit-Globe CSR 2013-2014 Gazit-Globe CSR 2013-2014 | 83 Waste Management Spotlight: Spotlight: Citycon Citycon Properties managed by Citycon generated 17,105 tonnes Total waste amount Total waste amount in shopping centers of waste, of which 16,599 tonnes were collected from shopping centers and 506 tons from other properties. The t t recycling rate of waste materials for Citycon’s shopping 2010 13,644 2010 12,973 centers was 88.5%, showing an increase of 3.1% compared 2011 15,361 2011 14,596 to the previous year. The amount of waste generated by 2012 14,896 2012 14,118 shopping centers increased by 14.9% compared to the previous year. 2013 15,097 2013 14,446 Measures taken in 2014 to increase waste sorting 2014 17,105 2014 16,599 included: Change-% 2014/2013 13.3 Change-% 2014/2013 14.9 Sorting instructions applicable in shopping centers Change-% 2014/2010 25.4 Change-% 2014/2010 27.9 were issued to all parties concerned, and were made electronically available at all times. Training was arranged in shopping centers as necessary to improve sorting and recycling. total weight of waste by disposal routes Waste Stream 2014 2013 Type of waste t % t % Landfill Waste 2,091 12.2 2,410 16 Spotlight: Incinerated waste 4,294 25.1 4,179 27.7 EQY Composted waste 2,628 15.4 2,724 18.0 Recycled waste 7,402 43.3 5,299 35.1 During 2014, EQY continued to focus its efforts with its ensure that waste removal and recycling programs are in Reused waste 689 4.0 485 3.2 waste providers to develop new strategies to minimize the place for each shopping center. 39% of EQY’s total waste TOTAL 17,105 100 15,097 100 total amount of waste being sent to local landfills. EQY volume was made up of recyclable materials. actively audits its waste services on an annual basis to 84 | Gazit-Globe CSR 2013-2014 Gazit-Globe CSR 2013-2014 | 85 Property Waste Totals Resources Saved GC8 The following is a snapshot of waste totals and resources saved: GC8 Spotlight: Spotlight: EQY EQY Generated Landfill Incinerator Diverted Paper Water Oil Consumption (Recycled) (Saved) (Saved) 41,534 Tons 35,952 Tons 35,526 Tons 23,969 Tons 24,732 Tons 23,298 Tons 36,463,000 Galons 5,209 Tons 1,394,796 Tons 1,373,043 Tons 1,250,963 Tons 30,324,000 Galons 27,615,000 Galons 4,332 Tons 13,477 Tons 14,263 Tons 3,969 Tons 11,423 Tons 11,030 Tons 9,134 Tons 7,743 Tons 2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 86 | Gazit-Globe CSR 2013-2014 Gazit-Globe CSR 2013-2014 | 87 Resources Saved GC8 GC8 The following is a snapshot of waste totals and resources saved: GC8 Spotlight: EQY Energy Air Pollution Landfill Space (Saved) (Avoided) (Saved) Spotlight: FCR 20,836,000 kw 312,540 Tons 39,651 Cu Yds 17,328,000 kw 259,920 Tons 15,780,000 kw 236,700 Tons 27,117 Cu Yds FCR won an ICSC Silver Maple Leaf Award for New Development Design Excellence. GC8 15,627 Cu Yds 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 Iso Omena Helsinki, Finland 88 | Gazit-Globe CSR 2013-2014 Gazit-Globe CSR 2013-2014 | 89 Click back to content Section 6. Global Reporting Initative (GRI) Information As a global leader, we aim for a higher ch Rep ublic CSR standard: , Cze Par dubice Doing What’s Right. | 90 > Gazit-Globe Corporate Gazit-GlobeCSR 2013-2014 Responsibility Report 2011-2012 Gazit-Globe CSR 2013-2014 | 91 Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Information “The Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) is a network-based issue of selecting the Application Level most suitable for Report Application Level C C+ B B+ A A+ organization that has pioneered the development of the the Company. According to the GRI, CR Reports aiming to world’s most widely used sustainability reporting framework qualify for level C, C+, B, B+, A or A+ must contain each of G3 Profile Report on: Report on all criteria Same as requirement and is committed to its continuous improvement and the criteria that are presented in the column for the relevant Disclosures 1.1 listed For Level C plus: for Level B application worldwide.” level. 2.1-2.10 1.2 Output 3.1-3.8, 3.10-3.12 3.9, 3.13 As part of our goal of creating a Corporate Responsibility Self-declared Application Level Gazit-Globe established 4.1-4.4, 4.14-4.15 4.5-4.13, 4.16-4.17 report that meets transparency best practices, we a clear target of publishing a Second Application “B” determined that this third report will be according to the GRI Report Externally Assured level report. We proudly present this third report which Report Externally Assured Report Externally Assured Not Required Management Approach Same as requirement Standard Disclosures – Global Reporting Initiative’s guidelines for the purpose of reflects our commitment to our stakeholders, including the G3 Management Disclosurces for each for Level B enhancing this report’s technical quality, credibility and communities in which we operate, the environment in which Approach Indicator Category relevance. we live and our Company’s shareholders. Disclosures Output Application Level In order to comply with the terms of GRI’s G3 guidelines, Gazit-Globe was required to address the Report on minimum Report on minimum Report on each core G3 G3 Perfprmance of 10 Performance of 10 Performance and Sector Supplement* Indicators Indicators, including Indicators, including at Indicator with due regard & Sector at least one from each least one from to the Materiality Principle Supplement of: Economic, Social each of: Economic, by either a: reporting Performance and Environmental. Environmental, Humen on the Indicator or b Indicators rights, Labor, explaining the reason for Output Society, Product its omission Responsibility Front page: Yorkville Villlage, Toronto, Canada 92 | Gazit-Globe CSR 2013-2014 Gazit-Globe CSR 2013-2014 | 93 3. Report Parameters Profile Disclosure Level of Location of Reason Explanation for Disclosure reporting Disclosure for the reason for omission omission GRI Index 3.1 3.2 Reporting period (e.g., fiscal/calendar year) for information provided. Date of most recent previous report (if any). √ √ 6 6 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.) √ √ Fully reported o Partly reported — Not reported 6 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents. √ 106 STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART I: Profile Disclosures 3.5 Process for defining report content. √ 6 3.6 Boundary of the report (e.g., countries, divisions, subsidiaries, leased facilities, joint ventures, suppliers). See GRI Boundary Protocol for further √ 6 guidance. 1. Strategy and Analysis Profile Disclosure Level of Location of Reason Explanation for Disclosure reporting Disclosure for the reason for 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope omission omission or boundary of the report (see completeness principle for explanation of scope). √ 6 1.1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization. √ 4-5 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and leased facilities, outsourced operations, and opportunities. √ 4-5 other entities that can significantly affect comparability from period to period and/or √ 6 between organizations. 2. Organizational Profile Profile Disclosure Level of Location of Reason Explanation for 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases Disclosure reporting Disclosure for the reason for of calculations, including assumptions and omission omission techniques underlying estimations applied to the compilation of the Indicators and other 2.1 Name of the organization. √ 10 information in the report. Explain any decisions √ 6 not to apply, or to substantially diverge from, the 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services. √ 10 GRI Indicator Protocols. 2.3 Operational structure of the organization, including main divisions, operating companies, subsidiaries, and joint ventures. √ 14-15 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided in earlier reports, and the 2.4 Location of organization’s headquarters. reasons for such re-statement (e.g.,mergers/ √ 15 acquisitions, change of base years/periods, 2.5 Number of countries where the organization nature of business, measurement methods). operates, and names of countries with either major operations or that are specifically relevant No Data to the sustainability issues covered in the report. √ 15 √ has been restated 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. √ 10 2.7 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of customers/beneficiaries). √ 15 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary, or measurement methods applied in the report. √ 32 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization. 10 As of December 31, 2014 we have 22 √ employees working at our Headquarters 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard in Tel-Aviv Disclosures in the report. √ 94-105 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure, or ownership. √ 10 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report. √ 6 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period. √ 17 94 | Gazit-Globe CSR 2013-2014 Gazit-Globe CSR 2013-2014 | 95 GRI Index √ Fully reported o Partly reported — Not reported Profile Disclosure Level of Location of Reason Explanation for 4. Governance, Commitments, and Engagement Disclosure reporting Disclosure for the reason for omission omission Profile Disclosure Level of Location of Reason Explanation for Disclosure reporting Disclosure for the reason for 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the omission omission precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the organization. √ 56, 57 4.1 Governance structure of the organization, including committees under the highest governance body responsible for specific √ 18 4.12 Externally developed economic, environmental, tasks, such as setting strategy or organizational and social charters, principles, or other initiatives oversight. to which the organization subscribes or √ 16-17 endorses. 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer. √ 18 4.13 Memberships in associations (such as industry 4.3 For organizations that have a unitary board associations) and/or national/international structure, state the number and gender of advocacy organizations in which the members of the highest governance body that √ 18 organization: * Has positions in governance are independent and/or non-executive members. bodies; * Participates in projects or committees; * Provides substantive funding beyond routine √ 16, 17, 27 membership dues; or * Views membership as 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees strategic. to provide recommendations or direction to the 16, 18, highest governance body. √ 22, 23 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the 4.5 Linkage between compensation for members organization. √ 21 of the highest governance body, senior managers, and executives (including departure 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of arrangements), and the organization’s √ 20 stakeholders with whom to engage. √ 21 performance (including social and environmental performance). 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder group. √ 21-23 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided. √ 19, 20 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been raised 4.7 Process for determining the composition, through stakeholder engagement, and how the qualifications, and expertise of the members organization has responded to those key topics of the highest governance body and its and concerns, including through its reporting. √ 23 committees, including any consideration of √ 19 gender and other indicators of diversity. 4.8 Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of conduct, and principles relevant to economic, environmental, and √ 16, 64-65 social performance and the status of their implementation. STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART II: Disclosures on Management Approach 4.9 Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organization’s identification and G3 MAs Disclosure Level of Location of Reason Explanation for management of economic, environmental, and reporting Disclosure for the reason for social performance, including relevant risks and omission omission opportunities, and adherence or compliance √ 18-19 DMA EC Disclosure on Management Approach EC √ 30 with internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct, and principles. DMA EN Disclosure on Management Approach EN √ 62 DMA LA Disclosure on Management Approach LA √ 38 4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest governance DMA HR Disclosure on Management Approach HR √ 46 body’s own performance, particularly with respect to economic, environmental, and social DMA SO Disclosure on Management Approach SO √ 50 √ 18 performance. DMA PR Disclosure on Management Approach PR √ 50 96 | Gazit-Globe CSR 2013-2014 Gazit-Globe CSR 2013-2014 | 97 GRI Index √ Fully reported o Partly reported — Not reported Environmental STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART III: Performance Indicators Indicator Disclosure Level of Location of Reason Explanation for reporting Disclosure for the reason for omission omission Materials Economic EN1 Materials used by weight or volume. — Indicator Disclosure Level of Location of Reason Explanation for reporting Disclosure for the reason for EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled omission omission input materials. √ 66-67 Economic performance Energy EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed, EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source. √ 68-70 including revenues, operating costs, employee compensation, donations and other community investments, retained earnings, and payments to √ 30-33, EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source. — capital providers and governments. 52-53 EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements. — EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable EC2 Financial implications and other risks and energy based products and services, and opportunities for the organization’s activities due reductions in energy requirements as a result of √ 63, 68-70 to climate change. √ 35 these initiatives. EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption EC3 Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit and reductions achieved. — plan obligations. — Water EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government. — EN8 Total water withdrawal by source. √ 74-76 EN9 Water sources significantly affected by Market presence withdrawal of water. — EC5 Range of ratios of standard entry level wage by EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled gender compared to local minimum wage at and reused. — significant locations of operation. — Biodiversity EC6 Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on EN11 Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and locally-based suppliers at significant locations of operation. — areas of high biodiversity value outside protected — areas. EC7 Procedures for local hiring and proportion EN12 Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity in of senior management hired from the local community at significant locations of operation. — protected areas and areas of high biodiversity — value outside protected areas. Indirect economic impacts EN13 Habitats protected or restored. — EN14 Strategies, current actions, and future plans for EC8 Development and impact of infrastructure managing impacts on biodiversity. — investments and services provided primarily for public benefit through commercial, in-kind, or pro EN15 Number of IUCN Red List species and national √ 34, 52-53 conservation list species with habitats in areas — bono engagement. affected by operations, by level of extinction risk. EC9 Understanding and describing significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of √ 34, 52-53 impacts. 98 | Gazit-Globe CSR 2013-2014 Gazit-Globe CSR 2013-2014 | 99 GRI Index √ Fully reported o Partly reported — Not reported Indicator Disclosure Level of Location of Reason Explanation for Social: Labor Practices and Decent Work reporting Disclosure for the reason for omission omission Indicator Disclosure Level of Location of Reason Explanation for reporting Disclosure for the reason for Emissions, effluents and waste omission omission EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas √ 78-80 Employment emissions by weight. LA1 Total workforce by employment type, EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions employment contract, and region, broken down √ by weight. — by gender. 38 EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions LA2 Total number and rate of new employee hires and reductions achieved. √ 63, 70-73 and employee turnover by age group, gender, EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by and region. — weight. — EN20 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions by LA3 Benefits provided to full-time employees that type and weight. — are not provided to temporary or part-time √ 39-41 employees, by major operations. EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination. Gazit’s waterhouse LA15 Return to work and retention rates after parental and rainleave, by gender. — water is √ let to the municipal Labor/management relations sewer LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective system. bargaining agreements. — 80 LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding significant EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal √ 84-86 operational changes, including whether it is method. specified in collective agreements. — EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills. — EN24 Weight of transported, imported, exported, or Occupational health and safety treated waste deemed hazardous under the LA6 Percentage of total workforce represented in terms of the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III, — formal joint management-worker health and and VIII, and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally. safety committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs. — EN25 Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies and related habitats significantly affected by the reporting — LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, organization’s discharges of water and runoff. and absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities by region and by gender. — Products and services EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of LA8 Education, training, counseling, prevention, and products and services, and extent of impact √ 63-66 risk-control programs in place to assist workforce mitigation. EN27 Percentage of products sold and their packaging members, their families, or community members regarding serious diseases. — materials that are reclaimed by category. — Compliance LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal EN28 Monetary value of significant fines and total agreements with trade unions. — number of non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance with environmental laws and — Training and education regulations. LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee Transport by gender, and by employee category. o 40-41 EN29 Significant environmental impacts of transporting LA11 Programs for skills management and lifelong products and other goods and materials used for the organization’s operations, and transporting — learning that support the continued employability members of the workforce. of employees and assist them in managing career endings. — Overall EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type. — 100 | Gazit-Globe CSR 2013-2014 Gazit-Globe CSR 2013-2014 | 101 GRI Index √ Fully reported o Partly reported — Not reported Indicator Disclosure Level of Location of Reason Explanation for Indicator Disclosure Level of Location of Reason Explanation for reporting Disclosure for the reason for reporting Disclosure for the reason for omission omission omission omission LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular Forced and compulsory labor performance and career development reviews, √ 42 by gender. HR7 Operations and significant suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or Diversity and equal opportunity compulsory labor, and measures to contribute √ 46-47 to the elimination of all forms of forced or LA13 Composition of governance bodies and compulsory labor. breakdown of employees per employee category √ 43-45 according to gender, age group, minority group Security practices membership, and other indicators of diversity. HR8 Percentage of security personnel trained in the Equal remuneration for women and men organization’s policies or procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to — LA14 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women operations. to men by employee category, by significant — locations of operation. Indigenous rights HR9 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous people and actions taken. — Social: Human Rights Assessment Indicator Disclosure Level of Location of Reason Explanation for HR10 Percentage and total number of operations that reporting Disclosure for the reason for omission omission have been subject to human rights reviews and/ — or impact assessments. Investment and procurement practices Remediation HR1 Percentage and total number of significant HR11 Number of grievances related to human rights investment agreements and contracts that include clauses incorporating human rights — filed, addressed and resolved through formal — grievance mechanisms. concerns, or that have undergone human rights screening. HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers, contractors Social: Society and other business partners that have undergone — human rights screening, and actions taken. Indicator Disclosure Level of Location of Reason Explanation for HR3 Total hours of employee training on policies and reporting Disclosure for the reason for omission omission procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations, including the — Local communities percentage of employees trained. SO1 Percentage of operations with implemented local Non-discrimination community engagement, impact assessments, √ 50-53 and development programs. HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken. √ 46-47 SO9 Operations with significant potential or actual negative impacts on local communities. — Freedom of association and collective bargaining SO10 Prevention and mitigation measures implemented HR5 Operations and significant suppliers identified in which the right to exercise freedom of in operations with significant potential or actual — negative impacts on local communities. association and collective bargaining may be — Corruption violated or at significant risk, and actions taken to support these rights. SO2 Percentage and total number of business units analyzed for risks related to corruption. √ 56-57 Child labor HR6 Operations and significant suppliers identified as SO3 Percentage of employees trained in having significant risk for incidents of child labor, organization’s anti-corruption policies and √ 56-57 and measures taken to contribute to the effective √ 46 procedures. abolition of child labor. SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption. — 102 | Gazit-Globe CSR 2013-2014 Gazit-Globe CSR 2013-2014 | 103 GRI Index √ Fully reported o Partly reported — Not reported Indicator Disclosure Level of Location of Reason Explanation for Indicator Disclosure Level of Location of Reason Explanation for reporting Disclosure for the reason for reporting Disclosure for the reason for omission omission omission omission Public policy Marketing communications SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public PR6 Programs for adherence to laws, standards, policy development and lobbying. — and voluntary codes related to marketing communications, including advertising, — SO6 Total value of financial and in-kind contributions promotion, and sponsorship. to political parties, politicians, and related — institutions by country. PR7 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning Anti-competitive behavior marketing communications, including — SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive advertising, promotion, and sponsorship by type of outcomes. behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and √ 57 their outcomes. Customer privacy Compliance PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total regarding breaches of customer privacy and — losses of customer data. number of non-monetary sanctions for non— compliance with laws and regulations. Compliance PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for nonSocial: Product Responsibility compliance with laws and regulations concerning — the provision and use of products and services. Indicator Disclosure Level of Location of Reason Explanation for reporting Disclosure for the reason for omission omission Customer health and safety PR1 Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services are assessed for improvement, and percentage of significant √ 58-59 products and services categories subject to such procedures. PR2 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning 58-59 health and safety impacts of products and √ services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes. Product and service labelling PR3 Type of product and service information required by procedures, and percentage of significant products and services subject to such — information requirements. PR4 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and service information and labeling, by — type of outcomes. PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of surveys measuring customer √ 55 satisfaction. 104 | Gazit-Globe CSR 2013-2014 Gazit-Globe CSR 2013-2014 | 105 For any inquires or comments regarding the report, please e-mail: Varda Zuntz VP of Corporate Responsibility and Member of the Executive Committee info@gazitgroup.com Gazit-Globe 1 HaShalom Rd., Tel-Aviv 67892, Israel Investor Relations, Gazit-Globe IR@gazitgroup.com Gazit-Globe 1 HaShalom Rd., Tel-Aviv 67892, Israel Main: +972 3 6948000 www.gazit-globe.com The information contained in this report is not, and should not be viewed as, a complete description of Gazit-Globe Ltd. (the “Company”). No reliance may be placed, for any purposes whatsoever, on the information contained in this report or on its completeness and it should not be considered a recommendation by the Company or any one acting on its behalf (such as any of its directors, partners, officers, employees, advisers or any other persons) in relation to any transaction relating to its securities or any other securities. No representation or warranty is given by or on behalf of the Company or anyone acting on its behalf (such as any of its directors, partners, officers, employees, advisers or any other persons) as to the accuracy, fairness or sufficiency of the information contained in this report. No liability is accepted for any errors, omissions or inaccuracies in such information. Certain statements in the information contained in this report are forwardlooking statements. By their nature, forward-looking statements involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions which could cause actual results or events to differ materially from those expressed or implied by the forward looking statements. These include, among other factors, changing business or other market conditions and anticipated or assumed future prospects. Forward-looking statements contained in this folder regarding past trends or activities should not be taken as a representation that such trends or activities will continue in the future. The Company does not undertake any obligation to update or revise any information set forth herein (including any forward-looking statements) whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Many thanks to everyone who contributed to the creation of this Report including David Kahn Financial Communications for copywriting, Portnov-Mishan for concept and design, and Deloitte Brightman Almagor Zohar for professional consultation. Urbanization Quality Growth 1 HaShalom Rd. Tel Aviv 67892, Israel Tel: +972 3 694 8000 E-mail: IR@gazitgroup.com www.gazit-globe.com
