Sustainability Review 2014 Extract of Annual Report 2014 Skanska’s strengths Developing Employees Financials communities Strong focus on clients and users Strong corporate culture with shared values Solid balance sheet Strong local roots in selected geographical markets Optimizing value through customized solutions Solid cash flow Diverse operations covering various sectors Skilled in project development and execution Proven business model with synergies Complete solutions from planning to handover Committed and responsible Strength to realize business opportunities Driving sustainable development Developing skills and sharing experience Long-term value creation The Oculus project at the World Trade Center in New York is nearing completion. Skanska Annual Report 2014 Koncernöversikt VII Contents Highlighting green certification Group overview Throughout this Annual Report the relevant logos are used to indicate 2014 in brief 2 when projects are, or are in the process of being, certified to a green Comments by the President and CEO 4 certification scheme. Green certification provides voluntary third-party Mission, goals and strategy 6 validation of the environmental design and/or performance of buildFinancial targets 8 ings and infrastructure. Skanska has expertise around a number of the Business model 10 schemes most relevant to its home markets. Today over 600 Skanska Risk management 12 employees are accredited by external agencies for their expertise in this area – expertise which is used to execute projects for clients and Sustainable development 16 for Skanska’s own development units. –Environmental agenda 17 –Social agenda 23 Employees 32 Share data 36 Business streams 40 Construction 42 Leadership in Energy BRE Environmental Civil Engineering – Nordics 46 and Environmental Assessment Method, Environmental Quality – Other European countries 50 Design, LEED BREEAM Assessment and Award Scheme, CEEQUAL – North America 54 Residential Development 58 – Nordics 62 – Central Europe 64 Commercial Property Development 66 Strong year for Skanska in London – Nordics 70 – Central Europe 72 – North America 74 Infrastructure Development 76 – Project portfolio 79 30 St Mary Axe Heron Tower (The Gherkin) Financial information Bevis Marks Dashwood House Report of the Directors 85 Corporate governance report 93 Consolidated income statement 103 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 104 Consolidated statement of financial position 105 Consolidated statement of changes in equity 107 Consolidated cash flow statement 108 Parent Company income statement 110 London is a major construction market for Skanska, and in 2014 the company had Parent Company balance sheet 111 10 office projects in progress covering an overall area of 237,000 sq m with a total Parent Company statement of changes in equity 112 contract value of GBP 684 M. One of the biggest projects, 1 and 2 New Ludgate, is Parent Company cash flow statement 113 now being completed close to St. Paul’s Cathedral. Another project, 52 Lime Street, Notes, table of contents 114 has just begun and will be a razor-sharp 190 meter high office skyscraper. Skanska is also working on the expansion of the new Crossrail transport link. The view from Proposed allocation of earnings 189 the helipad on the Royal London Hospital – completed under a PPP project – shows Auditors’ Report 190 a patchwork of previous Skanska projects, including the 30 St Mary Axe building (The Gherkin) and Salesforce Tower (previously Heron Tower). Senior Executive Team 194 Board of Directors 196 Major events during 2014 198 Definitions and abbreviations 202 Addresses 203 Reporting of revenue and earnings in the first part of the Annual Report (pages 1–84) complies with the segment reporting method. The statements of financial More information about Skanska 203 position and cash flow are presented in compliance with IFRS in all parts of the Annual General Meeting 204 Annual Report. Investors 204 This document is in all respects a translation of the Swedish original Annual Report. In the event of any differences between this translation and the Swedish original, the latter shall prevail. Skanska’s home markets Sweden Finland Norway United States Denmark Poland Czech United Kingdom Republic Slovakia Hungary Romania Norden Övriga Europa Amerika Intäkter Intäkter I • Byggverksamhet, 78% • Byggverksamhet, 87% • • Bostadsutveckling, 13% • Bostadsutveckling, 3% • • Kommersiell fastighetsutveckling, 9% • Kommersiell fastighetsutveckling, 10% • • Infrastrukturutveckling, 0% • Infrastrukturutveckling, 0% • Nordic countries 43% of revenue Employees: Around 17,000 Revenue Revenue Commercial R Revenue: SEK 64.0 bn • Construction, 78% • Construction, 87% Residential Property Infrastructure • Revenue: • Residential Development, 13% Home markets • Construction Development Residential Development, 3% Development Development • Earnings: • Commercial Property Development, 9% Sweden • Commercial Property Development, 10% • Order backlog: Övriga Europa • Infrastructure Development, 0% Norway Amerika • Infrastructure Development, 0% • Finland Intäkter Denmark Intäkter amhet, 78% • Byggverksamhet, 87% • Byggverksamhet, 97% veckling, 13% • Bostadsutveckling, 3% • Bostadsutveckling, 0% ell fastighetsutveckling, 9% • Kommersiell fastighetsutveckling, 10% • Kommersiell fastighetsutveckling, 3% turutveckling, 0% • Infrastrukturutveckling, 0% • Infrastrukturutveckling, 0% Other European countries 24% of revenue Employees: Around 17,000 Revenue Revenue Commercial ion, 78% Revenue: SEK 35.0 bn • Construction, 87% • Construction, Residential97% Property Infrastructure Revenue:13% al Development, • Residential Development, 3% Home markets Construction • Residential Development Development Development, 0% Development Earnings: ial Property Development, 9% • Commercial Property Development, 10% Poland • Commercial Property Development, 3% Order backlog: ture Development, 0% • Infrastructure Development, 0% Czech Republic • Infrastructure Development, 0% Amerika Slovakia Hungary Intäkter Romania • Byggverksamhet, 97% United Kingdom • Bostadsutveckling, 0% sutveckling, 10% • Kommersiell fastighetsutveckling, 3% g, 0% • Infrastrukturutveckling, 0% North America 33% of revenue Employees: Around 10,000 Revenue Commercial Revenue: SEK 49.9 bn • Construction, 97% Residential Property Infrastructure ent, 3%Revenue: • Residential Development, 0% Home markets Construction Development Development Development Development, 10% Earnings: • Commercial Property Development, 3% United States pment, 0% Order backlog: • Infrastructure Development, 0% In addition, there are about 14,000 employees in the Latin American operation that is being closed down. Skanska is one of the world’s leading project development and construction groups, concentrated on selected home markets in the Nordic region, other European countries and North America. Making the most of global trends in urbanization, demographics and energy, and with a focus on occupational health and safety, green construction and ethics, Skanska offers competitive solutions – not least for the most complex assignments. The interaction of its construction and project development operations in the various markets generates added value for Skanska’s shareholders. • Byggverksamhet, 87% • Byggverksamhet, 62% • Bostadsutveckling, 6% • Bostadsutveckling, 9% • Kommersiell fastighetsutveckling, 7% • Kommersiell fastighetsutveckling, 23% • Infrastrukturutveckling, 0% • Infrastrukturutveckling, 6% 2014 Revenue Operating income Key ratios SEK M EUR M USD M Revenue 145,029 15,902 3 21,024 3 Operating income 5,766 632 3 836 3 Income after financial items 5,473 600 3 793 3 Earnings per share, SEK/EUR/USD 1 9.98 1.09 3 1.45 3 Return on equity, % 20.1 20.1 20.1 Order bookings 2 147,424 16,165 3 21,371 3 Order backlog 2 170,908 18,029 4 21,930 4 Employees, number 57,866 57,866 57,866 1 Earnings for the period attributable to equity holders divided by the average number of shares outstanding. • Construction, 87% • Construction, 62% 2 Refers to Construction operations. • Residential Development, 6% • Residential Development, 9% 3 Average 2014 exchange rates: EUR 1 = 9.12, USD 1 = 6.90 4 Exchange rates on 2014 balance sheet day: EUR 1 = 9.48, USD 1 = 7.79 • Commercial Property Development, 7% • Commercial Property Development, 23% • Infrastructure Development, 0% • Infrastructure Development, 6% 2014 in brief First quarter Second quarter Skanska awarded additional contract for R&D facility Skanska offers the capital markets an opportunity to invest in the U.S. for around SEK 1.7 billion. Work began in in green corporate bonds. 2012 and the total order value is around SEK 8 billion. UK Prime Minister David Cameron chooses Skanska’s London office to announce planned infrastructure investments. Part of Skanska’s head office in Stockholm is sold for SEK 1 billion. Skanska’s commercial property development in Europe invests a total of SEK 1.1 billion in projects. More than 1,000 Skanska employees move into the Group’s new headquarters at Entré Lindhagen in Stockholm. Skanska signs a contract with the Norwegian Road Administration to extend the E18 motorway between Bommestad and Sky in Norway. Skanska wins Financial Times award for corporate responsibility. Skanska Safety Week, the world’s largest occuConstruction of an office building begins in London, with pational health and safety initiative, celebrates ten years the aim of reaching BREEAM Excellent. The contract – with industry colleagues in all Skanska’s home markets value is SEK 1 billion. participating for the first time. In Connecticut, USA, Skanska signs an additional contract In Los Angeles, work begins on a transitway in a to build a new department at Stamford Hospital. contract worth SEK 3.8 billion. Skanska builds nine kilometers of motorway in Finland with The UN Environment Programme (UNEP) launches 16 bridges on the road section. The contract value is an initiative to green the building supply chain. Skanska SEK 400 M. co-authors the final report. First quarter, accumulated: Second quarter, accumulated: Revenue SEK 27.9 billion Revenue SEK 62.4 billion Operating income SEK 656 million Operating income SEK 1.6 billion Order bookings SEK 31.2 billion Order bookings SEK 68.1 billion 2 2014 in brief Skanska Annual Report 2014 ” Order backlog at year-end was SEK 170.9 billion. Third quarter Fourth quarter Skanska reaches 150,000 followers on LinkedIn. Skanska signs a contract with ESS, European Spallation Source, to build the first phase of a state-of-the-art research facility in Lund, Sweden. In New York, Skanska holds a well-attended and much appreciated Capital Market Day. Four green Skanska projects win Sweden Green Building Awards. Green House, the first and so far the only LEED Platinum certified office building in Budapest, Hungary, is sold for SEK 323 M. Skanska reaches financial close on the I-4 Ultimate Project, a Public Private Partnership project in Florida, USA. Skanska’s share of the construction contract is worth SEK 6 billion. New life is to be breathed into Battersea Power Skanska sells the Green Horizon office project in Łódź, Station, a familiar silhouette on the London skyline. Poland, for SEK 600 M. Skanska has a contract worth SEK 970 M for mechanical and electrical works in the residential project. Skanska signs an agreement with Uppsala County to build an advanced care and treatment building. During Almedalen Week, a yearly political forum in The contract is worth SEK 1.2 billion. Sweden, Skanska presents solutions for housing, Public Private Partnerships and Öresund 2070. Public Private Partnership agreements are signed generating building contracts totaling SEK 6 billion. UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon holds the first meeting in the General Assembly Hall following its In central London, Skanska wins a contract to refurbishment by Skanska. build a large office property. The value of the contract is SEK 2.2 billion. Skanska contributes to the UK Green Business Council’s report “The Next Chapter for Green Building” Skanska signs a contract with Stockholmshem to build about the effects of green buildings on health and 185 rental apartments and 172 student productivity. apartments. Third quarter, accumulated: Fourth quarter, accumulated: Revenue SEK 101.6 billion Revenue SEK 145.0 billion Operating income SEK 3.5 billion Operating income SEK 5.8 billion Order bookings SEK 105.3 billion Order bookings SEK 147.4 billion Skanska Annual Report 2014 2014 in brief 3 Comments by the President and CEO Last year was a good year for Skanska in many ways. Increased revenue and operating income, new record development gains and strong order bookings are clear signs of a successful 2014. We also took another major step into the U.S. Public Private Partnerships (PPP) market. Our strong financial position is a stable foundation from which to continue creating value with our clients in 2015. ” The talent and dedication of our employees and cooperation with our clients are our key success factors. It is the employees who win new contracts and are responsible for delivering on clients’ expectations. As we look back on our operations in 2014 we see many bright spots. Howstructure projects. Poland has leveled off slightly, but growth is still strong. ever the positive events took place against a dark backdrop. Armed conflicts We are seeing improvement in the Czech Republic and Slovakia after an in various parts of the world has cast long shadows, as have the Ebola earlier sharp decline. outbreak, extreme weather and terrorism. Several European countries still We have decided to exit the Latin American market where profitability suffer from the effects of the financial crisis, and Russia’s weakened economy has been disappointing. Closing our engineering and construction operais having a negative impact on parts of the EU area. tions there involves costs, but for the long term, this is the right decision. Economic development has been more stable in the UK and the U.S. The We are finishing ongoing projects, but will not take on any new ones. We UK has freed itself from the grip of the crisis through systematic measures. are also divesting our operation and maintenance business in the region to Private and public sector players have regained their investment appetite focus on markets where we have a greater presence. and a major infrastructure initiative has been launched. The U.S. economy is getting a boost from the new energy source of Improvement in Residential Development shale oil, which is offering competitive advantages and bringing industrial Residential Development continues to improve, despite weak demand enterprises back to the country. And this is stimulating both job growth and in Finland and parts of Norway. The key factor here is to keep improving private consumption. execution efficiency and thereby increase the profitability of our Although low oil prices are generally good for global growth, they are residential projects. starting to curb demand for offices and homes in oil-producing regions in the U.S. and Norway. Strong commercial property market The markets for commercial property projects are good and we enjoyed Increasing market share very strong growth here during the year. The development gains realized of In both the U.S. and the UK we have grown faster than the construction just over SEK 2 billion are the highest ever and prove our ability to generate market as a whole and have increased our market share. We can report value. Leasing reached 287,000 sq m and, combined with increased investvery strong order bookings in the U.S., with Interstate 4 as the crowning ments, provides good potential for future gains. achievement. Development in Sweden continues in a positive direction too, The property markets in Sweden, Poland and the U.S. remain strong. although the political situation temporarily delayed infrastructure projects The Finnish market is still weak, but we see future potential and we are such as the Stockholm Bypass, a new route for the European highway past launching new commercial property projects in Helsinki. the Swedish capital. Skanska’s green property projects have been attracting tenants and investors for many years. Our green bonds, launched in 2014, are also a Strong order bookings success. They allow us to reach even more investors who can direct their All of our construction markets, except for Finland, have developed well. investments toward green projects. We have increased our order bookings and our revenue. Order bookings have been particularly strong in USA Civil, the UK and Poland. Our marThe biggest Public Private Partnership project gins have improved thanks to the performance of the Swedish, Polish and In 2014 we signed a contract regarding the Interstate 4 highway in Florida – Finnish operations. The Finnish economy is still weak as the country is in a the biggest project so far in the U.S. Public Private Partnership market. Our restructuring phase and suffering from the unrest in Russia. In Norway we part of the construction contract is worth USD 900 M. We won this contract in can report increased interest in Public Private Partnerships for large infratough competition, showing that we can compete in this key growth market. 4 Comments by the President and CEO Skanska Annual Report 2014 Johan Karlström, President and CEO Overall we delivered strong results on almost all fronts. Our clients are Public Employment Service to employ people with international backgrounds expressing their appreciation, and what can be more gratifying than who, for various reasons, have found it hard to enter the labor market. hearing this from UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon. At the autumn Here at Skanska we feel very motivated when we help develop the wider General Assembly he thanked all those who have worked on the renovacommunity. More and more customers – both public and private – want us tions at the UN Headquarters in New York. We are also still active in the to offer training, practical experience and work to people who live and work UN Global Compact, the world’s largest sustainability initiative. where we operate. More and better Early stages We are convinced that our tried and tested business model has even more Demand is increasing among our clients for our expertise in designing funcpotential. The strong cash flow in our Construction business stream is tional and cost-saving solutions to meet their needs. We can help their core allowing us to invest more in project development. business succeed when we are involved in developing their projects at an It is not just about doing more, but about doing it better as well. We early stage. are sharpening our tools – our dedicated employees, our systems and The development towards greater social responsibility and intensified our processes. The latter includes improving project execution. The key collaboration with clients will be even more important for us and our clients is strengthening our risk and improvement processes within our business going forward. units. We are also intensifying controlling and risk monitoring throughWe are proud but not satisfied – we can be even better. We can do even out the duration of projects. This will allow us to solve any execution more as we develop communities and create value for our clients and shareproblems early on. We can also take advantage of opportunities to make holders. improvements and save costs, which will benefit our clients as well. The talent and dedication of our employees and cooperation with our clients are our key success factors. It is the employees who win new Stockholm, February 2015 contracts and are responsible for delivering on clients’ expectations. They are also the ones whose behavior and actions demonstrate our values in practice. Diversity and inclusion To remain successful we will need to recruit a large number of employees in the next few years and ensure that they embrace the company’s values and our way of working. Johan Karlström We are also focusing on increasing diversity and inclusion. Diversity President and CEO that reflects the wider society is key to increased creativity and a better understanding of the needs of our clients and society. Together with our clients and partners in various markets, we go beyond our actual construction commitments to improve the lives of many people. One such initiative is our partnership with the Swedish Skanska Annual Report 2014 Comments by the President and CEO 5 Mission, goals and strategy Mission Global market trends Skanska’s mission is to develop, build The world is currently experiencing the and maintain the physical environment highest growth rate in urbanization in for living, traveling and working. history; now more than half of all the people in the world live in cities. At the same time, people are living longer lives and demanding Vision a higher standard of living, leading to growing energy needs in society. These global trends Skanska’s vision is to be a leader in its are increasing the need for new and more home markets and to be the customer’s sustainable solutions for the future: first choice in construction and project development. – Infrastructure Roads Overall goals Power and energy Water and waste management Skanska will generate customer and – Healthcare shareholder value. – Housing Skanska will be a leader, in terms of – Education size and profitability, within its segments in the home markets of its construction Business Units. Skanska will be a leading project developer in local markets and in selected product areas. Hammarby Sjöstad is growing to the west. Skanska is developing the first phase of Stockholm New, including 20,000 square meters of office space in two projects and 422 eco-labeled homes. Skanska is also building a bus depot and offices for SL, the local transit company for the Stockholm region. 6 Koncernöversikt Skanska Annual Report 2014 ” New and more sustainable solutions are needed for the world’s cities. Business plan 2011–2015 Strategy Profitable growth All four business streams will grow in  o focus on the core business in T terms of profit. construction and project development in selected home markets.  eturn on equity will total R 18–20 percent annually.  o focus on recruiting, developing and T retaining talented employees and to take Net operating financial assets/liabilities steps to achieve increased diversity and will be positive. inclusion. T  o be a leader in identifying and Operating margins in Construction systematically managing risks and will average 3.5–4.0 percent over a opportunities. business cycle and thus be among the best in the industry.  o be an industry leader in sustainable T development, particularly in occupational  ctivities in project development A health and safety, the environment operations will increase. and ethics. The combined return on capital To take advantage of financial synergies employed in Skanska’s three project within the Group by investing the cash development operations will total flow from construction operations in 10–15 percent annually. project development. The company will be an industry leader To utilize potential efficiency gains in terms of occupational health and found in greater industrialization of the safety, risk management, employee construction process and coordination development, green construction of procurement. and ethics. Skanska Annual Report 2014 Koncernöversikt 7 Skanska Sustainability Review Skanska aims to be an industry leader in sustainable business practices and believes there is no other way forward. This Review highlights Skanska’s progress within sustainability in 2014. Environmental Agenda Sustainability Social Agenda We use natural resources We care about our people with care We help build communities Page We respect the local We play fair Page environment 17 Energy 23 Safety, Health and Well-being 18 Carbon 26 Ethics 19 Materials 28 Skanska in the 20 Water community 20 Local Impact Skanska’s Sustainability ambitions Communicating progress Skanska believes that sustainability is an integral part of The diversified nature of Skanska’s operations mean good business practice. Skanska’s Sustainability Agenda that consolidated statistics do not tend to reflect the includes the aspects that have the biggest impacts on the many positive impacts it creates. Given the increasing environment and society, and are of the greatest imporexpectations placed on corporate reporting by staketance to the stakeholders. holders – and recognizing the continuing development Skanska’s current Business Plan, Profitable Growth of international and voluntary reporting frameworks 2011–2015, formalizes its ambitions to be an industry – Skanska has during 2014 improved its collection and leader in sustainability, particularly in occupational management of information regarding Safety, Energy health and safety, employee development, green con& Carbon and Community presence, giving stakestruction and ethics. holders a more robust picture of the sustainability Realizing such ambitions is not straight-forward for performance. a company with a significant international presence. It employs 58,000 people across two continents to deliver thousands of contracts annually. It is a constant challenge to make sure that all the people involved understand and live by Skanska’s values. Global leadership Skanska has been a signatory of the UN Global Compact (UNGC) for over a decade, and its Communication on Progress is uploaded annually to the UNGC website as a public statement of this commitment. 16 Sustainable development – The Skanska Sustainability Agenda Skanska Annual Report 2014 Environmental Agenda Energy Energy use remains a key issue within the built environment, accompanied by new legislation and growing market demand. Skanska aims to reduce the amount of energy used by all the buildings and infrastructure it delivers. Skanska Workplaces within Energy Efficiency in Buildings (EEB) scope Skanska offices that demonstrate our commitment to the World Business Council for Sustainable Development’s global Energy Efficiency in Buildings program. Norway Skarpnes, Arendal, Residential Development Nordic. Skanska’s operations are increasingly influenced by Skanska’s first residential development using Nullhus, energy efficiency legislation and binding energy end-use a net zero energy housing design. The properties targets. In some markets, ideas for creating near-zero use established technologies such as solar panels energy buildings and for green renovation of existing and energy wells, but combine them in an energybuildings are already being realized. In certain cases optimized and cost-effective way. Once complete, Skanska is able to offer Energy Performance Contracts Skanska will provide training for new home owners. to underwrite clients’ future energy savings. USA Catskill-Delaware Ultraviolet Light Disinfection Work with external organizations Facility, New York, Skanska USA Civil. The CatskillTo increase awareness Skanska is continuing to work Delaware UV disinfection facility ensures the supply with various external organizations such as the World of safe and high quality water to New York City. It Green Building Council and the World Business Council has been equipped with efficient low-pressure highfor Sustainable Development (WBCSD). output UV disinfection units that use 30 percent less Skanska’s Color Palette™ is a strategic framework for power than conventional medium-pressure units. green business and for how projects handle the issue of energy. Skanska continues to use Life Cycle Cost, Life Poland Atrium 1, Warsaw, Commercial Development Europe. Cycle Assessment and Building Information Modeling A LEED Platinum certified office building in central (BIM) as support tools at project level. Warsaw, designed and developed with the ambition Internally, Skanska is progressing with implementaof being the most resource-efficient building in Cention of the WBCSD Energy Efficiency in Buildings tral and Eastern Europe. It uses 40 percent less energy manifesto to benchmark and improve the energy than the Polish Code and incorporates Skanska Deep efficiency of its own buildings. Green Cooling technology, a method for cooling buildings. Global leadership Skanska acted as project manager for the WBCSD Warsaw EEB Laboratory, engaging local stakeholders to deliver an action plan for achieving market transformation in Poland. The EEB project, seeks to unlock financially viable investments in energy efficiency and similar events are carried out in at least seven more locations around the world. Skanska Annual Report 2014 Sustainable development – Environmental Agenda 17 Carbon The world’s buildings account for an estimated 24 percent of all energy-related greenhouse gas emissions. However, as buildings become more energy efficient, it is increasingly important that Skanska reduces the carbon that is embodied in the buildings and infrastructure it designs and delivers. Sweden Solallén Emissions and carbon footprint Vikaholm, Växjö, Skanska Sweden. Direct (Scope1) and indirect (Scope2) A development of towngreen house gas emissions – five year trend houses in Vikaholm will be Sweden’s first • Scope 1 • Scope 2 500,000 block of homes built 450,000 113 according to net zero 400,000 energy principles. Skanska has completed 350,000 a project carbon 300,000 footprint to increase 250,000 understanding of 200,000 how the construction 150,000 process and materials 100,000 Number of ”project carbon used influence footprints” performed, an 50,000 embodied carbon. increase of 40 percent 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 since 2013. Direkta (Scope1) och indirekta (Scope2) utsläpp av växthusgaser – femårstrend UK May Park School, Bristol, Skanska UK. Straw bales ReducingScope carbon emissions in construction is Skanska’s and timber helped reduce embodied carbon emis• 1 • Scope 2 ambition for its projects. To achieve this, carbon must 500 000 sions by 75 percent compared with a typical UK be considered from the earliest design stage of projects, 450 000 school building. Skanska trialed a mobile “flying and collaboration with suppliers and clients is essential. 400 000 factory” to prefabricate straw bale and timber wall Skanska has developed tools for project-level carbon elements at a nearby farm, and has secured a UK footprinting 350 000 to enable presention of alternative solugovernment grant to further develop this novel protions 300 000reducing embodied Carbon in the projects. duction technique. 250 000 Improved 200 000 reporting Finland VT8 Highway / Sepänkylä Bypass, Skanska Finland. In 1502014 000 Skanska continued to improve the reporting A project carbon footprint for a new section of highof 100its global carbon footprint. For the last five years 000 way, redesigned and built by Skanska in Western Skanska 50 000 has been the highest ranked construction Finland, led to an alternative solution that achieved company 0 in the CDP Nordic report, and in 2014 a 57-percent reduction in embodied carbon comSkanska 2010was once again2012 2011 Nordic2014 on the2013 Climate pared with the original design. Disclosure Leadership Index. USA 101 Seaport, Boston, Commercial Development USA. This new 17-story office building was the first project using an in-house developed carbon app. Using the app allows Skanska to achieve more consistency in what information is collected and how it is reported. Ultimately, the Business Unit intends to utilize the app in all of its projects. Global leadership Skanska is the only Nordic construction company active in the Corporate Leaders Group (CLG). In 2014, Skanska signed the CLG Trillion Tonne Communiqué. The Communiqué is a call from business for a policy response to the explicit scientific warnings of the risks posed by the continuing rise in atmospheric greenhouse gases. 18 Sustainable development – Environmental Agenda Skanska Annual Report 2014 80 70 60 50 40 30 Materials 20 10 Each year around three billion tons of raw materials – up to half of the total 0 flow in the global economy – are used in the manufacturing of building products and components. This 2009 means2010 the2011 environment, built 2012 2013 2014 and more specifically the design and construction of buildings and infrastructure, must be central to any attempt to use resources more efficiently. Greening the Building Supply Chain Total average amount of waste diverted from landfill 2009–2014 Percentage of waste diverted from landfill 2009–2014. Skanska co-chaired the “Greening the Target for 2014 was to reach 96%. The outcome in 2014 was 94%. Building Supply Chain” task force with the % United Nations Environment Programme’s 100 Sustainable Buildings and Climate Initiative 90 and, in 2014, co-wrote its final report. This 80 includes heatmaps to assist the industry in reducing environmental impacts from key 70 construction materials. 60 50 40 30 20 10 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 UK Barts Health NHS Trust, London, Infrastructure Life cycle impacts, material transparency and the Development. Working in partnership with concept of a circular economy are all likely to become Skanska, Barts Health NHS Trust has become the first increasingly important trends as the industry attempts Trust in the UK to be awarded the Carbon Trust stanto reconcile increasing demand with diminishing matedard for waste. Over the past two years, clinical waste rial resources. levels have been reduced by 20 percent, with none of the waste produced by the Trust now sent to landfill. Improved resource efficiency Skanska’s Deep Green approach to materials focuses on Norway Powerhouse Kjørbo, Oslo, Skanska Norway. zero waste, zero unsustainable materials and zero hazAlready well known for its energy performance, this ardous materials. Skanska has developed a “stepping renovation of two existing buildings into energy-plus stone” approach to sustainable resource use. The initial buildings is also notable for its use of environmentally focus is on declared product transparency requested responsible materials and for diverting over 97 percent from suppliers to cover product and material specificaof construction waste from landfill. This includes tion, chronological history and life cycle impact. Subsere-use of glass windows in the interior design. quent stepping stones will increase resource efficiency in terms of reused, recycled or renewable content and Poland Ostrobramska, Residential Development Europe. eliminate use of hazardous substances. The project took a decision to manage all waste segSkanska remains to participate in the CDP Forests regation and disposal for this development, unusual program, a review of the use of forest products, includin Poland where waste is normally the responsibility ing timber and biofuels, by companies. of subcontractors. The end result is that less than In Sweden, Skanska’s Nordic Procurement Unit has four percent of waste has been sent to landfill. arranged framework agreements for waste manageSubcontractors also received training on waste ment, resulting in more robust waste statistics and management. an increased ability to set and compare waste targets between sites, regions and contractors. Global leadership In 2014 Skanska produced an Environmental Product Declaration (EPD) for the Autosalon Klokočka glass building envelope with aluminium façade – the first to be completed in the Czech Republic. An EPD is an independently verified document that reports, in a standardized way, the overall environmental impact of products based on life cycle assessment. Skanska Annual Report 2014 Sustainable development – Environmental Agenda 19 En avvikelse i ISO 14001 visar att ett krav i standarden inte har uppfyllts i miljöledningssystemet Antal 10 9 8 7 6 Water Local impact 5 4 Skanska’s projects strives to both reduce its Skanska 3 recognizes that there are opportunities for 2 direct water use and design buildings and infraproactive 1 environmental management at site level structure that are water efficient. to0 minimize negative impacts and maximize positive 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 benefits to the local environment. Frequency of major nonconformities (MNCs) in 2006–2014 A nonconformity in ISO 14001 shows a non-fulfilment of the standard in an environmental management system Number 10 9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Sweden Vivalla, Örebro, Skanska Sweden. Skanska has designed the landscaping to absorb and delay stormwater runoff, while sedum green roofing reduces runoff by up to 75 percent in the summer. These measures also help enhance biodiversity. In some of Skanska’s home markets, water stress and ISO 14001 and Skanska’s Risk Management System are drought are a challenge. At the same time, in several the primary means of ensuring effective management regions where Skanska operates, changes in precipitaof local impacts. Skanska became the first global contion extremes are also increasing the vulnerability of struction company to have all its businesses certified the built environment to flooding. to the international standard for environmental manSkanska strives to reduce its direct water use in the agement systems, ISO 14001, in 2000. With a revised construction of civil/infrastructure projects and to standard expected in 2015, Skanska is reviewing how design buildings that are water efficient. This encourenvironmental management systems are applied across ages developing solutions that are likely to be more the company. resilient to consequences of climate change. Reporting evironmental incidents Skanska’s approach to water is threefold In 2014 Skanska introduced a new revised procedure –T o increase water efficiency in its construction profor reporting environmental incidents. In an internacesses and in operational phases. In 2014, Skanska’s tional and decentralized organization like Skanska, it Czech and Slovak Business Unit became a signatory is a challenge to report significant environmental inciof the Businesses and Water 2014+ declaration, a dents in a consistent way, yet important to share awarenational industry-led initiative that commits it to ness and knowledge to ensure that similar incidents are measuring and reducing water consumption. avoided. The procedure requires that all environmental –T o substitute potable water for alternative quality incidents are recorded using a common scale, including grades, and reuse and recycle water where possible. corrective and preventive actions taken, making it easier For example, the Nordea House / Green Corner to share this information across the company. commercial development in Poland was designed to A diverse range of actions and initiatives are used by include a greywater reuse system, which collects and Skanska to proactively manage local impacts and protreats water from sinks and showers before using it to mote awareness. For example, Skanska is represented flush toilets, to reduce the need for potable water. in the UK Business Council for Sustainable Develop–T o utilize its expertise and risk management to help ment’s Natural Capital and Ecosystem Services Valuits customer address changing water risks brought ation Business Group, which helps the industry better about by climate change, as at the Vivalla project. understand its role in managing and measuring the use of natural capital. 20 Sustainable development – Environmental Agenda Skanska Annual Report 2014 Green business All of Skanska’s office development projects and most of its infrastructure development projects are already green. In Skanska’s Construction business, the demand for green continues to increase for both building and civil/ infrastructure projects. The Väla Gård office in southern Sweden is Skanska’s greenest office building to date and the building has achieved LEED Platinum. Skanska believes there is ever-stronger awareness of green business as well as the margins and relative profitthe benefits of green building. An increasing portion ability of Green and Deep Green projects compared to of the actors on the home markets believes that green projects without specific green ambitions. All remaining buildings do not necessarily cost more to develop yet construction business units will follow suit from 2015. are cheaper to run, more easily attract tenants and The Skanska Color Palette™ is also an effective comcommand higher rents and sale prices. Research also munication tool, showing how Skanska’s deep green shows that green buildings positively influence the ambitions go far beyond most existing green certificahealth, well-being and productivity of those who occupy tion schemes. The green leadership it demonstrates or use them. attracts like-minded clients and suppliers, as well as Some customers are in fact starting to place a value on potential employees. green building by incorporating contractual incentives or penalties that are subject to energy performance or New version of LEED is being evaluated environmental certification at a pre-agreed level. At the Skanska continues to support green certification same time, Skanska has seen the green requirements for schemes, which provide voluntary third-party validacivil works grow in the UK, the Nordics and the U.S. tion of the environmental design and/or performance Skanska, as a partner of the EU-funded RenoValue of buildings and, increasingly, the infrastructure it project, is helping to develop resources and training for delivers. In 2014 the Skanska-developed Malmö Live valuation professionals on green building, to help them office in Malmö, Sweden, was registered in the LEED better understand its impact on building performance v4 beta test, to help test the new version (v4) of the and property values, so they can advise their clients LEED rating system, with its stronger focus on building accordingly. performance. The Skanska Color Palette™ is Skanska’s strategic An increasing number of civil/infrastructure projframework for green business. A Deep Green project is ects are being certified with CEEQUAL and Skanska is future-proof, which means that both the construction working to introduce the scheme more widely through process and the product’s performance have a nearprojects such as Spårväg City in Stockholm. In the U.S. zero impact on the environment in four priority areas: Skanska’s upgrade of Interstate 4 in Florida – the largenergy, carbon, materials and water. est transportation project in the state – will be the first In 2014 some of Skanska’s Business Units for the first project in the world of its size to use the new Envision™ time began categorizing orders based on the Color Sustainable Infrastructure Rating System when Palette™ to allow them to better understand the size of construction commences in 2015. Skanska Annual Report 2014 Sustainable development – Environmental Agenda 21 Spårväg City, Stockholm, Sweden Skanska Color Palette™– Civil/Infrastructure Vanilla Green Deep Green Compliance Beyond Compliance Future Proof Energy Net Positive Not Applicable. Primary Energy Carbon Embodied carbon footprint reduced. Near Zero Carbon Construction Materials Zero Unsustainable Product declaration for all prioritized materials. Materials Less hazardous materials used. Zero Hazardous Materials Collaboration with suppliers reduced waste. Zero Waste Water Rainwater collected and used for dust control. Zero Potable Water for Construction Skanska Sweden is currently redeveloping an existing line, and designing and constructing an extension, to the Spårväg City tram in Stockholm. Although not initially required by the client, Skanska proposed use of CEEQUAL for the line redevelopment to provide a focus on sustainability, targeting a “Very Good” rating. Its success led the client, Stockholm County Council, to widen its use of CEEQUAL to include the network extension, enabling the incorporation of further green solutions and enhancing the benefits for the client. The project won the award for innovation and partnership in sustainable development of infrastructure projects at the Sweden Green Building Awards 2014. Bentley Works, Doncaster, UK Skanska Color Palette™ – Building Vanilla Green Deep Green Compliance Beyond Compliance Future Proof Energy Net Zero Energy efficient design with photovoltaic panels and biomass boilers. Primary Energy Carbon Embodied carbon reduced through alternative Near Zero Carbon construction solutions. Construction Materials Responsibly sourced products and zero hazardous materials specified. Zero Unsustainable Modular construction minimizes waste with 100% recovery targets. Materials Zero Hazardous Materials Zero Waste Water Rainwater harvesting to meet non-potable supply and water recycling Net Zero Water for plant wash areas. Skanska UK is investing nearly GBP 12 million in modernizing its Bentley Works site in Doncaster to make it a hub for its business in the north of the UK. This Deep Green redevelopment will create 5,000 sq m of workshops and offices designed to very high environmental standards. Whole-life cost analysis confirms that the additional green investments will pay for themselves in 15 years. Global leadership Skanska worked actively with the World Green Building Council on its new report “Health, Well-being and Productivity in Offices: The next chapter for green building,” as well as being a sponsor and on the Steering Committee. The report provides overwhelming evidence that office design influences the health, well-being and productivity of staff, and provides a simple toolkit for businesses to measure how their buildings impact their people. 22 Sustainable development – Environmental Agenda Skanska Annual Report 2014 5 4 Social Agenda 3 2 1 Safety 0 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Skanska’s Safety Vision is that all its workplaces become injury free by creating a culture of respect and caring where everyone feels empowered to lead improvement through their behavior at work and at home. Lost Time Accident Rate (LTAR) 2006 –2014 Number of employee lost time accidents times 1,000,000 hours divided by total labor hours. 7 6 5 4 3 2 Safer by Design is the concept where designers, manufacturers along with construction managers and craft workers collaborate to design 1 elements of a building that eliminate the safety risk during construction, maintenance or occupation. Using lean construction techniques with BIM 0 technology, the team identifies potential safety hazards during the design 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 phase and makes changes to reduce risk, cost and increase efficiency. Safety activities Skanska takes its role as a leader in safety to mean that Safety Peer In 2014 Skanska continued its program of Safety Peer it not only aims to provide a safe working environment Reviews Review in the U.S., UK and Czech Republic, where for its employees and contractors, but also to influence teams of senior managers and safety specialists the safety performance of the industry in all its home review the safety performance of projects. The purmarkets. It does this by being an agent of change. pose of the Review is to exchange ideas and transfer It is part of the Skanska safety philosophy that it cares this knowledge across Skanska. about the well-being of all people within the industry. This philosophy is supported by creating a structure, Safety Week To mark the 10th anniversary of Skanska Safety developing and realizing a safety policy, and devising a 2014 Week, Skanska invited other organizations in its strategy to deliver it. home markets to jointly plan and execute Safety Across Skanska, safety is a line management responWeek activities. In the U.S., Skanska in partnership sibility. This responsibility begins with the Senior Execwith 29 other major contractors organized the first utive Team through the Business Unit Presidents to ever national construction contractors safety week. the Business Unit managers. Management of safety in The initiative saw thousands of employees and Skanska is supported by global and national safety leadcontractors get involved in safety activities across ership teams that oversee progress towards strategic the country. In Poland Skanska joined forces with objectives and provide advice to management on oversix other major contractors and their supply chain to coming barriers to change and future actions. These plan and participate in safety events across Poland. groups are in turn supported by a network of safety speThis again was the first event of its kind. cialists at both the corporate and national level. Skanska aims to be an organization that continuously Near Miss A safety culture can be assessed by the way non-injuimproves its safety performance in order to reach its Incidents ry events are reported. In Skanska serious near-miss zero accident goal. It is becoming an organization that incidents are regularly reported and shared within learns from its experiences and from those of others, the Business Unit, and when the learnings are sigwith reporting and investigation of accidents and incinificant, are shared with employees across Skanska. dents enhanced in recent years. There has been a fivefold increase in the reporting of Skanska’s ultimate goal is to achieve zero fatalities these incidents, capturing many learning opportuniand zero lost time accidents at its workplaces. By 2015 ties that were previously being missed. the goal is to have zero fatalities and a maximum of Skanska Annual Report 2014 Sustainable development – Social Agenda 23 a one day Lost Time Accident Rate (LTAR) of less than but through increasingly rigorous investigations and one accident per million hours. sharing lessons learned, Skanska continues to work In 2014 the LTAR was reduced from 2.7 to 2.6, an toward eliminating all accidents at its work sites. improvement that continues the long-term trend of the past eight years with a 56-percent reduction since 2007. In2014 there were three work-related fatalities at Skanska work sites; in Poland, Norway and the U.S. This acts as a reminder that, despite improvements, Skanska still has much to do. In conjunction with a fatality, a Global Safety Stand Down is held at every workplace In a globalized, politically correct across Skanska and includes contractors and clients, business world almost everybody says where the accident is discussed, lessons can be learned and respect paid with a minute’s silence. Skanska reguthe right thing. Skanska not only means larly reports and monitors the number of lost time acciit, but also acts on it. dents as well as serious and potentially serious incidents Alexandros Ignatiadis, Owner of Octagon Contracting and for all Skanska operations. These are all still too high, Engineering, Bucharest, Romania Safety has become a positive thing, not something that is enforced by management. But there’s still more to do with pre-task planning and engaging subcontractors in our safety programs. Tuomas Särkilahti, Business Unit President, Skanska Finland Safety Road Map In 2011 Skanska introduced the Safety Road Map as the framework for future safety planning and execution. The five strategic areas of the Safety Road Map – safety culture, communication, safety competence and learning, working with contractors and developing and implementing controls – provide the framework for strategic actions and opportunities for exchange of experiences and ideas. Culture Safety leadership is a central element in a strong Contractors Skanska recognizes that to make great strides in its safety culture. In the U.S. and UK, the adoption of the safety performance it must work with its entire supInjury Free Environment (IFE) philosophy is the core to ply chain, raising their performance as well. This is developing safety leadership throughout the organidifficult and even more challenging when operating zation, irrespective of role or status. In 2014 Skanska in a new market. In Romania, Skanska is working in Sweden began its IFE journey using the knowledge with its contractors to provide an improved working and experiences gained in the U.S. and UK. environment. By making our expectations clear and providing support through training and instruction, Communication It has been the role of the Senior Executive Team to the safety performance of the work sites in Bucharest communicate Skanska’s safety vision collectively has delivered good results. Taking a leadership role and individually. However it is the role of everyone to get buy-in from contractors, and insisting that the to effectively communicate safety issues on a daily rules are complied with, are all parts of the Skanska basis through face-to-face discussions on-site during safety experience. executive site safety visits, at meetings and conferences, through webinars, newsletters or via a range Controls Responding to events to deliver improvement is part of digital methods. Skanska’s safety communication of the continuous improvement culture. In the UK, strategy ensures that there is a two-way exchange of following a series of incidents with tools dropped by knowledge and ideas. workers from heights, Skanska introduced the “Stop the Drop” campaign. The extended controls introCompetency Safety competencies are key to safety performance duced will help to eliminate repeat incidents. which is why Skanska has developed online and classroom workshops and courses for line managers and safety specialists. 24 Sustainable development – Social Agenda Skanska Annual Report 2014 Health and Well-being Poor health related to the work environment is often not apparent until many years after the events that caused it. Skanska strives towards preventing and identifying potential health risks. Regular monitoring of employee health can contribute to a happier and healthier workforce, which is beneficial to both the individual and the company. Skanska in Sweden offers health checks every third year to all of its 10,500 employees. Health monitoring can also be used to gain an overall picture of employees’ well-being. To protect personal privacy, personal information cannot be shared, but group statistics is analyzed to identify strategic issues related to employee health. The photo shows a warm-up session called “Stretch & Flex” which is conducted daily at many Skanska workplaces around the world. Health risks in construction come in many forms, as it does to safety. The global health group regularly including physical risks (noise, vibration, manual handiscusses and exchanges ideas and experiences about dling), exposure to hazardous substances (including the identification and management of health risks at the solvents, cement and dust or to cancer causing materials workplace. Health and well-being are considered from such as asbestos or silica dust) and exposure to the sun. two main angles – the work environment and personal For example, in the UK it is prohibited to wear shorthealth – and involves activities that involve both sleeved clothing or shorts on-site. Human Resources and Safety. Skanska’s office-based workers are exposed to a different range of risks associated with the layout of the office, their workspace and the equipment they use. Office workers are also more likely to suffer from workrelated stress than those working on construction sites. Skanska’s new and renovated offices in Sweden, the Czech Republic, Poland and the UK are all green. Not Within Skanska Finland, the only have green buildings been shown to improve the intensified cooperation between health and well-being of their occupants, they are often designed to allow flexible use of space and accomodate health and safety personnel ”activity-based working” (ABW). ABW is the concept resulted in a combined health where office design supports a range of work activities, and safety start-up meeting for rather than everyone based at a fixed desk. For example, ABW offices offer stand up meeting tables, a brainthe construction sites and ‘Zero storm area, multi-media rooms, a lounge area, stand up occupational diseases’ workshops. working stations and recreational facilities; employees can work in the zone best suited for their activity. The Skanska philosophy of learning and sharing Helena Pekkanen, responslible for occupational knowledge applies to health and well-being as much health, Skanska Finland Skanska Annual Report 2014 Sustainable development – Social Agenda 25 Ethics Considering the number of employees, suppliers and subcontractors in Skanska’s sphere, it is vital that Skanska takes a lead in ethics. Skanska’s ethical values bring a responsibility for every employee to make the right decisions every day. According to Skanska this in turn effects our relations and the business we do with our customers. Bringing ethics to life in the UK The world-famous Royal Academy of Dramatic Art helped to bring ethical dilemmas to life for senior managers at Skanska UK. Actors played out courtroom scenes focusing on harassment and discrimination as part of two interactive sessions held at the UK management conference. Around 100 employees debated how ethical issues can be seen from legal, media and employee perspectives. The lessons learned are helping Skanska’s employees to think more broadly about ethics in their day-to-day work. Activities in Ethics Skanska sees that ethics is a growing and important Poland Workshops were organized for over 70 managers differentiator for its clients, and knows from regular in 2014, leading to a series of open and honest client feedback that it is appreciated for being an hondiscussions about ethics. The results of these workshops est and responsible partner. helped establish an Ethics Plan for 2015. Skanska has To remain a trusted and successful company, also teamed up with a think tank on a project called ValSkanska is determined to become recognized as a ues Laboratory which aims to share experience and gain role model in ethics by 2015, including the goal of knowledge on business ethics in the Polish market. zero ethical breaches as one of its “Five Zeros.” Still, it is often difficult to isolate ethics as a discrete set of Finland Skanska Finland has been developing a zero gift policy to activities for Skanska, as an ethical culture underpins replace its existing gift policy, so that there is clarity about everything that it does. what is expected and permitted. Skanska has observed Each home market has its own Ethics Committee an increasing trend with policies like these. According to that is responsible for identifying and reviewing issues Skanska’s own benchmarking we are one of the first in and disseminating best practice. All Skanska employFinland with such a policy. ees must understand and live by the ethical values expressed in the Skanska Code of Conduct. Regular Czech Republic Skanska is active in the following external initiatives: training is undertaken to embed this commitment in and Slovakia –P rogram 4Etika (4Ethics). Skanska and Transparency Skanska’s operations. All employees receive Code of International are jointly holding an annual competiConduct training every two years, with new employtion for projects that have brought ethics to life. ees trained within three months of recruitment. Fur–T ransparency as Nordic value. Skanska is a member of ther training is provided as necessary, including Etha working group of the Nordic Chamber of Commerce ics Leadership training for management teams. in the Czech Republic that is preparing a sample Code Skanska’s Code of Conduct Hotline and Ethics of Conduct based on values common to Scandinavian Scorecard remain important tools for maintaining companies. a consistently high standard of ethics. The Hotline, –P latform for transparent public procurement. Skanska managed by the Group Ethics Committee, is an anonwas an active member of an initiative run by the Ameriymous reporting tool to which 59 reports were made can Chamber of Commerce for transparent regulation of in 2014. The Ethics Scorecard uses evidence from public procurement, and was active in a working group to create a Code of Conduct for potential public contractors. 26 Sustainable development – Social Agenda Skanska Annual Report 2014 MetLife Stadium, New Jersey, USA. Skanska’s high ethics standards were a deciding factor when the customer was chosing between companies to construct the new stadium. the Skanska Brand Survey, employee feedback, ethical Plan across all business units. These two tools are used investigations and training activities to help Skanska’s together to allow business units to evaluate their existmanagement track the development of a strong ethics ing ethics performance – from “Compliant” to “Best in culture. Class” – across all areas of their operations, as a basis The most significant advance in 2014 was the implefor establishing future actions to ensure continuous mentation of the Skanska Ethics Roadmap and Ethics improvement. How ethics come alive in Skanska Denny Quinn, Executive Vice President, make sure everyone understands roadmap articulates the best-inSkanska USA Civil, is an Ethics Roadmap the company’s expectations and class destinations with respect to champion and was tasked with using the Ethics Roadmap to develop the responsibilities around ethics, the ethics in various parts of the busiEthics Business Plan 2015 for Skanska Ethics Roadmap looks at what we ness, but it is up to each Business USA Civil. are doing every day, and provides a Unit to decide the right path to basis for continuous improvement arrive at those destinations based “We didn’t want to use the roadand shifting the culture around on the business dynamics within map simply as a box-ticking exerethics. their unit. cise, but rather wanted to maxiTo me, the value of the roadmap With so many things competing mize the opportunities it provides is that it provides clear guidance for people’s time, the Ethics Roadto have a deeper dialogue about around a common set of principles, map is an effective way of getting what actions are needed to create which allows all Business Units to the senior management teams the most ethical culture. While the map out a plan to move from wherwithin Skanska talking about ethics Code of Conduct and Business Ethever they currently are to a better on a routine basis; a conversation ics training are a good check-up to position. Generally speaking, the starter.” Skanska Annual Report 2014 Sustainable development – Social Agenda 27 Skanska in the community Skanska’s commitment to being a responsible member of the communities in which it operates requires it to execute projects well and, where possible, make a wider contribution to society. With thousands of contracts delivered each year for its expertise to local communities from kindergarten customers, effective connection with local communithrough lifetime learning is a key aspect of the company’s ties can contribute significantly to their successful long-term community strategy. completion. Building a business case for local presence In 2014 Skanska started to report and measure its in the community, rather than relying just on corporate community presence. The key performance indicators philanthropy, is the approach adopted by Skanska in its relating to Skanska’s community presence were develpolicy, Skanska in the Community. oped together with LBG, acknowledged experts in Skanska’s preferred approach respects the significant assessing companies’ community activities. cultural differences that exist across its home markets. With the help of this Skanska will be able to get an The policy focuses Skanska’s community engagement overview of the Group’s community activities and what activities on education, especially in the areas of safety, impact these have on the local societies. technical skills and its green agenda. Transferring Housing School opens doors for new arrivals What risks are there in your home? What should you do if there is a fire or Skanska and ByBo, part of the Church City Mission (Kirkens Bymisjon) in a water leak? How do you interact with neighbors and how do housing Norway, have started an initiative to help new arrivals acclimatize to their associations work? How can you get a home of your own? If you suddenly new environment. ByBo’s slogan “Room for everyone” reflects the fact find yourself in a completely different culture in another part of the world, that until you have a home, it is hard to move on in life. Without a home, you may have lots of questions – and this is the situation that many immieverything else is a problem too. grants to Nordic countries find themselves in. Housing School in Norway The joint Housing School (Boligskolen) project has been going on for two discusses these issues, along with cultural differences. years, bringing together dozens of participants on each occasion. Volunteers, including employees from Skanska in Oslo, help run the courses. 28 Sustainable development – Social Agenda Skanska Annual Report 2014 A women built new home for Tanika In the U.S. Skanska is working with Habitat for Humanity’s Women Build initiative, which aims to encourage vulnerable women to create their own place to live. The idea is to help women to help themselves by working together on construction and financing. The work is carried out jointly by Habitat for Humanity and Women Build volunteers along with the person selected. In 2014, Tanika Stewart of Evansville, Indiana, was able to move into the first home of her own along with her two daughters and a friend’s son that she looks after. The volunteers included 15 women from Skanska, who contributed their time and expertise – enabling construction costs to be kept down to a level that Tanika can afford on her nurse’s salary. Being prepared to put in the work yourself is one of the selection criteria for a Habitat for Humanity Women Build project. “I’m learning something new every step of the way. When you start, there is nothing, and then it becomes a house. That’s a home for someone. I want to show my children that if you work hard you can get what you want Skanska employee Barb Daum gathered a team of 15 Skanska women out of life,” says Tanika, who in her younger who worked 140 hours to put a roof on Tanika’s new home. years lived in low quality rented housing. Leadership program for foreign-born engineers In Sweden people with a foreign background often find it difficult to get a job that matches their qualifications. Skanska has launched a targeted initiative to help foreign-born engineers get a job while also increasing the number of Skanska employees who come from other countries. After completing Skanska’s International Leadership Program, six people were given jobs. An additional nine started the program during the autumn. The program is aimed at engineers with workplace experience from building production and the goal is employment. The Swedish Public Employment Service (Arbetsförmedlingen) likes the initiative and proposed a number of candidates who were then interviewed in several rounds. The program involves an introduction to Skanska with a focus on the work environment and company values as well as practical experience at building sites. The practical experience is alternated with training at the Yrkesakademin (profession training academy) so participants can learn the necessary skills to take on management roles at production sites. Skanska’s International Leadership Program prepares foreign-born engineers for employment. Skanska Annual Report 2014 Sustainable development – Social Agenda 29 Students and mentors at Skanska’s office. Jordanna Phillips is sitting on the far left. Creating brighter futures Partnership for diversity and recruitment Three young men from the Stockholm suburbs have been given probationary employment as assistant supervisors on Skanska building sites. These young men have no academic qualifications, but their drive and leadership qualities were noticed by the Up & Coming project organized by Fryshuset. The nonprofit organization, which focuses on activities for young people who are excluded, and Skanska have started a longterm partnership focusing on young people and diversity. In addition to training and guidance, each of these young people also has a personal mentor. Pierre Olofsson, President of Skanska Sweden, is one of them. “We need to broaden the diversity within the company and this is a very exciting recruitment base. It’s rewarding to be able to help with someone else’s development by being a mentor, and I’m learning just as much myself,” says Pierre. Johan Oljeqvist, Managing Director, Fryshuset and Pierre Olofsson, President, Skanska Sweden, working together to promote diversity. 30 Sustainable development – Social Agenda Skanska Annual Report 2014 Creating brighter futures Trouble at school, problems at home, poor grades and no hope for the future; that’s the reality for many young people from challenging London communities. Communities where Skanska has been working with an award-winning social enterprise called Arrival Education which gives young people an important opportunity for an alternative future. Arrival Education aims to support the most opportunity-starved students so that they can flourish and become positive role models. Skanska is one of the companies that has been providing both volunteer and financial support to inspire and develop around 50 young people each year since 2009. Arrival Education’s program includes coming to regular sessions, completing assignments and demonstrating a suitable level of engagement via their “credit system” which requires them to improve at school and at home, and to produce positive results in their lives – the program does not just focus on school work, but also covers discipline, conduct and attitudes. For example, in conflict situations they might be required to rebuild relationships with teachers and other adults. All of this is achieved with input and assistance from Skanska employees. During her teenage years, Jordanna Phillips from the Shepherds Bush area of London was at risk of dropping out of her school and home life and getting into gang culture. Coming into contact with Skanska and Arrival Education in 2009 was a turning point for her, impacting both her school results and her relationships at home. Now she is in her second year at the School of Oriental and African Studies and hopes to graduate in International Management in 2016. “I knew I was smart but the odds were against me, nothing seemed to work out – it always ended in trouble. Without this support it’s very likely that I would have taken the wrong path, ended up in jail or on benefits like so many people with a background like mine. I’m so happy now,” says Jordanna, who often acts as an ambassador for the program. “Companies with strong values make the perfect partners for our work. Skanska seems to have ethics at the heart of its organization,” says Arrival Education’s founder and CEO Dan Snell. Lend a hand to a community or charity project Contribute a working day towards making a difference in your community. In the UK, all Skanska colleagues are given the opportunity to help a community or charity project during their paid working hours. Skanska’s volunteer initiative is called Lend a hand and colleagues can donate their time towards something that they are already involved in or in one of Skanska’s community projects, such as supporting students as part of Arrival Education (see article above). The Community Involvement team helps to organize the opportunities, which are then recorded in the same way as vacations and the like. As part of the Lend a hand volunteer programme, almost 300 employees have already volunteered within their local community. Some ten Skanska colleagues in the UK have trained as Brake ambassadors for the road safety charity Brake, aiming to make young people aged 16 to 19 safer on the roads. Skanska employees in the UK doing voluntary work for charitable organizations. Skanska Annual Report 2014 Sustainable development – Social Agenda 31 Talent, dedication and values The key to Skanska’s success and profitable growth is having high-performing employees with strong values. As a responsible employer and actor in society, Skanska prioritizes the employees’ working environment and professional development. The vision is an inclusive corporate culture where everyone is given the opportunity to contribute by using their full potential. Clear expectations and values are the common theme in HR work at all levels within Skanska. This is explained Diversity that in the Skanska Leadership Profile, which is used as a mainstay in recruiting new employees and in evaluatreflects society ing, developing and career planning for existing ones. Skanska’s ambition is for leaders to be largely recruited internally. The company therefore works actively on A new diversity vision and strategy were launched in 2014. succession management and succession planning, and The vision has three parts: on employee development within the company. – Skanska mirrors the diversity in society on all levels of our organization. Everyone is a leader – Skanska’s leaders are excellent in fostering an inclusive A basic principle is that all employees are leaders – for culture. a project or a specific task – and not least for their own – Skanska is recognized as a leader in diversity and inclusion personal and professional development, which they plan in all home markets. in cooperation with their manager or supervisor. The new diversity vision and strategy emphasize inclusiveTo execute its business plan for profitable growth, ness. An inclusive culture is essential in ensuring that talented Skanska needs to recruit a large number of employees in recruits remain and develop within the company. the next few years and introduce the new employees to ”An inclusive culture allows us to benefit from the opporthe company’s values and working methods. tunities that greater diversity brings. These include increased dedication and creativity, a greater understanding of differStrong values ent customer groups as well as an increased ability to act on Skanska’s strong values and focus on sustainability changes in society,” says Pia Höök, Diversity Manager, strengthens the company’s brand as an employer, which Skanska. is key to securing a supply of talented employees. Inclusion Advocates in all Business Units Promise to the employees During the year all of the Business Units appointed an IncluSkanska’s promise to new and existing employees is to sion Advocate – a senior line manager who works closely with offer: HR to drive diversity and inclusion progress within their Busi– a sustainable future for people, communities and ness Unit. Each Business Unit has conducted an analysis using companies; a framework based on the global diversity strategy. – a place to work with dedicated colleagues in an open “In general our industry has lagged behind in terms of corporate culture with sound values; diversity. If we want to remain successful, it’s very important –o  pportunities to learn and develop in an international that we reflect our customers and users so that we can recruit company. and retain the best talent,” says Paul Heather, Director and A number of platforms exist to support global recruitInclusion Advocate, Skanska UK. ment, greater diversity, mobility, people development, professional development, exchanging experiences and Local goals and actions evaluation of senior managers. The analysis provides a platform from which the Business Unit can set actions and targets. Since the Business Units are in different home markets with somewhat different opportunities and challenges when it comes to diversity, actions and targets are set locally. Region South in Skanska Sweden has implemented an initiative to secure an inclusive work culture. This has involved workshops for the executive team, an e-learning program Female employees for all white collar employees and special training for internal % 2014 2013 facilitators who provide reoccurring workshops at the various Skilled workers 2 2 workplaces. One question that has been discussed and linked White collar employees 27 26 to the various aspects of diversity is: “What can you do at your Senior executives 22 22 workplace to increase openness, acceptance, mutual respect and care?” The concrete suggestions on ways to improve will Skanska AB Board 12 12 be implemented within the region. Total 13 12 32 Employees Skanska Annual Report 2014 ” An inclusive culture allows us to benefit from the opportunities that greater diversity brings. Pia Höök, Diversity Manager, Skanska Raghad has her dream job Despite a degree in construction engineering and 15 years of experience, all of Raghad Jasim’s job applications were rejected in Sweden. But thanks to Skanska’s International Leadership Program (ILP), she finally has her dream job. “I knew what I was capable of, but it was hard to prove it. When the public employment agency told me about Skanska’s International Leadership Program I saw a glimmer of hope. I was really glad when I was selected and I’m even happier now that I’ve been given a job. It feels fantastic,” says Raghad. After a series of introduction courses at the beginning of the year, Raghad was given an internship at Bildcentrum, Skanska’s construction project worth SEK 400 M for Sahlgrenska University Hospital in Gothenburg. “The internship was very valuable thanks to my mentor who taught me everything. I asked for more practical experience at the site because I already know the theory,” stay in Qatar, where she worked on a luxury says Raghad. residential neighborhood, her family –which had increased in size by then – moved back Sourcing work to Gothenburg in 2010. Now Raghad is employed as a project engiRaghad was very familiar with Skanska neer working on sourcing of materials and due to the many large projects the company subcontractors for the project. She is one of has been involved in since the 1950s in Iraq. the 22-person strong project team. Raghad She even celebrated her wedding at a hotel is happy with her work, her colleagues and built by Skanska, the Al Rasheed Hotel. Skanska. “Now that I’m familiar with Skanska’s “My job is really interesting. A big hosworking methods, its Five Zeros vision and pital project consists of so many different the focused initiatives to ensure a safe installations that you wouldn’t otherwise working environment, there is nowhere I come across. And the atmosphere is very would rather work,” says Raghad. upbeat. Everyone is happy and friendly. We “There are always lots of interesting Pia Höök, Diversity Manager, Skanska often do fun activities together, like bowlprojects and plenty of development opporing or going to ice hockey games.” tunities that I want to take advantage of so No place for intolerance I can be even better in my profession,” says “Respecting the equal value of all people is necessary in Broad construction experience Raghad. order to be a successful and responsible company over Raghad gained her engineering degree at “Through Skanska ILP we’ve created a time. If we are to attract the best and build an even stronthe University of Technology in Baghdad means of tapping into unutilized resources ger Skanska, there can quite simply be no place for intolin 1992. She came to Sweden in 2003 after in the form of qualified people with a forerance here,” says Magnus Persson, Regional Manager, working on constructing buildings and eign background,” says Jonas Naddebo, Skanska Sweden. roads in her homeland of Iraq and in the Skanska’s Attraction Team, who works on United Arab Emirates. After a three-year attracting and recruiting future employees. Skanska Annual Report 2014 Employees 33 Global initiative to develop skills and leadership Developing the company’s employees and future leadDevelopment programs ers is an important factor in securing replacements for people who change jobs and for passing on Skanska’s Skanska Unlimited values and working methods to all of the employees. An annual global exchange program allowing employThere are several global programs and local ones within ees to experience working in a different department or the various Business Units to develop employee skills. unit, either abroad or in their home country. Professional development within Skanska is in general closely linked to day-to-day operations and is based Skanska Stretch on three interacting elements: learning through experiA global development program providing leadership ence, learning the theory and learning through others. training and postings abroad for promising employees. Skanska STEP 20% Skanska Top Executive Program, a global leadership 70% Learning Learning through program for Skanska’s senior executives that focuses on STEP STEP Skanska 2011 Top 2013others 2014 Executive through strategic work. Program experience 10% Tools Training Skanska Recruit STEP STEP Skanska A recruitment tool for the external and internal labor 2011 Top 20132014 Executive Program Developing and learning through experience involves market. employees working with their manager or supervisor, and sometimes with a mentor as well, on setting Skanska Talent appropriate career goals and having the right job – in A tool to evaluate the employees and define personal other words, being in a role and working on a project goals and development plans. STEP STEP Skanska 2011 Top that matches the employees’ skills while allowing them 20132014 Executive Program to develop. Theoretical education may involve learning core Other initiatives competencies or participating in specialist courses or leadership training – internally or externally. In generSkanska Leadership Profile al this constitutes a small part of an employee’s overall The purpose of the Leadership Profile is to secure the STEP STEP Skanska 2011 Top 20132014 Executive professional development. Program supply of future leaders and to develop and evaluate Skanska’s leaders. A corporate culture that embraces learning Learning through others is traditionally an important Seop aspect of Skanska’s corporate culture, where most Skanska employee ownership program is a stock purSTEP STEP Skanska of the projects are managed by a team of both young 2011 Top 20132014 Executive chase program that offers all permanent Skanska emProgram and more experienced employees. This provides rich ployees the opportunity to purchase shares in the comopportunities for learning and exchanging experiencpany on favorable terms. es. Developing while receiving support and guidance from a mentor or through continuous coaching is also – During the year, 4,800 job openings were announced important. Ongoing feedback is key for growth. at the recruitment tool Skanska Recruit. STEP STEP Skanska 2011 Top 20132014 Executive The employees also receive feedback through soThrough Skanska Talent Review, Skanska PerforProgram called 360-degree analysis, where employees assess mance Review and Skanska Leadership Profile, around their colleagues’ performance and how they behave in a 24,000 Skanska employees and managers are evaluated team and contribute to projects. annually. Performance review with managers Affinity and dedication The performance review provides the basis for addiOne way of promoting affinity with and dedication to tional conversations between employees and their the company, and of retaining employees is the threesupervisor or manager to plan their continued developyear Skanska employee ownership program (Seop), ment based on a number of parameters: What goals are which is open to all permanent employees. Participation to be achieved, how will progress be evaluated, is work in the program requires a personal investment and the sufficiently challenging, are goals attainable and realallocation of additional shares is tied to how well each istic, and is the timeframe appropriate for an optimum unit meets its yearly targets. Each participant thus has outcome for the employee. the opportunity to receive a personal reward for the Here are a few examples of employee development company’s success and for their own efforts. Skanska’s activities in 2014: Annual General Meeting decided to extend Seop for a – 20 employees participated in the Skanska Unlimited third round starting in January 2014. The employees exchange program. participating in Seop now together make up the fourth – The fourth round of the Skanska Stretch leadership largest shareholder in Skanska. In 2014 the program had program began and 28 people participated in it. 8,900 participants. 34 Employees Skanska Annual Report 2014 Ivette Vanas sees the opportunities After receiving her degree in economics with In 2000 Ivette left a small local company to become a focus on accounting, Ivette Vanas worked in head of accounting for Skanska’s projects for the fashion industry in New York. pharmaceutical companies. In 2007 she was put “I never thought I would end up in the conin charge of accounting for Skanska USA Building. struction industry,” says Ivette Vanas, Vice Her days were filled with developing accounting President in charge of risk management for standards and making forecasts while increasing Skanska USA Building. transparency. In 2013 Ivette started working in risk But after 25 years in the construction indusmanagement. try – 14 of them at Skanska – she is a big fan of “It’s fantastic because I get close to the projects. the industry and the opportunities it offers. I want to help them be successful by making the “The most exciting thing about our industry right decisions, improving efficiency and achieving is that what we do is so tangible; we build citbetter end results.” ies, buildings and infrastructure that people Ivette was selected for the E2L leadership program use every day. It feels great that we’re helpin the U.S. and for the Group’s STEP program where ing people and companies live and grow. I’ve she shared her knowledge and increased her netbeen fortunate enough to work with all kinds work. She was also appointed as Inclusion Advocate of people on different projects with plenty of to work on increasing diversity, and she is chairman opportunities to learn and develop.” of the women’s network within Skanska in the U.S. Bo Sandström, carpenter became coordinator During his 41 years at Skanska Bo Sandström contacts in his role planning and coordinating has worked for 31 years as a carpenter and the body of skilled workers in Stockholm. foreman and for 10 years on health, wellness “I’ve taken opportunities to develop and do and HR issues. In Stockholm he has built subthings I enjoy. This, combined with good camaway stations and high-rise wooden buildings raderie and bosses, makes you want to stay with – a dream job for a carpenter. In 2004 Bo felt Skanska. If you want to build things you should he had done all he could as a carpenter and work for Skanska where there are opportunities. applied to be a health and wellness advisor. It makes you proud to build things that people He gave talks to 7,000 Skanska colleagues, want: good homes, schools and preschools close trained numerous health coaches and introby and transport infrastructure,” says Bo, who duced morning exercise classes at the building also works with diversity issues in his new role. sites. He also helped to produce the CDs for the “The way we used to talk wasn’t always the best. warm-up exercises he encourages everyone We need to improve the way we use language so to do to prevent injuries and physical wear and that everyone feels welcome,” concludes Bo. tear. Today Bo uses his large network of Building good health with Kristin Hovland Kristin Hovland works for Skanska ConstrucThe research relates to the construction of tion in Norway. But instead of building houses, buildings and subterranean spaces. she builds good health. Kristin is a company “We often visit the project sites to get a betdoctor and part of the Health, Environment ter understanding of what they do there. We and Safety Team which works to provide the pass on our knowledge and we’re available for employees and others with a safe and healthy questions and to give advice.” workplace. Kristin started working at Skanska in spring “It’s crucial that we work in a focused way 2014 because she wanted to make a difference on prevention, informing people and trying to in health and the working environment. She minimize risk. The challenge for everyone is to understands that Skanska has a strong comstay focused every day in all projects. It’s easy mitment in this area. to get off track, just like working out,” says “A good working environment, health and Kristin, a specialist in occupational medicine quality all work together for a good end result who recently completed a PhD research project that benefits individuals, companies and socion the effects of occupational exposure on ety,” says Kristin. lung function. Skanska Annual Report 2014 Employees 35 Skanska AB www.skanska.com Warfvinges väg 25 SE-112 74 Stockholm Tel: +46 10 448 00 00 Fax: +46 8 755 12 56
