Communication on Progress to the United Nations Global Compact 2015 PREFACE BY THE CEO The Vaillant Group combines its sustainability activities to form a strategic programme – S.E.E.D.S. This involves setting binding, measurable targets, deriving specific measures and continuously reviewing the results obtained in relation to four fields of focus: Environment, Employees, Development & Products, and Society. All activities are Group-wide and transparent. In view of the above, our membership of the United Nations Global Compact represents a conscious step towards increased transparency and visible corporate responsibility. The initiative, founded by former UN Secretary-General Kofi Annan, aims to strengthen the social commitment of businesses by inviting them to affirm a catalogue of basic values. The Vaillant Group is explicitly committed to the Ten Principles of the Global Compact in the fields of human rights, labour standards, environmental protection and the fight against corruption, and undertakes to continue fostering and supporting them in its sphere of influence. We report annually on our progress in implementing the Global Compact in our day-to-day business in the form of a Communication on Progress. Furthermore, we will detail significant developments in the implementation of the Ten Principles in the Vaillant Group Sustainability Report. Remscheid, 14 October 2015 Dr Carsten Voigtländer, CEO ABOUT THIS COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS This document’s purpose is to provide information on the Vaillant Group’s progress with respect to the implementation of the Ten Principles enshrined in the Global Compact in the day-to-day practice of our business. The action we have taken in this field is founded on our expressed corporate principles and our management systems. The reporting period for this Communication on Progress encompasses the Vaillant Group’s third year of Global Compact membership, from 15 October 2014 to 14 October 2015. HUMAN RIGHTS GLOBAL COMPACT OUR PRINCIPLES AND MEASURES PROGRESS IN 2014/2015 PRINCIPLE SYSTEMS Principle 1:  S.E.E.D.S. strategic  Suppliers to provide a  We source 100% of our Support of human rights sustainability programme written commitment to standard purchasing  Vaillant Group Guideline on comply with the principles volume from suppliers who the Global Compact of the Global Compact have confirmed in writing Principle 2:  Supplier management  Implementation of supplier that they comply with the Non-complicity in human system (pre-selection of audits on the basis of Global Compact’s rights abuses suppliers, assessment of questionnaires on social principles. The target suppliers, purchasing terms criteria which had originally been and conditions, contractual aimed for by 2020 has conditions) therefore already been  Vaillant Group Social achieved. Accountability Policy  Approx. 450 audits conducted in the supply chain. LABOUR STANDARDS GLOBAL COMPACT OUR PRINCIPLES AND MEASURES PROGRESS IN 2014/2015 PRINCIPLE SYSTEMS Principle 3:  S.E.E.D.S. strategic  Suppliers to provide a  We source 100% of our Upholding freedom of sustainability programme written commitment to standard purchasing association and recognition  Vaillant Group Guideline on comply with the principles volume from suppliers who of the right to collective the Global Compact of the Global Compact have confirmed in writing bargaining  Supplier management  Supplier audits that they comply with the system (pre-selection of  At the main sites of the Global Compact’s suppliers, assessment of Vaillant Group, we are principles. The target which Principle 4: suppliers, purchasing terms bound by collective had originally been aimed Elimination of forced and and conditions) agreements. Where for by 2020 has therefore compulsory labour minimum wages exist, they already been achieved. are not undercut by us in  Approx. 450 audits remuneration. conducted in the supply Principle 5:  The Group has about 70% chain. Abolition of child labour of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements, in Germany about 80%. Principle 6:  Vaillant Group Spirit  In-house campaign on the  Continuous communication Elimination of discrimination  Our company values Vaillant Group Spirit, campaign addressing all entrepreneurship, trust, promoting the company’s employees integrity, passion Group-wide values  HR measures adopted  Vaillant supports the Fair towards implementation of Company initiative, which the Group values requires members to (management training, commit to treating interns employee/team workshops, fairly. Spirit weeks)  Survey among entire Vaillant Group staff conducted in cooperation with Great Place to Work ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION GLOBAL COMPACT OUR PRINCIPLES AND MEASURES PROGRESS IN 2014/2015 PRINCIPLE SYSTEMS Principle 7:  Multi-site certification  Annual environmental  All Vaillant Group Precautionary approach to pursuant to EN ISO 14001 audits production and R&D sites environmental challenges and OHSAS 18001  Binding environmental are certified or part of a  S.E.E.D.S. strategic targets to be agreed and multi-site certification, 25 sustainability programme degree of target system audits conducted  Vaillant Group achievement to be  Realisation of energy Environmental Policy measured efficiency and  Group-wide sustainability  All sustainability indicators environmental projects at a targets for 2020 in the to be incorporated into a range of locations (e.g. Environment field of focus: central reporting tool, the reduction of paper usage 25% reduction in CO₂ Vaillant Group for printed manuals emissions, 20% increase in Sustainability Scorecard (central); simulation models energy efficiency, 20% cut  Waste reduction: Expanded to reduce test expenditures in water consumption and use of reusable packaging (Test Centre Remscheid); waste for production materials installation of an adjustable  Group-wide sustainability  Energy efficiency: New welding fume extractor targets for 2020 in the heating systems in our (Bergheim); replacement of Development & Products buildings to be run only on airby water-cooled chillers field of focus: highly efficient condensing (Bozüyük); heat recovery in 80% of our sales revenues devices, CHPs and shipping audit lab (Trencin); to be generated with highly technologies based on installation of a photovoltaic efficient products; a 15% renewable energies. system (Belper); reduction in greenhouse Existing systems to be biodiversity audit (Nantes); gases emitted by our successively modernised. Group-wide communication product portfolio; 15%  Sustainability standards to campaign in the sites on increase in material be integrated into Vaillant awareness raising for efficiency Group processes. resources and environment  Process integration of  Consideration of protection) environmental issues sustainability criteria within  The Vaillant Group site in the scope of the Bozüyük (TR) got Sustainable Building nominated for the Guideline “Efficiency Project Awards” hosted by the Ministry of Industry  The Vaillant Group site in Belper (GB) has won the national “Sustainable Manufacturing Award”  Sustainability issues further GLOBAL COMPACT OUR PRINCIPLES AND MEASURES PROGRESS IN 2014/2015 PRINCIPLE SYSTEMS incorporated into Vaillant Group process map.  Improvements in key environmental indicators (see key indicators section in the current Sustainability Report) Principle 8: Promoting  Group-wide sustainability  Suppliers to provide a  We source 100% of our environmental responsibility targets for 2020 in the written commitment to standard purchasing Environment field of focus: adhere to environmental volume from suppliers who 25% reduction in CO₂ standards have confirmed in writing emissions, 20% increase in  Supplier audits that they comply with the energy efficiency, 20% cut  Environmental Global Compact’s in water consumption and responsibility taken into principles. The target which waste account to a greater extent had originally been aimed  Group-wide sustainability when selecting suppliers for by 2020 has therefore targets for 2020 in the and service providers. already been achieved. Development & Products  Sustainability standards to  Approx. 450 audits field of focus: be incorporated into the conducted in the supply 80% of our sales revenues Group Market Process chain. to be generated with highly  Group-wide internal  Sustainability Brochure efficient products; a 15% competition for the reissued and distributed via reduction in greenhouse S.E.E.D.S. Award customer forums, sales gases emitted by our  Sustainability to be a partners and industry fairs product portfolio; 15% compulsory part of  We have worked with increase in material vocational training and of installers to hold workshops efficiency Corporate Basics induction on sustainable corporate  Group Market Process training for new employees governance.  Vaillant Group Corporate  Vaillant Group is involved  Support provided to Responsibility Framework in a range of initiatives and environmental community networks whose purpose is projects at a range of to work towards company locations responsible management (examples: fitting of natural resources. For technology in the SOS example, the company is a Children’s Villages in partner organisation of France, Hungary, German sustainability Macedonia, Russia and conference, “Deutscher Germany in line with a Nachhaltigkeitstag”, and is Group-wide strategic a member of the German partnership) GLOBAL COMPACT OUR PRINCIPLES AND MEASURES PROGRESS IN 2014/2015 PRINCIPLE SYSTEMS Association of Environmental  Internal S.E.E.D.S. Award Management (B.A.U.M. 2015 e.V.) and of the Sustainability Leadership Forum convened by B.A.U.M. e.V. / Centre for Sustainability Management at Leuphana University, Lüneburg.  The Vaillant Group is a strategic partner of SOS Children’s Villages International Principle 9:  S.E.E.D.S. strategic  Expansion of our portfolio  In 2014, the majority – Development and diffusion sustainability programme of high-efficiency products 62.4% – of the Vaillant of environmentally-friendly  Vaillant Group product  Training to be provided for Group’s product sales technologies strategy focusing on highinstallers revenues were generated efficiency technologies, with high-efficiency synced-up systems and technologies and renewable energies renewable energy systems.  Group-wide sustainability  Introduction of Green iQ targets for 2020 in the product range Development & Products  Ongoing training on field of focus: environmentally-friendly 80% of our sales revenues technologies for partner to be generated with highly installers. efficient products; a 15%  The jury of the German reduction in greenhouse Sustainability Award has gases emitted by our nominated the Vaillant product portfolio; 15% Group in the category increase in material “most sustainable company efficiency (corporation)”  Group Market Process ANTI-CORRUPTION GLOBAL COMPACT OUR PRINCIPLES AND MEASURES PROGRESS IN 2014/2015 PRINCIPLE SYSTEMS Principle 10:  Vaillant Group Corporate  Group-wide compliance  Compliance training Action against corruption Governance Codex training in the field of sessions conducted in the  Vaillant Group “Codex of anti-corruption (partially still field of anti-corruption: (28 Behaviour” planned) sessions with 415  Vaillant Group  Application of the Group attendees in Germany in Anti-Corruption Directive Fraud Response Directive 2014; 43 sessions with 670  Vaillant Group Fraud attendees in other countries Response Directive in 2014 and 6 sessions with 106 attendees in 2015)  Vaillant Group Spirit  In-house campaign on the  Vaillant Group Spirit:  Our company values Vaillant Group Spirit, Group-wide communication entrepreneurship, trust, promoting the company’s campaign addressing all integrity, passion Group-wide values employees  HR measures adopted continuously towards implementation of the Group values
