Sustainability in plain language from A for access to Z for zettabyte Susta ina bilit y R eport OF THE T elekom Austr i a Group 2014/2015 Sustaincyclopedia It is a strange word. It is artificial — as is often the case, when something aspires to attract meaning. Traditionally this happens in some form of ancient language. Those who prefer modern management terminology route for an Anglicanism. Sustaincyclopedia is only an example. For a complex set of concepts, which aims to describe fundamental requirements and targets. This Sustaincyclopedia intends to offer explanatory glances behind the verbal scenery of sustainability. And explains that Telekom Austria Group has plenty more to offer than empty phrases for the benefit of image cultivation. Sustaincyclopedia Without any claim to completeness or alphabetical order, our ABC of sustainability sheds light on some frequently used words and phrases. Zettabyte A one followed by 21 zeros. Or, just as hard to imagine, 10 21 bytes. According to a Cisco study, a data volume twice as large will be transmitted over the Internet in the year 2019. As a comparison, this is equivalent to the storage capacity of more than two trillion CDs. Obviously, only the most modern network infrastructure is in a position to keep up with such dynamic data growth. Access Access — where to? In its original meaning, the word referred to a technical connection with digital media, such as the Internet. Nowadays, it also stands for equal opportunity in information, education, knowledge and democratic participation. Sustainability initiatives such as “Internet for All” promote the media skills necessary for this access. Value chain An old concept, evergreen. Created around 30 years ago by management legend Michael Porter, it was and remains a standard model to this day. Specifically, a model to represent the value creation or production process as an orderly series of specific corporate activities. They all create value, but they also all require resources. They thus offer logical points of contact for sustainability. Life cycle It’s all in the double meaning. Today, it’s no longer just about analysing aspects and opportunities in the various phases of a product’s life in relation to the market. It’s also about impact on the lives of others, or in other words: the environment. In addition to recycling and waste disposal topics, this concerns other environmentally relevant emissions, such as CO2 and extractions, such as commodities, during the same cycle. Telekom Austria Group Geographical Presence ( G4.6, 4.8, 4.9) As leading telecommunication provider with 16,240 employees, Telekom Austria Group serves almost 23 million customers in seven countries across Central and Eastern Europe. In 2014 Groupwide CO2 emissions were cut by 23 % as a result of comprehensive measures such as the “carbon neutral network” in Austria. Vipnet Si.mobil CROATIA SLOVENIA Revenues: 378.2 EUR mn Revenues: 199.6 EUR mn Employees: 1,151 Employees: 399 CO2 (Scope 1+2): 20,959 t CO2 (Scope 1+2): 8,835 t velcom Vip mobile BELARUS REPUBLIC OF SERBIA Revenues: 355.0 EUR mn Revenues: 213.2 EUR mn Employees: 1,881 Employees: 933 CO2 (Scope 1+2): 33,510 t CO2 (Scope 1+2): 30,733 t Vip operator REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA Revenues: 62.0 EUR mn Employees: 535 A1 CO2 (Scope 1+2): 8,951 t AUSTRIA Revenues: 2,472.0 EUR mn Employees: 8,635 CO2 (Scope 1+2): 28,088 t CO2 (Scope 1+2) with compensation: 11,840 t Mobiltel BULGARIA Revenues: 371.3 EUR mn Employees: 2,527 CO2 (Scope 1+2): 39,766 t Figures as of 31 December 2014. Employees in full-time equivalents as of 31 December 2014. Scope 1 includes direct emissions from combustion of fossil fuels for heating, electricity production and mobility but not including cooling agents. Scope 2 measures indirect emissions from electric energy and district heating. CO2 in CO2 equivalents. Content 6 Preface by the Management Board PRODUCTS EMPLOYEES 8 Strategic alignment of the Providing Empowering Telekom Austria Group Responsible People Products sustainability 34 Our success depends management 18 The product makes the on people 9 Sustainable goal-setting difference 38 The Roadmap — Employees with a system 22 The Roadmap — Products 39 Flagship projects 11 Value chain 23 Flagship projects 12 Materiality analysis 13 Control and management 14 Data privacy 14 Compliance 15 Sustainable supply chain 17 The Roadmap — Sustainability management ENVIRONMENT SOCIETY Living Green Creating Equal Opportunities 24 Careful management of the environment 40 Internet for all? 46 GRI Content table 30 Guest commentary: 44 The Roadmap — Society 54 Data appendix Environmental indicators: 45 Flagship projects 61 Assurance statement navigating through the jungle 63 Report details 32 The Roadmap — Environment 64 Imprint 33 Flagship projects Con t en t 7 Sustainability in plain language Just because everyone is social and environmental aspects of (see page 28). These and many other talking about something does sustainable business provides a promisexamples unmistakably show that susnot mean it is understood ing foundation for corporate goals. tainability closely related to the corpoeverywhere. Or that it means rate core business can generate social the same thing to everyone. With this in mind, the Telekom Austria and environmental benefits. The Management Board of Group is committed to the goals of the Telekom Austria Group the three-pillar model of sustainable As a “driver” of the digital economy and is committed to a definition development (“People, Planet, Profit”), a digital lifestyle, the Telekom Austria of sustainability, which is because they help secure business activGroup contributes to dynamic growth in clearly comprehensible. ities in the long term. At the same time, data communication. The related addimanagement is thus actively assuming tional consumption of energy must be Sustaincyclopedia? Our report title is a social and environmental responsibility. compensated with higher energy effireference to the varied forms and apparent Our express commitment to the UN ciency. In addition to the environmental ubiquity of the topic of sustainability. Global Compact is also based on those benefit, this also leads to cost advantages. These entitle us, even oblige us, to ask convictions. At the same time it helps our strategic critical questions. Are these really serious corporate goal of improving “operational concepts and initiatives? Or merely This is no mere lip service. The measexcellence”. campaigns and catch phrases primarily ures we have taken, described in this intended for PR purposes? sustainability report, speak for themWe used the invented word Sustaincyselves. Take our “Internet for All” initiclopedia as our title because it exempliTo put it provocatively, it doesn’t matter ative (see page 40), for instance, through fies the often cryptic-sounding terminowhat the motivation for committing to which we promote exactly the kind of logy surrounding sustainability. We sustainable living and work methods is, media literacy that is a key prerequisite — wish to counter that trend in this report provided it translates into actual benefits along with accelerated broadband expanthrough plain language, in the form of for society and the environment. sion — for equal-opportunity access to easily understandable definitions and the knowledge society. Another example conclusive concepts from the Telekom Pursuing economic goals in parallel is is the reduction of CO2 emissions of the Austria Group with specific goals. We not a contradiction to the above, espeTelekom Austria Group by almost a quarwish you a sustainably interesting cially for a company. On the contrary: ter, to which the “carbon neutral network” read! ( G4.1) only an integrated view of the economic, of A1 has made a significant contribution Alejandro Plater Siegfried Mayrhofer Chief Executive Officer (CEO) Chief Financial Officer (CFO) 8 Pr eface by t he m a nagemen t boa rd Management Board sustainability focus points Emissions Emissions in the form of greenhouse gases, especially CO2, are generated for instance through the combustion of fossil fuels. They add to the greenhouse effect caused by humans and therefore foster global warming. As an ICT company, the Telekom Austria Group is not a “primary causer” of greenhouse gases; it does not belong to an economic sector directly causing them. With regard to the emissions indirectly caused by our Cost efficiency Operational excellence The optimisation of cost efficiency is a prerequisite for the profitability, and The consistent rationalisation of business therefore the future viability, of any processes and work methods, along company. It is therefore also a preconwith the efficient allocation of resources, dition for both the affordability and the are the basis for operational success. feasibility of sustainability. Conversely, Under the umbrella term “operational sustainability initiatives can improve excellence”, they are the foundation cost efficiency. This can take the form of the strategy of the Telekom Austria of a reduction in travel, fuel consumpGroup. This orientation has many points tion, packing material or paper use, of contact with corporate sustainability. for instance. Waste separation reduces For instance, the centralisation of prowaste costs and enables the recycling business activities, we were able to curement and the creation of supplier of electrical scrap, for instance. Valuable improve our CO2 balance sheet Grouppools do not solely serve cost optimiraw materials, such as copper cables, wide by 23 % since 2013. The “carbon sation purposes. They also promote or are economically recycled (“urban minneutral network” of A1 is a major factor facilitate the extensive integration of ing”). At the same time, an innovative, in this regard. The exclusive procurement environmental and social criteria in energy-saving design of the network of electricity from renewable energy the procurement process. Overall, the infrastructure, needs-based capacity sources also contributed, as did energy clustering of corporate units and funcadjustments and highly efficient coolefficiency optimisations and climatetions, such as the consolidation of ing systems compensate for a capacityfriendly mobility concepts. Additionally, logistics centres, is beneficial to saving related increase in energy consumpICT solutions such as video conferences resources. The related effects are theretion. This enables us to aim for a 20 % help reduce CO2 beyond company borders fore also in tune with our efficiency improvement in our energy efficiency by reducing the number of kilometres goals in the areas of both investment (2012–2015). driven or flown. and marketing. Strategic alignment of the Telekom Austria Group Telekom Austria AG, headquartered in Vienna, 1 The core business‘s potential for factors necessitate high investments on a and its subsidiaries (”Telekom Austria Group”) value creation will be accounted for regular basis while placing high demands on thanks to distinction by convergence and are leading providers of landline and mobile performance and energy requirements for internal market consolidation. communication services, with nearly 23 million the infrastructure. Thus, the Telekom Austria customers in seven countries of Central and Group is exposed not only to market risks such 2 Customer experience will be enhanced Eastern Europe. The corporate Group is a by an extension in the value chain to as heavy competition, unstable economic ”catalyst” of the digital economy and a digital include new product and service offers. momentum but also regulatory market lifestyle. The key conditions were established activities that put pressure on prices and in 2014. Following the full support of controlling 3 In light of the conservative financial profitability. However, changes to climate majority shareholder América Móvil, along strategy, management is evaluating conditions, along with the environmental and options to expand the existing footprint. with ÖIAG (now: ÖBIB), the first capital increase social framework, can also influence the comin company’s history was successfully complepany‘s development. To mitigate such risks at 4 Operational excellence is the foundated. This set the stage not only for accelerated an early stage, a central risk management tion of the Group strategy. Business fibre rollout, but also for debt reduction and success requires ongoing improvements to all system monitors the relevant developments value-enhancing acquisitions. For all strategic operational processes and efficient resource on a regular basis. If needed, countermeasures allocation. initiatives, the Telekom Austria Group‘s are taken. For more information on risk conservative financial strategy requires management, see the 2014 annual report of maintenance of the investment grade ratings: the Telekom Austria Group: http://www.telekom Baa2 under Moody’s and BBB under Standard austria.com/en/ir/annual-reports . & Poors. This central requirement also applies The sustainability strategy is linked to the ( G4.2–4.6, 4.9, 4.13) to all four building blocks on the strategy company strategy in terms of foundation and pyramid. the extension of the value chain. At the same time, sustainability is considered a long-term value driver that offers economic advantages Shareholder structure Telekom alongside active fulfillment of environmental Austria AG as of 31 December 2014 Strategy and social responsibility. For instance, greater América Móvil pyramid energy efficiency reduces the environmental (direct and indirect) 59.70 % 1 impact while cutting costs. ÖIAG1) (Republic of Austria) 28.42 % Free float including 11.88 % employee and Telekom The telecommunications market offers a treasury shares Austria Group wealth of appealing opportunities. At the same time, a mass increase in data traffic, 1) ÖIAG (Österreichische Industrieholding AG) 2 4.0 3 was converted on 20 March 2015 to ÖBIB rapid technological progress and distinct (Österreichische Bundesund Industriecustomer demand for first-rate network and beteiligungen GmbH). 4 service quality are posing a challenge. These ( G4.7) Key financial data Telekom Austria Group EBITDA Operating Market (in EUR mn) Revenues comparable1) EBITDA 2) income Net result Equity capitalisation3) 2014 4,018.0 1,286.1 850.8 –3.0 –185.4 2,218.0 3.7 (in EUR mn) 2013 4,183.9 1,287.4 1,182.8 318.2 52.1 1,459.1 2.4 (in %) Change –4.0 –0.1 –28.1 n. m. n. m. 52.0 n. m. 1) Defined as EBITDA, excluding effects from restructuring and impairment tests ( G4.9) 2) Including effects from restructuring and impairment tests 3) As of 31 December 2014 (in EUR bn) Sustainable goal-setting with a system Sustainability should be spoken about Sustainability Reports) and comply Awards “in clear terms”. The same standard with the annual progress report as 2014 applies to this report by the Telekom defined in the UN Global Compact. Austria Group. Avoiding euphemisms and vague targets or success metrics is The starting point for systematic access a key part of this, as is omitting cryptic of the Telekom Austria Group to sustaintechnical terms that only a CSR or GRI ability management is the three-pillar expert might understand. model of sustainable development: the triple bottom line of “People, Planet and One might therefore ask why, in the Profit”. Thus, its definition of responsinext report section on “sustainability bility includes social, environmental management”, there are still a number and economic aspects. of academic-sounding terms and illus— Winner of the Austrian Sustainatrations of seemingly complex CSR The sustainability strategy focusses on bility Reporting Award (ASRA) 2014 processes — when in fact the goals four action areas that were derived from in the category of large companies should be as clear as the strategy for a comprehensive materiality analysis (Telekom Austria Group) reaching them. in 2012. Relevant company topics were — Winner of the 2014 Global Telecom analysed and prioritised by social, Business Innovation Award for the The simple answer is that we need a economic and environmental aspects ”Direct2home” satellite product standardised system in order to present based on a stakeholder survey. Each (Telekom Austria Group) sustainability initiatives and milestones area of action includes clear targets and — Winner of the telecommunications in a manner that is transparent and specific key performance indicators. portal Telecoms.com in 2014 in suitable for comparisons (to periodic the category of ”Pushing the reports and to other companies and The Telekom Austria Group maintains limits of fixed communications” industries). It also provides a valid a dialogue with its stakeholders. Comfor G.fast (A1) foundation for audit certifications and munications take place on three levels: — Winner of the ”Green Business other credentials. Thus, the terms and systematic information via a diverse Award” in the category of ”Wireprocesses adhere in full to the recomrange of channels, via conversations less Network Structure Innovation” mendations and requirements of the and surveys and via contributions as as part of the 2014 Global Telecom Global Reporting Initiative (GRI G4 for part of memberships and partnerships. Business Awards (Vipnet) susta ina bili t y m a nagemen t 11 Depending on the subject and the group, A new materiality analysis in early 2015 and vendors. However, employees various formats are used such as infor(see page 12) shows that the lead topics consider “customer focus” to be the mation events, idea contests and surfor stakeholders remain “customer most important topic. The analysis veys for clients or employees. However, focus”, “data privacy” and “network also showed that the significance of personal discussions during meetings, quality and system stability”. New or such topics as “diversity” and the conferences and road shows are used additional topics have not been identi“digital gap” dropped in importance for vendors, customers and NGOs. fied in the course of this process. “Data for customers and vendors. privacy” is number one for customers ( G4.18, 4.26, 4.27, 4.37) The four action areas Products In its seven markets, the Telekom Austria Group’s powerful and secure network infrastructure forms the backbone of the 21st century’s digital knowledge society. This action Providing area emphasises consistent investments in innovative and stable transmission technoResponsible logies, unwavering customer focus and secure, convenient products and services. Products ( For details, see page 18) Telecommunication networks such as those of the Telekom Austria Group may play a key role in combating climate change. The energy-efficient design of the transmission networks, increased use of renewable energy, climate-friendly mobility and the preservation of raw materials through optimised recycling and disposal processes are central components of the Telekom Austria Group’s environmental responsibility. Environment Continuous reduction in the environmental impact of business activities is a clear Living Green focus of this action area. ( For details, see page 24) Skilled, committed employees who think and act like entrepreneurs are a key success factor for the company. For this reason, the Telekom Austria Group’s personnel strategy is based on identifying and fostering talents at an early stage, continuous further Employees education and professional training and a balanced management, performance and Empowering feedback culture. Health, equal rights and true diversity within the Group are the People primary emphasis of this action area. ( For details, see page 34) The Telekom Austria Group firmly believes that the digital world should be open to everyone, so it is committed to reducing the “digital gap” and promoting media literacy skills. Alongside special media literacy initiatives for people of all ages, the Telekom Society Austria Group also promotes equal opportunity within digital society using its products Creating Equal and services. Moreover, its subsidiaries support and initiate social projects to meet Opportunities local needs. ( For details, see page 40) 12 susta ina bili t y m a nagemen t Value chain — Telekom Austria Group The diagram below of the value chain of the Telekom Austria Group gives an overview of the processes involved in its business operations. The necessary resources are also shown as input factors and the results as outputs. The issues identified along the value chain have been taken into account in the process of the materiality analysis. ( G4.18) Inputs Telekom Austria Group Outputs Equality Network infrastructure Appraisals — Network expansion & coverage (including in Health remote areas) — Systems stability Remuneration — Network quality — Infrastructure & — Electromagnetic network Provision fields components — Emissions — Waste & recycling — Energy — Contribution to Maintenance — Innovations protection of the climate & — Environmental Operation environment Compliance factors Access to network Employee infrastructure representation Further — Products & tariffs education — Customer focus — End-user devices — Data protection & accessories — Waste & recycling — Innovations — Contribution to — Software protection of the climate & Diversity environment Data protection Professional Economic training added value — Data & voice — Products & tariffs traffic — Customer — Media literacy focus skills — Network quality — Waste & recycling & coverage — Emissions — Systems stability — Contribution to — Electromagnetic protection of fields the climate & — Energy environment Customers‘ use of the infrastructure Identifying topics in the context of sustainability ( G4.2, 4.18–4.21, G4.24–4.27, 4.37) Process Stakeholder Topic identification — Integration of requirements under the GRI G4 reporting standard (aspects, indicators, sector supplement) alongside topics drawn from the ongoing stakeholder process, ratings and the sector More than 120 topics Consolidation of the contents into 82 general topics Expert groups Evaluation of impacts by internal experts Marketing, Human Resources, — Evaluation of the topics by seven internal expert groups IT & Network, Purchasing, — Evaluation criteria: active management, financial impact, risk, opportunities and potentials Compliance … Long list: 57 topics Internal stakeholders Employees, company management, owners Consolidation of contents into a short list with 29 topics Direct stakeholders Customers, vendors, legislators/official agencies Online survey — Evaluation by relevance using a 1–4 point scale system; ranking of top 5 topics Indirect stakeholders — Feedback from more than 1,000 stakeholders Media, NGOs, interest groups, associations, ratings agencies Materiality matrix Expansion in remote areas Compliance Data privacy Network quality & Energy systems stability very high Climate & environmental protection requirements Ecological product design Customer focus Waste Recycling Health Stakeholder relevance Economic added value Purchasing Further education & professional training Emissions Promotion of innovation Products offering potential for environmental protection Performance review renumeration Employee representation Media literacy Involvement of residents Electromagnetic Social Equality & diversity fields products low low Business relevance very high Certified environmental Control and with the overriding Group targets. At the same time, the sustainability strategy management systems management provides the necessary flexibility for taking regional differences into account. Austria Since 2010, the Telekom Austria Group — ISO 14001 for environmental has had a Group-wide, integrated susTop management representatives meet management (since 2004) tainability management system that at least three times per year in a Group — ISO 50001 for energy management is being continually developed. The Sustainability Board in order to explore (since 2008) principal and patron of the sustainability focal areas and advancements in the — EMAS (since 2013) agenda was CEO Hannes Ametsreiter sustainability strategy while resolving Slovenia until 31 July 2015. As of 1 August 2015 new measures. Therefore, the Manage— ISO 14001 (since 2009) CEO Alejandro Plater assumed this role, ment Board and top management — EMAS (since 2014) supported by CFO Siegfried Mayrhofer. ensure that sustainability aspects are Republic of Serbia A Corporate Sustainability Team, as part accounted for as part of the Group — ISO 14001 (starting in 2015) of “Group Communications and Sustainand brand strategy. The members of ability”, reports directly to the CEO. the Sustainability Board also assume This team controls and coordinates the responsibility for sustainability aspects implementation of the sustainability in their respective areas of authority strategy with the relevant persons in and promote an international exchange charge at the subsidiaries. This interwithin the Telekom Austria Group. national approach ensures compliance ( G4.34–4.37, 4.42, 4.43, 4.46–4.48) Organisational structure of the sustainability management Control Supervisory Board Report Monitor Management Board Dialogue with Report Set targets working groups Group Sustainability Board Regular Group Sustainability Team Executive departments, dialogue Part of Group Communications heads of divisions & Sustainability Implementation Reporting Control/ Sustainability network internal/external coordination at the subsidiaries Group Sustainability Team Part of Group Communications & Sustainability Contribute Implement KPI tracking/ Dialogue with performance Implementation working groups measurement Employees susta ina bili t y m a nagemen t 15 Data privacy The corresponding “Information Security Policy” and the supplementary To avoid potential misconduct, the Telekom Austria Group has defined To combat or prevent attacks on sen“Information Security Standards” apply clear rules for acting with legal comsitive data, the Telekom Austria Group throughout the Group and are supplepliance and integrity in all of its busiimplements a wide range of measures mented by local policies on a national ness relationships. Moreover, approin all of its subsidiaries to secure inforbasis. This set-up is overseen by the priate control mechanisms have been mation and data. The Telekom Austria “Information Security & Emergency” integrated into the business proGroup’s self-imposed goal, firmly anarea, which regularly reviews complicesses. The Group’s Code of Conduct chored in the sustainability strategy, is ance. Moreover, each subsidiary has and detailed compliance policies to maintain the highest data privacy and their own Information Security Manageprovide assistance on specific topics. security standards in all subsidiaries. ment System (ISMS). The system of A1, This includes, for instance, anti-corMobiltel and Vipnet is reviewed on an ruption and conflicts of interest, gifts annual basis by external, independent and invitations, handling confidential institutions and is certified in line with information, management consulting the international standard ISO 27001. and lobbying, sponsorships, donaMoreover, the Telekom Austria Group tions and advertising, capital market continued its training campaign to raise compliance and antitrust law. The Management of the employee awareness in 2014. About compliance policies help ensure aspects compliance and 3,000 employees in Austria alone were that acting with integrity is a permadata privacy successfully trained in e-learning nent fixture at the workplace. Morecourses, workshops and one-on-one over, the effectiveness of the comtrainings. pliance management system is supported by regular communication At the Austrian subsidiary A1, in midmeasures and training sessions, the 2013, the “Data Privacy” department was “ask.me” help desk, audits and the set up under the management of Martin anonymous whistleblowing platform Walter, Group Compliance Officer. To “tell.me”. The annual compliance risk inform A1’s customers about the data assessment ensures that the complithat is processed, who can access it and ance programme is adapted as needed. Material aspects what security measures are in place, for In 2013, the Telekom Austria Group’s (responsibilities) instance, a brochure on data privacy compliance management system was — Compliance (Group Compliance) was published in early 2015. This brocertified by an external auditor under — Data privacy (Group Operation, chure is also available on the Internet the IDW PS 980 standard. A1 Data Privacy) along with A1’s data privacy policy. It — Information security (Group includes information and tips on how Of the some 50 reports received via Operation) customers can help protect their own “tell.me” in 2014, about 50 % were Standards and data and an explanation on the rights substantiated and were investigated management systems that customers have in regard to their further. Depending on the severity of Data privacy data. the offence, the consequences of con— Information Security Policy, firmed misconduct ranged from indiInformation Security Standards vidual training courses to ending the — ISO 27001 in Austria, Bulgaria, relationship and filing charges with Croatia the public prosecutor’s office. About — E-learning, awareness-raising 350 questions were handled by “ask.me” campaigns, trainings — Data privacy folder (A1), information Compliance in 2014. In 2014, conduct-related preventive measures included on-site on websites of the subsidiaries Acting with honesty, fairness and training for managers and selected risk Compliance compliance is a key aspect of the areas. In about 160 training courses — Certified Compliance Management Telekom Austria Group’s corporate throughout the Group, 2,340 managSystem (under IDW PS 980) culture. To meet this integrity standers and employees were personally — ”ask.me” portal and whistle ard, the Group has a comprehensive trained. Of these, 1,500 were trained blowing platform ”tell.me” compliance management system. in corruption prevention. Addition— e-learnings, on-site training, Top management as a role model and ally, 1,450 managers and employees information on websites, intranet responsible action by all employees were trained in special topics using — Code of Conduct in eight languages are both of crucial importance here. e-learning tools. 16 susta ina bili t y m a nagemen t For more information on the Telekom privacy aspects are also accounted for. Austria Group’s compliance manageThe use of “conflict minerals” is a chalment system, please see: lenge to the industry when producing www.telekomaustria.com/en/group/ ICT products. Tin, tantalum, tungsten compliance . ( G4.2, 4.56–4.58) and gold are frequently mined under critical conditions. The Telekom Austria Group does not manufacture products that contain these conflict minerals. However, it uses or distributes them for its business activities. The Telekom Austria Group follows the approach of integrating sustainaSelection of voluntary Sustainable bility as much as possible into its supmemberships supply chain ply chain. For this purpose, as part of a long-term project a rising number of Telekom Austria Group The sustainability of companies’ sustainability criteria are anchored — Next Generation Mobile Networks actions can be defined not only by the in the procurement process. Much has Alliance (since 2014) direct environmental and social impact been accomplished to date, especially at — UN Global Compact (since 2012) of their own business processes. Lookthe Austrian subsidiary A1. A separate — respACT (since 2008) ing at the Telekom Austria Group’s value Code of Conduct (see page 16) provides — ETNO (since 1996) chain, it is apparent that this impact is the basis for Group-wide procurement — GSM Memorandum of felt here as well (see page 11). Therefore, and for procurement at the largest subUnderstanding (since 1988) the Group is committed to emphasising sidiary, A1. In Austria, environmental A1 sustainability aspects even when proand social criteria have been developed — ”klimaaktiv mobil” project partner curing goods and services. According for regular vendor ratings of major sup(since 2014) to a study by GreenBiz.com that was pliers. The vendor’s self-assessment — Austrian Cyber Security Forum of conducted in cooperation with Trucost, has been updated to include social and Kuratorium Sicheres Österreich upstream processes such as raw mateenvironmental topics. Additionally, (since 2014) rials mining, production, transport and sustainability criteria have been imple— UN Global Compact (since 2012) packaging in the telecommunications mented for certain request for proposal — Model Region for Electromobility, industry account for 85 % of all sustaincategories. Another key milestone was Vienna (since 2010) ability effects. the conversion of energy procurement — Code of Conduct on Data Centres for A1 to 100 % electricity from renewEnergy Efficiency (since 2009) Each year, the Telekom Austria Group able sources in 2014 (for more details, — klimaaktiv partner (since 2005) purchases goods and services worth see page 28). The focus in coming years Mobiltel more than EUR 2 bn. About 80 % of will be on the further integration of — UN Global Compact (since 2014) them were delivered by local vendors to these initiatives into the daily routine. — Bulgarian Red Cross (since 2004) the main business locations in 2014. A ( G4.12, 4.13) — Bulgarian Charities Aid Foundation large portion of the purchasing volume (since 2004) is used for purchasing and operating — Bulgarian Donors‘ Forum infrastructure components for land(since 2009) line and mobile communications net— CSR Academy (since 2008) works. Moreover, output devices (mobile Vipnet phones, smartphones, set top boxes) — UN Global Compact (since 2007) along with IT and hardware components Si.mobil account for a large share of purchasing — ”Si.voda” Fund (since 2009) volume. ( EC9) — UN Global Compact (since 2008) — Forum EMS (since 2008) Along with commercial criteria, envi— Green Network (since 2001) ronmental criteria play a role in the Vip mobile Telekom Austria Group’s procurement — UN Global Compact (since 2008) processes, such as eco-friendliness — Business Leaders Forum Serbia and energy efficiency. Employee rights, 1) The State of Green Business 2013, (since 2008) anti-corruption requirements and data GreenBiz and Trucost ( G4.15, 4.16) susta ina bili t y m a nagemen t 17 Requirements of the Measures taken Code of Conduct for vendors of in purchasing for the the Telekom Austria Group Telekom Austria Group and A1 — Requirements on employee protection and working conditions — Sustainability Code of Conduct developed for vendors as stipulated by the International Labour Organisation (ILO) — ILO provisions integrated into the Code of Conduct, general — Requirements on environmental protection and resource purchasing conditions and master agreements efficiency based on the established environmental management — Environmental and social criteria enhanced for regular systems (EMAS, ISO 14001) vendor ratings at A1 — Social and environmental requirements for products and — Self-disclosure expanded for vendors services (with life cycle perspective) — Sustainability criteria integrated into tenders — Requirements for compliance topics such as anti-corruption — A1 purchases 100 % of its electricity from renewable energy sources Useful information G4.50: In the year under review, there (see www.telekomaustria.com). 2,950 (about for GRI experts were no critical concerns about sustainability. 17 %) of employees and managers (including G4.52: In the year under review, no Management Board) have been trained on compensation advisors were involved. anti-corruption. Nearly 100 % of employees G4.53: Compensation for the Superand managers as well as nearly 100 % of visory Board is set in the Annual General vendors are actively informed. The entire Meeting, where stakeholders have the Supervisory and Management Boards of the chance to share their opinions. holding company and all subsidiaries are EC1: Net value creation in 2014: informed at least once annually about corEUR 870 mn for employees, EUR 757 mn for ruption and the entire Management Board investments, EUR 219 mn for capital providreceives training once per year. G4.14: The Telekom Austria Group‘s ers and EUR 1,910 mn for public agencies. PR7: In 2014 there were no violations actions account for the principle of preSO3: In 2014 the holding company of compliance with regulations or voluntary vention by considering the potential future and the seven operating subsidiaries (A1, codes of conduct with regard to advertising, effects and findings when making decisions. Mobiltel, velcom, Vipnet, Si.mobil, Vip mobile including ads, sales promotions and sponsorG4.22, G4.23: Changes versus the prior and Vip operator) were assessed in-house ships. year‘s report are due to the revised materialwith regard to corruption risks. The compaPR8: In 2014 two justified complaints ity survey in the beginning of 2015. Restatenies involved generated nearly 100 % of the were filed. In the first case, the complainant ment of information provided in previous Telekom Austria Group‘s entire revenues wanted to check whether remote access to reports have not taken place. and account for all locations of the abovehis modem could be prevented. The agency G4.25: Stakeholders were selected listed subsidiaries. As part of a risk analysis, confirmed this. In the second case, a query based on prioritisation of internal databases. 17 different corruption scenarios were was submitted about the automatic comG4.26: An ongoing stakeholder evaluated by management and mitigating puter login to A1.net. On the advice of the dialogue is maintained and the results are measures were defined. No significant data protection authority, A1 improved also used to prepare the reports. risks were found to remain, taking account information about the effects of automatic G4.49: The Supervisory Board is of the measures already implemented. activation and published a note about this informed of critical matters during meetings; SO4: Information on compliance and on A1.net in the FAQ sections. if needed these are also reported on an ad corruption prevention is made available to hoc basis. 100 % of all employees and business partners 18 susta ina bili t y m a nagemen t The Roadmap — Sustainability management Facts, measures and targets The overview below provides an extract from our targets and measures. Further details about the measures can be found on the Internet at www.telekomaustria.com Said 2013 Done 2014 Planned 2015 — Further adaptation and improve— Further improvement of the internal — Further adaptation and improvement of the reporting systems, reporting system, particularly for ment of the reporting systems, with with a focus publication dates and collecting environmental key figures; a focus on the quality and time of reporting quality publication successfully moved recording — Establishment of a focus group on forward — Updates to sustainability strategy on the topic of human rights — Establishment and reinforcement the basis of the materiality analysis — Continuation of the step-by-step of the agreed social and environperformed and redefinition of goals implementation of sustainability mental criteria in the Telekom — Evaluation and definition of further aspects into the Telekom Austria Austria Group’s procurement measures to promote sustainable Group’s supply chain process, optimisation of internal procurement in the Telekom Austria — Performance of another stakeholder processes for evaluation Group survey in the context of updating — Successful performance of a mate— Continuation of the external certithe sustainability strategy (end of riality analysis in late 2014/early fication for management systems, 2014/start of 2015) 2015, with participation of more such as ISO and EMAS, introduction — Continuation of external audit than 1,000 stakeholders of ISO 14001 to the Republic of Serbia of environmental management — Continuation of the external reviews — Gradual integration of human rights systems and introduction in the of environmental management (2015/2016) Republic of Serbia (2014/2015) systems along with EMAS, prepara— Publication of a data privacy tions for launching ISO 14001 in report in 2014 (A1) the Republic of Serbia in 2015 — Implementation of awareness— Implementation and rollout of an raising measures for employees, e-learning course on data privacy focusing on data privacy for employees and publication of a data privacy folder at A1 susta ina bili t y m a nagemen t 19 The product makes the difference To win people over, you need a compelling offering. To this end, within its broadly diversified portfolio, the Telekom Austria Group relies on innovation, security and customer benefits. Customer focus determines direction What is now considered a yardstick for a country’s economic and social development? Without doubt, it’s the options that its people have for information and communication. Appropriate products don’t just determine the level of professional success; they have become essential for taking part in business and social life and improve communications and comfort in private life. Future economic growth also depends on this. A study by the consultancy Strategy& estimates that digitisation will add an additional USD 193 bn in value to the global economy. In Europe, the World Economic Forum estimates that the faster expansion of broadband will lead to one million new jobs and growth of EUR 850 bn by 2015.1) ( EC8) action area Products Providing Networked Readiness Index 2014 2013 Score/ranking Ranking Responsible Austria Bulgaria 5.26/22 3.96/73 19 71 Products Croatia 4.34/46 51 Belarus n. a. n. a. Slovenia 4.60/36 37 Republic of Serbia 3.88/80 87 With a high-performance and secure Republic of 4.19/57 67 infrastructure, as well as a product Macedonia offering with clear added value for customers, The Networked Readiness Index measures, on a society and the environment, the Telekom scale of 1 (poor) to 7 (very good), how ICT is used in 148 countries to encourage prosperity and Austria Group embraces its responsibility competitiveness. Source: World Economic Forum, The Global towards its markets. Information Technology Report, 2014 20 Mobile data traffic increased by 69 % in Customer contacts in Management of 2014. The network equipment supplier Customer service aspects within the Cisco estimates that the volume of data 2014 2013 products action area transmitted by mobile devices will rise Austria 20,700 22,300 almost ten-fold by 2019. The speed of Bulgaria 3,931 4,375 data transmission will more than douCroatia 3,592 3,412 Belarus 4,944 5,125 ble to four megabits per second, it says. Slovenia 1,074 907 The new 4G mobile communication Republic of Serbia 2,614 3,091 standard will account for two thirds of Republic of Macedonia 1,735 1,429 data traffic. Almost three quarters of Telekom Austria Group 38,590 40,640 2) this will be used for transmitting videos. 2) Including mobilkom liechtenstein Mobile broadband thus remains the fastest-growing segment of this market, with a global share of 32 %. That’s four undergo continuous training and work Material aspects times as high as five years ago. together with consumer protection (responsibilities) organisations. Classic social media chan— Customer focus (Marketing) A focus on customer satisfaction nels like Facebook, Twitter, YouTube and — Network quality and systems A key element of the Telekom Austria Google+ also ensure constant feedback, stability, promotion of innovation Group’s commercial success is the satisas do support communities established (Operation, Network Service & IT, faction of its customers. Their needs specifically for this, crowdsourcing and Technology Strategy, CEO therefore play a crucial role in the proengaging. Office, Marketing) duct development process. Surveys are — Ecological product design also used to work out what improveIn order to be able to measure and assess (Purchasing, Marketing) ments can be made to products and customer satisfaction on a comparable — Electromagnetic fields ”EMF” services. Complaints management teams basis in different countries, a Brand Net (Network Service & IT) Promotor Score (Brand NPS) and Touch— Involvement of residents point Net Promotor Score (TNPS) are (Operation, Network Service & IT, used. The Brand NPS provides informaTechnology Strategy) tion on the customers’ attitude or “emo— Expansion in remote areas tional connection” to the respective sub(Operation, Network Service & IT) sidiary. The TNPS measures customer Standards and satisfaction in relation to channels such management systems as services via telephone, in shops and — Customer focus, network quality online channels. Surveys and qualitative and systems stability: Groupinterviews, analyses of online platforms wide tools to measure customer and external studies are carried out where satisfaction, business continuity necessary. For example, 76 % of A1 priplans, ISO 9001, internal control vate customers are very or fairly satisfied systems and the level of satisfaction has risen — Promotion of innovation: start-up significantly since 2013. The Telekom campus/initiatives, knowledge Austria Group draws conclusions about platforms, ideas management how to optimise products and services — Ecological product design: considerbased on the results and then puts these ation of ecological criteria into the into practice. ( PR5) purchasing process — EMF: Group-wide EMF policy, Broadband Products for the future EMF Board Mobile speeds of up to 300 megaToday, customers’ end-user devices are — Involvement of residents/expansion bits per second and an unbelievable “smart”. This means that various applicain remote areas: legal requirements 400 gigabits per second during trials tions can be performed simultaneously. Group-wide EMF policy using the fixed line backbone. In the future, more and more machines, With transfer rates like these, the devices and sensors will also be able to newest broadband technologies including fibre are connecting us at 1) World Economic Forum, ICT for Economic “the speed of light” with the control Growth: A Dynamic Ecosystem Driving the centres of digital society. Global Recovery, 2009 Products 21 communicate. Machine-to-machine in 47 countries, the company plays an communication (M2M) is expected to important part in ensuring network grow by 23 % each year between now stability. The Telekom Austria Group’s and 2020. The intensive and widespread market leadership in terms of infraexpansion of the fixed line network and structure and quality is confirmed reguof mobile networks will form the basis larly by the top results achieved in tests for this. The focus, including at the and rankings. A1 was number one in Telekom Austria Group, is on 4G/LTE Austria again in 2014. ( PA3) (see Flagship Projects page 23).2) The Group founded a separate subsidiary Investment and expansion of for M2M business in 2011: Telekom “smart” broadband Austria Group M2M GmbH. LTE expansion and the further expansion of fixed line broadband in Austria It advises customers in Austria and CEE were the focus of the Telekom Austria throughout the entire value chain, from Group’s investment in 2014. The Group’s project design to the operation of M2M capital expenditure (CAPEX) totalled applications. Its strength lies in providEUR 757.4 mn for the year. New freing total solutions from a single source: Green ICT quencies were acquired in Slovenia and from cost-efficient fleet management to From taking root, sprouting and licences for parts of the existing speccomprehensive smart metering services blooming to the compost heap. trum in Bulgaria were renewed. Vip with meter systems, meter data manageInformation and communication mobile acquired two blocks from the ment and rollout services, to modular technologies (ICT) have green 1800 MHz spectrum in the Republic of solutions for industrial automation or potential over their entire life cycles Serbia in 2015, enabling it to introduce remote maintenance. The cloud-based and beyond if procurement, LTE. ( IO1, EC7) M2M Application Enablement Platform production, operation and disposal “FLEXify” for industrial automation and are managed in a resource-efficient The comprehensive coverage of the remote maintenance was expanded in manner. For the infrastructure increasing demand for bandwidth 2014 to include an energy efficiency as well as the portfolio. forms the core of the Telekom Austria monitoring system. Group’s fibre-optic strategy. The focus ( TA1, 2, EN27) is on the use of fibre-optic cables Network quality and and new copper-based technologies Climate-friendly products systems stability such as vectoring and G.fast. The Telekom Austria Group’s networks HD television and video conferences allow intelligent power supply netrequire faster Internet access than what Focus on LTE works and smart logistics concepts to is generally available in the EU. The EU’s The aim of the Telekom Austria Group be developed, as well as enabling Digital Agenda therefore wants to make is to ensure a coverage of 99 % with the virtual meetings to take place. They download speeds of over 100 Mbit/s 2G network and a coverage of 90 % therefore contribute indirectly to the possible by 2020. The EU is supporting with the 3G network in the countries reduction of emissions at companies the expansion of broadband to enable in which it operates. Particular attenin other sectors and industries. this, as is the Austrian government. A1 tion is to be paid to rural areas. By 2016, embarked on the biggest infrastructure LTE expansion in Austria and Slovenia A1 customers in Austria call, surf and programme in the company’s history in is expected to allow mobile surfing watch television with minimal impact Austria in 2015. More than three million with 4G/LTE almost everywhere. A1 and on the environment. Since 2014, the addresses are now connected to the Si.mobil have also taken a major step A1 network has been carbon neutral. A1 fibre-optic network — a coverage of towards LTE Advanced with LTE carrier (see Flagship Projects page 33). about 70 %. ( PA4) aggregation in selected urban areas. ( TA1, 2, EN27) This allows data transmission at speeds Network quality The Telekom Austria Group regards the best network quality as a characteristic that will make it stand out from the 4G/LTE coverage 2014 2) Deloitte & Touche, Auf dem Weg in die Zukunft, competition. It also allows synergies to Austria: >60 % Herausforderungen und Chancen im M2Mbe achieved throughout the Group. As Croatia: >27 % Markt, 2014 3) www.ec.europa.eu/health/ one of the largest backbone network Slovenia: >75 % scientific_committees operators worldwide with 200 hubs Republic of Macedonia: >42 % 22 Products of up to 300 Mbit/s. To ensure it plays a Group closely observes the various Awards for key role in shaping future 5G standards, national laws and guidelines in the network quality the Telekom Austria Group has joined countries in which it operates. A Groupthe “Next Generation Mobile Networks wide EMF policy ensures that everyAlliance”. ( PA1, 4) one adheres to the guidelines on health and safety with regard to electromagMobile communication and health netic fields and EMF teams provide Mobile communications require elecinformation to the public about this at tromagnetic fields (EMF). The extent to local level. Regular measurements are which this affects health is still being also taken when networks are set up discussed by the public, although as well and expanded and the Telekom Austria — Network test connect: 2014 the European Commission’s Scientific Group actively cooperates with local winner in 8 out of 9 categories (A1) Committee on Emerging and Newly authorities and decision-makers. — Network test futurezone: best Identified Health Risks (SCENIHR) ( PR6, PA8, 9, IO4, 5, 6, 7) mobile communications network currently sees no causal link between 2014 (A1) mobile communications and adverse Availability in times of crisis — Network test by Android magazine: effects on health.3) The Telekom Austria Network availability even in remote best network for 2014, best cusGroup generally not only complies with locations and particularly in emergentomer satisfaction for 2014 (A1) the limits recommended by the ICNIRP/ cies is of prime importance to the — COMPUTERWELT magazine: Web WHO for base stations and mobile endTelekom Austria Group. Specially trained speed award 2014 (A1) user devices, but ensures that its actual emergency teams are used here. Sub— Fastest 3G network in Bulgaria figures are many times lower than this sidiaries also help each other, such as (Mobiltel) in day-to-day operations. It also goes when the Austrian company A1 helped without saying that the Telekom Austria Si.mobil in Slovenia by providing electricity generators following the ice storm in February 2014. Another example was the rebuilding of infrastructure following floods in the Republic of Useful information Serbia, Bosnia and Croatia in 2014. All for GRI experts subsidiaries also cooperate closely with the fire and rescue services and the Red Cross. Phone calls to official emergency numbers are free in all countries. ( PA6, 7) Promoting innovation through NFV To increase a network’s agility and PR3: The Telekom Austria Group simultaneously save costs, the Telekom is not subject to any specific labelling Austria Group makes use of Network requirements. Function Virtualisation (NFV). NFV is IO8: 70 % of transmitter stations regarded as one of the most important used by the company alone, 30 % used current developments in the telecomjointly. munications sector. The aim of NFV is SO2: Telekom Austria Group not Network Function to replace expensive “silo solutions”, only follows the recommendations of Virtualisation (NFV) which comprise hardware and softICNIRP/WHO regarding limited values, This of course does not mean that ware from one supplier, with flexible but dips below. the respective network only works solutions that allow hardware and softSO7: Telekom Austria Group is in a virtual world. Instead, ware to be obtained independently of obliged to ensure fair competition and flexible software-based solutions each other from any supplier. NFV also comply with competition regulations can replace specialised and costly shortens the time between the develin the country concerned. hardware when it comes to certain opment of new applications and their PA10: Instruments for costnetwork functions. With corresmarket launch. The Telekom Austria control and contract oversight are offered ponding effects on agility, efficiency Group successfully tested NFV techby each subsidiary. Details can be found and resource conservation. nology in four field tests in 2014. online at www.telekomaustria.com . Products 23 The Roadmap — Products Targets 2015 Ensuring Group-wide network coverage of at least 99 % with 2G and at least 90 % with 3G Development of innovative solutions in the healthcare, education and administration sectors Promotion of climate-friendly products and solutions Increase in customer satisfaction Baseline for targets is 2012. The aspect data privacy has been moved to the chapter “Sustainability management”. In Planning In implementation Being Maintained Achieved Said 2013 Done 2014 Planned 2015 — Demand-driven expansion of — Capital expenditure of EUR 757.4 mn, — Promotion of needs-based infranetwork infrastructure using new of which EUR 63.9 mn for the mobile structure expansion and increased technologies communications spectrum in Slovenia use of new technologies — Increased integration of ecological — Promotion of innovative future — Promotion of LTE expansion in aspects into the portfolio of the technologies such as Network subsidiaries Telekom Austria Group Function Virtualisation (NFV), — Continuous development of the — Further development of the green G.fast and vectoring existing product portfolio in ICT portfolio, particularly in the area — Optimisation of the existing prothe healthcare, education and of M2M (e. g. through the expansion duct portfolio in the healthcare, administration sectors of specialist solutions in the fields education and administration — Further development of the green of energy efficiency, eco driving, sectors ICT product portfolio, particularly e-mobility and smart fleet) — Green ICT product portfolio expanded in the area of M2M, through the — Further expansion of involvement further, particularly in the area of expansion of specialist energy in funding for start-ups M2M, through the further developefficiency solutions ment of energy efficiency solutions (e. g. development of an energy efficiency monitoring system and implementation of eco-driving applications in the context of connected car solutions) — Increased support for start-ups and social entrepreneurs within the Telekom Austria Group, e. g. by founding an A1 start-up campus For further measures, please refer to the measures programme online at www.telekomaustria.com 24 Products 1 Flagship Projects 1 The successful 400 3 To prove that it is Gbit/s field test beadhering to security tween the cities of Zagreb standards and thus strengthen in Croatia and Ljubljana in trust in the company, A1 Slovenia once again demonpublished a comprehensive strates the Telekom Austria folder on the subject of Group’s capacity for innovadata protection for the first tion. The high-speed techtime in 2014. This is availnology used for this has able online and in all stores quadrupled network capacthroughout Austria. The ity, allowing efficient and company has also developed cost-effective implemenits own e-learning tool, to tation of dynamic, packprovide regular training for age-based services. Under staff in how to deal with the motto “Greentouch Inisensitive data. tiative”, the 400 Gbit/s transmission speed reduces electricity requirements by 47 % 4 Together with eight and takes up 65 % less space other companies, the compared with the existing Slovenian subsidiary Si.mobil 100 Gbit/s technology. is part of the start-up initiative “Start:Cloud”, which entered its third round in 2 The Macedonian 2014. This programme allows subsidiary Vip operator young entrepreneurs to obtain 3 launched the self-service support from experts for five platform “m-care” in 2014 months and to benefit from and the “e-care” platform was their extensive experience. launched on the market The winner of the “Start:Cloud” 4 in 2013, which allow tariffs, programme receives EUR costs etc. to be managed 10,000 from Si.mobil. quickly and conveniently. Cost-control tools and apps are available at all subsidiaries of the Telekom Austria Group, as well as Vodafone Consumer Services in Austria, Bulgaria and Croatia. Products 25 Careful management of the environment Climate change and environmental protection are the key challenges of the 21st century. The Telekom Austria Group is facing these challenges and striving for a continuous reduction of its environmental impact. Global climate change The global climate is changing. That has always been the case. However, unlike in the past, human activities are today having a significant influence on those changes. Scientists are attempting to assess the impact. However, although forecasts are possible, they are for the most part highly contentious. In any event, a recent study by the NOAA (National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration) notes that in March 2015 the monthly global average of the CO2 concentration in the atmosphere exceeded 400 ppm (parts per million) for the first time.1) In order to combat trends such as that of global warming, climate targets are being formulated worldwide. The EU climate targets announced in October 2014 provide for an increase in energy efficiency and in the proportion of energy from renewable sources to at least 27 % by 2030. The primary objective is to achieve a 40 % reduction in the emission of “greenhouse gases” such as CO2.2) Climate change and action area environment telecommunications The telecommunications industry Living Green accounts for around 2 % of global CO2 emissions caused by mankind.3) However, In order to continuously reduce its 1) www.noaa.gov ecological footprint, the Telekom 2) Base value: 1990 level, www.europa.eu 3) SMARTer2030, 2015 Austria Group is relying on energy efficiency, 4) British Petrol: BP Statistical Review of the increased use of renewable energy, the World Energy, June 2014 5) Ericsson: Ericsson Energy and Carbon promotion of climate-friendly mobility and Report, 2013 6) Telecompaper: Cloud, Internet push EU the conservation of resources. energy consumption of ICT sector, 2014 26 the SMARTer2030 study makes clear communication network and 60 % of Management of aspects that, by using solutions from the comthose people will have LTE access, by within the environment munications sectors, 20 % of the global as early as 2018.5) The increasing quanaction area CO2 emissions could be prevented by tities of data and new applications 2030. Such solutions are, nevertheless, could trigger a 21 % increase in energy also characterised by a rapid growth of requirements for ICT between 2011 and transferred data volumes. In turn, the 2020.6) The big challenge is therefore to increased processing and storage of data find energy efficient solutions which are entails a rise in energy requirements. also able to cope with this development. Measures to boost energy efficiency are therefore needed. In addition, the Energy-efficient networks energy requirements should be met In 2014, the energy requirements of the Material aspects from renewable energy sources with Telekom Austria Group amounted to (responsibilities) as minimal an impact on the climate approximately 681,721 MWh. The oper— Energy requirements (Service as possible, that is to say first and foreation of the network infrastructre Network & IT, Purchasing, Corporate most in a sustainable manner. accounts for 80 %. Accordingly, netSustainability, Facility & Resource works are a key aspect when considering Management) Global energy requirements how communication companies can be — Recycling (Service Network & IT, Between 2003 and 2013 global energy energy-efficient and contribute to proPurchasing, Corporate Sustainrequirements increased by 28 %.4) The tecting the environment and the climate. ability, Facility & Resource telecommunications industry currently Management) accounts for around 2 % of the total The Telekom Austria Group has set itself — Waste (Service Network & IT, global energy requirements. According the target of increasing energy efficiency Corporate Sustainability) to forecasts, 90 % of all people worldby 20 % (baseline 2012) by 2015. This is — Products offering potential for wide will have access to a mobile measured by the energy efficiency indienvironmental protection (Marketcator, which indicates how many MWh ing, Corporate Sustainability) are required per terabyte of the trans— Climate and environmental ported data volume. In this regard, to protection (Corporate Sustainability) the end of 2014, an improvement from — Emissions (Service Network & IT, 2.1 to 0.8 had already been achieved. Corporate Sustainability) With regard to the network infrastrucStandards and ture, the company is adopting numerous management systems measures intended to optimise energy All the material aspects of the action efficiency. For example, adjustments area are covered by the following are being made to the GSM resources standards and management systems: of mobile base stations in line with the — Group-wide environmental policy number of active mobile phones at any — Environmental management given time: the systems operate at maxisystems ISO 14001/50001 or EMAS mum performance during peak periods, in 64 % of all business units but the GSM capacities are gradually — Annual collection of Group-wide shut down in periods with less traffic. environmental key figures This equates to a power saving of around — Legal framework conditions of 10 % at each activated location. the respective country Footprint At the data centres, the cooling of equipIn German, living on a big foot ment accounts for the majority of energy (“auf großem Fuß leben”) is a consumption. The Telekom Austria Group common metaphor for economic therefore employs innovative cooling Cooperations excess. With the ecological or even concepts such as cold aisle containment, — ETNO (Telekom Austria Group) the CO2 footprint, this metaphor hot spot suction, hybrid ventilation sys— klimaaktiv (A1) gains a further dimension. You have tems or heat recovery systems. By using — Code of Conduct on Data Centres to ask yourself to what extent and such concepts, energy consumption can Energy Efficiency (A1) degree you endanger the survival be reduced by up to 75 % as compared — Green Network (Si.mobil) of future generations with your with conventional cooling systems. — Ecologist without Borders (Si.mobil) individual life style. ( EN5, 6, 7) ( G4.15) en v ironmen t 27 A1.net/gruenesnetz Austria’s first green network. The Green Network We’re investing in the environment. Simply A1. • A1 is the first Austrian communications provider to operate a 100 % carbon neutral network. • Ongoing reductions of energy consumption via modern, environmentally-friendly solutions. • A1 uses 100 % renewable electricity. • Phone, surf and watch TV with a clear conscience in the A1 carbon neutral network. Carbon neutral network, certified by TÜV SÜD Environmental KPIs 2014: minus 23 % carbon1) The Telekom Austria Group’s CO2 emissions fell by 23 %1) in 2014. This positive development is due in particular to the “carbon neutral network” initiative in Austria (see page 28 for details). Taking into account carbon offsetting, overall emissions were actually reduced by 31 %1) in 2014. CO2 emissions in t CO2equ Scope 1 Scope 2 222,722 –23 % 170,842 195,246 144,989 27,476 25,853 2013 2014 1) CO2 emissions include Scope 1 and Scope 2 ( EN15, 16, 19) Share of renewable energy in Total energy consumption electricity consumption in MWh in % 695,493 –2 % 681,721 Renewable energy Non-renewable energy 557,778 Electricity 554,276 +16 %p 45 % 61 % 55 % 72,521 Fuels 71,230 39 % District 43,694 heating 38,351 21,499 Heating 17,864 2013 2014 2013 energy 2014 The share of renewable energy in electricity consumption increased Total energy consumption was cut by around 2 % in 2014, despite from 45 % to 61 % in 2014. This was achieved by switching to 100 % the increasing volume of data and ongoing expansion of the network. electricity from renewable energy in Austria as part of the ”carbon While electricity consumption fell by 1 %, consumption of heating neutral network” initiative (see page 28). ( EN3) energy and district heating declined by 12 % and 17 % respectively. Fuel energy consumption was reduced by 2 %. ( EN3, 6) the A1’s “carbon neutral network”, the during periods with less traffic, it has share of renewable energy consumed been possible not only to reduce energy by the Telekom Austria Group rose from requirements and increase energy effi45 % to 61 % in 2014. ciency but also, as a result, to reduce CO2 emissions. A1’s carbon neutral network Since 2014, the Group’s Austrian subsiGroup-wide CO2 emissions fell by 23 % diary A1 has been operating its network between 2013 and 2014 — a reduction on a 100 % carbon neutral basis, resulting of about 52,000 tonnes.9) This saving in savings of more than 68,000 tonnes 8) corresponds to the CO2 emissions of an of CO2 each year. This was achieved by average vehicle when driving around increasing the energy efficiency of the equator more than 8,500 times. The network infrastructure and by the conTelekom Austria Group is therefore version to obtaining 100 % of its electrion the right path to achieving its CO2 city from renewable energy. Only 22 % of reduction target of 25 % between 2012 the network-related CO2 emissions were and 2020. ( EN6, 19) offset by voluntary support for prestigCarbon neutral ious climate protection projects. The Urban mining and recycling Can carbon dioxide be neutral? Who “carbon neutral network” was audited by As a result of the speed of technological knows. In any case, you shouldn’t be TÜV SÜD in accordance with the standchange, devices such as smartphones neutral towards it. By consciously ard PAS 2060 and with ISO standard and tablets are being upgraded at avoiding or reducing activities 14064, part 3 and its compliance was increasingly shorter intervals. This is that cause the release of this confirmed. Accordingly, since 2014, the giving rise to an ever increasing need climate-harming greenhouse gas. telephone calls, Internet surfing and for resources, meaning that the signiAnd by neutralising unavoidable television viewing of A1 customers have ficance of “urban mining” is growing: emissions through offsetting. been carbon neutral, meaning that those customers have also been reducing their ecological footprint (see page 31). Renewable energies ( EN7) In 2013, only around 9 %7) of the electricity consumed worldwide came from Fleet and logistics renewable resources. The burning of Across all its subsidiaries, the Telekom fossil fuels is one of the biggest sources Austria Group has a total fleet of around of CO2 emissions. By contrast, the use of 4,800 vehicles of different types. In order renewable energy is regarded as being to reduce the number of kilometres climate-neutral. driven by the fleet, the Group uses innovative logistics concepts; at A1 alone, The Telekom Austria Group is therefore those concepts have enabled the dispushing ahead with the construction tance travelled each year to be reduced of its own facilities for the generation by more than one million kilometres. of sustainable energy. The Austrian That equates to a distance of 26 times subsidiary A1 operates the Group’s around the equator. In addition, the largest (4,800 m2) photovoltaic farm Group is also constantly pushing ahead at the Aflenz earth station, which has with the use of hybrid, electric and natan annual output of 195 kilowatt peak ural gas-powered vehicles. In 2014, eco(kWp ). This prevents the emission of logical driver training, car sharing and Reduce-Reuseup to 90 tonnes of CO2 per year. At the the provision of 38 video conference Recycle Group’s subsidiaries in Croatia and rooms made it possible to reduce the It seems like hierarchies are Slovenia, more than 60 mobile base use of fossil fuels by 1 % (about 47,000 everywhere. Even in rubbish. Here, stations are operated using either solar litres) as compared with the previous the role of nature’s pecking order or wind energy or hydrogen fuel cells. year. ( EN30) is taken on by the three “R”s above. Thanks to measures such as these and This means waste reduction is Reduction in CO2 emissions king. Reuse is the secondary 7) IEA, 2014 8) Including offsetting By cleverly combining a variety of measknightly virtue. And recycling is a 9) Excluding offsetting ures like to shut down GSM resources basic duty of every commoner. 30 en v ironmen t In 2014, the Group’s Austrian subsidAwards iary A1 decommissioned around 900 2014 network elements of an old transport platform. The result of this is a sustainable reduction in power requirements of approximately 700 MWh per year. A device such as a mobile phone contains valuable raw materials, including gold, silver, palladium, copper and aluminium. 40 % of a device is recyclable. The Telekom Austria Group therefore — 2014/2015 ”Green Brands” seal for offers incentives for the return of such sustainable action (A1) devices. For example, old devices can — ”klimaaktiv mobil” project partner for be returned free of charge at the stores competence in climate protection (A1) operated by most subsidiaries. Special— 2014 EMAS prize for excellence in ist recycling firms test them and assign environmental management (A1) Urban mining them either for re-use or for environ— ”Green Business” award, Wireless In cities, working above ground mentally-friendly recycling. In Austria, Network Structure category (Vipnet) was hitherto more common than the proceeds are invested in climate working below. However, “urban protection projects. The Slovenian submining” uncovers hidden sidiary Si.mobil are using the proceeds treasures: already installed comto support the Si.voda water conservamodities such as copper cables, steel tion fund. ( EN27, 28) tracks or bricks are recovered. Useful information This promotes resource conservaEnvironmental awareness for GRI experts tion instead of over-exploitation. and waste prevention The Telekom Austria Group’s internal environmental campaigns are increasing the environmental awareness of its towns and cities are becoming raw employees. The environmental promaterial mines. The reason for this is gramme Re.misli has been running at that, according to current estimates, Si.mobil since 2008. The “Vip Ecomotithese “urban mines” contain worldvation” scheme has been in operation at EN4: Energy consumption wide almost as many raw materials as the Serbian subsidiary Vip mobile since outside the organisation amounted are still available in natural resources. 2012 and the employee campaign to 54,675 MWh in 2014 and represents In the future, “mines” of this kind will “A1 goes green” has been running at A1 the energy consumed by the customer acquire increasing significance as since 2013. These programmes bundle mobile phones in circulation and sources of raw materials on account of together all the environmental measbusiness travel by taxi, rail or air underresource bottlenecks. The same applies ures. They guarantee the active involvetaken by employees of the Telekom to the life cycle management of the raw ment of all employees. A project to Austria Group. materials they hold. increase the recycling rate has also been EN15: Biogenic Scope 1 launched in stores at the Belarusian emissions amount to 1,378 tonnes of Through consistent life cycle managesubsidiary velcom. The target of increasCO2. For Scope 2 and Scope 3, no ment, the Telekom Austria Group ing the recycling rate by 10 % between emissions of this kind are known. ensures that technical equipment 2012 and 2015 was achieved as early as EN23: The Telekom Austria remains in use for as long as its service 2014. In addition to specialist recycling, Group feels obliged to undertake life allows. And thereafter it is to be care is also taken to prevent waste. One specialist disposal measures and recycled. Devices and equipment that particular aim is to reduce paper concomplies with the legislation of the no longer function are systematically sumption by 10 % between 2012 and respective countries. taken to pieces and skilfully recycled. 2015. During the reporting period the EN25: Hazardous waste was Life cycle management is also driving consumption of printing and copy paper subject to specialist disposal, primarily forward technology migration and the increased by 7 % due to better collection within Austria. exchange of old platforms. New devices and growth in customer numbers. EN29: No fines were paid in 2014 are more energy-efficient than old ones. ( PA11) in relation to environmental issues. en v ironmen t 31 Guest commentary change. For instance, the environmental Environmental impact of electricity generated by coalfired power stations is up to nine times greater than that of electricity produced indicators: navigating by photovoltaic plants. Electricity from coal looks even more outdated compared through the jungle to wind power, where the environmental impact differs by a factor of more than 100. In these findings, by the way, the the Sustainable Process Index or “SPI”) carbon footprint indicator and the comthat weight resource consumption and prehensive SPI rating are in close agreeemissions level equally. ment. Even taking as a basis the — by international standards very positive — The wide variety of indicators would Austrian electricity mix, a high percentnot be so problematic if the calculation age of which is generated by hydroelectric results did not contradict each other. power, the electricity produced from For example, a nuclear power station photovoltaics is three times better and that does not emit any CO2 performs the electricity generated by wind power well in terms of its carbon footprint. as much as 36 times better than the The “environmental footprint” is virelectricity from a mains socket (based tually blind to how energy is produced, on the SPI). Consumers who pay attenwhereas the SPI rates nuclear power tion to the method of power generation even worse than the climate-damaging used in connection with products can An increasing number of companies electricity from coal because it factors therefore make a real difference! and products are advertising their radioactive emissions into its analysis. environmental credentials: cars emit In a world that continues to be driven fewer grams of CO2 per 100 km, noodles by fossil fuels, every product has a neghave a small “environmental footprint”, ative climate effect if at any stage in the mobile phone networks are “carbon The SPI refers to an extensive production chain fossil energy is used, neutral” — or at least A1’s is — etc. It is environmental footprint measurement, i. e. in the product’s “life cycle” from completely understandable that consutaking into account commodity, energy supply of raw materials up to the promers often lose sight of the big picture and waste flows, as well as all emissions duct’s disposal as waste. Offsetting is one and going by something that they have into the environment, over the entire way out of this impasse. If, for example, life cycle of a product. always previously compared: the price. a company spends money to help other companies reduce CO2 emissions or to The reason for the wide variety of support reforestation projects, it may claims is easily explained: we are faced First, the bad news: however we measure be eligible for a “carbon credit”. If that with many environmental issues, not our society’s environmental “shoe size”, credit is equal in value to unavoidable just one. This is why we measure our the end result is clear — our feet are far CO2 pollution caused by the life cycle impact on the global climate using the too big! This can best be explained by of a product, the product is deemed carbon footprint, the excessive thirst of the “hot” topic of climate change. We climate-neutral. the agricultural and industrial sectors currently extract between 30 and 40 using the water footprint, the expected times more from fossil fuel deposits, in Despite their wide variety, environover-fertilisation of our lakes and rivers which excess carbon was locked away mental indicators do help consumers using the eutrophication potential etc. by Mother Nature for good reason, than and companies in making decisions. is “disposed of” again by sedimentation Whether price or environmental indiIn order to simplify matters a little, in the oceans. The excess accumulates cator is being compared, one thing “aggregated” indicators were developed as CO2 in the atmosphere and is making is always true: less is more! that combine the impact on major envius increasingly hot under the collar. ronmental issues into a single indicator. Photography: © Private However, caution is advisable here too, Now the good news: we can (and should) Michael Narodoslawsky is an associate since such indicators range from simple do something to stop it. There can be professor at the Technical University estimates of a product’s natural resource no doubt that our energy system is the of Graz and has been conducting usage (the “environmental footprint”) cause of major environmental problems, research in the field of environmental to comprehensive indicators (such as in particular with regard to climate assessment for over 20 years. 32 en v ironmen t Where are CO2 emissions1) generated in the A1 network? Electricity 78 % Vehicle fleet 12 % Heating 10 % 308 GWh — equivalent 43 million driven kilometres 27.6 GWh — equivalent to to the annual electricity in a year — that is 1,075 times the average consumption consumption of all around the equator of 5,500 households Total 2) households in Salzburg 67,896 t CO2 52,626 t CO2 8,250 t CO2 7,020 t CO2 Heating Data centres Office buildings Base stations Vehicle fleet The way to the “carbon neutral network” 1 Avoid emissions & 2 Use of renewable energy increase efficiency 100 % electricity from renewable energy Reduce energy consumption of Sun Wind Water Biomass Base Data Office Vehicle stations centres buildings fleet 3 Compensation Support of climate projects The remaining 22 % carbon emissions that can not be reduced through the implemented measures will be compensated with the support of high-quality climate protection projects. 1) All figures in this graphic are for 2013 2) Network relevant emissions The CO2 calculations were verified by TÜV SÜD. Commissioned by/source: A1 The Roadmap — Environment Target 2020 25 % reduction in CO2 emissions Targets 2015 20 % increase in energy efficiency Expansion of projects in the field of renewable energy 10 % improvement of the recycling rate 10 % reduction in the Group’s own paper consumption Increase Group-wide e-billing rate to 50 % Baseline for targets is 2012. In Planning In implementation Being Maintained Achieved Said 2013 Done 2014 Planned 2015 — Successful conversion of A1’s — Implementation of the “carbon neutral — Implementation of a certified network on a carbon neutral basis network” at the Austrian subsidiary A1 environmental management — Rollout of broad energy efficiency — Implementation of comprehensive system in accordance with measures throughout the Group measures in the field of energy effiISO 14001 at the Group’s Serbian — Further expansion of photovoltaic ciency across the entire Telekom subsidiaries projects within the Telekom Austria Austria Group, for example, through — Promotion of comprehensive Group the optimisation of air-conditioning measures in the areas of energy — Increase the number of old mobile systems, conversion to LED lighting, efficiency and renewable energy phones collected in the Telekom motion detectors across the entire Telekom Austria Austria Group — Promotion of the use of alternative Group — Increased implementation of energy sources, e. g. through the — Internal campaigns to raise projects for an eco-friendly vehicle installation of a photovoltaic panel on awareness amongst employees fleet mobile communications containers of the Telekom Austria Group — Promotion of measures to reduce — Internal campaigns to increase about environmental issues internal paper consumption the number of old mobile phones — Implementation of measures to — Internal campaigns to improve collected continue to increase the number waste separation — Implementation of awareness-raisof old mobile phones collected ing measures for employees of the — Continuation of measures to Telekom Austria Group about envireduce paper consumption ronmental issues through numerous internal campaigns focussing on, for example, the separation of waste and increasing the recycling rate or energy saving — Reduction of the Group’s own paper consumption by switching to doublesided and black-and-white printing as well as the further rollout of “follow me” printers For further measures, please refer to the measures programme online at www.telekomaustria.com 34 en v ironmen t 1 Flagship Projects 1 Since 2014, A1 has been 3 In 2014, the Group’s the first Austrian comCroatian subsidiary munications provider to Vipnet re-focussed on operate its network on a renewable energy. Around 100 % carbon neutral basis. 60 base stations were The key contributions to equipped with a hybrid 3 achieving that goal are made energy supply system powby reducing energy requireered by photovoltaics, wind ments, operating the netturbines, energy-optimised work infrastructure on an container cooling systems energy-efficient basis and and hydrogen fuel cells. In using the latest technologies. addition, up to 30 kW of The A1 network also gets 100 % solar energy is produced of its electricity from renewevery year at the company’s able energy. As a result, it has headquarters. been possible to avoid 78 % of the CO2 emissions caused by the operation of the net4 In order to encourage work. In order to offset the customers to recycle remaining 22 %, A1 voluntheir mobile phones, a tarily supports prestigious “mobile phone collection climate protection projects. challenge” was issued to The compliance of A1’s “caremployees at A1 stores bon neutral network” was throughout Austria. The confirmed by TÜV SÜD objective was to increase (PAS 2060 standard and ISO the percentage of old standard 14064, part 3). mobile phones collected nationwide. The challenge contributed to increasing 2 On “Earth Day”, 22 April the number of old mobile 2014, Vip operator phones collected by A1 by launched its “Eco Activamore than double in 2014 tion” customer programme as compared with the to encourage customers to previous year. switch from paper billing to online invoices. As a result, the proportion of online invoices issued was more 4 than doubled. en v ironmen t 35 Our success depends on people A healthy performance culture relies on expertise, commitment and entrepreneurial thinking. The Telekom Austria Group actively promotes it through extensive training and development opportunities. Human resources strategy and management As a value driver and strong strategic partner, human resources management at Telekom Austria Group makes a significant contribution to the company’s future viability. With that in mind, the human resources strategy is closely linked to the objectives laid down in the corporate strategy. In addition to wellfounded further education and professional training, the key components of that strategy include creating the framework conditions for a fair and performance-oriented company. The goal of establishing links between experts within the Group ensures the exchange of specialist knowledge and promotes the transfer of knowledge as well as the retention of expertise within the company. Talent management The search for new talents and high action area Employees potentials was a focus in 2014. By idenEmpowering tifying, encouraging and developing them, their long-term commitment to the company is secured. This also People makes a sustainable contribution in terms of value added, which in turn is conducive to entrepreneurial efficiency. Through promotion and development, Once a year, high potentials are selected the Telekom Austria Group helps its by human resources and the manageemployees make the most of their valuable ment team and their development is encouraged by means of corresponding potential. A culture of lived diversity programmes. This ensures a future and equality, along with work and family generation in key and management compatibility, contribute to this. positions. 36 Further education and Values of the Telekom Austria Group Management of aspects professional training within the employees The Telekom Austria Group Business action area Innovation Diversity School offers employees further education and professional training opportunities on an in-house basis. In 2014, Responsibility & Quality 18,744 hours of training were completed. Integrity The Business School focusses on increasing skills in the areas of leader( G4.56) ship and innovation competence and seeks to create an inspiring culture of learning within the company. In Material aspects 2014, there was a focus on the creation synergies and enables the development (responsibilities) of “communities of expertise”. These of uniform standards in the areas of — Further education & professional communities open up the possibility further education and best practice training (Human Resources) of exchanging experiences and best sharing. ( LA9, 10) — Health (Human Resources) practice examples. Further education — Equality & diversity (Human and professional training is also availPromotion of young talents Resources) able nationally within the Group’s subGroup-wide programmes such as the — Performance-related pay sidiaries. The main focuses of these “Group Young Potential Program” and (Human Resources) trainings are the individual education the “Graduates” programme are available — Employee representation (Human in the context of their specific activities. to young new entrants. In addition, they Resources, Staff Representation) In addition, a variety of formats are are also supported by local programmes Standards and offered which employees can use to such as “A1 Trainee” in Austria and “Vip management systems expand their knowledge: e-learnings, alumni” in Croatia (see Flagship Projects All the key aspects of the action area videos, articles, podcasts or open online page 39). Under those programmes, they are governed by the following standcourses. The “eCampus”, launched Groupwork for a particular period of time in ards and management systems: wide in 2014, creates cross-company various departments within the com— Human resources agenda pany. At the end of the programme they — Human resources strategy can take up a permanent position. A1 — Values of the Telekom Austria in Austria and Mobiltel in Bulgaria offer Group apprenticeships. In 2014, 232 appren— Group-wide data tools & reports tices successfully completed their training in Austria; 96 in Bulgaria. International exchange and Human resources career opportunities strategy The right person in the right position — Promotion of a corporate 1 that is a key objective of human resource culture which is consistent management. It brings benefits for both with the brand and increases sides: the right employees in the right employee engagement posts have the appropriate specialist Promotion of efficiency and 2 knowledge and become motivators restructuring measures in for the team. Their expertise and their coordination with employee commitment are retained within the development in order to safeWork-life company on a lasting basis. With this guard competitiveness and balance in mind, the Telekom Austria Group is earning power Frequently used term with a lot of granting its employees the opportunity Early identification and promo3 room for interpretation between to explore new career paths. In addition tion of talents so that the key wishful and entitled thinking. to employee development, exchange positions may be filled by the Erroneously implies that work is programmes such as “x.change” and best employees and in order to not part of life. Actually means that “Expatriation”, coupled with the Groupguarantee added value through work should be healthily balanced wide opportunities for know-how the latest organisational strucwith personal areas of life such as exchange, also contribute to the intertures and effective management family, social activities and leisure. nationalisation of the Telekom Austria standards E mploy ees 37 Local further programmes Group. In 2014, 65 employees took part of Telekom Austria Group in the x.change programme for a period (extract) of one to three months; 42 employees participated in the one-year to threeyear Expatriation programme. On the basis of an internal job market, the Telekom Austria Group promotes change and career advancement opportunities within the company in a targeted manner. In 2014, 133 positions were filled by the internal job market across the — New Manager Program (A1) Group. At A1 in Austria, employees — Online program for core who are seeking to advance their career competencies development can call upon the services of mobility for employees (Mobiltel) coaches. — ”Development@vipnet” to promote new skills (Vipnet) Equality and diversity — Leadership school (velcom) The Telekom Austria Group’s signature Diversity — Further education programme of the Diversity Charter constitutes its Diversity must be recognised. And for managers (Si.mobil) public commitment to making use of equality is an obligation. What — ”Vigor” further education programme and protecting the wealth of cultural superficially sounds like a contrafor managers and employees with traditions and skills across its seven diction constitutes the essence key functions (Vip mobile) subsidiaries. Female employees are of diversity in action. Differences — Leadership academy for managers treated as the equals of their male in areas such as culture, age, gender (Vip operator) colleagues within the company. Equal or world-view are no cause for opportunities is a firm principle inequality. They are a resource observed in all areas of activity. A volworth protecting. untary commitment made by the Group aims to increase the number of female employees as a whole, as well as the share of women in management positributing to achieving that goal. In that Awards tions gradually, to 35 % by the end of regard, particular attention is also paid 2014 2015. Special programmes for the proto the recruitment and talent managemotion of women in technical profesment process. In 2014, 38 % of employsions, flexible working time models, ees across the Group were women and childcare initiatives and the expansion 29 % of them occupied management of a women’s network at A1 are conpositions. ( G4.15) Country A1 Mobiltel Vipnet — Vienna ”Top Training Company” quality seal (A1) profiles Austria Employees Bulgaria Employees Croatia Employees — amaZone award 2014 for the 2014 (FTE): 8,635 (FTE): 2,527 (FTE): 1,151 Women: 26 % Women: 52 % Women: 39 % training of girls in technical ( LA12) Ø age: 43 Ø age: 33 Ø age: 37 professions (A1) Accidents: 113 Accidents: 1 Accidents: 15 — ”The Employer Partner Certificate” 2014 (Vipnet) — ”Responsible Employees” Vip Vip award 2015 (Mobiltel) velcom Si.mobil mobile operator — ”Top Performers” award 2014 Belarus Slovenia Serbia Macedonia (Mobiltel) Employees Employees Employees Employees (FTE): 1,881 (FTE): 399 (FTE): 933 (FTE): 535 — Positive rating for employer Women: 61 % Women: 47 % Women: 52 % Women: 54 % attractiveness confirmed by the Ø age: 32 Ø age: 37 Ø age: 33 Ø age: 34 ”Expert RA” ratings agency (velcom) Accidents: 1 Accidents: 2 Accidents: 4 Accidents: 7 38 E mploy ees Employee representation basis share a management position. Useful information Effective cooperation with employee In addition, working parents are supfor GRI experts representatives and the right to freedom ported by means of specially tailored of association and collective bargaining opportunities and facilities. are accepted as a matter of course by the Telekom Austria Group and are duly Remuneration in a recognised and implemented. performance-focused culture The promotion of a performanceHealth in the workplace focused culture is one of the Telekom In order to prevent stress-related sympAustria Group‘s strategic objectives. The toms (burnout) and other health-related guiding principles of that culture are: a consequences, the Telekom Austria results-focused approach, a culture of Group places special emphasis on trust and personal responsibility. All G4.11: In Austria, 100 % of all “healthy management”. Regular trainthe Group’s subsidiaries operate achieveemployees are covered by the proings for managers have been held on ment-focused performance models. visions of collective agreements; this topic since 2013. A1 offers the “Fit Annual feedbacks support the personal the national requirements are also on the job” programme, which includes and specialist further development of observed at the Group‘s international medical check-ups, health seminars all employees. In 2014, performance subsidiaries. and sports activities. Across the Group, management was standardised across LA2: Benefits are available to a total of 13 doctors and occupational the whole of the Telekom Austria all employees equally. psychologists focus on the health of Group. ( LA11) LA3: 50 % of those employees employees. At the same time, continual across the Group who took maternity improvements are being made in terms Communication with employees leave in 2013 returned to work in 2014. of health and safety in the workplace At regular intervals 1), the company conLA4: The statutory requirements and the monitoring of accident trends. ducts a Group-wide employee survey for minimum notice periods regarding entitled “TAGisfaction” (see box below). operational changes are observed; the Work-life balance Information is provided on a regular corresponding regulation can be found The Telekom Austria Group considers basis via the intranet, newsletters, staff in the collective bargaining agreement. a family-friendly human resource policy magazines and social media. GroupLA7: The indicator does not to be a competitive advantage. This is wide and local idea competitions and apply to the Telekom Austria Group, because highly skilled employees prefer knowledge platforms allow ideas or since employees are not exposed to an a company which caters to their needs. improvements to be suggested and then increased risk of illness in the context Accordingly, the company promotes implemented. of their regular employment. flexible working hours, mobile working LA8: There are no formal and “shared leadership” (see Flagship agreements on health and safety Projects page 39). Under the latter scheme, 1) Up to now annually, from 2015 onwards aspects with trade unions. employees who work on a part-time every two years LA9: 18,744 training hours completed at the Telekom Austria Group Business School in 2014. Male participants: 11,216; female Employee survey participants: 7,528. ”TAGisfaction” LA10: Where necessary, coaching sessions and other measures to In June 2014, as part of the ”TAGisfaction” online survey, employees rated, amongst provide further support are offered. other things, their satisfaction with their job, their identification with the company, the HR3: No incidents of discrimicompany strategy and their career development. The employee survey was carried out nation came to the attention of the and the results evaluated in collaboration with the market research institute CEB Group headquarters in 2014. Valtera, thus ensuring an independent and unbiased evaluation. Across the Group, a total HR4: No incidents in which the of 12,103 employees completed the survey in 2014. At around 65 %, the level of participaright to exercise freedom of association tion was a little higher than in the previous year (64 %). For the third time in a row, the and collective bargaining was violated survey revealed a relatively high score on the engagement index (compared with other were reported in 2014. companies in the sector) of 77 %. That score demonstrates employees‘ affinity with IO3: Employees attend trainthe company and is based on the pillars pride, optimism and energy. The findings of the ing courses on a regular basis and are ”TAGisfaction” survey are incorporated in particular into leadership requirements, human trained accordingly as part of workresource work, strategy planning and implementation as well as employee communication. shops. E mploy ees 39 The Roadmap — Employees Targets 2015 35 % women in the Group and in management positions Promotion of the internal filling of vacancies, maintenance of a high engagement index Increase in international exchange Baseline for targets is 2012. In Planning In implementation Being Maintained Achieved Said 2013 Done 2014 Planned 2015 — Establishment of the leadership — Initiatives in the area of human — Development of the “Skill Academy” standard within the Telekom Austria resource development, knowledge skills management programme Group and promoting the managetransfer and succession planning in to promote greater internal use of ment culture as well as corporate order to embed leadership standards in-house expertise values and talent management, for example, — Strengthening of the internal labour — Stronger initiatives in Talent Acquiintroduction of 360° feedback process market by filling vacant posts with sition & Management, including the — Promotion of innovative working in-house staff and promotion of use of “shared leadership” concepts methods and establishment of the internal mobility — Further expansion of new working Group-wide e-learning platform — Promotion of international exchange methods in the Telekom Austria “eCampus” to promote independent and the transfer of expertise Group and creation of expert platlearning — Implementation of further measures forms — Creation of platforms of experts to to implement the goals set by the — Continuation of the Group-wide promote the exchange of knowledge “promotion of women” plan employee survey “TAGisfaction” between the subsidiaries and intro— Increased measures in the area of duction of a Group-wide knowledge health via the implementation of management platform workplace health promotion pro— Further conducting of “TAGisfaction” gramme or stress and burnoutemployee survey in which 65 % of prevention workshops employees took part — Continuation of Group-wide pro— Implementation of awareness-raising grammes to promote international campaigns and locally-tailored measexchange ures on the issue of health, such as — Drive internal mobility the introduction of an A1 health pass (see Flagship Projects) — Organisation of various women’s networking events within the subsidiaries and establishment of a women’s network at A1 — Implementation of new and enhanced measures to promote training and information activities and international exchange For further measures, please refer to the measures programme online at www.telekomaustria.com 40 E mploy ees Flagship Projects 1 The “health pass” was 3 As a part of CSR prointroduced in 2014 as a gramme “Do The Right Gesundheitspass part of the Austrian “Fit on Thing”, the Croatian subsidithe job” project. The purpose ary Vipnet introduced a oneof the pass is to raise awareyear paid professional and ness of healthy living and business development proworking. Medical check-ups, gramme called “Vip alumni” workshops on nutrition and for unemployed young people mental fitness, participation with a university degree. The 1 in events such as the A1 purpose of the programme is team triathlon and over 20 to enable additional professports groups are offered to sional knowledge and skills employees as part of that as well as work experience initiative. The health pass in an international business is used to motivate employenvironment and a better ees — a stamp is awarded starting position in the labour every time an employee takes market in Croatia. After one part in an event to encourage year seven of the eleven his or her continued parparticipants had been given ticipation in health-related employment contracts at 2 activities. Vipnet. 2 In October 2013, the 4 Since 2014 the Telekom Group’s Austrian subAustria Group is a sidiary A1 launched the signatory of the Diversity “shared leadership” model, Charter. It is a public and intended — amongst other voluntary statement of goals — to enable part-time commitment which was employees to take up a introduced in 2010 by the management position. As a Austrian and Vienna Chamresult of the active implebers of Commerce. It is mentation of the model in based on the recognition 2014, mothers working on a that diversity is an essential part-time basis in particular component within Europe. were given the opportunity The Diversity Charter is vip alumni to undertake management an initiative intended to 3 duties and to perform those encourage people to value duties despite their role as all members of society — mothers. regardless of gender, age, origin and skin colour, sexual orientation, religion and beliefs as well as physical or mental disability. E mploy ees 41 Internet for all? The digital divide hinders equal opportunity for all. The Telekom Austria Group offers relevant products and creates targeted initiatives in order to overcome it. The digital age offers a promise: limitless communication for all. However, whilst many are already enjoying the extensive opportunities offered by digital media, 4.3 billion people still do not have online access. 90 % of those people are in the developing countries.1) There are also significant differences in terms of usage in those countries in which the Telekom Austria Group operates. In 2013, around 19 % of the population was offline in Austria. In the same year, that figure was still at 46 % in Bulgaria and 52 % in the Republic of Serbia. This has serious consequences for levels of knowledge and education in those countries. The Internet makes lots of things in life easier and quicker. But not everyone enjoys an equal share of the opportunities offered. In any case, people without an Internet connection do not. Even those with a slow Internet connection are at a disadvantage. Incentives or interest, income and/or affordability, media literacy skills and infrastructure ultimately decide whether someone has action area Society entered the digital age and can benefit Creating Equal from the advantages it offers.2) Media protection for Opportunities children and young people Can a company do anything to tackle this inequality? Is it even its job to Digital media gives everyone do so? Making efforts in this direction equal opportunity in the knowcan prove to be the right move for a ledge society. Which is why the Telekom Austria Group is driving broadband 1) International Telecommunication expansion and promoting the skillful Union ITU, 2014 2) McKinsey & Company, Offline and falling and safe media use. behind: Barriers to internet, 2014 42 communication company’s sustainable Management of aspects economic success. Accordingly, alongwithin the society side technical access to digital media, action area the Telekom Austria Group also intends to promote media literacy skills within society. It launched the “A1 Internet for All” initiative in 2011 in Austria and rolled it out across the entire Group in 2014. The initiative also involves offering children special training in the safe and age-appropriate media usage. The motto is “media literacy skills through Material aspects media education”. (responsibilities) — Media protection for children and In addition, the subsidiaries A1 (in AusMedia literacy young people (Marketing, Corporate tria) and Si.mobil (in Slovenia) as well The question is not whether the Sustainability) as Vip mobile (in the Republic of Serbia) media are literate. They have to take — Digital divide (Corporate offer a number of own guides for chilcare of that themselves. The Sustainability) dren and senior citizens. The guides question is rather about literacy in — Products with added value for were produced with the help of experts the use of digital media. The society (Marketing, Corporate in the field of media education and Internet and the applications based Sustainability) thus make it easier for people to get to on it are fundamental sources of — Social products (Marketing, grips with the Internet. Special applieconomic growth, social progress Corporate Sustainability) cations on the safe usage of mobile and individual development. Standards and devices — for example, in the context management systems of Vodafone Consumer Services — pro— Digital gap: scientific evaluation of vide specific support for parents. Those the Group-wide initiative ”Interapplications include the free “Vodafone net for All” by the NPO Institute at Guardian” service. That service makes messages functions such as camera, Vienna University of Economics a smartphone child-safe and keeps the Internet and Bluetooth can be approved — Media protection for children and costs under control. It also allows pardepending on the child’s age. It can also young people: cooperations to ents to specify with whom their chilbe used to prevent the installation of promote and develop the media dren can communicate by phone or text new apps. ( PA7) literacy skills of children and young people — Social products: regular evaluation of the product portfolio Households with access to the Internet 2012 2013 79 % 81 % 74 % 76 % Awards 66 % 65 % 62 % 2014 58 % 54 % 52 % 51 % 48 % 48 % 48 % r ia ia t ia s ia ia ia 2014 Stevie Award — Silver for the ar ru en rb on ”Do The Right Thing” corporate volunst lg oa la Se Au Bu Cr Be ov ed Sl ac M teering programme in the category ”Communication Campaign of the Source: International Telecommunication Union ITU, 2014 Year” (Vipnet) Societ y 43 Selected The “Internet for All” media The Group-wide initiative was launched cooperations on safe literacy skills initiative with “A1 Internet for All” in Austria. In Internet use In our era, the Internet and the appli2012, around 79 % of Austrian private cations based upon it are arguably one households had Internet access. That of the most important foundations for figure is slightly above the EU average. economic growth and the social proIn that time, more than three quarters gress of a society. The Telekom Austria of 16to 74-year-olds used the InterGroup is therefore continuing to drive net at least once a week.3) However, ahead the expansion of the broadband 19 % of the population was still unable infrastructure. At the same time, it sees to access the Internet in 2013. The “A1 it as its responsibility to narrow the Internet for All” initiative has been so-called “digital gap” by means of tartargeted at such people since 2011. geted measures. For this reason, in 2014 it extended its initiative to promote To that end, the initiative involves — Vienna University Children‘s media literacy skills, the “Internet for cooperation with more than 30 partners Office (A1) All” initiative, to all the countries in from the social and education sectors. — Stopline (A1) which it operates. Free workshops for children, young — Saferinternet (A1, Mobiltel) people, adults and senior citizens are — Safe Click (Vipnet) All the subsidiaries of the Telekom offered at three permanent locations in — Department of Criminal Justice Austria Group are thus now committed Vienna, Klagenfurt and Salzburg as well and Security (Si.mobil) to promoting the safe and skilled use of as at initiative partners’ sites and on a — Safe.si (si.mobil) new media. One goal of this sustaina“touring” basis. At information evenings — Organisation for cross-generational bility strategy is that 100,000 training specifically tailored to them, parents cooperation 35+ (Vip mobile) participants will have acquired greater learn how they can protect their children — Children‘s Cultural Centre in media literacy skills by 2016. With that from inappropriate content or prevent Belgrade (Vip mobile) goal in mind, in addition to trainings excessive usage. ( G4.15) for children and young people, there are special programmes for senior citizens A1’s employees are themselves a great and Internet novices, as well as cooperstrength of the “A1 Internet for All” ations and long-term partnerships with initiative. From the Management Board numerous social and educational instito the apprentices, 1,800 4) of them, 715 tutions. Furthermore, employees are of them in 2014 alone, were involved actively involved in these efforts. in the initiative as part of a corporate Selected initiatives and social cooperations in 2014 — Specialisterne — Integration Participants in media literacy trainings of people on the autism spectrum into the labour market (A1) Macedonia Belarus Slovenia Serbia — ”Foster the Future” — Foster care 100 100 1,000 60 families (Mobiltel) Serbia Croatia — ”It‘s so easy to do good things” 60 200 Macedonia — Support for hearing-impaired 250 people (velcom) Slovenia Bulgaria 4,926 — ”Do The Right Thing” — Promote 500 the voluntary involvement of employees (Vipnet) — Party with a cause — Event to support projects combating youth unemployment (Si.mobil) — New Year’s Donation — New Year‘s fundraising campaign (Vip mobile, Austria Austria Vip operator) 19,397 Total: 24,483 18,704 Total: 20,814 ( G4.15) 2013 2014 44 Societ y of new technologies, including in the Useful information health sector. E-Health opens up new for GRI experts opportunities in the fields of prevention, diagnosis, treatment, rehabilitation and care. New media are of particular benefit to people with disabilities. They can really make life and work easier for blind people and the severely visually impaired. In turn, text messages and chat messages are a valuable means of communication for deaf people. PA5: In Austria, the Telekom Austria Group is required to provide In Austria, A1’s “medical data network” voice telephony services for lowbrings together doctors, hospitals, laincome households and other eligible boratories and other institutions in the customers at reduced tariffs; in health sector. A Mobiltel text message return, it receives compensation service reminds patients in Bulgaria from the Republic of Austria on a Digital Divide of doctors’ and vaccination appointcontractual basis. A list of social There is a digital divide running ments and notifies them of completed products is available within the through society. Between those who test results. The Macedonian Vip operonline measures programme at already have tapped the potential ator service also sends text messages www.telekomaustria.com . of new media. And those known as reminders of doctors’ appointments. SO1: All subsidiaries offer “offliners”. For equal development The Slovenian company Si.mobil helps and support respective programmes opportunities, the Internet acts diabetics to monitor their blood sugar for local communities. as a bridge. Just like initiatives level with their app “Vem, kaj jem!” (I TA5: In the course of the initiathat promote access to it and the know what I’m eating!). tive ”A1 Internet for All” open source skilled use of it. technologies are promoted. E-government solutions facilitate volunteering programme. The success communication between citizens and of the initiative is evaluated by the NPO the authorities. For example, the elecCompetence Centre at the Vienna Unitronic archive and digital signature sysversity of Economics and Business. The tems provided by Si.mobil in Slovenia Centre confirms the significant contrisubstantially reduce the bureaucratic bution made by “A1 Internet for All” to workload. Since 2014, A1 — in cooperclosing the digital gap in Austria. ation with the “Digital Austria” platform — has made it possible to activate Particular focus was directed at senior mobile phone signatures for free in citizens in 2014. “A1 Internet for All” selected stores. developed special guides and intensified its training programmes for smartThe Telekom Austria Group portfolio phones and tablets. In addition A1 also includes products which take offered free and convenient services in account of social factors. In addition to stores and launched the “Seniors Advise special mobile phones with larger disSeniors” campaign. Specially trained plays and user-friendly menus, there A1 employees, so-called “A1 Gurus”, also are also discounts for socially disadmake it even easier to join the world of vantaged people. In Slovenia, Si.mobil Sexting mobile communications (see Flagship offers senior citizens the special “SENDo young people today still have Projects page 45). ( PA2) IOR” tariff. velcom in Belarus and A1 standards when flirting? As it in Austria offer people with impaired happens, yes, very graphic ones; Products with added hearing special tariffs which include nude pictures exchanged via value for society an increased quota of text messages. smartphone. A thoughtless click will The aim is that as many people as possible The aim is to make the extensive oppormake them last forever on Internet are able to benefit from the potential tunities offered by digital media genuor social media — leading to 3) Eurostat, Information Society Statistics, 2014 inely available to all people. potentially unpleasant encounters 4) Including double counts ( PA2, 5, 7, EC8) with one’s past. Societ y 45 The Roadmap — Society Targets 2015 100,000 people participating in training to promote media literacy skills (by 2016) Increase in cooperation projects to promote media literacy skills in the Telekom Austria Group Implementation of social projects according to local needs Implementation and enhancement of cost-control instruments Baseline for targets is 2012. In Planning In implementation Being Maintained Achieved Said 2013 Done 2014 Planned 2015 — Combining and expanding initiatives — Development of media literacy skills — Implementation of the respective to promote media literacy skills in programmes in the context of the initiatives to promote media literacy the countries where the Telekom Group-wide “Internet for All” initiskills in the countries covered by the Austria Group operates ative. Groupwide more than 74,000 Telekom Austria Group and the sci— Implementation of a uniform Grouppeople participated since 2011 entific evaluation of those initiatives wide evaluation scheme for the – Bulgaria: launch of a training — Development of new workshop conmedia literacy initiatives within programme for children and young cepts on the issue of “coding” and the subsidiaries people, which is to be supplemented a focus on parents as a target group — Development of a media literacy in subsequent years by programmes with a view to promoting the safe skills programme in Bulgaria, for adults and people with disabiuse of media by children and young Croatia and Belarus lities people in Austria — Continuation of the social initiatives – Croatia: launch of the “Safe Click” — Continuation of the social initiatives in line with local needs series of workshops for parents in line with local needs — Expansion of cost-control instruand children focussing on the safe — Continuation of the cost-control ments and applications for media usage of digital media instruments and applications and protection of children and young – Belarus: launch of the “velcom those for the media protection of people smart children school” to support children and young people children in taking their first steps — Publication of a guide for parents in using the Internet with focus on children in the Internet – Serbia: launch of the “Vip digital workshops for seniors” in order to enable seniors to attain computer skills and use social networks — Expansion of the scientific evaluation of the Group-wide initiative “Internet for All” — Improvement of the cost-control instruments and those for the media protection of children and young people For further measures, please refer to the measures programme online at www.telekomaustria.com 46 Societ y 1 Flagship Projects 2 1 Group-wide rollout 3 With its “Do The Right of the media literacy Thing” project, the skills initiative “Internet for Croatian company Vipnet All” in 2014. Its purpose is promotes the voluntary to narrow the “digital divide” involvement of employees and to promote skilled and in social campaigns, edusafe Internet use. After the cational projects and enviestablishment of the “A1 ronmental protection. Over Internet for All” initiative 200 employees have already 3 in 2011, projects followed been involved in the project. in Slovenia (2012) and in In 2014, Vipnet won the Silthe Republics of Serbia ver Stevie Award for its work. and Macedonia (2013). The initiative was launched in Bulgaria, Belarus and Croatia in 2014. 4 Since 2014, the Austrian company A1 has been offering the “A1 Guru” 2 In 2014, Si.mobil launservice in selected stores: ched the campaign specially-trained employees “ORTO DOBER” in Slovenia. provide personalised supAs part of this project, more port, demonstrate the latest than 3,000 old mobile phones trends and give helpful tips were collected for the benon the use of smartphones efit of young people from or tablets. socially disadvantaged backgrounds. The proceeds went to the “Slovenian Association of Friends and Youth” 4 with the aim of creating equal opportunities. Societ y 47 GRI Content Table According to the GRI G4 “comprehensive” and Telecommunications Sector Supplement Pilot Version 1.0 ( G4.32) The following GRI Content Table lists all material aspects that are those aspects are not listed in the GRI Content Table although they relevant for the Telekom Austria Group as a whole. In the course of the are considered as material. It is necessary to introduce the relevant sysmateriality reassessment in 2015, the aspects were assigned to the tems and processes which make it possible to collect data. It is expected material topics. that these relevant aspects will be gradually incorporated in the next three to five years. The aspects ”Materials”, ”Investments”, ”Supplier Environmental Assessment”, ”Supplier Human Rights Assessment”, ”Supplier The designations O and I represent the relevance of the aspect outside Assessment for Labour Practices” and ”Human Rights Assessment” (O) and inside (I) the organisation. For extent and details of the external can currently not be reported in a GRI compliant manner. Therefore, verification, we refer to the assurance statement on page 61. ( G4.18 –4.20) External Audit External Audit – Austria AR: Annual Report 2014 Indicator Page Description Comment Validation Strategy and Analysis G4.1 6 Statement provided by the most senior decision-maker of the organisation about the relevance of sustainability to the organisation and the organisation’s strategy for addressing sustainability (strategical priorities, key events, target achievements, challenges) G4.2 8, 12, 15, Description of key impacts, risks and opportunities AR 39ff Organisational Profile G4.3 8 Name of the organisation G4.4 8, 64 Primary brands, products and services of the organisation G4.5 8, 64 Location of the organisation’s headquarters G4.6 4, 8 Number of countries where the organisation operates and names of countries where either the organisation has significant operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability topics covered in the report G4.7 8, AR 46 Nature of ownership and legal form G4.8 4, AR 85ff Markets served (geographic breakdown, sectors served, types of customers and beneficiaries) G4.9 4, 8, 60, AR 50f, Scale of the organisation, including total number of employees, of 85ff, 106ff operations, net revenues, total capitalisation broken down in terms of debt and equity, quantity of products or services provided G4.10 Total number of employees by employment contract, gender, Due to different reporting systems, supervised employees, regions and any significant variations in a disclosure in line with GRI requireemployment numbers ments is currently not possible. Disclosure is planned within the next two years. G4.11 37 Percentage of total employees covered by collective bargaining agreements G4.12 15 Organisation’s supply chain G4.13 8, 15, AR 19ff, Significant changes during the reporting period regarding the 46ff, 56f, 128ff, organisation’s size, structure, ownership, or its supply chain 156f G4.14 16 Handling of precautionary approach or principle addressed by the organisation G4.15 15, 25, 36, 42 Externally developed economic, environmental and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the organisation subscribes or which it endorses G4.16 15 Memberships of associations (such as industry associations) and national or international advocacy organisations 48 GR I Con t en t Ta ble Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries G4.17 63, AR 172f List of all entities included in the organisation’s consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents G4.18 10ff, 46 Explaination of the process for defining the report content and its implementation G4.19 12, 46 Material aspects identified in the process for defining report content G4.20 12, 46ff Aspect boundary of each material aspect within the organisation G4.21 12 Aspect boundary of each material aspects G4.22 16, 63 Effect of any restatements of information provided in previous reports and the reasons for such restatements G4.23 16, 63 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope and aspect boundaries Stakeholder Engagement G4.24 12 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organisation G4.25 12, 16 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders G4.26 10, 12, 16 Organisation’s approach to stakeholder engagement and indication of whether any of the engagement was undertaken specifically as part of the report preparation process G4.27 10, 12 Topics that came up during the stakeholder process and the reactions of the organisation Report Profile G4.28 63 Reporting period G4.29 63 Date of most recent previous report G4.30 63 Reporting cycle G4.31 64 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents G4.32 46, 63 Report of the ”in-accordance”-option, GRI-index of the selected option, reference to the external audit report G4.33 61f, 63 Policies of the organisation regarding external audit of the report, scope of audit and relationship to audit company Governance G4.34 13, AR 61ff, Governance structure of the organisation, including committees 68ff responsible for decisions regarding the economic, ecological and social impact G4.35 13 Report the process for delegating authority for economic, environmental and social topics from the highest governance body to senior executives and other employees G4.36 13, AR 61ff Responsibilities for economic, environmental and social topics G4.37 10, 12, 13 Processes for consultation between stakeholders and the highest governance body on economic, environmental and social topics G4.38 AR 65ff, 68f Composition of the highest governance body and its committees Due to personal data privacy, memberships in under-represented social groups are not disclosed. G4.39 AR 65ff Report of question whether the chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer G4.40 AR 65ff Nomination and selection processes for the highest governance Nomination and selection processes for body and its committees the highest governance body fall within the remit of the owner of the Telekom Austria Group. G4.41 AR 65ff Processes for the highest governance body to ensure that conflicts of interest are avoided and managed GR I Con t en t Ta ble 49 G4.42 13, AR 68ff Roles of highest governance body’s and senior executives’ in the development, approval and updating of the organisation’s purpose, value or mission statements, strategies, policies and goals related to economic, environmental and social impacts G4.43 13, AR 61ff, Measures taken to develop and enhance the highest governance 69ff body’s collective knowledge of economic, environmental and social topics G4.44 Processes for evaluation of the highest governance body’s Due to legal requirements of the performance with respect to governance of economic, Stock Corporation Act, disclosure environmental and social topics is not possible. G4.45 AR 65ff Role of highest governance body in the identification and According to the terms of the Austrian management of economic, environmental and social impacts, Stock Corporation Act, the Supervisory risks and opportunities Board has the role of a control body. The application of the indicator is therefore limited. G4.46 13, AR 68ff, Role of highest governance body in reviewing the effectiveness 101ff of the organisation’s risk management processes for economic, environmental and social topics G4.47 13, AR 68ff Frequency of the highest governance body’s review of economic, environmental and social impacts, risks and opportunities G4.48 13, 63 Responsibilities for formal reviews and approvals of the organisation’s sustainability report and fact that all material aspects are covered G4.49 16, AR 68ff Process for communicating critical concerns to the highest governance body G4.50 16 Nature and total number of critical concerns that were communicated to the highest governance body G4.51 AR 63ff, 162ff Remuneration policies for the highest governance body and senior executives G4.52 16, AR 63ff Process for determining remuneration G4.53 16, AR 68f Process for taking stakeholders’ views into account G4.54 Ratio of the annual total compensation for the organisation’s The Telekom Austria Group considers highest-paid individual in each country of significant operations information about salaries as strictly to the median annual total compensation for all employees confidential. Information exceeding in the same country the requirements of the Corporate Governance Code will therefore not be disclosed. G4.55 Ratio of percentage increase in annual total compensation for The Telekom Austria Group considers the organisation’s highest-paid individual in each country of information about salaries as strictly significant operations to the median percentage increase in confidential. Information exceeding annual total compensation for all employees in the same the requirements of the Corporate country Governance Code will therefore not be disclosed. Ethics and Integrity G4.56 15, 35, Organisation’s values, principles, standards and norms of AR 39ff, 50ff behaviour G4.57 15, AR 59f Internal and external mechanisms for seeking advice on and lawful behaviour and matters related to organisational integrity G4.58 15, AR 59f Internal and external mechanisms for reporting concerns about unethical or unlawful behaviour Disclosure on Management Approach G4 DMA 14, 19, 25, Details on the management approach of material aspects 35, 41 50 GR I Con t en t Ta ble Economic Performance (O/I) EC1 16 Direct economic value generated and distributed EC2 Financial risk as well as other threats and opportunities for the A disclosure in line with GRI requirements activities of the organisation posed by climate change is currently in development. For information concerning risks and opportunities due to climate change, please refer to the CDP assessment 2015. EC3 AR 154f Coverage of the organisation's obligations defined in the performance-oriented benefit plan EC4 AR 131, 144f Financial assistance received from government Market Presence (O/I) EC5 Ratio of standard entry-level wage by gender compared to local The Telekom Austria Group considers informinimum wage at significant locations of operation mation about salaries as strictly confidential. Information exceeding the requirements of the Corporate Governance Code will therefore not be disclosed. EC6 59 Proportion of senior management hired from the local community at significant locations of operations Indirect Economic Impacts (O/I) EC7 20, AR 26ff Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services supported EC8 18, 43 Type and extent of significant indirect economic impacts Procurement Practices (O) EC9 15 Proportion of spending on local suppliers at significant locations of operation Energy (I) EN3 27, 54f Energy consumption within the organisation EN4 29, 54 Energy consumption outside the organisation EN5 25, 55 Energy intensity EN6 25, 27, 28, 54ff Reduction of energy consumption EN7 25, 28 Reductions of energy consumption for products and services Emissions (O/I) EN15 27, 29, 54, 56 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 1) EN16 27, 54, 56 Indirect energyrelated greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 2) EN17 54, 56 Other indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 3) EN18 54, 56 Intensity of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions EN19 27, 28, 56 Reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions EN20 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) ODS do not constitute a significant proportion of the Telekom Austria Group’s greenhouse gas emissions. Consequently, they are not reported. EN21 54, 57 NO x , SO x and other significant air emissions Effluents and Waste (I) EN22 Total water discharge by quality and destination The Telekom Austria Group is not a manufacturing company. Wastewater is only discharged into public sewer system due to office activities. As a result, the indicator is not considered to be significant. EN23 29, 58 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method Reporting in line with GRI requirements is currently not possible. Disclosure is planned within two years. GR I Con t en t Ta ble 51 EN24 Total number and volume of significant spills see EN22 EN25 29 Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed see EN22 hazardous under the terms of the Basel convention, Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally EN26 Identity, size, protected status and biodiversity value of water see EN22 bodies and related habitats significantly affected by the organisation’s discharges of water and runoff Products und Services (O/I) EN27 20, 29 Extent of impact mitigation of environmental impacts of products and services EN28 29, 57 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed by category Environmental Compliance (O/I) EN29 29 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of nonmonetary sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations Transport (O/I) EN30 28 Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials for the organisation’s operations and transporting members of the workforce Overall Environmental Protection Expenditure (O/I) EN31 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments Reporting in line with GRI requirements is by type currently not possible. Employment (I) LA1 Total number and rates of new employee hires and employee Reporting in line with GRI requirements is turnover by age group, gender and region currently not possible. Disclosure is planned within two years. LA2 37, AR 162ff Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees, by significant locations of operation LA3 37, 58 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender Labour/Management Relations (O/I) LA4 37 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes, including whether these are specified in collective agreements Occupational Health and Safety (I) LA5 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint Health & Safety representatives are nominated management-worker health and safety committees that help in every subsidiary to monitor and coordinate monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs health and safety aspects together with staff representatives and as representatives for the whole workforce. LA6 59 Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days and absenteeism and total number of work-related fatalities, by region and by gender LA7 37 Workers with high incidence or high risk of diseases related to their occupation LA8 37 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions 52 GR I Con t en t Ta ble Training and Education (I) LA9 35, 37 Average hours of training per year, per employee, by gender and by employee category LA10 35, 37 Programmes for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings LA11 37 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews, by gender and by employee category Diversity and Equal Opportunity (I) LA12 36, 58f, Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees AR 61ff per employee category according to gender, age group, minority group membership and other indicators of diversity Equal Remuneration for Women and Men (I) LA13 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men by The Telekom Austria Group considers employee category, by significant locations of operation information about salaries as strictly confidential. Information exceeding the requirements of the Corporate Governance Code will therefore not be disclosed. Non-Discrimination (O/I) HR3 37 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining (I) HR4 37 Operations and suppliers identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining may be violated or at significant risk and measures taken to support these rights Local Communities (O) SO1 43 Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, impact assessments and development programmes SO2 21 Operations with significant, actual and potential negative impacts on local communities Anti-Corruption (O/I) SO3 16 Total number and percentage of operations assessed for risks related to corruption and the significant risks identified SO4 16, 54, AR 59ff Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and procedures SO5 AR 71 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken Public Policy (O/I) SO6 Total value of political contributions by country and As stated in the Code of Conduct of recipient/beneficiary Telekom Austria Group, political contributions are not allowed. GR I Con t en t Ta ble 53 Anti-Competitive Behaviour (O/I) SO7 21, AR 146ff, Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behaviour, In the course of regular business activity, 170f anti-trust and monopoly practices and their outcomes several lawsuits and other claims are pending against the Telekom Austria AG and its subsidiaries. No information can be given on pending procedures. Compliance (O/I) SO8 AR 146ff, Monetary value of significant fines and total number of In the course of regular business activity, 170f non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and several lawsuits and other claims are regulations pending against the Telekom Austria AG and its subsidiaries. No information can be given on pending procedures. Grievance Mechanisms for Impacts on Society (O/I) SO11 AR 71 Number of grievances about impacts on society filed, addressed and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms Product and Service Labelling (O) PR3 21 Type of product and service information required by the organisation’s procedures for product and service information and labelling as well as percentage of significant product and service categories subject to such information requirements PR5 19, 54 Results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction A Group-wide measurement system was implemented in 2013 and was stepwise rolled out in 2014. Therefore no data is available for the reporting year. Marketing (O/I) PR6 21 Sale of banned or disputed products PR7 16 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion and sponsorship, by type of outcomes Customer Privacy (O/I) PR8 16 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws In the course of regular business activity, and regulations concerning the provision and use of products several lawsuits and other claims are and services pending against the Telekom Austria AG and its subsidiaries. No information can be given on pending procedures. Telecommunications Sector Supplement – Internal Operations IO1 20, AR 85ff Capital investment in telecommunication network infrastructure broken down by country/region IO2 Net costs for service providers under the Universal Service This information is considered as Obligation when extending service to geographic locations and strictly confidential and will therefore low-income groups, which are not profitable not be disclosed by Telekom Austria Group. IO3 37 Practices to ensure health and safety of field personnel involved in the installation, operation and maintenance of masts, base stations, laying cables and other outside plant 54 GR I Con t en t Ta ble IO4–5 21 Compliance with ICNIRP standards and guidelines on exposure to radiofrequency emissions from handsets and base stations IO6 21 Policies and practices with respect to Specific Absorption Rate (SAR) of handsets IO7 21 Policies and practices on the siting of masts and transmission sites including stakeholder consultation, site sharing and initiatives to reduce visual impacts. Approach to evaluate consultations and quantify where possible IO8 21 Number and percentage of stand-alone sites, shared sites and sites on existing structures Telecommunications Sector Supplement — Providing Access PA1 21 Policies and practices to enable the deployment of telecommunication infrastructure and access to telecommunication products and services in remote and low population-density areas PA2 43 Policies and practices to overcome barriers for access and use of tele communication products and services including: language, culture, illiteracy and lack of education, income, disabilities and age PA3 20 Policies and practices to ensure availability and reliability of telecommunications products and services PA4 20f Quantify the level of availability of telecommunication products and services in areas where the organisation operates PA5 43 Number and types of telecommunication products and services provided to and used by low and no income sectors of the population PA6 21 Programmes to provide and maintain telecommunication products and services in emergency situations and for disaster relief PA7 21, 41, 43 Policies and practices to manage human rights issues relating to access and use of telecommunication products and services PA8 21 Policies and practices to publicly communicate on EMF related issues PA9 21 Total amount invested in programmes and activities in electromagnetic field research PA10 21 Initiatives to ensure clarity of charges and tariffs PA11 29 Initiatives to inform customers about product features and applications that will promote responsible, efficient, cost effective and environmentally friendly use Telecommunications Sector Supplement — Technology Applications TA1 20 Examples of the resource efficiency of telecommunication products and services delivered TA2 20 Examples of telecommunication products, services and applications that have the potential to replace physical objects (e.g. online telephone or video-conferencing) TA5 43 Description of practices relating to intellectual property rights and open source technologies GR I Con t en t Ta ble 55 Data Appendix Products Customer service Anti-corruption trainings Customer contacts 1) Customer service 2014 (in tsd.) employees (in FTE) 2014 Austria 20,700 2,384 Austria 1,001 Bulgaria 3,931 361 Bulgaria 90 Croatia 3,592 234 Croatia 55 Belarus 4,944 413 Belarus 1,514 Slovenia 1,074 76 Slovenia 95 Republic of Serbia 2,614 160 Republic of Serbia 92 Republic of Macedonia 1,735 27 Republic of Macedonia 103 Telekom Austria Group 38,590 3,655 Telekom Austria Group 2,950 2013 ( SO4) Austria 22,300 2,407 Bulgaria 4,375 371 Croatia 3,412 228 Belarus 5,125 373 Slovenia 907 72 Republic of Serbia 3,091 152 Republic of Macedonia 1,429 23 Telekom Austria Group2) 40,640 3,627 Change (in %) Austria –7 –1 Bulgaria –10 –3 Croatia 5 3 Belarus –4 11 Slovenia 18 6 Republic of Serbia –15 5 Republic of Macedonia 21 17 Telekom Austria Group –5 1 1) Includes contacts by phone, e-mail and text messages ( PR5) 2) Including mobilkom liechtenstein Environment Methodology — Emissions Methodology — Energy In its calculation method for direct, indirect and other indirect emisCalculation method is — as long as self provision is not concerned — sions, the Telekom Austria Group follows the internationally recognised based on the invoices of the respective energy providers. For the definiton of the Greenhouse Gas Protocol of the WRI/WBCSD (World conversion into kilowatt hours factors of the ecoinvent database have Resources Institute und World Business Council for Sustainable Develbeen taken into account. When data were not available, estimates were opment), in which all greenhouse gases are included in the calculation, made in some cases. For the energy share of fuels the heating value i. e. not just those covered by the Kyoto Protocol. The calcualtion methwas considered. ( EN3, 4, 6) ods are based on the published data by econinvent (AR4 100-year (IPCC 2007-4th Assessment Report)). Figures given as CO2 equivalents. Environmental KPIs for the Republic of Macedonia include the company Nature of gases reported by energy providers for Scope 2 emissions Vip operator. are not known. Figures for Austria include the Holding and exclude offsetting if not stated separately. ( EN15, 16, 17, 18, 21) 56 Data A ppendi x Direct and indirect energy Total energy 2014 (in MWh) Electricity 1) Heating fuels2) District heating Fuels3) consumption Austria 299,840 16,798 30,853 51,730 399,221 Bulgaria 64,617 92 263 7,705 72,677 Croatia 42,864 61 3,323 4,020 50,268 Belarus 82,536 0 2,933 4,514 89,982 Slovenia 20,778 0 246 299 21,322 Republic of Serbia 34,408 70 733 2,483 37,694 Republic of Macedonia 9,234 844 0 479 10,556 Telekom Austria Group 554,276 17,864 38,351 71,230 681,721 2013 (in MWh) Austria 307,693 19,424 34,467 52,894 414,478 Bulgaria 68,474 123 393 8,122 77,112 Croatia 39,428 67 3,768 3,743 47,007 Belarus 75,832 968 4,007 4,488 85,295 Slovenia 24,028 0 326 340 24,694 Republic of Serbia 31,757 61 733 2,443 34,994 Republic of Macedonia 10,566 857 0 490 11,913 Telekom Austria Group 557,778 21,499 43,694 72,521 695,493 Change (in %) Austria –3 –14 –10 –2 –4 Bulgaria –6 –25 –33 –5 –6 Croatia 9 –9 –12 7 7 Belarus 9 –100 –27 1 5 Slovenia –14 n. m. –25 –12 –14 Republic of Serbia 8 15 0 2 8 Republic of Macedonia –13 –2 n. m. –2 –11 Telekom Austria Group –1 –17 –12 –2 –2 Table may include rounding differences. 1 Joule = 2.77777778 × 10 -10 MWh ( EN3, 6) 1) Purchased and in-house production as well as diesel for emergency generators 2) Includes oil and gas 3) Includes diesel, petrol, CNG, LPG and natural gas Energy and fuel consumption1) 2014 (in MWh) From non-renewable energy From renewable energy2) Telekom Austria Group 87,398 4,465 1) Oil, diesel, petrol, LPG, CNG and natural gas, including diesel for emergency generators ( EN3) 2) Share of biogenic fuels in diesel and petrol Environment — relative indicators Energy Efficiency Index1) Share of e-billing Water consumption 2014 (in MWh per terabyte) (in %) (per FTE, in m³) Telekom Austria Group 0.8 64 16 1) Energy Efficiency Index is defined as total electrical energy consumption, divided by ( EN5) total transported data volume of fixed and mobile telecommunication networks. Data A ppendi x 57 Environment — relative indicators Share of renewable energy 1) Recycling quota2) CO2 intensity 3) Average paper 2014 in the electricity consumption (in %) (in %) (per FTE) consumption (kg/FTE) Austria 99 78 3 12 Bulgaria 17 13 16 37 Croatia 36 56 18 29 Belarus 0.5 61 18 26 Slovenia 31 94 22 16 Republic of Serbia 24 65 33 33 Republic of Macedonia 17 87 17 37 Telekom Austria Group 61 73 11 21 2013 Austria 68 77 9 15 Bulgaria 17 14 16 28 Croatia 45 60 17 15 Belarus 0 41 18 23 Slovenia 31 72 26 6 Republic of Serbia 24 29 31 35 Republic of Macedonia 21 76 48 88 Telekom Austria Group 45 71 14 20 1) Derived from electricity consumption, values of A1 were calculated, the others measured by the standard national grid factor. ( EN18) 2) For recycling provided fractions (non-hazardous waste, electronic waste and batteries) in relation to total waste. 3) CO2 intensity includes the CO2 emissions from Scope 1 and Scope 2 (excluding compensation) divided by the number of employees as of the end of the year. Direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions Other indirect greenhouse Direct Indirect Total Total (Scope 1+2, gas emissions Upstream 2014 (CO2 in t) (Scope 1) (Scope 2) (Scope 1+2) including compensation) 2014 (CO2 in t) processes (Scope 3) Austria 18,048 10,040 28,088 11,840 Austria 14,546 Bulgaria 3,302 36,464 39,766 39,766 Bulgaria 18,255 Croatia 1,169 19,789 20,959 20,959 Croatia 9,983 Belarus 1,589 31,921 33,510 33,510 Belarus 17,995 Slovenia 80 8,755 8,835 8,835 Slovenia 2,272 Republic of Serbia 1,056 29,677 30,733 30,733 Republic of Serbia 16,227 Republic of Macedonia 608 8,343 8,951 8,951 Republic of Macedonia 5,059 Telekom Austria Group 25,853 144,989 170,842 154,594 Telekom Austria Group 84,336 2013 (CO2 in t) 2013 (CO2 in t) Austria 18,978 61,679 80,657 80,657 Austria 39,523 Bulgaria 4,125 38,224 42,349 42,349 Bulgaria 18,279 Croatia 1,043 18,391 19,434 19,434 Croatia 8,220 Belarus 1,612 29,744 31,356 31,356 Belarus 14,973 Slovenia 96 10,136 10,231 10,231 Slovenia 2,374 Republic of Serbia 1,003 27,418 28,421 28,421 Republic of Serbia 12,880 Republic of Macedonia 619 9,654 10,273 10,273 Republic of Macedonia 4,864 Telekom Austria Group 27,476 195,246 222,722 222,722 Telekom Austria Group 101,113 Change (in %) Change (in %) Austria –5 –84 –65 –85 Austria –63 Bulgaria –20 –5 –6 –6 Bulgaria 0 Croatia 12 8 8 8 Croatia 21 Belarus –1 7 7 7 Belarus 20 Slovenia –16 –14 –14 –14 Slovenia –4 Republic of Serbia 5 8 8 8 Republic of Serbia 26 Republic of Macedonia –2 –14 –13 –13 Republic of Macedonia 4 Telekom Austria Group –6 –26 –23 –31 Telekom Austria Group –17 Scope 1 includes direct emissions from combustion of fossil fuels for ( EN15, 16, 19) Scope 3 takes into account the costs associated heating, electricity production and mobility without consideration with the upstream emissions from heating energy, of cooling agents. electricity (not included in Scope 2) and fuels (fleet) Scope 2 measures indirect emissions from electric energy and district and business travel (taxi, air, rail) as well as energy heating. consumption from customer‘s mobile phones. Upstream emissions were calculated according to ecoinvent. ( EN17) 58 Data A ppendi x Vehicle fleet Consumption Consumption Consumption of Mileage 2014 Vehicles (in pcs.) of petrol (in l) of diesel (in l) alternative fuels (in l) (in tsd. km) Telekom Austria Group 4,826 343,482 6,847,508 174,762 102,870 2013 Telekom Austria Group 4,934 531,816 6,710,307 170,224 102,214 Change (in %) Telekom Austria Group –2 –35 2 3 1 Air pollutants generated by the vehicle fleet1) 2014 (in g/km) NO x SO2 PM10 Telekom Austria Group 0.666 0.188 0.067 2013 (in g/km) Telekom Austria Group 0.667 0.193 0.067 Change (in %) Telekom Austria Group 0 –2 0 1) The air pollutants were aligned to the published data of ecoinvent for the ( EN21) first time in 2012. They include the emissions of the vehicle fleet. Reported emissions represent relevant pollutants of the Telekom Austria Group. Waste — mobile Waste — paper consumption phone recycling Waste — water consumption Printing & Collected old 2014 (in kg) copy paper Other 1) Total 2014 (in pcs.) mobile phones 2014 (in m³) Total Austria 102,197 727,172 829,369 Austria 11,794 Telekom Austria Group 266,555 Bulgaria 92,477 186,841 279,318 Bulgaria 1,135 2013 (in m³) Croatia 33,530 160,406 193,936 Croatia 483 Telekom Austria Group 280,078 Belarus 49,700 43,429 93,129 Belarus n. m. Change (in %) Slovenia 6,225 98,557 104,782 Slovenia 5,640 Telekom Austria Group –5 Republic of Serbia 30,434 151,394 181,828 Republic of Serbia 1,189 Republic of Macedonia 20,000 68,172 88,172 Republic of Macedonia 500 Telekom Austria Group 334,563 1,435,971 1,770,534 Telekom Austria Group 20,561 2013 (in kg) 2013 (in pcs.) Austria 127,945 804,297 932,242 Austria 5,544 Bulgaria 74,830 196,166 270,996 Bulgaria 530 Croatia 16,827 130,886 147,713 Croatia 7,965 Belarus 39,966 23,500 63,466 Belarus n. m. Slovenia 2,318 97,593 99,911 Slovenia 1,744 Republic of Serbia 32,192 167,483 199,675 Republic of Serbia 91,570 Republic of Macedonia 18,908 43,599 62,507 Republic of Macedonia n. m. Telekom Austria Group 312,986 1,463,524 1,776,510 Telekom Austria Group 107,353 Change (in %) Change (in %) Austria –20 –10 –11 Austria 113 Bulgaria 24 –5 3 Bulgaria 114 Croatia 99 23 31 Croatia –94 Belarus 24 85 47 Belarus n. a. Slovenia 169 1 5 Slovenia 213 Republic of Serbia –5 –10 –9 Republic of Serbia –99 Republic of Macedonia 6 56 41 Republic of Macedonia n. a. Telekom Austria Group 7 –2 0 Telekom Austria Group –81 1) Other includes mainly paper for customer ( EN28) invoices and paper for packaging. Data A ppendi x 59 Waste Recyclable Hazardous waste Residual Total Electronic waste 2014 (in kg) Paper Metal Other 1) waste Batteries Other2) Telekom Austria Group 1,059,060 3,485,791 605,535 774,212 72,587 233,426 2,020,578 8,251,189 2013 (in kg) Telekom Austria Group 1,244,480 4,382,349 606,827 630,899 20,151 358,911 2,310,134 9,553,751 Change (in %) Telekom Austria Group –15 –20 0 23 260 –35 –13 –14 Quantities were defined according to invoices of waste management companies or if this was not possible according ( EN23) to volumina of waste containers combined with intervals of waste disposal. 1) Other recyclable waste includes plastic, glas and biological waste. 2) Other hazardous waste includes mainly mobile phones and other hazardous materials. Employees Return to work and retention rates after parental leave by gender Parental leaves Returned to work 2014 (in HC) male female male female Telekom Austria Group 78 762 67 328 ( LA3) Composition of the governance body1) (age structure) 2014 Total (in HC) share women (in %) below 30 (in HC) 30–50 (in HC) above 50 (in HC) Telekom Austria Group 10 20 0 1 9 1) Capital representatives in the Supervisory Board ( LA12) Age structure employees1) 2014 (in HC) below 30 30–50 above 50 Austria 870 5,286 2,478 Bulgaria 863 1,580 83 Croatia 120 970 61 Belarus 785 1,027 69 Slovenia 57 324 18 Republic of Serbia 241 680 12 Republic of Macedonia 94 434 7 Telekom Austria Group 3,030 10,301 2,728 2013 (in HC) below 30 30–50 above 50 Austria 578 5,855 2,253 Bulgaria 914 1,626 96 Croatia 128 950 60 Belarus 660 1,011 79 Slovenia 73 325 20 Republic of Serbia 298 591 12 Republic of Macedonia 32 179 3 Telekom Austria Group2) 2,686 10,550 2,522 1) Apprentices not included ( LA12) 2) Including mobilkom liechtenstein 60 Data A ppendi x Accident statistics Share of local management Fatal Days lost 2014 (in working days) Accidents accidents to accidents 2014 (in %) Austria 113 0 1,026 Austria 98 Bulgaria 1 0 68 Bulgaria 98 Croatia 15 0 305 Croatia 98 Belarus1) 1 1 0 Belarus 99 Slovenia 2 0 41 Slovenia 96 Republic of Serbia 4 0 80 Republic of Serbia 96 Republic of Macedonia 7 0 650 Republic of Macedonia 94 Telekom Austria Group 143 1 2,170 Telekom Austria Group 97 2013 2013 (in %) Austria 125 0 1,811 Austria 98 Bulgaria 5 0 184 Bulgaria 98 Croatia 11 0 180 Croatia 98 Belarus 0 0 0 Belarus 99 Slovenia 3 0 76 Slovenia 98 Republic of Serbia 8 0 250 Republic of Serbia 97 Republic of Macedonia 0 0 0 Republic of Macedonia 96 Telekom Austria Group 152 0 2,501 Telekom Austria Group 98 1) Fatal accident during working hours caused in the course of ( LA6) ( EC6) maintenance. Reinforced prevention and safety measures were impleted (e. g. safety and performance assessments). Gender diversity Employees in part-time employment Share of female Share of female 2014 (in %) executives employees 2014 (in HC) Austria 17 26 Austria 661 Bulgaria 47 52 Bulgaria 65 Croatia 41 39 Croatia 0 Belarus 40 61 Belarus 32 Slovenia 40 47 Slovenia 10 Republic of Serbia 43 52 Republic of Serbia 0 Republic of Macedonia 37 54 Republic of Macedonia 0 Telekom Austria Group 29 38 Telekom Austria Group 768 2013 (in %) 2013 (in HC) Austria 16 27 Austria 650 Bulgaria 58 50 Bulgaria 52 Croatia 40 41 Croatia 0 Belarus 42 60 Belarus 22 Slovenia 42 48 Slovenia 15 Republic of Serbia 43 54 Republic of Serbia 0 Republic of Macedonia 38 60 Republic of Macedonia 0 Telekom Austria Group 31 37 Telekom Austria Group 739 ( LA12) ( LA12) Data A ppendi x 61 Society A1 Internet for All Participant Supporting Recommendation rate 2014 Courses Participants satisfaction (in %) employees1) of employees (in %) Austria 1,487 18,704 97 715 98 2013 Austria 1,505 19,397 98 732 98 Change (in %) Austria –1 –4 n. a. –2 n. a. 1) Employees supported for the first time in the respective reporting year Media literacy training 2014 Participants Austria 18,704 Bulgaria 500 Croatia 200 Belarus 100 Slovenia 1,000 Republic of Serbia 60 Republic of Macedonia 250 Telekom Austria Group 20,814 2013 Austria 19,397 Bulgaria n. m. Croatia n. m. Belarus n. m. Slovenia 4,926 Republic of Serbia 60 Republic of Macedonia 100 Telekom Austria Group 24,483 Change (in %) Austria –4 Bulgaria n. a. Croatia n. a. Belarus n. a. Slovenia –80 Republic of Serbia n. a. Republic of Macedonia n. a. Telekom Austria Group –15 Key financial data Telekom Austria Group EBITDA Operating Market (in EUR mn) Revenues comparable1) EBITDA 2) income Net result Equity capitalisation3) 2014 4,018.0 1,286.1 850.8 –3.0 –185.4 2,218.0 3.7 (in EUR mn) 2013 4,183.9 1,287.4 1,182.8 318.2 52.1 1,459.1 2.4 (in %) Change –4.0 –0.1 –28.1 n. m. n. m. 52.0 n. m. 1) Defined as EBITDA, excluding effects from restructuring and impairment tests ( G4.9) 2) Including effects from restructuring and impairment tests 3) As of 31 December 2014 (in EUR bn) 62 Data A ppendi x Assurance Statement 1) Introduction constitutes a total maximum liability Criteria We were requested to perform a limited cap which may only be utilised up to Based on an assessment of materiality assurance engagement on Specific Topthis maximum amount even if there is and risk we have evaluated the obtained ics of the Sustainability Report 2014 (heremore than one claimant or more than information and supporting documents after “the Report”) of Telekom Austria one claim has been asserted. with respect to the conformity of the Group (hereafter “TAG”). subject matters with the Sustainability Subject Matters Reporting Guidelines (Version G4) issued The Report and the underlying proce— Review of the procedures, systems by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). dures, systems and structures includand structures for defining the ing subject matters and criteria are the Report Content Proceedings responsibility of the Management of — Review, if the disclosed information Our work included analytical procedures Telekom Austria AG. Our responsibility on General Standard Disclosures as well as interviews with employees is to make an assessment based on our complies with the disclosure from the headquarters in Vienna notified review. requirements as defined in GRI G4 by the board of directors of Telekom — Review of the procedures, systems Austria AG. We conducted our review in accordance and structures for collecting, gatherwith the International Standard on ing, aggregating and validating of Restriction in use Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000, the following in the Report disclosed Our engagement is limited to the above “Assurance Engagements Other Than topics: mentioned Subject Matters. We did not Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial — Environmental Performance Indireview any other content in the Report. Information” and the “Fachgutachten cators (only the contribution of We have not tested comparative data des Fachsenats für Unternehmensrecht A1, the operative subsidiary of from previous years. The scope of our und Revision über die Durchführung TAG in Austria): Energy consumpreview was limited to samples. Our von sonstigen Prüfungen (KFS/PG 13)” tion within the organisation (G4work was performed on a sample basis in order to obtain limited assurance on EN3), Energy intensity (G4-EN5), as deemed necessary in the particular the subject matters. In a limited assurDirect greenhouse gas (GHG) case, but did not include any substanance engagement the evidence-gatheremissions — Scope 1 (G4-EN15), tial testing. Therefore, the assurance ing procedures are more limited than Energy indirect greenhouse gas that we obtained is limited. in a reasonable assurance engagement, (GHG) emissions — Scope 2 (G4and therefore less assurance can be EN16), Other indirect greenhouse obtained. gas (GHG) emissions — Scope 3 (G4-EN17), Greenhouse gas (GHG) For this engagement the “Allgemeinen emissions intensity (G4-EN18) and Einkaufsbedingungen für BeratungsTotal weight of waste by type and leistungen und Services der Telekom disposal method (G4-EN23) Austria Group — Stand 2/2012” were agreed. — Social Performance Indicators: Subsidiary the “General Conditions of Total number and percentage of Contract for the Public Accounting Prooperations assessed for risks fessions”, as issued by the Chamber of related to corruption and the sigPublic Accountants and Tax Advisors nificant risks identified (G4-SO3) in Austria on March 8, 2000, revised on and Communication and training February 21, 2011 (“AAB 2011”), are bindon anti-corruption policies and 1) The German text of the signed statement, ing. In cases of gross negligence the procedures (G4-SO4) which refers to the German version of the maximum liability is limited to EUR — Disclosed indicators regarding the report, is the only binding one. The English 2,000,000 and in cases of ordinary social initiative “A1 Internet for All” translation is not binding and shall not be negligence the maximum liability is — Disclosed indicators regarding the used for the interpretation of the English limited to EUR 5,000. This amount employee survey “TAGisfaction” version of the report. Assur a nce stat emen t 63 Conclusions — contribution of A1 (the operative subsidiary of TAG in Austria) to the Procedures, systems and structures Environmental Performance Indifor defining the Report Content cators: Energy consumption within Based on our work described above the organisation (G4-EN3), Energy nothing has come to our attention that intensity (G4-EN5), Direct greencauses us to believe that the procedures, house gas (GHG) emissions — Scope systems and structures for defining the 1 (G4-EN15), Energy indirect greenReport Content are not in conformity house gas (GHG) emissions — Scope with the Principles for Defining Report 2 (G4-EN16), Other indirect greenContent as indicated by GRI G4. house gas (GHG) emissions — Scope 3 (G4-EN17), Greenhouse gas (GHG) Disclosure requirements emissions intensity (G4-EN18) and (qualified conclusion) Total weight of waste by type and Due to unavailability of information disposal method (G4-EN23) the General Standard Disclosure G4-10 — Social Performance Indicators: Total is omitted in the report, even though number and percentage of operaGRI G4 does not provide any reasons for tions assessed for risks related to omission for this General Standard Discorruption and the significant risks closure. Furthermore, the information identified (G4-SO3) and Communicaregarding General Standard Disclosure tion and training on anti-corruption G4-2 are not provided in two concise policies and procedures (G4-SO4) narrative sections but on several places. — disclosed indicators regarding the social initiative “A1 Internet for All” Based on our work described above — disclosed indicators regarding the with exception of the above mentioned employee survey “TAGisfaction” issues nothing has come to our attention were not appropriate. that causes us to believe that the disclosed information respectively the information referred to in the report Vienna, 7 July 2015 regarding the General Standard Disclosures are not in conformity with the Deloitte Audit disclosure requirements stipulated in Wirtschaftsprüfungs GmbH GRI G4. Procedures, systems and structures Mag. Gerhard Marterbauer for collecting, gathering, aggregatEngagement Partner ing and validating of specific topics ppa. Dipl.-Ing. Hannes Senft Based on our work described above Engagement Manager nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the procedures, systems and structures for collecting, gathering, aggregating and validating of the: 64 Assur a nce stat emen t Report Details This sustainability report includes currently cannot yet be reported). profile and corporate governance, Group-wide activities and key figures During the first quarter of 2015, a new please refer to the Telekom Austria Group for the Telekom Austria Group, in materiality analysis was conducted. 2014 annual report (http://www.telekom accordance with the reporting scope This has led to a change in the scope of austria.com/en/ir/annual-reports). and the reporting period of the 2014 the reported indicators compared to Data collection for the sustainability annual report. For selected projects, the previous year (see also GRI Content report is based on the use of internal qualitative information on the individTable starting at page 46). Selected topics reporting processes as well as standardual topics was included beyond 2014 and indicators were reviewed by an ised questionnaires in the individual up to the second quarter of 2015 and independent auditor as part of an exterlead subsidiaries of the Telekom Austria noted separately in the report. nal certification (for details on scope, Group. This data is assessed centrally ( G4.28) see page 61). Deloitte Audit Wirtschaftsand subjected to plausibility checks. prüfungs GmbH, the auditor for the Group The Telekom Austria Group’s Corporate Financial key figures and staff data financial reports of Telekom Austria AG Sustainability department evaluates the relate to the Group segment reporting was mandated with the certification. questionnaires annually with regard to segments defined in line with IAS 8, The aspects and indicators of the GRI current developments, requirements while environmental key figures and Sector Supplement “Telecommunications” and objectives. other social performance indicators were also taken into account in the were collected for the operating submateriality analysis. Unless indicated Definitions and calculation methods on sidiaries of the respective countries. otherwise, all content, topics, aspects, individual indicators and key figures set The Telekom Austria Group assumes indicators and measures in the report out in the report are explained in detail that the subsidiaries not mentioned refer to Telekom Austria AG and its by means of footnotes either in the would have only made a minimal subsidiaries. The report has been respective chapter itself or in the data contribution to the published key approved by Hannes Ametsreiter, CEO appendix starting on page 54. To indifigures, due to their size or activity of the Telekom Austria Group until cate that person designations in the (e. g. holding function). If key figures 31 July 2015. sustainability report refer to both women for non-operating subsidiaries were ( G4.17, 4.22, 4.23, 4.32, 4.33, 4.48) and men, a gender-appropriate formucollected together with those for operlation was used in some cases (e. g. “she ating subsidiaries for organisational The report is divided into three large or he”). For the sake of legibility, only reasons, they were not differentiated sections; an introductory chapter exthe masculine form was used in other from each other and accordingly taken plains the devised sustainability stratcases. However, the report always into account in the overall amount. The egy in connection with the Telekom addresses both men and women. Telekom Austria Group sustainability Austria Group’s core business and the report is published once a year; the key social and environmental trends. report for the 2013/2014 period was The main section of the report is dedipublished in August 2014. cated to the four major action areas and ( G4.28–G4.30) deals with the strategic targets, implemented measures and current chalThis report meets the requirements of lenges. In the third part of the report, the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) — the quantitative data and key figures are Guideline G4 for sustainability reports — recapped in the form of a data section. and complies with the annual progress The GRI Content Table provides informareport as defined in the UN Global Comtion on the individual aspects and indipact. The report meets the regulations cators. The sustainability report chiefly and requirements of the G4 version focuses on environmental and social of the GRI standard “comprehensive” aspects of the Telekom Austria Group’s (with the exception of the general activities. For further information on standard information G4.10, which economic development, the organisation R eport Deta ils 65 Imprint Owner, editor & publisher Telekom Austria AG Group Communications & Sustainability Telekom Austria AG Peter Schiefer Lassallestrasse 9 Project team 1020 Vienna, Austria Irene Jakobi, Maximilian Rabl, Tel. +43 50 664 0 Anna Schwarzbauer, Petra Richter www.telekomaustria.com Advice on content ( G4.5) PwC Österreich Art Direction, design & production Operating companies of the Daniel Hammer Illustrations Telekom Austria Group Larissa Mantel Title idea Planetsisa Guest writer Michael Narodoslawsky Printed by A1 Telekom Austria AG Si.mobil d.d. PAUL GERIN GmbH & Co KG Lassallestrasse 9 Šmartinska cesta 134 b Editorial deadline: 7 July 2015, 1020 Vienna, Austria 1000 Ljubljana, Slovenia information on the Management Board Tel. +43 50 664 0 Tel. +386 40 443 000 on pages 6, 13 and 63 has been updated due to a Supervisory Board meeting on 24 July 2015. www.A1.net www.simobil.si Contact Irene Jakobi Head of Group Sustainability, Mobiltel EAD Telekom Austria Group 1, Kukush Street irene.jakobi@telekomaustria.com 1309 Sofia, Bulgaria ( G4.31) Tel. +359 88 80880 88 Vip mobile d.o.o. www.mtel.bg Omladinskih brigada 21 11070 Novi Beograd, Republic of Serbia Tel. +381 60 1234 www.vipmobile.rs Vipnet d.o.o. Vrtni put 1 10000 Zagreb, Croatia Tel. +385 14691 091 www.vipnet.hr This sustainability report was printed on the paper types “Mondi Offset” (main report) and “Colour Style Leather” Vip operator DOOEL (cover). Both paper types are verified as originating Filip Vtori Makedonski, from sustainably managed forests and are certified in DC Soravia 8th floor accordance with PEFC (main report) and FSC (cover). The 1000 Skopje, CO2 emissions generated in production were offset. The Republic of Macedonia report was printed using vegetable oil-based bio-inks from renewable sources in accordance with the Austrian velcom Tel. +389 771234 Ecolabel criteria for printed products by the printing 36–2, Internatsionalnaya www.vip.mk company PAUL GERIN GmbH & Co KG (UZ 24, UW 756), 220030 Minsk, Belarus which is a holder of the Austrian Ecolabel. In the spirit Tel. +375 17 21784 94 of the Austrian Ecolabel, it was decided not to use foil www.velcom.by ( G4.4) lamination to protect the cover of this report. 1-400-001-576 www.telekomaustria.com
