Sustainability Report 2014 Main Figures Values Honesty Tenacity Our main activity is the production of components for the Humility Work wind energy industry 2013-15 integrated in all the value chain through: GRI Towers, GRI Flanges, GRI sustainability Castings and GRI Services. Master Plan 10 main axes. Presence in Ethics and 6 Conduct Code countries Development and communication during the financial year 2014 GRI Renewable Industries is established in Brazil, China, India, 12 Spain, South Africa and Turkey. plants towers, flanges and castings Signatories to the Global Compact 2,059 professionals Certifications EN 1090 81% permanent ISO 9001 ISO 14001 OHSAS 18001 contracts 55,017 tons of CO 2 Direct emissions 89% men 11% women 9,801 tons of CO 2 299 k€ 59,748 Indirect emissions Economic Value Generated training hours In 2014 we have 292 k€ contributed to avoid Economic Value Distributed 0.68 the emission of: Average of days lost per employee due to occupational accidents 339,303 tons of CO 2 Main figures GRI Renewable Industries 3 Sustainability Report 2014 GRI Renewable Industries Index Letter from the President > 8 Letter from the CEO > 10 2 Performance > 26 1 Our organization and Context> 28 sustainability > 12 Our products and processes > 29 About GRI Renewable Research, development Industries > 14 and innovation > 33 GRI Renewable Industries Financial report 2014 > 36 Governance> 15 Our growth in 2014 >37 Our Corporate Culture > 18 Quality, clients and suppliers > 38 Global presence > 20 Management and risk Sustainability Master Plan > 22 framework > 41 Our stakeholders and materiality > 24 4 Planet > 58 3 People > 44 4.1 Social impact Our team > 46 Creation of value in 5 Annex > 74 Professional practices > 48 society > 60 Scope and coverage of Social action > 63 the report > 76 Recruitment and development of talent > 51 Independent review report > 78 4.2 Environmental impact Health and safety> 54 GRI Index > 80 Our environment management > 64 Contens related to the principles of the UN Global Compact> 90 Our environment aspects > 65 Climate change and emissions > 69 Letter from the President We are currently witnessing a worldwide evolution toward new sustainable energy models able to fulfill the growing energy demand. 8 GRI Renewable Industries Letter from the President Dear reader, GRI Renewable Industries is part of the Corporación Gestamp group. As part of this multinational corporation and under the umbrella of Gonvarri Steel Industries, we develop our activity of manufacturing towers and flanges for the wind energy industry. We are aware of the importance of adopting an ethical and transparent conduct based on the communication with our stakeholders. As proof of this commitment, we present our first Sustainability Report. We are currently witnessing a worldwide evolution toward new sustainable energy models able to fulfill the growing energy demand using energy with low-environmental impact, and a great capacity to generate local employment. Our activity contributes to this goal in two ways. On one hand, our factories help us to contribute to local development by generating local employment, by purchasing from local suppliers and by paying taxes. Furthermore, we are aware that the fight against climate change is no doubt one of the biggest challenges in the 21st century and from GRI Renewable Industries, we contribute to its mitigation by manufacturing towers and flanges that generate wind energy. For this reason, thanks to our activity we estimate that, in 2014, our company has helped to avoid the emission of 339,303 tons of CO2 to the atmosphere. Additionally, we rely on a great professional team which makes up the true driving force of this company. That is why this year we have focused on strengthening our corporate culture, and widening training plans to develop their talent. One of the most outstanding actions was the publication of our Ethics and Conduct Code which, along with its online training, allowed our employees to know it in more detail thus reinforcing their compliance commitment. This report offers a balanced, accurate vision of our financial, environmental and social results in 2014, as well as the renewal of our backing of, and adhesion to the UN Global Compact. Finally, I would like to thank you for your trust and your contribution to the development of this project of which we are all part. I hope you enjoy reading this Report. Jon Riberas Mera President Letter from the President GRI Renewable Industries 9 Letter from the CEO In GRI Renewable Industries we think sustainable growth is the only possible way. 10 GRI Renewable Industries Letter from the CEO I am pleased to present to you the first Sustainability Report of GRI Renewable Industries. This report presents our main results and initiatives in 2014, from the economic, social and environmental triple bottom line standpoint, having followed, during its elaboration, the G3.1 guidelines from the Global Reporting Initiative. The aim of this report is to make us advance toward transparency and sustainability, promoting dialogue and communication with all our stakeholders. Our plan is to publish it on a yearly basis. Here at GRI Renewable Industries, we maintain our ongoing commitment to the highest ethics and integrity standards as well as to our corporate values and culture. As part of this commitment, this year, we have adapted our Ethics and Conduct Code to new international requirements in terms of ethics and human rights. We have likewise communicated it among our professionals and our supply chain. Our product contributes to the fight against climate change through wind energy generation. In this way , we will develop in 2015 one new initiative aimed at compensating for CO2 produced from our activity through the reforestation of affected areas. Innovation is paramount to our growth and our “Gestamp Hybrid Towers” project stands out in this field. The goal of this project is the development of steel and concrete hybrid towers. The first pilot trial was successfully conducted this present year. Thanks to these pillars, here at GRI Renewable Industries we continue moving forward as a sustainable and solid company, with optimal financial results, able to integrate sustainability in our strategy, and to make the right decisions to create value for our clients, employees and suppliers, as well as for those communities where we carry out our activities. This is reflected in our results and our international presence, recently strengthened with the inauguration of GRI Towers South Africa plant and the construction of GRI Flanges Brazil, which will start operations in 2015. To accomplish these goals, we rely on an exceptional team of professionals who are key for the success of this company. It is for them, and to contribute to the retention of their talent, that we have increased our training mainly in the safety field. Lastly, I must acknowledge the effort and commitment of our team and our collaborators, who have turned GRI Renewable Industries into what it is today. I am convinced that we will continue advancing together toward a more sustainable future. Javier Imaz Rubalcaba CEO GRI Renewable Industries Letter from the CEO GRI Renewable Industries 11 1 Our Organization and Sustainability Page 14 Page 15 Page 18 About GRI GRI Renewable Our corporate Renewable Industries culture Industries Governance Corporate principles: Corporación Governing Gestamp bodies Clients Structure People Gonvarri Steel Industries Leadership Headquarters Sustainability GRI Renewable Industries Page 20 Page 22 Page 24 Global Sustainability Our presence Master Plan stakeholders 12 Performance Clients, suppliers and plants People outsourcing, shareholders, towers, flanges and Planet employees, local communities, castings public administrations and regulatory agencies and the media. About GRI Renewable Industries We focus our efforts on the integration of all the value chain of the renewable energy industry. GRI Renewable Industries Corporación Gestamp Gonvarri Eólica, S.L. (hereinafter GRI Renewable IndusWe are part of Corporación Gestamp, parent company of: tries) was born in 2008 as a division for the renewable ener• Gonvarri Steel Industries: a multinational company spegy industry through the tower and flange manufacturing bucialized in steel service centers, automobile parts, solar siness. It later consolidated its position as the main industrial structures and wind parts. supplier in the renewable energy markets. • Gestamp Renewables: multinational renewable energy GRI Renewable Industries focuses its effort on the incompany focused on solar, wind and biomass energy. tegration of all the value chain of the renewable energy industry, supplying our main clients worldwide, and using • Gestamp: multinational dedicated to the design, developcutting-edge technology in our industrial processes in all the ment and manufacture of metal automotive components. following activities: GRI Towers It manages several plants where the wind tower industrial Gonvarri Steel Industries process is integrated all over the world for the main OEMs in Gonvarri Steel Industries was founded in 1958 and it is forthe wind energy market. Furthermore, it is in charge of their med by two different business lines: equipment according to the specifications given by each • Gonvarri Steel Services: with 30 steel service centers in client. 2014. GRI Flanges • GRI Renewable Industries: with 12 factories that manuIt manages flange manufacturing. It was born after the acquifacture wind components in 2014. sition, in 2010, of the Iraeta Group, a manufacturing company of this sort of special flanges to connect wind tower sections, by Gonvarri Steel Industries. CORPORACIÓN GESTAMP GRI Castings It started its activity in 2015 with the acquisition of the new steel GRI Castings Zestoa factory. GRI Renewable Industries has thus widened and completed its value chain in the production of components for the wind energy industry. The plant has also capacity to produce parts through die making and tooling. GRI Services A service branch concentrated on solutions of great added value for the wind energy market through a wide range of services with capacity to support OEMs throughout all the value chain: from transportation to the completion of the facilities, including the maintenance of wind farms. Towers Flanges Castings Services Our strong commitment to quality and service has guided us in our ongoing improvement, including the obtention of the ISO 9001, OHAS 18001, ISO 14000 certificates for our factories. 14 GRI Renewable Industries Our Organization and Sustainability GRI Renewable Industries Governance Our activity specializes in the manufacturing of towers and flanges as well as on the integration of all the value chain of the renewable energy. Gonvarri Eólica, S.L. (hereinafter GRI Renewable Industries) this agreement, which shall be converted into a public docustarted operations on May 30, 2008. Our activity specializes ment and registered in the Mercantile Register. in the manufacturing of towers and flanges as well as on the The Administration Body appointed by the General Meeintegration of all the value chain of the renewable energy secting shall represent the Group in all the matters within its cortor, applying cutting-edge technology in our industrial procesporate object and relating to its conduct and affairs, having ses, consolidating our position as leading industrial supplier no limitations, committing the latter by its acts and contracts, in the renewable industry market through our divisions: GRI being able to exercise as many powers as not expressly Towers, GRI Flanges, GRI Castings and GRI Services. reserved to the General Meeting by Law or by the present Statutes. Governing Bodies The Group’s governing bodies are the Board of Directors and Duties a Sole Director which are the top body for the governance, One of the duties of the Sole Director is the approval and the supervision, decision-making and control of Gonvarri Eólica. commitment of compliance with all the rules found within the Gonvarri Eólica statutes gather the Sole Director’s duties Ethics and Conduct Code. Furthermore, the Sole Director can and establishes the requirements and periods to summon the expressly empower company employees to deal with conBoard of Directors. crete matters for those operations that have been previously approved by this body. On December 31, 2014, the Management of the Group is given to a Sole Director, the ACEK Desarrollo and Gestión Industrial, S.L. group, represented by Mr. Juan María Riberas Mera. Incompatibilities The members of the Management Body shall not be able to The Board of Directors, having the favorable vote represendevelop, either on their own or on behalf of third parties, the ting more than half of the votes corresponding to the shares same or similar activities which may constitute the corporate into which the share capital is divided, shall have the power to object save with the express authorization from the Group choose a different management system or mode than those and after being approved at the General Meeting. pointed out with no need to change the statutes and under Our Organization and Sustainability GRI Renewable Industries 15 Remuneration General Meeting The Management Body shall receive remuneration. ReThe Sole Director is responsible for summoning the General muneration for the Management Body shall consist of a fixed Meeting which shall be held within the first six months of salary paid in cash and established at the General Meeting, each financial year to object or approve the corporate manawhich may be held at any time before the end of the financial gement and the accounts from the previous financial year, and year. to resolve any issues related to the result. The Ordinary General Meeting which establishes this fixed On the other hand, the Sole Director shall have the power to remuneration shall also establish the procedure for its payment. summon the Meeting if he finds it necessary or convenient for corporate interests. The remuneration received by the managers as members of the Management Body shall be compatible with all the other The General Meeting shall be validly constituted to deal with professional or work-related incomes which accordingly coany issue, without prior announcement, as long as the totality rrespond to each manager from any executive or consulting of the share capital is present or represented, and the attentask performed for the Group. dees accept unanimously the celebration of the meeting and its Agenda. Corporate agreements at the General Meeting shall be adopCommunication ted by majority of validly cast votes as long as these repreInformation exchange mechanisms between the Sole Director sent a third of the votes corresponding to the corporate shaand the stakeholders are established through the different res into which the share capital is divided. Blank votes shall corporate directions and areas. not be counted. Corporate Structure Conflict of Interests Gonvarri Eólica’s head corporate structure is composed of: Stakeholders shall not be entitled to exercise their right to 100% HOLDING GONVARRI,S.R.L. vote corresponding to their shares when finding themselves within any case of conflict of interests as established by article 190 of the Spanish Legislative Royal Decree 1/2010 of July 2, by which the Consolidated Text of the Joint Stock ComCorporate share capital panies Act is approved. The corporate share registered on December 31, 2014, amounts to eighty-seven million five hundred fifty-four thousand nine hundred forty euros (87,554,940 euros) represented by two million nine hundred eighteen thousand four hunHeadquarters dred ninety-eight (2,918,498) corporate shares of one single The headquarters are located at: class and series of thirty euros (30 euros) of nominal value S/ Ombú 3. 12th floor. 28045 Madrid. Spain each, cumulative and indivisible, correlatively numbered from 1 to 2,918,498 inclusive, all of which are registered and paid out. 16 GRI Renewable Industries Our Organization and Sustainability Functional organization chart Our functional organization chart is shown below: (updated to june 2015): President Jon Riberas Corporate MARCOM, SUSTAINABILITY IT, LEGAL Quality CEO Director Javier Deputy Javier IMaz Honrubia Iñigo Chief Marketing García-Badell Officer Chief People Jose Mª Officer Ávila Supply Chain Mariano Officer Ballesteros Chief Financial Pedro Technical Officer Velasco Director Javier Rui Urios Duarte Our Organization and Sustainability GRI Renewable Industries 17 Our corporate culture Our express desire is that GRI Renewable Industries is a favorable environment for our clients and their commercial transactions at the same time as it is a place where our workers enjoy doing their work Our commitment is to act sustainably in all the countries Always keeping our Ethics Code of Conduct as reference, where we are present as well as to keep expanding our buand leaning on different plans, procedures and manuals relasiness activity into all those which meet the conditions of seted to the different vectors of sustainability. curity and growth necessary for the viability of the projects in The organization of sustainability is coordinated by the the long term. Sustainability management (CSR) which is part of the CorpoFor this purpose, we rely on a global corporate culture that rate Direction of Communication, Marketing and Sustainabilipreserves the same values and principles from our very bety. Its task is transversal within the organization so we provide ginnings though adapting to the local needs of each country, coverage to the different companies in the Corporate Group. to the current market conditions and to the demands of our The responsibility relating to sustainability within GRI Restakeholders. newable Industries is integrated in the Quality, Safety and The information’s structure is based on the triple bottom line: Health and Environment departments, which coordinate the initiatives and actions related to these matters. It also works PERFORMANCE • PEOPLE • PLANET along with the Sustainability Corporate Department in the execution of the sustainability report. Honesty Humility Tenacity Work Mission es Vision Princtis pl Missio n Maxim brough ize the ad t to our ded value compre clients, off To achieve global Clien hensive ering a chain, b acked b service in the supply leadership as an People y innovat hip and ind ive logistics industrial supplier Leaders u s trial proces in the renewable bility To con tribute ses. Sustaina financ to energies sector. ial retu the group with higher indust rns, rial and while diversifying its the ac financial cess to risks through different p roducts. 18 GRI Renewable Industries Our Organization and Sustainability CORPORATE PRINCIPLES Clients Leadership Commited to our Clients We lead the change Our clients are at the centre of our business. We are dediWe are living in a moment of profound change in the socated to designing the solutions that they require in collacial and economic contexts that demands a re-thinking of boration with them and adapting our capabilities to their processes and a new focus on the chain of values of our needs based on terms of quality and variety of product industry. and service. As a team we seek out new opportunities Innovation has formed a part of our DNA since our earthat will consolidate their success because we consider liest beginnings and characterises our management phithat the success of our clients results in success, for us losophy. This has helped us to confront the different and also. always complex circumstances of the markets in which In our efforts to find solutions to the challenges our clients we operate. confront us with we have directed our model of internaThis management philosophy, united with a strong comtionalization towards an approximation of our resources mitment to the use of new information and communicato their operative requirements. This has led to us having tion technologies when working with our groups of inteoperations in several countries in which we have insisted rest makes us active participants in the Third Industrial on the creation of local networks that ensure that our reRevolution. lationship with the communities in which we are integrated is of mutual enrichment. Sustainability People Financial, social and environmental We encourage the advancement of We know that the sustainability of our business depends on our capacity to offer positive economic, social and enour professionals vironmental results. Honesty, humility, tenacity and work have characterized We have designed a development strategy that integraour project since its commencement. tes environmental management into all our activities. We consider environmental management as a basic compoThese values allow us to establish trust with all those nent of the up and coming industrial advances of the near with whom we work with. future. Responsible progress will be the only possible perWe are convinced that business in the 21st century is missible progress. based on the advancement of the use of initiative by its We believe that constant re-investment and innovation professionals. For this reason we promote the ideas of are the key to maintaining competitively in any business. our collaborators and their capacity to carry them out. We For this reason we dedicate our resources to the contialso promote dialogue between our team and the memnuous improvement of our services, our range of solubers of all the implicated communities by sharing objectitions and to our manner of supplying them, making our ves, values and beliefs. suppliers participants in our initiatives and principles. Our Organization and Sustainability GRI Renewable Industries 19 19 Global presence GRI Towers is currently present in five countries, with wind towers production in Spain (Galicia), Brazil (Pernambuco), Turkey (Bandirma), India (Maharashtra) and South Africa (Western Cape). It has a production capacity of more than 1,500 towers per year and future development projects in the US, Mexico, UK and Spain. Towers Brazil GRI Flanges, is currently present Flanges * in three countries, manufacturing flanges Brazil for wind turbines in its plant in Spain (Guipúzcoa) and its three plants in China (Jinan). In early 2015 it opened a new plant in Brazil. Services Brazil GRI Castings, started its activity in 2015 through the acquisition of the new factory GRI Castings Zestoa. GRI Services, the services sector is currently present in Brazil and is expected to expand in Spain. *Started operations in 2015 20 GRI Renewable Industries Our Organization and Sustainability 6 12 2,059 countries factories professionals GRI Renewable Industries specialized in towers, steel forming a highly qualified team operates in: Brazil, China, India, South flanges and castings Africa, Spain and Turkey Towers Turkey Flanges China Towers India Towers South Africa Towers Galicia Castings * Zestoa Flanges Iraeta Our Organization and Sustainability GRI Renewable Industries 21 Sustainability Master Plan In order to respond to the expectations of our Stakeholders and contribute to the creation value for all, we have developed the Sustainability Master Plan 2013-2015 with 10 transversal axes upon which GRI Renewable Industries gathers its sustainability initiatives. Performance People Planet Values: Honesty, Humility C li Tenacity and Work ent s 20 14 an Clien d q ts ua People ou -15. lity r T Sup m and etho revie o ply clie the dolo w h uma chain nt me satis Is of KP gy 201 n ri and 4-1 g h ts nication a pro sur fa re late 5.To ce ing ction d com to the introdu Pride o o m m u C im ed w and plia obs ce c belong f Health and ovation and inn pro i t h n e r i t ve th it ose ce w rva eria me s both coun i t h h n c e o talent in g , safety nt. w trie asse hen co s whe an righ nd um fa retenti include a n o 2014. To lated ssm ntra re w ts in o n-discr n , 2014-15. To bring a bility-re ent c proc ting an operat e iminat s u s t a in site. 201 5 ess d e ion the frequency rate n in our web ethi . To in of o during , 2014. T se c t io cs a trod ur s the o deve belo w 34.1, and the p our nd h u uma ce crite upp corpora lop the o develo liers . te unive seve rity rate 2014. T rs pilot n qua rights i r ia re l courses r sity wit h new t H y b r id Towe lity n ou ated to for the Langua belo w 0.43. firs Spain. aud its. r su ppli School. ge project in er 2015. In crease activitie training s and th e numb studen er of ts. 22 GRI Renewable Industries Our Organization and Sustainability ity ma for 01 o t Clim nu all ce btai ta in fa c o r ur tifi be turi tow catio e for ng e n n th an te ch d a effi ener nge a ab fac r e2 01 i 7. lities 2 201 cie gy il com 4-15 com pens . To de ing at from e for t elop a v ncy our h e pro us act CO2 em ject t de intr 2014 plan vity ti is hro sions o ve S ting S lo oc odu -1 ctio 5. To n a . ugh tree co l pm ial com of e nal le y ze me rcia ctric th m oc en car e p 20 l ac i m al t tivi s in pla 14ties h our un an . s So n t 16 de r ut o b . S h fo Afr e de ocia i tie s d en T a in vir he e cu l s o ica w velo act L 20 on n. n c it pe ion 13 d hi h a d in I SO -1 me an de ld 14 7 re ma .T s hic C o 0 o n Et duct ew e n e. n t h h Co al of Cod e’s wit . t rov nduc C od u e p p Co ct the log ers .A 14 s and du Dia ehold ty. 0 2 hic nd C on ugh hro k r Sta teriali se Et t h i c s a ing t k” fo i n a c l. ut Ma To increa y’s E 1 4. e tra me p onne a bo 5. ud 20 nlin elco pers ess the 0 1 4-1 iality st o “W the a ren ts of s of 2 er ng all aw oin ide mat collecti re se nt p s gu ce of the e m o a i scop ion of To r lev a ell a tan o p in r s and 1 5. st re as w ccep the lde r the 20 e mo de, nd a eho stak ize it fo e are th cs Co nt a ifts. e m w i g t o cus s whe re Eth rassm t r i e t . h a cou n en pres Completed In progress Not completed Our Organization and Sustainability GRI Renewable Industries 23 Our stakeholders Dialogue with our stakeholders Our stakeholders play an important role in our development. Therefore, it is essential to maintain an active dialogue with them, allowing us to respond in a quick and efficient way to the trends and needs of our environment. Communication with stakeholders is performed transparently and periodically through various mechanisms and specific communication channels adapted to each one of them. Clients Suppliers and Outsourcing Shareholders Our clients are the core of our busiThe suppliers and outsourced personThey are the main proprietors of GRI ness. We maintain a close relationship nel give us support at the plants as well Renewable Industries and are reprewith our clients, enabling us to provide as at the offices. sented in the Board of Directors. tailor-made services based on their exSpecific communication channels Specific communication channels pectations. • Outsourced and subcontractor selec• The CEO presents the company’s reSpecific communication channels tion criteria. sults regularly in the quarterly Board • Periodic meetings. • Regular monitoring by the HR and of Directors meetings. • Visits to our facilities by our clients. OHS department. • Audits performed by our clients. • Performance Monitoring. • “B2B Platforms” used by some of our • Quality System. main clients, as a tool for communi• Audits. cating with their suppliers. Public Administrations and Regulatory Agencies They are in charge of establishing local Local communities regulations, permits and licenses as well We seek to have cordial relations with as grants and subsidies, so they have Employees local communities where we operate, quite a relevant voice in our business. Our professional team makes up the by generating local employment qualiSpecific communication channels true driving force of this company. That ty and contributing to the improvement • Periodic meetings. is why we launch measures to improve of our environment. • Licenses, permits, and authorizations. their well-being and to respond to their Specific communication channels needs. • Periods of open forum during the Specific communication channels Environmental Impact Assessment. • Our corporate intranet: Leading the • Involvement in social activities. Change allows our employees to • Agreements with local administrations. The Media express themselves and receive The media and the social media are a information. relevant stakeholder due to their impact • Interdepartmental meetings. on companies. • Performance appraisals. • Biannual informative meetings. Specific communication channels • Press room (available on our website). • Press releases. • Website and social channels. 24 GRI Renewable Industries Our Organization and Sustainability www.gri.com.es BLOG leadingthechange.com/blog Materiality In order to communicate with our stakeholders clearly and sidered the importance that the different issues have in the transparently, we have carried out a materiality study to idenwind energy components industry (their maturity) and the tify and analyze the most relevant aspect for them. attention that our stakeholders pay to each aspect (their relevance). There has been an in-house identification and selection of the stakeholders after a process of reflection and consultation Regarding relevance, materiality related surveys have been performed by the corporate area and the office and factory carried out among 5% of our employees and we have also personnel. The groups and organizations that may have an considered the issues treated by sector associations and influence on our company, or that may be significantly inpress news. fluenced by it have been identified as stakeholders. In order The result of this study is presented in the following figure: to determine the materiality of each aspect, we have conNecessary Maturity A Business development 90 B Management and clients relations 80 Urgent General 70 C Corporate Governance Relations with public R D Sustainability management administration/lobbing 60 E Identifying and risk management B A General R Necessary 50 F Atraction and talent development Emerging C L D G Health and safety Product sustainability M 40 E Environment management N Urgent/emerging 30 F Wind enery produced O Q H Humans rights Biodiversity protection programmes P O Hi i G 20 i Business relations N J Contribution to local community Q P M K J Contribution to emissions reduction development 10 and climate change fighting strategy K Responsable suppliers and outsourcing Emerging Urgent management L Innovation 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 Relevance Two of the eighteen relevant aspects identified materials are considered: Business development and Client relation management. Both are explained in more detail in Chapter 2. Performance. Our Organization and Sustainability GRI Renewable Industries 25 2 Performance Page 28 Page 29 Page 33 Context Our Research, products and development Production processes and innovation facilities Wind 5 Brazil components new R&D China towers projects Spain flanges India castings Turkey South Africa Page 36 Page 37 Page 38 Page 41 Financial Our growth in Quality, Management and report 2014 clients and risk framework 2014 suppliers new Ethics Code 299k€ plants Quality: Economic Value ISO 9001 IMS Generated GRI Towers South Africa Environment: Financial Risks 292k€ GRI Flanges ISO 14001 Information Economic Value Distributed Brazil Health Security & Safety: OHSAS 18001 Context We consolidate our position in the wind industry Growth and proximity to client is paramount for GRI ReThe technological progress of the new turbines and the newable Industries. Consequently, we strengthen our posipower increase in each of these, reduce the number of requition in the countries where we are already presents and we red towers and components. This could result in a drop in the increase our presence in new markets through new facilities number of installed towers for the next years, in spite of an and services. expected increase of installed capacity. On the other hand, a significant growth in the offshore market and in wind farms’ reThis growth is directly related to the growth in the demand powering projects is expected for the coming years. of wind energy. And this, in turn, is strongly influenced by favorable governmental policies and the goals set by the diIt must be pointed out that the increase in the number of wind fferent countries in energy matters, as well as by the rise of turbines has a positive effect on the associated supply chain environmental concerns, the dependency problems stemming as well as on labor, as it creates a large number of opportunifrom supply uncertainty, and the price of energy coming from ties in this industry. conventional sources. GRI Renewable Industries is present in different markets such China, the U.S., India, Germany, Brazil and Spain are the main as Brazil, Spain, India, South Africa, Turkey and China, It also markets of wind energy, gathering around 90% of the world’s has an annual capacity of more than 1,500 towers and future wind energy production. The same figure applies to the marprojects in the U.S., Mexico, United Kingdom and Spain. ket of wind turbines in terms of installations in 2013. Brazil enjoys quite favorable cliOur first facilities are located in Spain . In India , renewable energy has bemate conditions and, thanks to the NaDespite a decline in the last years and come a relevant strategic element and tional Energy Plan 2030, it expects to the lack of governmental incentives as several initiatives have been started up have 143 GW of installed wind power. regards renewable energies, our expeto promote it which include several tax This fact, together with fiscal advanrience and productive capacity allow us and financial incentives. Although all retages deriving from the local financing to distribute our wind components in the newable sectors are growing, the wind programs of BNDES (Brazilian National market all over the world, mainly in the industry is doing so in a more remarkaBank for Economic and Social DevelopU.S and northern Europe. ble way, contributing with around 75% ment), is helping the wind industry to of all the capacity of renewable generadevelop remarkably. tion connected to the grid. 28 GRI Renewable Industries Performance Our products and processes Our core business is manufacturing wind components There are several required processes to manufacture towers mainly towers and flanges, wind turbine major components, and flanges from the receipt of the raw material, the steel, up for the later generation of wind energy. to the final product, so they are not carried out as a whole. As regards the characteristics of our products, we should A summary of the most important phases in the process point out that they are almost totally made of steel. Steel of manufacturing towers and flanges is presented as follows. is 100% recyclable and can be infinitely recycled, thus contributing to energy saving and minimizing the consumption of raw materials. This reduces CO2 emissions and generated waste. Furthermore, its production is becoming more efficient so the energy required to produce one ton of steel has been reduced 50% as compared to the energy used 30 years ago. steel can be infinitely recycled, thus contributing to energy saving Our plants’ management system verifies traceability and makes sure that all our steel structures possess their CE marking in accordance with the EN 1090 European standard, excepting the ones manufactured in Brazil. They all meet the ISO 9001 standard, which complements the previous one. Turkey is one of the 10 main wind South Africa has placed itself China is one of the most dynamic energy producers in Europe, with a sigin the last years among the countries countries in the wind power market, denificant growth of its industrial network that offer more incentives to invest in velopping both on-shore and off-shore and services. This implies a growing renewables due to their successful puprojects. In 2014, it accounted for 41% energy demand and a regulatory frablic-private program (IPP REBID) promoof the world market for new wind turbimework that favors the development of ted by the Government. This is bringing nes with nearly 100 GW of total capathis industry. an investment of approximately 10 bicity connected to its grid. Growth prosllion dollars in the last two years which pects for this industry are very favorable is turning it into a market with quite reand it is expected that, in 2020, China’s markable growth prospects. wind total capacity will reach 200 GW. Performance GRI Renewable Industries 29 towers production processes: 1 Reception, inspection 5 and cleaning Marking and Reception of the steel plates internal welding and placement at the plant The operator marks all the using a powerful magnet crane. positions of the internal Inspection of material and elements (hubs, brackets,…) and, cleaning. through the welding process, attaches the different elements which will later support the tower’s internal accessories (ladders, elevators, etc.). 2 Bending and tack welding 3 Bending the steel plates by applying the force of three rollers to achieve the required curvature. This is the stage where longitudinal Longitudinal welding points are set. welding seam At this phase, the 4 longitudinal welding seam are made to join the plate’s ends. Fit-up and circular seam welding At this phase, the different bent parts are fited-up and as well as the flanges, through the process of circular welding internal and external. 30 GRI Renewable Industries Performance 10 Metallizing and painting 8 Delivery of material The sections are prepared to be loaded on the trucks and be properly transported in order to Different parts of the tower are metallized. The internal prevent any damage to them and external surface that is to be metallized depends (covers, canvases, etc.). on the requirement of each client. Afterwards, the towers are painted. This process is carried out in booths where the sections spin slowly while the operators spray paint them. The right drying temperature is controlled in the booths. 9 7 Assembly The assembly of all the mechanical and electrical internal 6 elements is carried out inside Surface treatment: the sections of the tower (lights, blasting cables, ladders…). The first process of surface Opening the geometry treatment consists in introducing of the door frame the item in the booth, and by At this phase, the opening for means of blasting removing the the access door into the tower oxide internally and externally. is carried out. The door stiffener model will vary according to the tower model requested by the client. Performance GRI Renewable Industries 31 flanges production processes*: 1 2 Reception, inspection and cleaning Reception of the best quality steel bars and placement Bending in the plant using powerful The parts are bent using magnet cranes. Material bending rolls to achieve the inspection and cleaning. desired curvature. 3 Pressing 4 The tolerances required for the flanges are guaranteed by the pressing process Welding Welding is used to obtain 5 a continuos flange’s ring. The welding is carried out automatically by means of a programed robot as well as manually by our team of Stress relief experts. This is done until the The steel flanges are introduunion of the two ends of the ced in a furnace to be heated bar is achieved. in order to eliminate internal stresses as well as to notably 6 improve their properties such as resistance, ductility and hardness. Cooling The steel flanges are cooled 7 down at room temperature in order to fix and keep all their characteristics. Machining and drilling Once the flange is stable, se8 veral activities are carried out such as machining and drilling. On the other hand, the holes Delivery of material that complete the flange are The flanges are prepared to made by means of a punch. be loaded in the trucks and properly transported in order to * In our GRI Flanges China prevent any damage to them. plants flanges are manufactured through the “Ring Rolling” process. 32 GRI Renewable Industries Performance Research, development & innovation Our business is constantly moving forward, so innovation is The R&D department manages and coordinates the projects a key aspect of it. In the last years, a significant progress in and the development and execution of them are mainly caboth, the size and the capacity (power) of the turbines, has rried out at GRI Towers Galicia facilities. Additionally, through been observed. This requires that the towers adapt to these the division of GRI Hybrid Towers the projects related to thechanges. se innovative towers are coordinated and developed. On the other hand, the demand of new farms with offshore We develop several R&D projects. The projects under devetechnology is increasingly higher so our towers must also lopment more important considered and with the higher comadapt to these requirements and to the different environment pletion stage have been summarized below. conditions. GRI Towers Galicia GRI Towers Galicia Integral manufacturing system Automated system of through laser technology application and curing for wind tower shafts of high of tower coatings structural quality (Autowind) This project started in 2012 and ended in December 2014. The goal of the AUTOWIND project is the development of a This project is split in the following three activities: new integral manufacturing system for wind towers based on the introduction of high power laser technology for the longi• The design and development of surface treatment protudinal and circular seam welding processes of the sections cess of industrial painting with a new painting robot which that complete the towers. These include: allow a 25% improvement in the precision of the painting process and around a 60% reduction in the estimated time. • Development and validation of a bending automated system with a closed loop control system to manufac• The design and development of a new star system for ture sections from flat plates.. improved rolling beds to manipulate sections with a flexible motor that can reduce production times and increase • Development and validation of an automated syssafety when handling big sections. tem to fit up the sections with a closed loop control system to be later assembled by circumferential seam • The design and development of a new production welding using laser technology. process for offshore sections that can allow the manufacturing of the first offshore tower in Spain in real-life • Development and validation of a pilot welding station conditions. based on laser technology combining laser-MAG hybrid welding with submerged arc welding (SAW) to manufacWhen they were certified by the Spanish Innovation Certificature shafts for wind turbines. This station must be able tion Agency (ACIE), the two first were classified as ‘innovation to process the whole range of usual thicknesses to maand development’, and the development of the new rolling nufacture sections which go generally from 12 to 50 mm. beds was classified as ‘Innovation’. This project started in 2013 and ended in December 2014. It is 5,240 hours of in-house personnel were allocated for its awaiting technical and economic certification for milestone 1 development and a total of €294,133 was invested in the from the Center for Technological and Industrial Development purchase of equipment and materials, personnel hours, audits, (CDTI) as an innovation and development project. and other expenses. 14,844 hours of in-house personnel were allocated for its development and a total of €917,644 was invested in the purchase of equipment and materials, personnel hours, audits, and other expenses. Performance GRI Renewable Industries 33 GRI Hybrid Towers Concrete wind tower solution for big GRI Hybrid Towers heights including a new Repowering solutions foundation solution GRI Hybrid Towers for existing wind farms The overall goal of this project is to develop a new solution concept for an Structural Overall, the old farms are situated at locations with excellent wind conditions. onshore concrete tower to support validation tools for state-of-the-art turbines. However, their facilities are obsolete state-of-the-art wind and have little power, so they require components new solutions to be repowered. The goal of this project is to develop State-of-the-art turbines have a larger new versatile structural solutions casize and are more powerful than the pable of integrating themselves in the conventional ones. This means they structural elements of an existing wind also require larger towers to operate. tower. Several possible repowering scenarios associated with the different Structural problems have been deteccomponents of a wind turbine are conted in state-of-the-art turbines of avesidered, such as the rotor, the gondola rage height not having in the market a or tower growth. product that allows proper detection, analysis and assessment. These solutions include an additional foundation, a stretch of precast conSince this is a new technology, it is unkcrete in the tower, the reutilization of nown in detail the problems that can the steel tower and its connections. The technological leap of this solution pop up depending of the type of tower Thanks to this implementation, it is posconsists of achieving a competitive preand its localization. sible among other thingsto increase the cast concrete tower for heights over However, it is indeed known that in the produced energy up to around 25% as 140 m. It also introduces the developcase of higher towers, these structural compared to the original farm. ment of a type of foundation that can defects increase exponentially as rereduce the needs of material to a minigards both, their foundation and their This is a development and innovation mum and transmit big stress to the teshaft, which may have consequences in project. It began in March 2014 and it is rrain. All this comes along with the deshutdowns and repairs. awaiting technical and economic certifivelopment of new horizontal joints, and cation for milestone 1 from the Center This innovation and development the study of the interaction between for Technological and Industrial Developroject started in August 2014 and it is the different structural elements to pment (CDTI). awaiting technical and economic certifiavoid steel transition sections as much The quantified figures for this project go as possible. cation for milestone 1 from the CDTI. up to €533,026 for expenses related to A total of €221,693 have been invested This innovation and development in-house personnel and subcontracted in the purchase of equipment and mateproject started in February 2014. It is personnel, and €63,707 for other exrials, personnel hours, audits, and other awaiting technical and economic certipenses. expenses. fication for milestone 1 from the CDTI. For its development, 5,950 hours of in-house personnel were allocated and a total of 808,483 euros were invested to buy equipment, material, personnel hours, audits and other expenses. 34 GRI Renewable Industries Performance PILOT TRIAL Integral design of a Hybrid Wind For this reason, GRI Hybrid Towers Tower including foundation for Statecarried out, in May 2014, the first pilot trials for the assembly of the concrete voussoirs of the GHT hybrid of-the-Art Turbines tower. The assembly time was 5 days. The goal of this project was to develop and validate the prototype of a new The manufactured voussoirs are 30.8 concept for a hybrid wind tower, including its foundation, with a height meters high and have been designed of 50 meters in a single concrete section and several steel sections, reafor the Gamesa G97 tower which ching a hub height of 80 to 140 meters. has a hub height of 90 meters. This design was recently certified by the This allows the wind industry to offer innovative solutions to face the CDTI. challenges presented by the new generations of turbines, basing itself on All the conducted trials for both, the the proven experience of steel and the capacity of precast concrete to remanufacture of the voussoirs and solve the weaknesses that steel cannot resolve for itself. their assembly have yielded satisfactory results, thus validating all the designing work carried out during the last year and a half. This new hybrid solution intends to eliminate the limitations of steel towers for the new generation of turbines, maximizing the benefits of this technology. The result is a reliable, flexible and sustainable solution capable of adapting itself to different state-ofthe-art wind turbines and to different project heights. On the other hand, it allows to optimize other parameters such as execution time, transportation, the assembly system, and the final cost of the support-foundation. The R&D project was successfully completed in June 2014 and has received its corresponding certificate and financing from the CDTI and the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF), with a €1,010,203.73 grant. 8,808 hours of in-house personnel were allocated for its development and a total of €1,208,782 was invested in the purchase of equipment and materials, personnel hours, audits, and other expenses. Performance GRI Renewable Industries 35 Financial report 2014 GRI Renewable Industries is maintaining internationalization strategy in a profitable and sustainable way. GRI Renewable Industries continues with its internationaliThe Group audit its consolidated financial statements in an zation strategy in a profitable and sustainable way. annual basis. No qualifications are observed in this report. In 2014, the new GRI Towers South Africa plant started its Gonvarri Eólica S.L fulfilled its remaining accounting obligaoperations in November after an investment of more than 20 tions and, after its approval at the General Meeting, it presents, million euros. in due time and form, the legalization of its official accounting books and deposits its annual accounts at the Mercantile ReWe are also finishing the flange factory in Brazil and its operagister. tions are expected to begin in January 2015 after an investment of 21 million euros. Our goal is to continue growing in On the other hand, the activity is current in its payments to several markets such as the United States, Mexico, United the General Treasury of Social Security, and with its tax obliKingdom and Spain. gations. Our results have improved those of the last financial year. We A summary of our main financial data, consolidated in two have built 1,259 new wind turbines that are contributing to groups which collect the Economic Value Generated (EVG), the generation of clean energy. and the Economic Value Distributed (EVD), is presented below. Regarding the latter, it must be pointed out that no payThe data in this report is extracted from the consolidated fiments were made to Governments, nor contributions to nancial statements of the company, whose business turnover political parties. was 294,411 thousand euros. Economic Value Economic Value We have been recipients of tax incentives from public administrations which Generated Distributed are distributed as shown in the above Thousands of Euros Thousands of Euros Business Turnover 294,411 Operating Costs* 192,686 Tax Incentives Thousands of Euros Financial Income 1,524 CAPEX 42,115 Payments to Capital 6,251 Tax Exemptions and 15,608 Other Income 3,187 Tax Credits Providers Total VEC 299,122 Taxes 13,213 Subsidies 1,039 Personnel 37,709 R&D 13 Investment in the 203 Financial Benefits 4,702 community Total VED 292,177 Total 21,362 * Operating costs” includes material purchasing, ancillary Services and other general expenses. Most tax exemptions and tax credits The economic value retained goes up correspond to Spain and South Africa. to 6,945 thousand euros. The subsidies, aid for R&D and financial benefits, mainly correspond to projects developed in GRI Towers Galicia. 36 GRI Renewable Industries Performance Our growth in 2014 We have strengthened our presence in Brazil and started up a new plant in South Africa GRI Towers South Africa in Cape Town GRI Flanges Brazil is located in one of started up at the end of 2014. Its goal the most important industrial port comwas to supply the South African market plexes, in Suape Port (Pernambuco), and with wind turbines, thus contributing to it has entailed an investment of more the strong development of renewable than 21 million euros for 6,500 m2 of energies in the country. building construction over an area of 100,000 m2, with a production capacity This project, which has employed more of 4,000 flanges per year. than 200 people, will supply the South African market with more than 150 These facilities count on the necessary wind towers every year, and it will entail machinery to manufacture flanges of an investment of 20 million euros. up to 5.5 meters in diameter. They also have an interior laboratory which will be certified according to the ISO 17025 standard to guarantee that all the products reach the highest quality standards. Performance GRI Renewable Industries 37 Quality, clients and suppliers Our priority is our clients Quality Clients Here at GRI Renewable Industries, we design and develop GRI Renewable Industries priority is to provide a quality serour products (towers and flanges) with state-of-the-art techvice complying with the established timelines to satisfy the nology, always complying with our high quality standards. needs of our clients. We design and build towers and flanges through which clean and renewable energy will be generated All our plants own a Quality Policy and an Integrated Mathus contributing to the fight against climate change. nagement System, which includes the quality management. All plants have their IMS certified under the ISO 9001:2008 We keep a quite close, periodical relationship with them so we standard, with the exception of GRI Flanges Brazil and GRI can offer them a service that respond to their needs with acTowers South Africa which are awaiting certification, and uncuracy and flexibility. der the EN 1090 standard, except for our plants in Brazil. The profile of our clients is mainly formed by companies that We rely on the team and experience required to guarantee design, develop and manufacture wind turbines all over the that all the designing activities and the manufacture of our world. towers and flanges, as well as the service we provide to our clients, meet their expectations. We carry out rigorous quality controls from the receipt of maQualification from our clients terials up to the end of each of the project’s phases, by means The qualification of our activities and services on the part of of regulatory controls and inspections which are carried out our clients is an indispensable requirement. in-house as well as by accredited outside entities. This process The qualification process is divided in two phases: allows us to thoroughly control and monitor our products. • The first one is documental. We fill out and send a checklist which encompasses different issues related to our production, inspections and controls, security, quality and environment, as well as the acceptance of their requirements. • The second one is on-site. The client visits and audits our facilities to verify their conformity with the reported information and the compliance with their technical, operational and quality requirements. On the other hand, once the first order is placed, they carry out thorough controls to guarantee that all their specifications are met. The frequency of these qualifications is variable depending on the client’s requirements. 38 GRI Renewable Industries Performance Suppliers Incident monitoring and measuring The relationship with our suppliers and subcontractors is based on mutual trust and interest as they are indispensable The tasks of supervision and control of our products are cafor our value chain. rried out by our quality department at every factory and the corporate quality department, which provides a service transHere at GRI Renewable Industries, the selection of suppliers versal to all the facilities. and the purchase of materials is carried out in a differentiated way, relying on team of raw materials experts (steel and inOur methodology is based on the requirements of the ternal wind tower’s components) and another team focused ISO 9001 standard which gathers all the systems to receive, on general purchases (investments, supplies and services). analyze and respond to all the incidents and claims from our clients and suppliers. The resolution of client claims is directly managed by the Raw material purchase: commercial manager of a given client since this professional Steel is our main raw material due to volume as well as costs. is his/her most direct representative. On the other hand, in some countries steel purchases present certain restrictions due to both, local legislation and the requiClient satisfaction rements of our clients. These obligations deriving from local purchases allow us to contribute to the development of the GRI Renewable Industries has defined the KPI’s (Key Perforcountries where we are present. mance Indicator) with continuous monitoring and measuring, on which an annual status report and an improvement propoSome examples are summarized below: sal are carried out. • Legal requirements of the country which, due to its These indicators are focused on ongoing improvement protectionist nature, demands that most purchases so they thoroughly gather all the information about claims, be carried out from local suppliers. A clear example of response time and costs deriving from these. this is the purchases of our facilities in Brazil where we buy large quantities of steel, and there is just one local The KPIs are individually measured by both, the client and the supplier who can fulfill our demand. Another example is factory. Every manager monthly reports his/her result and the GRI Towers South Africa, where we must comply with data is annually consolidated by each client. Improvement many requirements of the local legislation. Since this points are identified from these results. plant started operations at the end of 2014, we will deDuring 2014, certain incidents were observed in the applicavelop this point in more detail in the next financial year. tion of this methodology so it has been reviewed and adapted • The requirements of our clients which, in many to new and more effective monitoring indicators. Its introduccases, predefine in the contract those steel sution will take place during 2015. ppliers that meet their specifications. A clear example of this is the GRI Towers Galicia factory where our main client has predefined a particular supplier who meets his requirements and who also affords us simpler logistics thanks to his proximity to our facilities. Performance GRI Renewable Industries 39 Regarding the steel purchases in the remaining countries, In 2015, we will analyze the route to follow to incorporate here at GRI Renewable Industries we only select large aspects related to the observance of our Ethics Code and suppliers that can satisfy our orders. human rights, as well as the audit processes. For the most part, our purchases are carried out through a Supplier Portal which is accessible from our website. Within Incidents with suppliers the demanded requirements, we ask from all our clients to fill out the supplier homologation questionnaire called “Supplier The tasks of supervision and control of our products, as well Initial Assessment” (SIA). as our customer service, are carried out by our quality department at every factory and the corporate quality department, The “SIA” includes many aspects related to quality, environwhich provides a service transversal to all the facilities. ment and safety, as well as requirements related to ethics and human rights. Furthermore, when applicable for purchases of The manager of the purchasing-quality office is in charge of materials, it is required that these do not come from foundries the management of supplier claims until their proper resolution. that use “conflict minerals”, being this term applicable to coltan, cassiterite, gold, wolfram, tantalum, tin, and any other mineral or its by-products that contribute to the financing of Expense on local suppliers conflicts in the Democratic Republic of the Congo or its neighIn 2014, GRI Renewable Industries spent up to €190,584 on boring countries. locally-based suppliers. This figure is distributed in Spain, Brazil and South Africa. The following chart summarizes the expense (in thousands of euros) on suppliers per country. General purchases As regards all the other purchases (electric and electronic Thousands of euros equipment, flanges, etc.), we follow a supplier and subconExpense Expense on on Local % on Local tractor selection process which is both, impartial and fair, Country Suppliers Suppliers Suppliers and abides by criteria of service quality, market placement, and risk prevention. Spain 93,877 76,337 81,3 Due to its different characteristics, the use of the SIA Brazil 132,808 104,537 78,7 supplier’s homologation questionnaire is voluntary for this South Africa 14,799 9,709 65,6 kind of purchases. Total 241,484 190,584 78,9 On the other hand, at the end of 2014 we defined and introduced a compulsory clause applicable to all new contracts *No available information on India and Turkey where contractors manifest their acceptance of and compliance with the Ethics and Conduct Code of GRI Renewable Industries (found in the contract’s annex). 40 GRI Renewable Industries Performance Management and risk framework We believe that companies must go beyond legal compliance. We believe that companies must go beyond legal compliance Here at GRI Renewable Industries, we always take account of becoming an ethical benchmark through the decisions and popotential risks, adopting the precautionary principle and intesitions taken by their members, reaching the highest quality, grating risk management in our business strategy. safety, health-related, and environmental standards. On the other hand, we count with the necessary mechanisms to fulfill these expectations. Among these are the following: Ethics and Conduct Code Risks related to the violation During 2014, we have approved, translated (into all the lanof human rights guages of the countries where we operate), and spread out our We promote the observance of Human Rights among our pernew Ethics and Conduct Code. It is applicable to all our factosonnel as well as in the selection of our subcontractors. This ries and offices and it is expected to guide the performance of year, we have renewed our support and adherence to the Uniall the personnel at GRI Renewable Industries. ted Nations Global Compact. The principles developed are based on the Fundamental PrinciTo control this risk, we have report channels of our Ethics Code ples and Rights at Work Declaration of the International Labour available at our website. Through which any incident or irreguOrganization (ILO), the 1192 Rio Declaration on Environment larity can be reported. and Development, the Human Rights Universal Declaration and the 10 principles of the UN Global Compact created in 2000. Due to the worldwide nature of our business, there can be situations where the interpretation and application of some Risks related to safety, health sections of our Code may be conditioned by local customs and and the environment culture. To resolve this sort of cases, two development guides GRI Renewable Industries has an Integrated Management have been defined: the “Harassment Prevention Guide” and System (IMS) implemented under the requirements of ISO the “Rules of Behaviour in respect of Incentives, Gifts or 9001:2008 and ISO 14001:2004 norms and the OHSAS Invitations”, both of which are available at our intranet. 18001:2007 standard, for all our facilities. The Ethics Committee was created to resolve all the situaThe system is part of the company’s strategy and managetions that fail to comply with, or generate doubts as to the ment and it has as framework its integrated quality, environcompliance with, the Code. There are three available commental and risk prevention policy. munication channels to contact it: e-mail, telephone, and a written report form. This integrated system is also certified by an accredited body at our GRI Towers Tukey and GRI Towers Brazil facilities. Since its approval, there has been an intensive effort to comAt GRI Towers Galicia, we have received certification for the municate and spread the Code among all the employees at quality and environmental systems, and the rest have a quaGRI Renewable Industries. The acceptance and commitment lity certificate. of compliance are at 70%. Our goal is to certify our flanges factory in Brazil in the first During 2014, the Ethics Committee did not receive any 2015 quarter, and have the integrated management system reports on the part of the employees or on the part of third available at all our facilities by the end of 2017. parties. Performance GRI Renewable Industries 41 Financial risks Here at GRI Renewable Industries, we try to control and miniCash flow and fair value interest rate risk: as the Group mize our risks by means of mechanisms that are integrated in does not possess significant remunerated assets, revenues all the organization. We summarize the main identified finanand cash flows deriving from its operating activities are quite cial risks below: independent with regards to the variations of market interest rates. Our activities are exposed to several financial risks: market risk, credit risk, and liquidity risk. The Group’s global risk maThe Group analyzes its exposure to interest rate risk in a nagement program focuses on the uncertainty of the financial dynamic way. A simulation of several scenarios is carried out markets, and tries to minimize potential adverse effects on its taking into account refinancing, renewal of current positions, financial profitability. The Group uses derivatives to reduce alternative financing and coverage. These scenarios are only the impact of certain risks. carried out for liabilities that represent the most relevant positions bearing interests. Risk management is controlled by the Financial Department which identifies, assesses and covers all the financial risks acAt December 31, 2014, as well as in 2013, considering that cording to the policies approved by the Board of Directors. The this risk would be insignificant and the positive expectations Board provides policies for global risk management as well as regarding the interest rates fluctuations, the Group has not for particular areas such as exchange rate risk, interest rate considered necessary to enter into interest rate coverage conrisk, and liquidity risk, use of derivatives and non-derivatives, tracts. and investment of surplus liquidity. b) Credit risk Credit risk emerges from cash and cash equivalents, derivatives and deposits with banks and financial institutions, and, fundamentally, from accounts receivables pending to be collected. With regards to banks and financial institutions, the average rating of the banks with which we are currently working is “BB”. Depending on the credit risk, the company assures its customer sales by geographic location. If costumers have been graded independently, those grades are then used. In the opposite case, if there is no independent grade, credit control assesses the costumer’s credit quality, taking into account his financial position, past experience and a) Market risk other factors. Exchange rate risk: the Group operates worldwide and it is exposed to exchange rate risk due to operations with currencies. c) Liquidity risk At December 31, 2014, as well as in 2013, there are assets and liabilities in currencies other than the euro and consequently the A cautious management of the liquidity risk entails maintaiexchange rate variations of those assets and liabilities are incluning enough cash and negotiable securities, available financing ded in the profit and loss statement. by means of the needed amount of uncommitted credit lines, and the capacity to liquidate market positions. Price risk: the Group operates with raw materials partially exposed to the risk of variations in the price than these could Due to the dynamic nature of the underlying businesses, the have on the international markets. Group’s Treasury Department’s goal is to maintain financial flexibility by means of available short and long-term credit lines. 42 GRI Renewable Industries Performance Confidentiality “Information Is One and privacy of Our Main Assets, Protect It” We think that information, nowadays, has become a strategic asset for Information security businesses and people. For this reason, Under the motto “Information Is One of Our Main Assets, Protect It”, and our company has established the neas part of the Information Security Plan, a guide was designed in 2014 which cessary mechanisms to maintain inforsummarizes the general and specific directives which must be respected by all the mation privacy and client and supplier company’s employees as security is everybody’s responsibility. data protection, as well as to manage and properly treat the documentation This guide gathers all the recommendations and best practices about which we all according to its relevance level. must know, and must apply in our daily routine. It also includes a Security Decalogue with which all our professionals must comply. In order to reinforce security, informaSecurity Decalogue tion security procedures are reviewed periodically. In September 2014, a 1 Use the resources that the Group 6 Do not install or use software that new Information Security Policy and puts at your disposal only for prohas not been provided by the Group. the Information Security Plan were fessional use. 7 Learn about the Security Regulalaunched with measures that will be 2 Close the session and blocks the tions found at our Intranet. 8 Make sure you know who is accesgradually introduced and monitored, to equipment (computer or mobile guarantee ongoing improvement. device) when you are not using it. sing or connecting to your compu3 Only access the information syster and find out the reason why this tems for which you have proper person is doing so. clearance. 9 Save information properly so it 4 Protect passwords, keeping them cannot be used by unauthorized in secret and choosing one which is persons.. not found in the dictionary. 10 Report any suspicion or security 5 Make sure you have activated the incident to the IT team. antivirus. Do not open messages from unknown senders or execute unrequested attachments. Performance GRI Renewable Industries 43 3 People Page 46 Page 48 Our Professional team practices 2,059 Dialoge professionals Leading the Change new hires in 2014: INTRANET 499 Page 51 Page 54 Recruitment and Health and development of talent safety 59,748 Management system based on training hours OHSAS average training hours per employee 18001 28.8 average training hours per employee 16.6 Our Team “Our professionals are the key of our success” Distribution GRI Renewable Industries is made up of highly qualified proIn 2014, our team is made of 2,059 professionals from difessionals, which efficiently perform their work at the different fferent nationalities, distributed in Brazil, Spain, India, Turkey facilities. and South Africa. Most of our staff is concentrated in Brazil where two of our plants are located, and Spain, where our corOur team gives us a competitive edge that makes us unique porate headquarters and two other plants are located. among our competitors. They bring added value to all the processes through development. 89% MEN 11% WOMEN All our personnel is properly trained allowing us to reach the competitive level demanded from each position. This fact is reflected on the satisfaction level of our clients. Regarding our team distribution by age, 63% of our professionals are between 30 and 50 years-old and 33% under 30 years-old, so we have a balanced staff that offers us the enlightenment of their experience and the advantage of their dynamism. As regards the Management, it is 100% composed of men between 30 and 50 years-old. Personnel Distribution by gender and age ≤30 years-old >30 years-old ≤50 >50 years-old COUNTRY Men Women Men Women Men Women TOTAL EMPLOYEES Brazil 206 38 319 56 13 0 632 Spain 123 27 444 80 45 4 723 India 110 1 257 0 11 0 379 Turkey 170 3 116 5 1 0 295 South Africa 4 0 16 9 0 1 30 Regarding professional categories, 87% of our employees the remaining 1% correspond to the category of “Directors”. work as “Administrative analysts and operators”, 12% as “Department managers, middle managers and supervisors”, and Personnel Distribution by category Department managers, Administrative middle managers and analysts and operators Directors supervisors COUNTRY Men Women Men Women Men Women TOTAL EMPLOYEES Brazil 8 2 23 3 507 89 632 Spain 14 0 107 32 491 79 723 India 1 0 57 0 320 1 379 Turkey 1 0 6 2 280 6 295 South Africa 1 0 7 3 13 6 30 46 GRI Renewable Industries People Distribution by type of contract We promote job stability for our employees as we believe yees. As regards temporary contracts, most of these are in long-term relationships and in our professionals’ expesigned in Spain (86%). rience. That’s why permanent contracts are a priority here All our employees are hired as full-time workers except for being the current contractual status of 81% of our emplo5 women and 1 man (representing 0.2% of our personnel). Distribution by type of contract Brazil Spain India Turkey South Africa Men 538 319 323 20 285 Permanent Contracts Women 94 60 1 10 8 TOTAL 632 379 324 30 293 Men 0 292 55 0 2 Temporary Contracts Women 0 52 0 0 0 TOTAL 0 344 55 0 2 Diversity Employees with special needs 2014 We comply with the “Non-Discrimination” principle of the Ethics and Conduct Code, bearing in mind the importance of 0 Directors diversity in our staff and promoting local hiring to contribute 0 to the economic development in the areas where we operate. 2 Department managers, The different diversity indicators of the company are desmiddle managers and 0 supervisors cribed below: 33 Administrative analysts and operators 6 Employees with local citizenship 2014 Brazil Spain India Turkey South Africa Men 63% 100% 100% 100% 100% Directors Women 100% 0% NA NA 0 Middle managers, department Men 100% 67% 100% 100% 86% managers and supervisors Women 100% 94% NA 100% 67% Administrative analysts and Men 100% 95% 100% 100% 100% operators Women 100% 94% 100% 100% 100% *NA: Not applicable Remuneration Although the Ethics and Conduct Code of GRI Renewable Infor men and for women, we have detected a variation of 1.07 dustries establishes equal opportunities, after carrying out in Spain being this relation in the other countries equal to 1. a statistical analysis of the relation between minimum wage People GRI Renewable Industries 47 Professional Practices Dialogue and communication are paramount in our human resources management. Communication Employee representation We believe that dialogue and communication are key The rights and obligations of our professionals are gathered elements to manage our teams. Our communication model in accordance with legislation and other local requirements. is based on the one of an enterprise 2.0. Our company has 84% of our employees are covered by sectoral collective headquarters in 5 different countries with different time zoagreements or similar agreements. nes, and our team has to travel frequently. 1% belong to employees in South Africa where this formula is In order to make this task easier, since 2012 we have been replaced by its corresponding “Handbook”. This document is a relying on our corporate Intranet, “Leading the Change”, guide that gathers labor conditions, and contains the patterns whose goal is to boost the dialogue between the manaof conduct that adapt to the context and local legal requiregement and all the employees through social media with ments indicating the rights and duties of the employees in asapplications to share and acquire information and knowledge, pects related to selection processes, schedules, leaves, wages, facilitating teamwork and promoting pride of belonging. social benefits, holidays, etc. This network is used by our HR Department to communiRegarding the established minimum notice period to comcate relevant information such as organizational changes, municate operational changes to our employees, it is 6 days working calendar, training schedules, safety and health-relain Turkey, and 15 days in our offices in Spain. For the remaited information, etc. The e-mail is also used complementarily. ning plants, there is no procedure establishing a period to Several communication channels have also been activated communicate this sort of changes. to contact the Ethics Committee. These channels allow However, in the event of relevant changes, information is our employees to resolve their questions or report possible given to the affected group with enough time in advance as incidents or infractions related to the Ethics Code. During to allow them to act accordingly, always complying with the 2014, no related claims were filed. legislation applicable to each case. Percentage of employees 15% covered by 84% covered by 1% covered by local legislation sectoral collective handbook Sustainability information management Our company is present is several countries so there are different activity. This platform also facilitates the collection and consolidaprocedures and systems to report information. tion of data by means of an attractive interface, and it allows to attach evidence so posterior independent review processes are At the planning phase, it was found necessary to create a tool expedited. to properly collect, standardize and consolidate the necessary data and information regarding our financial, social and enviIn January and February 2015, training on the platform was ronmental results. carried out for 22 people in charge of reporting information and data. Training was treated in a practical way regarding the use In 2014, the sustainability team, in collaboration with CBI Conof the tool and making the information available for different pursulting, adapted their reporting platform to fit our needs in order poses. to resolve this situation. Specific indicators were defined for our 48 GRI Renewable Industries People Conciliation We believe that the conciliation of the production needs and the personal needs of our professionals is key as regards the creation of a work environment based on support and collaboration. Work at our plants is quite conditioned to the needs of the client and most workers follow concrete shifts, so flexibility is Company Foundation Day hard. However, efforts are made on a case-by-case basis to facilitate a balance between the professional life and the personal life of our workers. In Turkey, for instance, employees can enjoy a one-day paternity leave although this is not at GRI Towers India mandatory according to their current legislation. However, this possibility does exist at offices, offering flexiOn June 2, the “Company Foundation Day” took ble work schedules so each worker can adapt them to his/her place at the facilities of GRI Towers India. This personal life. event had all the employees working together to New measures are to be introduced in 2015 to improve the organize an open-house day for their families in orflexibility and conciliation of our professionals. der to commemorate the plant’s inauguration day. As regards maternity and paternity leaves for our professionals, the following leaves took place during 2014 with The approximately 1,200 attendees had the chantheir respective return-to-work rates: ce to visit the facilities and partake of the spirit and values of GRI Renewable Industries. Several recreaMen Women TOTAL tional activities were also held as well as a lunch for Number of people on all the attendees. maternity/paternity 70 10 80 leave Return-to-work rate The day ended with a special acknowledgement 87% 90% 88% after leave to the operators that had the lowest absenteeism rate in 2013. * No information available for India and Turkey. People GRI Renewable Industries 49 Social benefits Our goal is to contribute to the improvement of the quality of life of our professionals. We are a diverse company whose professionals have different needs. That’s why our social benefits have also a local scope. Brazil All our employees in Brazil enjoy the benefits of a life insuranIndia ce, health insurance and disability coverage higher than what 97% of the employees at our plant in India have a life insuranis legally established. ce and 78% possess a health insurance, both of which have a The health insurance benefits also cover the employees’ relahigher coverage than what is legally established. tives. In 2014, the number of beneficiaries went up to 1,622. All the employees can make use of the plant cafeteria for free, Brazil includes meals at the cafeteria as well as by means of and the employees working on the night shift (40 people) restaurant coupons. have a transportation subsidy. Furthermore, due to the distance of the plant from population centers, the company puts a corporate shuttle bus service at South Africa the employees’ disposal which is used by 97% of the emploThe employees at the offices in South Africa benefit from a yees. life insurance whose coverage is higher than what is legally established. The employees working on the night shift receiSpain ve a transportation subsidy. All the employees at the corporate headquarters of Gestamp Wind Steel and Gestamp Hybrid Towers (GHT) have life insuTurkey rance with a disability coverage higher than what is legally esAll the employees in Turkey enjoy the benefits of a health tablished. GHT also covers by agreement 100% of the salary insurance whose coverage is higher than what is legally esand not just the percentage established by regulation in case tablished, and cafeteria service. During the Ramadan period, of leave. the cafeteria service is replaced by a food pack. In addition, at GRI Flanges Iraeta, all the employees have a All the employees except the management (97%), have a pension plan (Geroa) linked with the metal industry agreecorporate shuttle bus service at their disposal to arrive at the ment in the Basque Country. plant. Office employees receive a gift card/voucher every year. In Spain, some employees, due to their activity, have an Furthermore, the directors benefit from a company car and teinternational travel insurance. lephone, and a private health insurance. Sports promotion at GRI Towers Galicia Practicing team activities contributes to the generation of stronger collaboration ties and relationships which improve, in turn, personal and professional relationships. GRI Towers Galicia co-sponsors a cyclist team mainly composed of personnel from the different areas of the plant in Galicia. The mission of the GRI Towers Galicia cyclist team is to participate as a team in mountain bike competitions. Furthermore, the plant has also had an indoor football team for more than 7 years. In 2014, it became champion of the Local Carballiño League winning promotion to the Orense Provincial League. 50 GRI Renewable Industries People Recruitment and development of talent We work toward preserving and developing our team’s talent by means of improving their training and qualifications, always considering promotion based on merits, competence and individual skills, from the selection process until the end of their professional career. Training Training contributes to the increase of our competitiveness Furthermore, the corporate project “Leading the Change Uniand production by means of ongoing improvement. A “traiversity” has been reinforced this year. The goal of this project ning plan” is designed every year to prioritize training needs is to promote, integrate and coordinate all the Group’s on site and the management of skills in our team. and online training activities. These have been the most outstanding ones: In 2014, more than 59,500 hours were taught on safety and health, production, quality, logistics, computers, finance and Ethics and Conduct Code professional competencies, reaching an annual average of 29 hours of annual training per employee (28.9 hours of average After the approval of the new Ethics and Conduct Code, a protraining for men and 30.0 hours for women). motional and training campaign was launched to spread it. The following table details the training distribution: The training was online and on site thus adapting to the needs of the staff. It added up to more than 1,500 hours of training and trained employees. Average Training per Accumulated hours per In addition, at GRI Towers Turkey this training was extended category hours employee to the plant’s physical security company, training 6 contractor employees who regularly work at our facilities. Directors 1,102 41 Department managers, SAP middle managers and 8,713 36 The IT Department organized training days on the SAP tool supervisors to teach the attendees how to extract all sorts of information from this software in order to increase efficiency and make the Administrative best of it. 49,933 28 analysts and operators This training consisted of an introductory general unit on baTotal 59,748 29 sic concepts of the SAP tool, and a second, more specific unit that dealt with each of the SAP processes in the company. 70 people received this training, which amounted to 1,200 hours. Average training our per employee Other local initiatives 41 Directors In addition, technical drawing and reading classes are promoDepartment ted in India; in South Africa, much in-house training has been 36 managers, middle managers carried out regarding the plant start-up. and supervisors Administrative analysts 28 and operators 29 Total average People GRI Renewable Industries 51 Performance assessment Selection and turnover In our selection process, we always look for the best candiAdministrative analysts and operators dates regardless of their gender, race or religion. We also proHere at GRI Renewable Industries, we carry out a periodical mote local employment. assessment of our plant personnel based on the so-called The selection criteria is defined according to academic and “versatility analysis”. This analysis assesses the skills and professional achievement and the needs of the company. knowledge of every employee to develop different tasks in In-house promotion always takes priority in order to boost the the plant. professional careers of the people that are already part of our This assessment gathers the capacity of every employee to team. develop different tasks, and their versatility in the plant. A preparation level is assigned to each task, and it keeps improving gradually from the learning phase up to the expert and trainer In-house promotion phase. We think that a good way to recruit and retain talent is by This system affords us a double benefit: on one hand, and deshowing our professionals that their positions are not static, pending on the workload, we can properly distribute the plant and that their condition can improve by means of an in-house personnel; and, on the other hand, it offers the possibility to recruitment and promotion system. develop different tasks, reducing monotony and allowing every Therefore, when there is need to cover some specific position, employee to grow professionally. the job offer is publish internally through various channels such as “Job Posting”, or our Intranet’s bulletin board for vacant positions. Middle managers and Directors The employment offer is made public only if, after some time, We are designing a standardized performance assessment and depending on the urgency, it is not covered by in-house system for all our professionals so they can keep track of their personnel. performance and of what is expected of their work. In 2013-14, the assessment system at our plants was not standard. Opportunities for young talents Additionally an assessment model was defined and pilot GRI Renewable Industries has an active scholarship program trials were run at some plants and categories. On the other in order to promote new opportunities for young professiohand, those plants that had their own assessment system, nals. continued with its application. This program is managed through several agreements with Our goal is to design and approve a performance assessimportant universities, business schools and academic cenment system in 2015 to assess periodically the efficiency ters. This gives young professionals the chance to do their level of the obligations, duties and goals for each position, in internships at our facilities to acquire experience. a qualitative and quantitative way. Correcting measures are Once expired the scholarship term, a contract is offered deestablished from the analysis of the results of these assesspending on their performance during this period and the ments, thus improving the quality of the work and employee needs of the company. satisfaction. This system will be introduced in 2016 for all personnel in a standardized way. Hiring During this year, 499 professionals have become part of our company. The highest increase in personnel has taken place in Spain and Brazil. Recruitment during 2014 is detailed in next page. 52 GRI Renewable Industries People Number of hired personnel ≤30 years-old >30 years-old ≤50 >50 years-old COUNTRY Men Women Men Women Men Women TOTAL CONTRATS Brazil 54 16 66 18 1 0 155 Spain 44 11 105 23 12 1 196 India 9 0 7 0 0 0 16 Turkey 70 1 30 0 0 0 101 South Africa 4 2 16 8 1 0 31 Leaves In 2014, we have registered 379 leaves, distributed as detailed below: Number of leaves ≤30 years-old >30 years-old ≤50 >50 years-old COUNTRY Men Women Men Women Men Women TOTAL LEAVES Brazil 69 9 70 15 1 0 164 Spain 19 6 59 11 12 1 108 India 3 0 4 0 2 0 9 Turkey 61 1 27 0 0 0 89 South Africa 5 0 0 1 0 0 6 Regarding the new 499 professionals hired in 2014, a total of 140 (111 men and 29 women) have left our comTurnover pany. The biggest mobility has been registered in the unOur turnover rate is 6% being quite among the different der 30 age group, with 69% of the exits. countries. For instance, the rate in Brazil is negative whereas in South Africa is quite high (as it is a plan in progress). People GRI Renewable Industries 53 Health and safety Occupational health and safety, a strategic factor for our company Health and safety management Roles and Responsibilities The occupational health and safety (OHS) of our workers is In order to apply and materialize these principles, GRI Renewaa strategic factor in the activity of GRI Renewable Industries. ble Industries counts on a Safety and Health Department which coordinates all the work on safety matters. In order to develop an excellent, responsible and integrated safety and health management, GRI Renewable Industries Occupational health and safety is essentially managed at has designed a Policy based on 12 principles, out of which a plant level. At each plant, we have a OHS Coordinator who, the following ones are highlighted: depending on the plant’s size and local needs, may work with the assistance of one or several Safety Technicians. In Brazil • To provide a safe and healthy environment at all our and Turkey’s factories we also have medical staff. Besides, ocworkplaces. cupational health and safety activities are fully integrated in • To integrate occupational health and safety in all our the production activities so these specialized employees are managerial processes. not the only ones with OHS responsibilities. In-plant duties The main tasks in terms of OHS which, according to the IMS, are managed from each plant are: • Risk assessment. • Accident investigation. • Safety inspections. • Establishment and planning of safety activities as well as their effectiveness monitoring and check. • Assistance to accident victims. • Health monitoring. • Preparation for emergencies. • Safety training and general training. We have an Integrated Management System adapted to • Information (work and safety instructions, and other inevery plant that sets up the main procedures in terms of quaformation). lity, the environment, health and safety. • To identify and assess legal requirements. The GRI Towers Brazil and GRI Towers Turkey plants are • Coordination of outsourced safety services, outsourced currently certified under the OHSAS 18001 standard. Certitraining agencies, audit agencies, etc. fying all our plants is not just a goal for us but one more step • Official communications with labor authorities for safety toward excellence as regards health and safety management. and OHS-related matters. • Elaboration, monitoring and communication of indicators. • Reporting and coordination with the corporate OHS team. • Preventive maintenance. 54 GRI Renewable Industries People Duties at the corporate office We have a Corporate OHS Coordinator and a OHS TechniIn 2014, we included a new indicator called “Safety Incian at the corporate office within the Human Resource Departtegration Index” (SII) which complement the traditional ment. Although local OHS coordinators report to the managers Frequency Rate (FR) and Severity Rate (SR). FS and SR to their respective plant managers, they also report functionally respectively represent the relative number of accidents with to the Corporate OHS Coordinator. leave, and the missed workdays due to such accidents with a subsequent sick leave. The main tasks of the Corporate Health and Safety Department are: In 2011, the GRI Renewable Industries Strategic Plan elaborated for the 2012-2014 period set up goals to reduce • To establish and develop policies, standards, proceduthe frequency rate below 34.1, and severity rate below 0.43. res, management tools and rules to improve the health At the end of 2014 the objectives were achieved by far. and safety conditions of our employees. • To audit and control health and safety at our plants. • To keep the Board of Directors informed on the health and safety status at the plants. • To warn the Board of Directors about business risks and • safety and health-related problems. To propose the necessary measures to control such risks Safety Week at and prevent them in the future. India and Brasil • To supervise the task of Prevention Coordinators at the plants. The Safety Week is annually celebrated at our India and Brazil plants. Its main goal is to raise awareness Until 2014 the headquarters’ control mainly focused on the accidents and incidents that took place at the plants. about safety and the importance of complying with the established requirements during our daily activities, in a Each time an accident resulting in a medical leave occurs, the festive atmosphere. plant manager immediately communicates it to the GRI Renewable Industries CEO, Chief People Officer and Corporate At GRI Towers India this event was hold from March OHS Coordinator. All the accident and incident investigations 4 to 11, where different talks, information sessions, traiat every plant are collected and reviewed on a monthly basis. nings and contests were carried out. A contest to choose Additionally, the plants report their OHS information with three the best safety messages and signs designed by emplofiles where the following data is detailed: yees was also organized. • Accident-related indicators: accidents, incidents, worked At GRI Towers in Brazil, the event took place from 25 hours, etc., for both internal and external personnel. to 29 August. The safety message was reinforced with talks, group dynamics, contests and a gymkhana. • Descriptions of accidents and incidents for their statistical analysis. • Other OHS indicators such as: Results from safety inspections. In-house safety communications. Training. Monitoring. Planning. Health monitoring. Disciplinary actions. People GRI Renewable Industries 55 Health and Safety Committees Safety training There is a Health and Safety Committee at every plant Safety training is a OHS tool as it enables the acquisition and which meets periodically to deal with safety-related issues consolidation of safe behaviors, and contributes to raising awaresuch as risks and accidents reduction, preventive planning, etc. ness among our professionals. This committee is composed of plant managers and safety In 2014, more than 34,000 hours of safety and occupational delegates who represent the workers. training were conducted, which equals an average of 16.6 hours per employee. The attached table shows the number of delegates and total members of the Health and Safety Committee at our plants: Brazil Spain India Turkey South Africa Number of committees 1 2 1 1 1 % of workers represented at the 100% 87% 100% 100% 100% committees Number of delegates representing 13 6 4 3 16 the workers Number of members in Safety 26 12 16 13 16 and Health Committees Safety Awards at GRI Towers Brazil At GRI Towers Brazil, the Health and Safety Committee assesses, every month, the number of accidents and hazardous behaviors and situations of each plant employee. The team registering the lowest number of accidents and incidents is awarded for its good performance, and a picture of the team leader is posted on the management bulletin boards. 56 GRI Renewable Industries People Health and safety indicators Accidents Comparing safety and health indicators is paramount to us in In 2014, no fatal accidents have occurred nor has any occuorder to promote ongoing improvement and to learn from the pational disease been detected. experience of other plants. Furthermore, a total number of 122 accidents with subsequent sick leaves have occurred, being 89% men, out of whom 121 were in-house employees, and 1 a subcontractor employee. Own personnel accidents by gender and country Brazil Spain India South Africa Turkey Own personnel M W M W M W M W M W Accidents with 28 2 58 12 12 0 0 0 9 0 subsequent sick leave Accidents without 66 13 98 13 39 0 0 0 17 0 subsequent sick leave External personnel accidents by gender and country Brazil Spain India South Africa Turkey External personnel M W M W M W M W M W Accidents with 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 subsequent sick leave Accidents without 6 0 1 0 2 0 2 0 0 0 subsequent sick leave Missed days per accident Missed days due to absenteeism The registered accidents have brought a loss of 1,403 workIn 2014, most reasons for absenteeism were “common illness” days. The average of missed workdays per work accident and and “personal leaves”. The average of missed workdays employee in 2014 is detailed below: per employee due to absenteeism in 2014 is detailed on the following table: Average of missed workdays per employee due Average of missed workdays per employee due to work accident to absenteeism Brazil Spain India Turkey Brazil Spain India Turkey Men 0.18 1.63 0.27 0.13 Men 0.81 5.83 1.85 2.10 Women 0.09 2.24 0.00 0.00 Women 0.68 6.28 6.25 0.75 TOTAL 0.17 1.72 0.27 0.13 TOTAL 0.79 5.98 1.87 2.06 People GRI Renewable Industries 57 4 Planet 4.1 4.2 Social Environmental Impact Impact Page 63 Page 64 Page 60 Creation of value Social action Our environmental in society management Our iniciatives and 292k€ collaborations Integrated Policy on Quality, Environment Economic Value and OHS Distributed Global compact ISO 14001 certified 100% Recyclable Steel Page 65 Page 69 Our environmental Climate change aspects and emissions Direct emissions Steel represents 97% of total consumption 55,017 tons of CO2 Direct energy consumption Indirect emissions 849,969 GJ 9,801 tons of CO2 Indirect energy consumption 11,518 GJ Other indirect emissions 4,492 tons of CO2 Investments We have indirectly contributed to avoid 101 k€ 339,303 tons of CO2 4.1 Social Impact Creation of value in society GRI Renewable Industries aims at the value creation in the communities where it is present. Boosting local economy Employment We understand that the generation of value is also to be Our activity contributes to economic and social develoapplied to employment as it is one of the most significant pment in the communities where we operate and to the boosts to local economies. generation of energy in an increasingly sustainable, profitable and eco-friendly way. In 2014, GRI Renewable Industries employed 2,059 professionals in a direct way, mainly in Brazil, Spain and Turkey. GRI Renewable Industries generates wealth by means of 499 of them were hired during the same year. Furthermoseveral mechanisms such as the jobs we create and maintain re, 81% of all the contracts are permanent thus contribuour purchases from local suppliers, and tax payments and conting to the consolidation of local economies. tributions. As regards indirect employment, the construction phase • 292 million euros of distributed economic value. of our plants is particularly important. In 2014, our new GRI • 2,059 direct jobs. Towers South Africa plant was finally built. During this process, 700 professionals were indirectly employed according • 37.7 million euros allocated for wages and other social to estimate. On the other hand, we have built a new plant in benefits. Brazil, GRI Flanges Brazil, which will start to operate in 2015. • 190 million euros on local suppliers. Lastly, we also generate indirect employment through our • 13.2 million euros on taxes. maintenance and operations activities which are carried out by subcontractors. Employment, in this case, varies according to the country and the plant. Local suppliers “Siemens Supplier The management of the supply chain at GRI Renewable Industries is carried out under the direction of the Corporate Award” Purchasing Department. Under this direction, and depending on its relevance, this management is divided into: One of our main clients, Siemens, acknowledges and • Raw material purchases: including steel and internal awards their best suppliers. This award is given accorwind tower’s components. ding to process optimization in the supply chain, tech• General purchases: including all the other purchases nological experience, sustainability, global presence and (investments, supplies and services). innovation. On the other hand steel purchases are, in many cases, bound In November 2014, the GRI Towers Turkey plant reto local requirements deriving from the country’s legislation ceived the “Best Supplier in Energy Sector” award and/or contract requirements by demand of our clients, which for the quality of their work performance and their susmeans that a high volume of these purchases is carried out tainable management. The award was collected by D. from local suppliers. Bulent Senturk (Plant Director) as part of the Supplier Just as it is summarized in Chapter 2, purchases from local Day agenda organized by Siemens in Istanbul. suppliers in the countries where we operate go up to a 78.9% of the total, which amounts to 190,584.02 thousand euros. 60 GRI Renewable Industries Planet Taxes Our Products and the Environment The municipalities or regions where we have our plants receiIn order to contribute to sustainable development, we aim at ve incomes from our activity by means of fees, royalties and efficiency at each and every manufacturing process. We work taxes. These contribute to the improvement of quality of life closely with our clients to apply the most innovative techniand services for local inhabitants. ques with the lowest environmental impact. In 2014, we have paid around 13.2 million euros in taxes as On the hand, our towers and flanges are made of steel which it is detailed below: is a 100% recyclable material. Turning waste into raw maTaxes Thousand of Euros terial contributes to the reduction of natural resources, and energy saving. Spain 3,932 Furthermore, our commitment to the environment entails the Brazil 8,343 indirect reduction of CO2 emissions as we contribute to wind Turkey 918 energy generation with our towers. Wind energy is clean and India 20 independent of non-renewable resources. Total 13,213 Just as it is explained in the chapter about the environment, our indirect contribution to the fight against climate chan* South Africa started to operate at the end of 2014, so it is not included. ge through the production of wind towers is estimated at 339,303 tons of CO2. Local collaboration with public Moreover, as part of our 2015 commitments, we would like to administrations highlight the initiatives aiming at curbing our CO2 emissions through reforestation and the acquisition of commercial elecHere at GRI Renewable Industries, we collaborate with public tric vehicles. bodies in an honest way to establish transparent relationships, as it is established by our Ethics and Conduct Code. These relationships have special relevance since they regulate energy policies in each country, directly affecting the development of the industry of renewable components at a local level. Planet GRI Renewable Industries 61 GRI Renewable Industries Organization Inaugurated its new wind membership tower factory in South Africa Our participation in associations and institutions is quite important since it allows us to keep track of trends relating to our activity, to participate in the inquiries, and to contribute to the establishment of a frame of reference. Our plants collaborate locally with the following associations: GRI Towers Galicia: • AICA. Carballiño Industrial Area Association. • ASIME. Galician Association of Metallurgical Industries. • AIMEN. Northwestern Metallurgical Research Association. The renewable energy industry in South Africa is in process of transformation. Aware of this reality, GRI Renewable Industries opened its first wind tower • CLUERGAL. Renewable Enegies Cluster from Galicia. manufacturing plant in Atlantis, Cape Town (South Africa), in November 5, 2014. The idea is to enhance clean and renewable energy in the country. GRI Towers Turkey: The goal of GRI Towers South Africa is to provide the market in South Africa • BOSB – Bandırma Organize with wind towers (it will supply more than 150 towers per year) thus contriIndustrial Zone. buting to the strong development of renewable energies in this country while we continue with our outsourcing model. • GTO – Gönen Chamber of Commerce. • BSO – Balıkesir Chamber of Industry. On the other hand, this new plant contributes to the boost and growth of the Atlantis area after a 20 million euro investment and hiring more than 200 • IMMIB – Istanbul Metal and Mining people. Exporter Commerce. More than 150 people attended the factory’s inauguration, more than what was initially expected. The ceremony was hosted by Christiaan Botha, the plant’s Country Manager and it enjoyed the presence of Javier Imaz (GRI Renewable Industries CEO) and the major of Cape Town, Helen Zilley, who stressed the great contribution of the Group to the area in terms of job creation and development. Finally, South Africa’s Minister of Industry, Rob R. DaGlobal Compact vies, stressed the important role the Group is playing in South Africa’s technoThe UN Global Compact is a global inilogical and industrial transfer. tiative that promotes the introduction Among the attendees, there were such personages as the Ambassador of of 10 universally accepted principles Spain in South Africa, the Consul of Spain in Cape Town, some of GRI’s main in the fields of human rights, labor regulations, the environment, and the clients and relevant companies of our industry. fight against corruption for companies’ In words of Javier Imaz, GRI Renewable Industries CEO: “With this factory, GRI business activities and strategies. consolidates its position in South Africa’s market contributing with our knowIn January 2014, GRI Renewable how and expertise to generate energy in a more sustainable, profitable and Industries joined the UN Global eco-friendly way. Thanks to this new project, we will also contribute to the Compact meeting all the necessary creation and preservation of local Jobs and to the development of South Afrirequirements to carry out the renewal ca’s industry”. of our commitment for 2015. 62 GRI Renewable Industries Planet Social action We are aware that our obligation as a company goes beyond financial results so, besides our local actions, we support the following initiatives: What Really Matters Foundation (LQDVI) World Central Kitchen (WCK) LQDVI foundation’s goal is to promote development, an WCK is an NGO whose mission is to find sustainable solutions to spread universal, human, ethical and moral values. On 6th to end food insecurity and malnutrition thanks to sustainable March, 2014 our company strengthened the commitment to food and local prosperity, centering on areas that suffer humaLQDVI becoming a “partner company”. This fact implies our sunitarian catastrophes. pport to the foundation in all their projects. Association for the Study of Spinal Cord Juan XXIII Foundation for Intellectual Injuries Disability AESLEME´s aim is to prevent accidents and their serious conJuan XXIII Foundation was created to improve the quality of sequences, to raise social awareness as to the problems peolife of adults with intellectual disability and to promote their ple face after an accident as well as to improve their quality of social integration. life, and provide psychological and legal support. Its main actions are aimed at organizing activities so that peoIt also offers support to multidisciplinary research of spinal ple with intellectual disability can learn how to develop and cord injuries and other neurological lesions. interact in their place of residence, as well as managing an adapted vocational training center and job hunting for disable people. Awards and acknowledgements In 2014, we have received awards and acknowledgements at our GRI Towers Galicia and GRI Towers Turkey plants. • IV Best Human Resource Practice Award for its cor• GRI Towers Turkey received a “Siemens Supplier Award”. porate intranet project “Leading The Change”, given by • GRI Towers Galicia was awarded at the Sports Gala of CEDERED. O Carballiño Town Council. Planet GRI Renewable Industries 63 4.2 Environmental Impact Our environmental management Our commitment is formalized through our integrated management system and it is reflected in our Quality, Environment and Health & Safety Policy. Our environmental management aims at operating through standard so they can meet the highest environmental manaall our processes in a more efficient, responsible way in orgement standards. der to provide more competitive and cost-effective products We must also bear in mind that both, towers and flanges, are which cause a lesser impact and are eco-friendly. This comessentially made of steel, so at the end of their service life mitment is formalized through our integrated management they can be recycled and recovered without losing any of their system and is reflected on our Quality, Environmental, and properties, thus causing a low environmental impact. Steel Safe and Health Policy. can be indefinitely recycled without losing quality; in fact, 150 By monitoring our consumptions, emissions, waste and spills, year-old steel is still being recycled nowadays. we analyze our environmental impact during the process phaPer each recycled ton of steel, the steelmaking industry saves se, and establish periodical improvement goals to minimize it around one ton and a half of iron mineral, 85% of water, 80% without affecting the quality of our products. of energy, and 95% of coal*. 50% of our facilities are ISO 14001 certified and our goal, for *Source: 2013 report on Steel Recycling in the Spanish Steel Industry – Union of 2017, is to have all our facilities certified under this Steel Enterprises (UNESID). The lifecycle of our products Inputs Raw materials Energy ProcesS Raw materials Logistics and Final disposal extraction Manufacturing assembly Use RECYCLING Outputs Waste and emissions Products 64 GRI Renewable Industries Planet Our environmental aspects We work toward optimizing our processes and minimizing any potential environmental impact from our products and services as much as possible. Raw materials Consumption Our main consumption is related to steel which makes 97% us that the purchased steel meets the Dodd-Frank Act requiof the total weight of our consumption. Due to its features, rements for conflict minerals, thus avoiding the financing of steel can be indefinitely recycled without losing quality. This armed groups whose actions attempt against human rights in contributes to a reduction in the consumption of natural resourthe Democratic Republic of the Congo. ces and energy saving, turning a by-product into raw material. The following table shows the mainly consumed raw mateFurthermore, as we are aware of our responsibility as regards rials during 2014: the supply chain, we collaborate with suppliers that guarantee Consumed raw materials Tons Brazil Spain India South Africa Turkey TOTAL Steel 55,439.57 106,715.30 9,325.50 1,000.00 23,943.10 196,423.47 Flux 406.16 525.35 12.89 450.00 102.54 1,496.94 Paint 646.34 1,499.04 102.06 0.00 38.59 2,286.02 Steel shot 212.00 100.50 52.55 0.00 35.00 400.05 Welding thread 406.63 549.36 111.85 272.00 131.21 1,471.05 Recycled Material Direct energy consumption (GJ) GigaJoules (GJ) The steel used in our processes is partly made of recycled steel. This composition changes according to the supplier and LPG 821,057.01 it is estimated at 20% approximately. Out of the 196,423.54 tons of consumed steel, 40,421.11 tons come from recycled Natural gas 20,981.19 steel. Propane 942.50 Energy Diesel 6,988.41 Our tower and flange manufacturing process has high energy consumption, especially of electric power. Indirect energy consumption (GJ) GigaJoules (GJ) The consumption at all our plants during 2014 is detailed in the attached table. Electricity 113,517.91 Planet GRI Renewable Industries 65 Energy efficiency • GRI Towers South Africa has installed motion detectors to control illumination at the factory more efficiently. As regards energy efficiency, plants monitor, analyze and propose actions that aim at improving efficiency and reducing • GRI Towers Galicia installed an energy monitoring sysconsumption, as it is established by the environmental manatem in February 2014. 49 check points with active surveigement systems. llance devices were located, a wireless network watcher In 2014, not many energy efficiency-related projects were and an interactive web portal for its analysis and control. developed. We highlight the following ones as examples: The goal is to develop future measures that contribute to minimizing consumption thus reducing CO2 emissions. Water consumption, disposal and spills Consumption Disposal We consider that water consumption is quite important as Most of the generated wastewater comes from sanitary use it is an essential natural resource which is increasingly vaniand, in a lower quantity, from facility cleaning. All sewage disshing. We carry out its monitoring and measuring in order to charges are carried out into the local sanitation network save achieve a sustainable use of it. the GRI Flanges Iraeta plant which dump into surface water. The water consumed at our factories is mainly related to Due to their features, both, GRI Towers Brazil and GRI Flanges sanitary and watering use (77% and 16% of the total conIraeta, have a biological wastewater treatment system. On the sumption respectively). Only 7% of it is used for industrial other hand, the GRI Towers India and GRI Towers Brazil plants purposes. In addition, our plant in Brazil reutilizes 2% of the monitor the physical-chemical conditions of the waste (pH, consumed sanitary water for irrigation of green areas. suspension, grease, oils, etc.). In 2014, 32,063.78 m3 of water from the public network has The volume of produced waste in GRI Towers Brazil is 18,000 been consumed, and 15,200 m3 of surface water at the GRI m3. The remaining facilities do not have sewage flow meter so Towers India factory, as it is described in the following table. this information is not available to us. Water consumption m3 Country Source Public Network Surface Water Brazil Public network 18,348.90 0 Spills Spain* Public network 7,584.88 0 Regarding spills, 13 spills have been registered in 2014 at our India Surface water 0 15,200.00 factory in Brazil and 1 at our factory in India. All have been properly dealt with. The estimated volumes are 376 m3 and South Public network 130.00 0 5 m3 respectively, and they correspond to oily water, oil, paint Africa and paint sludge. Turkey Public network 6,000.00 0 These spills have not been considered as significant as Total 32,063.78 15,200.00 their impact has not been relevant. * Information on headquarters not available 32% Surface water 68% Public network 66 GRI Renewable Industries Planet Waste Non-hazardous waste In all plants, 100% of the scrap and packaging waste (pallets, plastic and cardboards) are recycled. Metal steel scraps represent 89% of the total weight of our non-hazardous waste. It must be pointed out that scrap is a A summary of the non-hazardous waste produced at our by-product with a significant market for recycling and posterior factories is presented below: consumption. Non-hazardous waste 2014 Tons Brazil Spain India Turkey TOTAL Steel scrap 2,544.41 17,463.00 414.92 0.00 20,422.33 Metal (plates, sections, 154.80 0.00 0.00 544.35 699.15 flanges, aluminum, doors) Plastic 4.50 36.40 0.65 0.00 41.55 Wooden pallets or fores376.89 67.32 26.57 20.00 490.78 try waste Paper and cardboard 25.30 3.00 0.31 0.61 29.22 Organic/urban 114.80 51.46 0.00 0.00 166.26 Construction and demoli23.82 87.00 0.00 0.00 110.82 tion waste Other waste 3.42 23.30 0.00 0.90 27.62 Hazardous Waste Regarding hazardous waste, the most relevant one is the welding flux used at all our factories for this process. A summary of the main hazardous waste generated during 2014 is presented below: Hazardous waste 2014 Tons Brasil España India Turquía TOTAL Welding flux 500.98 492.00 12.89 148.05 1,153.92 Steel shot dust 200.15 146.88 0.70 0.00 347.73 Toxic metal containers 138.27 22.06 0.36 26.84 187.53 Toxic rags + EPIs 56.20 64.56 0.00 1.20 121,96 Metallized dust 19.87 0.00 0.00 10.79 30.66 Other waste 1.04 75.97 0.00 0.00 77.01 It must be pointed out that the GRI Towers South Africa factory There is no information about generated waste at our headstarted operations at the end of 2014 so there is no informaquarters either, although this information is not relevant. tion as regards generated waste. Planet GRI Renewable Industries 67 Our waste is properly segregated, identified, stored and Biodiversity managed via our licensed managers. All our plants are located at industrial parks, so the impact on 111 tons of waste generated at GRI Towers Turkey is not biodiversity is generally not too relevant. included as it was managed in another country. They repreThe following factories stand out due to their proximity to sent 0.7% of the total generated waste. protected areas: The different ways of managing the waste are detailed as compared to the waste total: GRI Towers Turkey Destination Brazil Spain India Turkey GRI Towers Turkey is 10 km from Lake Manyas at Gölüdür National Park. Recycling 23% 95% 0% 1% Energy valoriA summary of endangered species which may possibly live in 15% 2% 0% 99% this area is presented below: zation Intented for Common name Scientific name IUCN* 62% 3% 100% 0% landfill Great capricorn beetle Cerambyx cerdo VU Greek tortoise Testudo graeca VU Environmental expenses and Greater white-fronted Anser erythropus VU investments goose Red-footed falcon Falco vespertinus NT In 2014, GRI Renewable Industries has allocated €100,994. 07 for environmental investments, and has earned €4,720,894.20 Ferruginous duck Aytya nyroca NT from the sale of scrap and other waste/by-products. Cinereous bunting Emberiza cineracea NT On the other hand, it has not received any significant fine to * IUCN: International Union for Conservation of Nature. Red list categories. noncompliance with environmental regulations. VU: Vulnerable species. NT: Near threatened species. Our environmental expenses mainly come from waste management and in 2014 they amount to €415,572. GRI Towers South Africa This plant is located at an industrial area dedicated to the Environmental expenses “green industry”. In the northwest, it borders with two types euros of endangered vegetation from the north of Cape Town named Type of expenses 2014 “Cape Flats Dune Strandveld” and “Atlantis Sand Fynbos”. Expenses for maintenance of enviAs a correcting measure, once the plant was finished, the neironmental management systems, 11,276 ghboring area without any industrial activity was restored and legal requirement updates, etc. revegetated with vegetation of the “Atlantis Sand Fynbos” Waste treatment expenses 61,773 type in order to extend the life of this habitat. Waste management expenses 415,572 Anti-spill protocols have been established as preventive meaExpenses from measuring (atmossures for both plants in order to avoid any dispersion of poten17,431 tial pollution in the event of an accident. phere, waste, etc) Legionella control expenses 2,935 Total expenses 508,987 68 GRI Renewable Industries Planet Climate change and emissions We contribute to strengthen the role of wind energy in climate change mitigation. Context Climate change is one of the biggest challenges we face the negotiation of a future international agreement which is today. It is the biggest environmental challenge Humanity expected by the beginning of 2020. The goal of this agreewill have to tackle in the 21st century as it affects other facment is to make all the countries sign it thus making formal tors of global reach such as poverty, food security, economic commitments just as it was achieved with the Kyoto Protocol. development, population growth, sustainable development Around 25% of our worldwide emissions of greenhouse and resource management. gases currently correspond to the electric power industry In 2012, the world’s population reached the 7 billion. Accorand the heating industry. (IPCC, Climate Change 2014: Mitigading to UN projections, by 2050 this figure will go up to 9.3 tion of Climate Change). billion, and to 10.1 billion by the end of the century. This poIn light of this situation, many countries are developing enerpulation will mainly concentrate in city centers of developed gy policies oriented to energy saving and efficiency which, by countries. This increase will require more basic services and promoting renewable energies, may reduce greenhouse gainfrastructures, a higher consumption of resources, an inses to avoid serious consequences for our future generations. crease in the energy demand and, therefore, higher carbon dioxide emissions (CO2). This fact favors the development of the industry of components related to renewable energies. Therefore, GRI RenewaHowever, the risks deriving from climate change can be reduble Industries, as a manufacturer of flanges and wind towers, ced if mitigation measures are applied in the short term as contributes to strengthening the role of wind energy in these can have a significant influence on climate risks during the mitigation of climate change effects. the entire 21st century. (IPCC, Climate Change 2014: Impacts, Adaptation and Vulnerability). A summary of the status and policies before climate change in the countries where we operate is presented in next page. In 2015, Paris will host the 21st United Nations Climate Change Conference (COP 21). This conference shall be decisive for Planet GRI Renewable Industries 69 Status in Spain Status in Brazil Within the 20/20/20 framework agreeBrazil participates in all the internatioment for the reduction of greenhouse nal environmental debates, has joined gas emissions, the increase of enermany of their multilateral instruments, gy efficiency and the participation of signed the Kyoto Protocol and, in 2009, renewable energies respectively, the was one of the first countries to adopt member countries have defined mechavoluntary commitments to reduce the nisms to promote the reduction of their emission of greenhouse gases. emissions. It shows a remarkable interest to reach Current estimates regarding the comshort-term goals related to the reducpliance with this agreement show that a tion of deforestation and the consolida24% reduction in greenhouse gas emistion of a low-carbon energy mix. On the sions will be achieved, that renewable other hand, the National Energy Straenergies will make up 21% of the Eurotegy 2030 estimates a 143GW potenpean energy mix, and that energy effitial for wind production. This fact, along ciency will get near 17%. with the country’s protectionist policy for the development of local suppliers, As opposed to other European countries, offers a significant growth prospect for Spain stands out for dropping its political our factories in Brazil. support to renewable energies. Changes in their remuneration schemes and the current economic situation, have contributed to a notable reduction in the development of wind energy in Spain. Status in India Status in South Africa Status in Turkey The energy industry in India is experienSouth Africa takes the eleventh place Greenhouse gas emissions increased cing a significant change that is re-dein the ranking of CO2 emitter countries 3.7% between 2011 and 2012. Their fining this industry’s landscape, boosted essentially due to the fact that more plan is to continue increasing their by sustained economic growth and a than 90% of produced energy comes industrial network and services and, demand increase. from thermal power stations. It is trying therefore, their energy demand. to curb its greenhouse gas emissions Although Turkey has not made any The Government is promoting renewawith the development of numerous inicommitment of emission reduction derible energy projects and, particularly, the tiatives. ving from the Kyoto Protocol, it is indeed development of wind energy by means of tax and financial incentives, esOn one hand, through the public-prideveloping policies that promote inpecially in the areas with little wind vate (IPP REBID), it has reached an vestment in renewable energies with development. On the other hand, it has approximate investment of 10 billion the goal of reaching the 20,000 instaannounced a future plan for off-shore dollars in the last two years which can lled wind MW by 2023. projects. be appreciated in the significant development of renewable energy that has India could increase its annual capacity taken place in this country. by 5 GW in the next 4 to 5 years, according to data from the Global Wind Following this line, it has planned to esEnergy Council (GWEC), so an increase tablish a CO2 tax by 2016 for polluting in the sale of wind components is excompanies. In order to cushion its effect pected. in the industry, it proposes the possibility to compensate for carbon emissions by investing in projects to capture CO2. 70 GRI Renewable Industries Planet Speed shaft Our contribution to the fight Rotor blades against climate change Generator Climate change is one of the main challenges in the 21st century. In light of this real threat, GRI Renewable Industries contributes to the mitigation of this impact by means of Nacelle our products. Rotor hub We manufacture towers and flanges which are part of wind structures whose goal is the generation of renewable and Guidance sustainable energy, which does not issue greenhouse gases system to the atmosphere thus contributing to the mitigation of climate change. In 2014, we have produced a total of 1,259 wind towers distributed as shown below: Transmission Number of wind towers wires Country Wind Towers Brazil 548 Access ladder Spain 463 Turkey 183 India 64 Total 1,259 The distribution of towers for the construction of wind farms is diverse. The most important destination countries are Brazil, Turkey, Germany and France. Tower The proportional weight represented by the cost of wind towers manufactured by GRI Renewable Industries compared to the entire structure, it is estimated at 16.4%. Calculating the net annual operating hours of the turbines in the countries where our farms operate, the installed power, the conversion factor applied to each country and the towers’ percentage compared to the entire structure, we estimate that our contribution to the fight against climate change amounts to a total of 339,303 avoided tons of CO2 in 2014. Furthermore, as part of our commitment for 2015, we would Electric like to highlight our initiative to partially compensate for our connection own CO2 emissions through reforestation. Additionally, we will assess the possibility of incorporating electric bikes and vehicles in our workplaces. Parts of the tower Planet GRI Renewable Industries 71 Greenhouse gas emissions Here at GRI Renewable Industries, we believe that, by keeFor the calculation of our CO2 emissions, we have taken, ping track of our own carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions, we as reference, the emission factors from the International improve the communication of our impacts and obtain conEnergy Agency in accordance with the Green House Gas crete data that enable us to set up improvement goals. In Protocol (GHG Protocol) standard. the future, we plan to extend the calculation scope of our carbon footprint including purchases and the transportation of materials. Direct emissions (Scope 1) Indirect emissions (Scope 2) This sort of greenhouse gas emissions come from fuel burIndirect emissions correspond to those generated at electric ning during the production process (natural gas, propane and power plants as consequence of our own consumption. In diesel). 2014, these equal 9,801.47 tons of CO2. In 2014, 55,017.01 tons of CO2, have been produced which are distributed as shown below: Direct emissions Indirect emissions Tons of CO2 Tons of CO2 Country Emissions Country Emissions Brazil 53,424.20 Brazil 905.95 Spain 1,235.44 Spain 3,056.65 India 77.81 India 2,135.73 South Africa 2.29 South Africa 1,847.58 Turkey 277.27 Turkey 1,855.56 Total 55,017.01 Total 9,801.47 72 GRI Renewable Industries Planet Other emissions Other indirect emissions (Scope 3) This section gathers all the substances that damage the This sort of emissions has been estimated at a total of ozone layer and the emissions resulting from our processes. 4,491.93 tons of CO2 during 2014 considering the following points: Type (kg) Emissions Particles (PM) 115,960.0 • Employee transportation to the workplace. This calVolatile Organic Com5,810.0 culation was carried out through a representative survey pounds (VOC) of all our employees, and the data from corporate shuttle NOx 0.1 buses provided by the Human Resource Department. SO2 0.1 As a result of this, the estimated emissions amount to 2,833.59 tons of CO2. CO 0.4 Other ranges of atmos0.2 • Corporate trips by plane which amount to 1,656.83 pheric emissions tons of CO2. *No information available from our factory in South Africa as it has recently started operations • Train trips (only in Spain) with 2.51 tons of CO2. Additionally, the following emission fluxes were measured: • At GRI Towers Galicia: 52 mg/Nm3 of particulate matter and 72 mg/Nm3 of total organic carbon. • At GRI Towers India: 72.26 mg/Nm3 de material particulado y 48.80mg/Nm3 de NOx. Regarding substances that damage the ozone layer, it must be pointed out that refrigerants are used in GRI Towers Brazil and GRI Flanges Iraeta units. During 2014, these have not been refilled. The remaining refrigeration units belong to offices that are not managed by us. Planet GRI Renewable Industries 73 5 Annex Page 76 Page 78 Scope and coverage Independent of the report review report Verified by G3.1. PwC Guidelines of GRI Anual periodicity Page 80 Page 90 GRI Index Contents related to the Profile Principles of the UN Global Compact disclosures Disclosures on Management Approach Performance indicators Scope and coverage of the report Scope of the report This first report was elaborated in conformity with the GloA summary of the report’s content is presented below: bal Reporting Initiative (GRI) directives in their 3.1 version, • Information on our company’s structure and governance, and in compliance with the ten principles of the UN Global our corporate culture, dialogue with our stakeholders and Compact. findings from our materiality study, is presented in ChapThis report contains information on our performance, our main ter 1: Our Organization and Sustainability. economic, environmental and social impacts, and the opinion • Information on our current context and our management of our stakeholders, reflected on our materiality study during framework, our performance, including our products and 2014. Our intention is to publish this report on a yearly services, is presented in Chapter 2: Performance. basis. • Information about our professional team, our approach As indicated in Chapter 1, GRI Renewable Industries is the and aspects related to safety and health, is presented in trade name of Gonvarri Eólica, S.L. Chapter 3: People. The scope of this report includes all our plants and main • Information related to our environmental performance, offices, as it is summarized below: our impact on the environment and our contribution to • Spain: Headquarters, the Gestamp Hybrid Towers the fight against climate change, as well as our impact division, GRI Flanges Iraeta plant and GRI Towers Galicia on local communities, is presented in Chapter 4: Planet. plant. • Turkey: GRI Towers Turkey plant. The report provides information about our activities and ma• Brazil: The office in Brazil and GRI Towers Brazil plants. jor impacts of the 2014 year. The relevant facts of 2015 until No information is included on the GRI Flanges Brazil plant the date of publication of this report are summarized below. as it will start operations in the beginning of 2015. • In 2015 GRI Renewable Industries has reached an agree• Sudáfrica: GRI Towers South Africa plant. Partial ment with the Mitsui group to include it as shareholder information is included as it started operations in of its business unit specialized in the manufacture of November 2014. towers and flanges for the wind energy sector. Mitsui group acquired 25% of the company. • India: GRI Towers India plant. • On January 7, 2015 an accident at work caused the The scope of this report does not include our GRI Flanges death of an employee at GRI Towers India. The company China facilities (just in some chapters) because they are under conducted relevant research and actively worked in the integration. investigation and clarification of its causes. It also has For those cases where there is a different coverage and studied and implemented the necessary measures to scope to what was indicated, proper specifications have been prevent such accidents from occurring in all our facilities. provided. • In 2015 the new GRI Flanges Brazil facility started to operate and the construction of a new towers manufacturing plant in the USA is expected to start. In the 2015 report this information will be included with the appropriate details. 76 GRI Renewable Industries Annex Verification Process for the report Contact This report presents our main results and initiatives in 2014, The present report is available at our website: from the economic, social and environmental triple bottom www.gri.com.es. line standpoint, providing balanced, truthful and transparent Your feedback is quite important for us to continue improving, information. so we really appreciate all your comments. GRI Renewable Industries has a tool especially designed to For suggestions or questions, please go to: report information relating to sustainability which allows us to obtain consistent, thorough and traceable data. rsc@gri.com.es +34 913 791 900 These data and all the information collected in the present S/ Ombú 3, 12th floor Report have been reviewed by the independent audit firm 28045 Madrid (Spain) PwC, following the criteria and methodology establish by the ISAE 3000 standard. GRI has confirmed that this report was elaborated according to the GRI G3.1 directives at A+ application level. Annex GRI Renewable Industries 77 Independent Review Report 78 GRI Renewable Industries Annex Annex GRI Renewable Industries 79 GRI index Profile disclosures Complete information: IC Partial information: IP Not available: ND Not applicable: NA Ethics and Conduct Code: CEC GRI 3.1 Indicators 1. Strategy and analysis Page Status 1.1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization. 8-11 IC 24-25, 411.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities. 43, 60-61, IC 69-71 2. Organizational profile Page Status 2.1 Name of the organization. 14, 76 IC 2, 14, 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services. 20-21, IC 29-32 2.3 Operational structure of the organization, including main divisions, operating companies, 14, 17, IC subsidiaries, and joint ventures. 20-21, 76 2.4 Location of organization’s headquarters. 17 IC 2.5 Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries with either 2, 13, major operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the IC 20-21, 76 report. 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. 14-15, 76 IC 2.7 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of customers/ 14, 20-21, IC beneficiaries). 38-39 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization: • Number of employees; 3, 29-32, • Net sales. IC 36, 46 • Total capitalization broken down in terms of debt and equity and Quantity of products or services provided 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure, or ownership; • The location of, or changes in operations, including facility openings, closings, and expansions. 37, 76 IC • Changes in the share capital structure and other capital formation, maintenance, and alteration operations. 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period. 63 IC 80 GRI Renewable Industries Annex 3. Report parametrers Page Status 3.1 Reporting period (e.g., fiscal/calendar year) for information provided. 11, 76 IC 3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any).* 11, 76 IC *No previous reports. 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.). 11, 74, 76 IC 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents. 77 IC 3.5 Process for defining report content: • Determining materiality 24-25 IC • Prioritizing topics within the report • Identifying stakeholders the organization expects to use the report. 3.6 Boundary of the report (e.g., countries, divisions, subsidiaries, leased facilities, joint ventures, 76-77 IC suppliers). See GRI Boundary Protocol for further guidance. 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report (see completeness 76-77 IC principle for explanation of scope). 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced operations, and other entities that can significantly affect comparability from period to period and/or 76-77 IC between organizations. 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations, including assumptions and techniques underlying estimations applied to the compilation of the Indicators and other information in the report. Explain any decisions not to apply, or to substantially diverge from, IC the GRI Indicator Protocols.* *Specified in each point where it applies 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided in earlier reports, and the reasons for such re-statement (e.g.,mergers/acquisitions, change of base years/periods, nature of business, measurement methods).* IC *No previous reports. 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary, or measurement methods applied in the report.* IC *No previous reports. 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the report.. 6-7, 80-89 IC 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report. If not included in the assurance report accompanying the sustainability report, explain the scope 75, 78-79 IC and basis of any external assurance provided. Also explain the relationship between the reporting organization and the assurance provider. 4. Governance, commitment and engagements Page Status 4.1 Governance structure of the organization, including committees under the highest governance 15-17 IC body responsible for specific tasks, such as setting strategy or organizational oversight. 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer.* *The President is the executive president. IC 4.3 For organizations that have a unitary board structure, state the number and gender of members of the highest governance body that are independent and/or non-executive 15-17 IC members.* *The Board of Directors does not have any independent member. 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations or direction to the highest governance body.* 24-25, 41 IC *Ethics Committee communication and denunciation channels. Annex GRI Renewable Industries 81 4.5 Linkage between compensation for members of the highest governance body, senior managers, and executives (including departure arrangements), and the organization’s 15-17 IC performance (including social and environmental performance). 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided.* 16 IC *The composition and structure of the government and managing of the group is established by the company bylaws and follows the existing legislation about society aspects. 4.7 Process for determining the composition, qualifications, and expertise of the members of the highest governance body and its committees, including any consideration of gender and 15-16 IC other indicators of diversity.* *Board members are appointed by the General Assembly of Shareholders. 2, 12, 4.8 Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of conduct, and principles 18-19, relevant to economic, environmental, and social performance and the status of their IC 22-23, implementation. 41-43 4.9 Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organization’s identification and 41-43, management of economic, environmental, and social performance, including relevant 62-63, 64, IC risks and opportunities, and adherence or compliance with internationally agreed standards, 90 codes of conduct, and principles. 4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest governance body’s own performance, particularly with respect to economic, environmental, and social performance. IC *The performance of the members of the Board of Directors are annually evaluated by the General Meeting of Shareholders. 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed 41 IC by the organization. 4.12 Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the organization subscribes or endorses. 2, 41, 61, IC *Adherence of Gonvarri Corporación Financiera S.L, parent company of all societies of GRI 74, 90 Renewable Industries, to the UN Global Compact on January 8, 2014. 4.13 Memberships in associations (such as industry associations) and/or national/international advocacy organizations in which the organization:: • Has positions in governance bodies 62-63, 90 IC • Participates in projects or committees • Provides substantive funding beyond routine membership dues • Views membership as strategic. 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. 13, 24 IC 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage. 24-25 IC 24-25, 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type 38-40, 48, IC and by stakeholder group. 52, 54-56 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the organization has responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its 25 IC reporting. 82 GRI Renewable Industries Annex Disclosures on Management Approach (DMAs) Aspects Page/Justification Status Economics Economic performance 36 IC Market presence 14, 20-21, 37 IC Indirect economic impacts 60-62 IC Environment Materials 65-66 IC Energy 65-66 IC Water 66 IC Biodiversity 68 IC Emissions, effluents and waste 66-68, 71-73 IC Products and services 64 IC Compliance 64 IC Transport 73 IC Overall 65-68 IC Labour practices Employment 46-53 IC Labor/management relations 48-53 IC Occupational health and safety 54-57 IC Training and education 51,56 IC Diversity and equal opportunity 47 IC Equal remuneration for women and men 47 IC Human rights Investment and procurement practices 39, 41, CEC IC Non-discrimination 41, CEC IC Freedom of association and collective bargaining 41, CEC IC Child labor 41, CEC IC Prevention of forced and compulsory labor 41, CEC IC Security practices 41, CEC IC Indigenous rights *We don’t conduct our activities in areas where indigenous IC communities may be affected. This aspect is managed by the Ethics Committee. Assessment 39-40 IC Remediation *No incidents related to human rights or to the freedom of associa41 IC tion have been detected by the Ethics Committee. Annex GRI Renewable Industries 83 Society Local communities 60-61 IC Corruption Public policy 41, CEC IC Public policies 61 IC Anti-competitive behavior 41, CEC IC Compliance 41, CEC IC Product responsibility Customer health and safety 38-40 IC Product and service labelling 38-40 IC Marketing communications *The MARCOM department manages the IC communications, ensuring compliance with applicable law Customer privacy 41, 43 IC Compliance 41-43, CEC IC Complete information: IC Partial information: IP Not available: ND Not applicable: NA Ethics and Conduct Code: CEC 84 GRI Renewable Industries Annex Performance indicators Ind. Disclosure of management approach Page Status Economic performance Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, operating costs, employee compensation, donations and other EC1 36 IC community investments, retained, earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments. Financial implications and other risks and opportuniEC2 ties for the organization’s activities due to climate change.* 69-71 IP *No financial information provided EC3 Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan obligations. 50 IC Significant financial assistance received from government.* EC4 *The government is not present in GRI Renewable Industries 36 IC shareholding. Range of ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local minimum wage at significant locations of operation.* EC5 IC *Established in the respective Collective Agreements or Handbooks aplicables to each workplace. Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally-based suppliers EC6 36, 39-40, 60 IC at significant locations of operation. Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management hired EC7 47, 60 IC from the local community at significant locations of operation. Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services EC8 provided primarily for public benefit through commercial, inkind, or pro 71 IC bono engagement. Understanding and describing significant indirect economic impacts, EC9 60-62 IC including the extent of impacts. Environment EN1 Materials used by weight or volume. 65 IC EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials. 62, 65 IC Direct energy consumption by primary energy source.* EN3 63, 65 IC *Exact percentage of energy-savings not specified. EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source. 63, 65 IC Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements.* EN5 66 IP *Exact percentage of energy-savings not specified. Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy based products and services, and reductions in energy requirements as a result EN6 of these initiatives. 71 IC *The tons avoided correspond to a renewable energy production of 29 millions of GJ. Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions EN7 achieved. 66 IP *Energy saving percentage not indicated. EN8 Total water withdrawal by source. 66 IC Annex GRI Renewable Industries 85 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water. EN9 *No water source has been significantly affected by our activities. IC Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused.* EN10 IC *Not recycled or reused water takes part in our activities. Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, EN11 protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected 68 IC areas. Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services EN12 on biodiversity in protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value 61, 68 IC outside protected areas. Habitats protected or restored.* EN13 *Information about the size and the conservation status of the restored 68 IP habitat area are not provided. Strategies, current actions, and future plans for managing impacts on EN14 64 IC biodiversity. Number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species EN15 68 IC with habitats in areas affected by operations, by level of extinction risk. EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. 3, 63, 72 IC EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. 73 IC EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved. 71 EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight. 73 IC EN20 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions by type and weight. 73 IC EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination. 66 IC EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. 67, 68 IC Total number and volume of significant spills. EN23 66 IC *The spills occurred 2014 are not significant. Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed haEN24 zardous under the terms of the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII, 68 IC and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally. dentity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies and related habitats significantly affected by the reporting organization’s EN25 IC discharges of water and runoff.* *No habitat or water body significantly affected by own activities. Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, EN26 64, 71 IC and extent of impact mitigation. Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed by category.* EN27 64, 67 IC *Our products are essentially made of steel, so they are almost 100% recyclable. 86 GRI Renewable Industries Annex Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions EN28 68 IC for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations. Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials used for the organization’s operations, and transporting members of EN29 73 IP theworkforce. *Impacts related to the transportation of our products are not included. EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type. 63, 68 IC Labor practices Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region, broken LA1 3, 46-47 IC down by gender. Total number and rate of new employee hires and employee turnover by age LA2 53 IC group,gender, and region. Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or LA3 50 IC part-time employees, by major operations. Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender.* LA15 *Retention rate is not included, as 2013 information about maternity/paternity 50 IP leaves is not available. LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. 48 IC Minimum notice period(s) regarding significant operational changes, including LA5 48 IC whether it is specified in collective agreements. Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management-worker LA6 health and safety committees that help monitor and advise on occupational 56 IC health and safety programs. Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number LA7 3, 57 IC of work-related fatalities by region and by gender. Education, training, counseling, prevention, and risk-control programs in place to LA8 assist workforce members, their families, or community members regarding 56 IC serious diseases. LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions. 54-55 IC Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, and by employee LA10 3, 51 IC category. Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued LA11 employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings.* 51, 52 IC *GRI does not have management plans for career endings. Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career developLA12 ment reviews, by gender.* 52 IP *Percentage breakdown by gender not included. Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee LA13 category according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other 46-47 IC indicators of diversity. Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men by employee category, LA14 47 IC by significant locations of operation. Annex GRI Renewable Industries 87 Human Rights Percentage and total number of significant investment agreements and contracts HR1 that include clauses incorporating human rights concerns, or that have undergone 39-40 IC human rights screening. Percentage of significant suppliers, contractors and other business partners that have undergone human rights screening, and actions taken. HR2 IC *In 2014, this percentage is 0%. No screening regarding human rights has been performed to our suppliers and subcontractors. It is an objective to develop. Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning aspects of HR3 human rights that are relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees 51 IC trained. Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken.* HR4 IC *No incidents detected in 2014. Operations and significant suppliers identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining may be violated or at significant risk, and HR5 IC actions taken to support these rights.* *Not detected in 2014. Operations and significant suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor, and measures taken to contribute to the effective abolition of child HR6 IC labor.* *Not detected in 2014 Operations and significant suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor, and measures to contribute to the elimination of all HR7 IC forms of forced or compulsory labor.* *No incidents detected in 2014. Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization’s policies or procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations.* HR8 51 IC *100% of the security personnel of Turkey was trained on human rights, this training was not completed by the security personnel of the other plants. Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous people and HR9 actions taken. IC *No impacts detected as regards indigenous rights. Percentage and total number of operations that have been subject to human rights HR10 reviews and/or impact assessments.* IC *We haven’t performed any audit to suppliers taking in account this aspect. Number of grievances related to human rights filed, addressed and resolved through HR11 formal grievance mechanisms.* IC *No incident/complaint related to human rights was registered in 2014. Society Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, impact S01 24 ,60-61 IC assessments, and development programs. S09 Operations with significant potential or actual negative impacts on local communities. 68 IC Prevention and mitigation measures implemented in operations with significant S010 68 IC potential or actual negative impacts on local communities. Percentage and total number of business units analyzed for risks related to corruption.* S02 *Ethics and Conduct Code, guidelines of behavior when offered incentives, gifts or inviIC tations. The available information comes from the Ethics Committee. 88 GRI Renewable Industries Annex Percentage of employees trained in organization’s anti-corruption policies and procedures.* S03 41, 51 IC *This training was included in the Ethics Code course, performed by 70% of the employees. Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption.* S04 41, 48 IC *No claims or incidents have been detected regarding corruption. Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and lobbying.* S05 IC *No lobbying activities developed. Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political parties, politicians, and related institutions by country.* S06 36 IC *Our Ethics Code expressly prohibits funding of political parties, so no such contributions are made. Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly S07 practices and their outcomes.* IC *No legal action for those aspects received. Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for S08 non-compliance with laws and regulations.* IC *No claims or incident related detected. Product responsability Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services are PR1 assessed for improvement, and percentage of significant products and services 33-35 IC categories subject to such procedures. Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning health and safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle, PR2 IC by type of outcomes.* *No incidents have been detected in 2014. Type of product and service information required by procedures, and percentage of PR3 3, 29, 38 IC significant products and services subject to such information requirements. Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes PR4 concerning product and service information and labeling, by type of outcomes.* IC *No incidents have been detected in 2014. Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of surveys measuring PR5 38-39 IC customer satisfaction. Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary codes related to marketing PR6 41, CEC IC communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship.* Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorsPR7 IC hip by type of outcomes.* *No incidents or complaints have been detected related to this aspect. Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy PR8 and losses of customer data.* IC *No significant penalties or fines have been registered regarding this aspect. Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations PR9 concerning the provision and use of products and services.* IC * No significant penalties or fines have been registered regarding this aspect. Complete information: IC Partial information: IP Not available: ND Not applicable: NA Ethics and Conduct Code: CEC Annex GRI Renewable Industries 89 Contents related to the Principles of the UN Global Compact Principles GRI indicators Millennium Development Goals Human rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and EC5, LA4, LA6-8, Goal 1: Eradicate extreme poverty and hunger respect the protection of internationally LA13-14, HR1-9, SO5, Goal 2: Achieve universal primary education proclaimed human rights. PR1 Goal 3: Promote gender equality and empower women. Goal 4: Reduce child mortality rates Goal 5: Improve maternal health. Goal 6: Combat HIV/AIDS, malaria, and other Principle 2: Make sure that they are not HR1-9, SO5 diseases. complicit in human rights abuses.. Goal 7: Ensure environmental sustainability. Goal 8: Develop a global partnership for development. Work Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the Goal 2: Achieve universal primary education. freedom of association and the effective LA4-5, HR1-3, HR5, Goal 3: Promote gender equality and empower recognition of the right to collective bargaiSO5 women. ning. Goal 2: Achieve universal primary education. Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of HR1-3, HR7, SO5 Goal 3: Promote gender equality and empower forced and compulsory labour. women. Principle 5: The effective abolition of HR1-9, SO5 child labour. Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a EC2, EN3-12,EN18, precautionary approach to environmental EN26, EN30, SO5, PR1, Goal 7: Ensure environmental sustainability. challenges. PR3 Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promoEC2, EN1-30, SO5, te greater environmental responsibility. PR3-4 Fight against corruption Principle 9: Encourage the development EN2, EN5-7, EN 10, EN and diffusion of environmentally 18, EN 26-27, EN30, friendly technologies. SO5 Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including SO2-6 extortion and bribery. 90 GRI Renewable Industries Annex This report presents our main results and initiatives in 2014, from the economic, social and environmental triple bottom line standpoint, providing balanced, truthful and transparent information. The conversation continues at www.leadingthechange.com www.gri.com.es
