2014 Compact Fraport. Finance. Sustainability. Contents 01 Foreword 04 Fraport at a Glance 06 Highlights 2014 08 Situation of the Group 15/I Sustainability Program 2014 18 Traffic Development 22 Financial Development 28 Responsible Corporate Management 30 Employees 34 Customers 38 Noise Abatement 42 Environment 46 Community 50 Our International Airports 54 Imprint Reporting Principles Through the “2014 Compact – Fraport. Finance. Sustainability” report, Our reports appear annually in German and English and cover the we inform our stakeholders and the interested public of the economic reporting period from January 1 to December 31 of the respective development of the Fraport Group as well as its goals, activities, and year. The editorial deadline for this 2014 report was in April 2015. The advancements in the area of sustainability in a compressed form. We previous report was published on April 16, 2014. publish further information in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative standard (GRI) in a separate report in version G 3.1, including The information in “2014 Compact” comprises all of the Group’s the additional industry-specific indicators for airport operators, on our activities, products, and services, as well as all companies that we home page at www.fraport.de/sustainability. The GRI report meets have included in the scope of consolidation in accordance with the the requirements for “Application Level A+” and therefore fulfills the financial reporting regulations valid on the relevant balance sheet application level of the guidelines. date, as well as those that have a considerable environmental impact in this respect. As the largest site in the Group by far, Frankfurt forms The content of the report is chosen on the basis of regular exchange the focus of our reporting. More detailed information as to how we with our stakeholder groups and a comprehensive materiality analysis. collect data can be found in the GRI report. In this respect, we have defined the major areas of activity for Fraport and have positioned them in a Materiality Matrix according to their Where statements in this document relate to the future, these statesignificance for the stakeholders and the company. As part of the ments are based on a number of assumptions about future events and sustainability program, Fraport has set targets for all areas of activity are subject to a number of uncertainties and other factors, many of and defined measures to achieve these goals. which are beyond the control of Fraport. This may lead to the actual results deviating considerably from the forecasts and statements made Fraport observes and supports the ten principles of the UN Global in the report. Compact, develops and implements measures for their implementation and contributes to their recognition, including beyond the boundaries of its own company. Together with the GRI report, this publication also serves as a progress report with regard to the implementation of the ten principles of the UN Global Compact in corporate management. 2014 Compact Foreword 1 Foreword Dear Readers, Fraport AG helped millions of people to reach their destination last year; either via the Frankfurt hub or via one of our airports worldwide. Airports enable global mobility, promote the exchange of knowledge and culture, and are indispensable for a flourishing economy, both nationally and globally. Following the successful conclusion of the financial year, Chairman of the Executive Board, Dr Stefan Schulte, and Chairman of the Supervisory Board, Karlheinz Weimar, discussed the events of the year 2014. >>> 2 Foreword 2014 Compact Weimar: It’s hard to believe that Terminal 2 between our main customers, but there were Schulte: A positive contribution has certainly is already more than 20 years old. After all, also strikes at Fraport in security areas and in also been made thanks to fewer and fewer it had a forward-looking concept even back ground services. passengers suffering under the strict night then and was suitable for the new generation flight policy. Together with our partners, we of wide-bodied aircraft. Weimar: Nonetheless, we were able to report have made great strides and been able to a record number of passengers in Frankfurt significantly improve and stabilize processes Schulte: Yes, our Terminal 2 was designed last year. before the “11 p.m. threshold” – even if each for these types of airplanes in 1994, and toindividual grounded flight is irritating. day can also accommodate the Airbus A380. Schulte: That’s right. Almost 60 million The dimensions of aircraft have changed passengers translates to growth of 2.6 % – Weimar: That is true, but it is nevertheless considerably over time, and our long-term despite the strikes. We also need to point out, an encouraging development. This is not plans have paid off once again: while we however, that almost 60 million passengers the case for safety and security, however. used to welcome around 96,000 passengers in Frankfurt represent a major operational This is an area where we haven’t always had to Frankfurt on an average day, this figure had challenge, primarily in the peak summer a perfect result. risen to more than 160,000 by last year. This time around school vacations. On certain means almost 70 % more passengers flying days, more than 210,000 passengers used Schulte: This is an issue that will unfortunately each day. our airport. continue in 2015. The quality of security checks was found to be unsatisfactory in a Weimar: At these numbers, any disruption in Weimar: Accordingly, it was only reasonable test conducted by the EU Commission. The airport operations also leads to considerable that you further intensified efforts regarding measures required to improve quality were inconvenience for our passengers. our “Great to have you here!” program over taken immediately, but the waiting times at the previous financial year, and strived for a security checks are still not at an acceptable Schulte: Unfortunately that is true and cannot five-star service standard. We on the Supervilevel. We need to continue to work on this always be prevented. For example, around sory Board regarded with favor that passenger together with the relevant parties and authorhalf a million people were not able to make satisfaction was still very high for 80 % of ities involved. But we are working on another their flights or were delayed due to strikes in passengers, even despite the strikes and the issue as well ... 2014. This was largely due to disagreements high utilization of passenger areas. 2014 Compact Foreword 3 senger satisfaction that will suffer. This can be In any case, it’s still all go here, and not only solved through the construction of Terminal 3. in Frankfurt. The Group continues to grow, after all: with the acquisition of AMU Holdings, Weimar: We also discussed this topic intensely Fraport has taken over the center management on the Supervisory Board and adopted a numfor retail business of four American airports ber of resolutions. The two independent opinand as a result has established a first foothold ions forecasting further growing passenger in the USA. In addition, we were able to take numbers for the next few years strengthens our over the operator company of the airport of resolve. It is very positive, but forces us to take Slovenia’s capital city, Ljubljana. action. The approvals are there, the plans are well advanced. As Fraport AG’s largest shareSchulte: Yes, we expanded our international holder, the State Government has also since portfolio considerably in 2014. The integrapublished its review report of the expansion tion phase for the new additions to our Fraport project. In a special meeting of the Supervisory Group is now underway, and the aim will then Board in April, we discussed Terminal 3 again be to develop the investments successfully. and decided on construction. Among these acquisitions are our plans in Greece. There, we are working on concluding Schulte: The State Government’s reports the contract for the operation of 14 regional provide quality assurance, and of course we airports, which we are expecting for the end analyzed them extensively. They confirm our of 2015/start of 2016. basic assumptions. With the renewed resolution by the Supervisory Board to construct Weimar: These are interesting developments Dr Stefan Schulte Terminal 3, initial civil engineering will start in which are also described in detail in our annual Chairman of the Executive Board 2015. Fortunately, we have an excellent team report. I initially found it hard to forgo having of employees we can rely on to implement the a printed version. Karlheinz Weimar project. It’s a strength that also distinguishes Chairman of the Supervisory Board our company in many other areas at home and Schulte: It’s undoubtedly unusual, but a abroad. This team will do everything to ensure sensible step. The annual report keeps getting that Terminal 3 becomes a calling card for the more and more extensive, while the demand Rhine-Main Region and far beyond. It will raise for printed versions has been decreasing customer service and the passenger experisharply. We have gone down a different ence to a new level. The numerous options for path and now offer the complete report in energy-efficient construction are an important electronic form only. At the same time, we added benefit, helping us to achieve our goals have brought together the major topics of in environmental management. In energy the sustainability and annual report in a conWeimar: ... Do you mean noise abatement? management, we are certainly addressing densed form. We will offer a printed version of There have been considerable advancements our existing buildings and systems as well, for the new format of “2014 Compact – Fraport. over the past few years in this area. example, by using LED technology. Finance. Sustainability” report. We will also publish further information in accordance Schulte: Yes, we have played a leading role Weimar: Nevertheless, we have set ambitious with the Global Reporting Initiative standard worldwide here, including in our responsibilinternal targets in the approved business (GRI) in a separate report on our website. Toity to our neighbors. Together with the Gerplan. It shows how much the company can gether, the reports also describe the progress man Air Navigation Services and Lufthansa, do under its own steam. achieved in terms of the 10 principles of the the innovative ground-based augmentation UN Global Compact, which we have expressly system GBAS was introduced, which will Schulte: We have made good headway here recognized since 2007. I am confident that help to refine approach and takeoff routes. in recent years. Earnings in 2014 met expectathese changes will be well-received by our The initial test phases for the new noise break tions. With EBITDA of some €790 million and stakeholders. models will start in 2015. Aircraft movements EBIT of around €483 million, we once again will be bundled on certain takeoff and landing significantly surpassed the previous year’s runways or departure and arrival routes in figures – as announced. The Group result such a way that there will be breaks from the also reported an increase of €252 million. noise for people living in the vicinity of the The important free cash flow also continues routes not being used. Overall, we have strict to develop in the right direction. The positive demands when it comes to noise abatement, development will continue in 2015. also because there are always new methods that need to be tested. But we are moving in Weimar: In the Supervisory Board, we have the right direction. recognized the positive development and have reflected it in the dividend proposal to However, we are not satisfied with gate availthe AGM. After four years without an increase, ability and the proportion of bus boardings, the shareholders can now look forward to a 10 especially for intercontinental flights. We need cent increase to €1.35 per share held. to take action here, or it’s not only our pas4 Fraport at a Glance 2014 Compact Fraport at a Glance 20,395 people were employed by Fraport on average in 2014. Boston Cleveland Pittsburgh Baltimore Fraport (hereinafter also referred to as: the The Group companies included in accordance Fraport Group or “our” Group) is among the with IFRS and their 20,395 employees generleading global airport operators with its interated revenue amounting to €2,394.6 million national portfolio of airport and airport-related and EBITDA of €790.1 million. Including furinvestments. The Group encompasses all ther investments, Fraport generated a Group services of airside and terminal operation and result of €251.8 million in 2014. While the associated services. The further development Frankfurt site made up around two-thirds of of airports into integrated mobility, event, and the earnings, Fraport generated around onereal estate locations additionally represents third outside of Frankfurt. a broad revenue and earnings basis for the Group. Through successful acquisitions, Fraport expanded the Group with the new investments Lima The Group’s key driver of revenue and of AMU Holdings Inc. in the USA and the airearnings is Frankfurt Airport, one of the port of Slovenia’s capital city of Ljubljana over largest passenger and cargo airports in the the previous financial year. While the investworld. In contrast to time-limited concession ments held by AMU Holdings Inc. operate and models, the Fraport Group parent company, develop commercial terminal areas at the four Fraport AG Frankfurt Airport Services WorldUS airports in Pittsburgh, Boston, Baltimore, wide (hereinafter: Fraport AG), wholly owns and Cleveland via concession agreements, and operates Frankfurt Airport with no time the investment at Ljubljana Airport comprises limits. In addition to Frankfurt, Fraport was all services of airside and terminal operation active at a further 14 airports on four contiat the site. nents at the end of 2014. 2014 Compact Fraport at a Glance 5 €790.1 million Airport investments EBITDA achieved by the company in 2014. Retail concessions AMU Holdings Inc. St. Petersburg Hanover Frankfurt Burgas Varna Ljubljana Antalya Xi’an Delhi Dakar €251.8 million Group result increased by 6.8 %. 6 Highlights 2014 2014 Compact Highlights 2014 APR AUG “E-PORT AN” wins GreenTec Award Fraport acquires AMU Holdings Inc. The joint project of Fraport, Lufthansa, the State of Hesse, and the In August, Fraport acquired 100 % of the shares in AMU Holdings “E-PORT AN” Rhine-Main electromobility model region won the Inc., USA. The investments held by AMU Holdings Inc. operate and GreenTec Award in the air traffic category in April. The goal of the develop commercial terminal areas at the 4 US airports in Pittsburgh, various projects bundled under “E-PORT AN” is to reduce ground Boston, Baltimore, and Cleveland via concession agreements. This emissions when handling aircraft on the ground at Frankfurt Airport acquisition is Fraport’s first step on the North American airport market. by using electric vehicles and drive technologies. The GreenTec Award is Europe’s largest environmental and business award. 6,114,305 passengers MAY In August, more than 6 million passengers were transported in a single month for the first time in the history of Frankfurt Airport. In comparison to the previous month, this was an increase of 5.4 %. Overall, the limit of 200,000 passengers per day was exceeded 13 times in August – this value had previously only been exceeded on Fraport shareholders decide upon €1.25 dividend per share 4 days in the history of the airport. The day with the highest number of passengers was August 17, 2014, which saw 210,599 air passengers. At the 13th AGM, the shareholders ratified the Executive Board and Supervisory Board with a large majority for financial year 2013 (99.94 % and 99.88 % respectively). In addition, they approved the dividend Building permit for Terminal 3 granted recommendation of €1.25 per share. The building application for Terminal 3 in Frankfurt was approved on August 12. In the first phase of construction, a central terminal JUN building with 2 piers and an annual capacity of 14 million passengers is planned. Fraport expects to bring the first construction phase into operation in 2022. SEP “Diverse business!” Under the banner of “Diverse business!”, the 2nd German diversity day took place nationwide on June 3. As part of an in-house fair, employees received information about the six aspects of “diversity”: age, gender, culture, religion, disability/inclusion, and sexual orientation. “GBAS” approach system implemented On September 3, Frankfurt implemented its satellite-supported, ground-based augmentation system (GBAS) in conjunction with the German Air Navigation Services and Lufthansa. GBAS facilitates satellite-supported precision landings at an international air traffic hub in Europe for the first time. In the long term, the new landing system should also enable segmented approaches – with the goal of further noise abatement in the region. Highlights 2014 7 OCT Shares acquired in Ljubljana Airport In October, Fraport acquired 75.5 % of the shares in the listed company Aerodrom Ljubljana, d.d. for a price of €177.1 million. The company May 20, 2014 operates the airport of Slovenia’s capital city of Ljubljana. Through 13th AGM an associated takeover offer and a squeeze-out procedure, Fraport in Frankfurt Jahrhunderthalle acquired 97.99 % of the company’s shares by the balance sheet date. Service Champion FRA In the ranking of a total of 1,500 companies and institutes – evaluated on the basis of a million customer ratings – Frankfurt Airport again achieved a gold medal rating and was industry leader among major German airports for the second year in a row. Two-thirds of customers surveyed felt that they had received very good service during their stay at FRA. Casa program ended At the end of the application deadline on October 31, Fraport achieved a positive balance sheet from the voluntary real estate purchase program, Casa. As part of the program, Fraport purchased residential properties in the vicinity of the airport that were on the flight path of particularly low-altitude flyovers (i.e. less than 350 meters), or paid June 3, 2014 compensation to the owners. Fraport bought 250 residential units by 2nd German Diversity Day the end of 2014. In addition, a total of 122 compensation payments were made in Raunheim, with this number previously being 144 in Flörsheim. Further applications are still being processed. NOV Contract for Greek regional airports In November, Fraport and the Copelouzos Group were both named as the preferred investors for two concession agreements to operate 14 regional airports in Greece. The 40-year agreements comprise the mainland airports of Thessaloniki, Aktio, and Kavala, and the island airports of Chania on Crete, Kefalonia, Kerkyra on Corfu, Kos, Mykonos, Lesbos, Rhodes, Samos, Santorini, Skiathos, and Zakynthos. The purchase price for the concessions is made up of a one-time payment in the amount of €1,234 million as well as an annual minimum concession payment of €22.9 million plus an inflation-dependent adjustment. The consortium in which Fraport holds the majority interest is also August 12, 2014 obliged to invest in the airports. At the time of the editorial deadline, Building permit for Terminal 3 granted Fraport is assuming that the transaction will be concluded and that operation of the airports will begin at the end of 2015/start of 2016. 8 Situation of the Group 2014 Compact Situation of the Group Division of management and control Fraport AG is a public company limited by and makes decisions concerning the tasks shares (Aktiengesellschaft) in accordance assigned to it by law, such as the appropriation with German law – with the management and of profits, election and approval of the actions control being divided over 2 independent of the members of the Supervisory Board, and bodies (two-tier board). While Fraport’s Exapproval of the actions of the Executive Board. ecutive Board is responsible for management Each share entitles the owner to one vote. The and leads the Group, the Supervisory Board shareholders can exercise their voting right monitors this activity. themselves or via an authorized third party. There are no differing classes of shares. The Executive Board, which is appointed by the Supervisory Board, was composed of the 4 members Dr Stefan Schulte (Chairman), Anke Giesen (Operations), Michael Müller (Director of Labor Relations), and Dr Matthias Shareholder structure Zieschang (Controlling and Finances) at the in % end of 2014. In accordance with German law, the Supervisory Board consists of 20 members and is elected equally by the shareholders and 35.31 Free Float the employees of the company. In the event of a tie vote in Supervisory Board resolutions, 31.35 the Chairman of the Supervisory Board, who State of Hesse must be from among the shareholder repre4.87 sentatives, is entitled to a second vote. RARE Infrastructure Limited 20.02 Stadtwerke As an additional decision-making and superFrankfurt am Main visory body, the shareholders of Fraport AG 8.45 Holding GmbH Deutsche exercise their right to a voice and a vote at Lufthansa AG the AGM. The ordinary AGM of Fraport AG is held in the first 6 months of the financial year Overview of Group management and control > appoints members > controls Executive Board Supervisory Board Fraport (management body) (control body) employees > reports to > elect 50 % of the Supervisory Board > reports to > ratifies the Executive Board and the > authorized to convene Supervisory Board > sets the agenda and > elects 50 % of the Supervisory Board proposes resolutions > adopts resolutions regarding amendments to the company statutes > selects the auditor > adopts resolutions regarding the appropriation of profits Annual General Meeting (1 share = 1 vote) 2014 Compact Situation of the Group 9 The Fraport Executive Board 92,342,748 shares were in circulation on the reporting date December 31, 2014. (from left) More than Dr. Matthias Zieschang Executive Director Controlling and Finance Born in 1961, appointed until March 31, 2017 82 million Dr. Stefan Schulte Chairman of the Executive Board voting rights were exercised at the AGM 2014 Born in 1960, appointed until August 31, 2019 on the individual agenda items. Anke Giesen Executive Director Operations Born in 1963, appointed until December 31, 2017 Michael Müller Executive Director Labor Relations Born in 1957, appointed until September 30, 2017 99.88 % The Fraport of votes cast at the AGM 2014 ratified by the Supervisory Board. Supervisory Board Representatives Representatives of the shareholders of the employees Karlheinz Weimar Gerold Schaub (Chairman) (Vice-Chairman) Uwe Becker Claudia Amier Kathrin Dahnke Devrim Arslan Peter Feldmann Hakan Cicek Peter Gerber Dr Roland Krieg 99.94 % Dr Margarete Haase Mehmet Özdemir Frank-Peter Kaufmann Arno Prangenberg Lothar Klemm Hans-Jürgen Schmidt Michael Odenwald Werner Schmidt of votes in 2014 ratified by the Executive Board. Prof. Dr Katja Windt Edgar Stejskal 10 Situation of the Group 2014 Compact 1 Group = 4 segments For transparent controlling, the Executive The “Ground Services” strategic business unit Board has divided the Group into 4 segas well as the associated Group companies ments: “Aviation”, “Retail & Real Estate”, form the core business of the Ground Han“Ground Handling”, and “External Activities dling segment. In 2014, the segment gener& Services”. ated most of its income through the provision of ground services and central infrastructure The Aviation segment comprises the strategic at the Frankfurt site. business units “Airside and Terminal Management, Corporate Safety, and Security” as The External Activities & Services segment 62.7 % well as “Airport Security Management”, and primarily includes the central “Global Inprimarily operates at the Frankfurt site. The vestments and Management” area. This is core business of the segment is the construcresponsible for all Group companies that are of the Group result tion and operation of airport infrastructure in not integrated into business processes at the is generated in Germany. Frankfurt. The segment refinances the resultFrankfurt site and are also referred to as “exing costs of capital through regulated airport ternal business” based on corporate history. charges, which are primarily composed of Depending on the involvement of Fraport passenger fees as well as takeoff and landing AG, external business is also shown under charges. The costs for aviation security seroperating result figures (consolidated) or is vices are charged to the Federal Police as a included in the financial result of the Group or sovereign activity. In addition to the Frankfurt Fraport AG accordingly. In addition to external site, the segment generates further revenue at business, the segment comprises the service Stuttgart Airport through its subsidiary FraSec areas of “Facility Management”, “Information (Fraport Security Services). and Telecommunications”, as well as “Central Infrastructure Management”, which operate The Retail & Real Estate segment consists of exclusively at the Frankfurt site. the strategic business unit “Retail and Properties”. It primarily operates retailing activities, In addition to the segments, 12 central units renparking facility management, and the rental der Group-wide services, among other things, and marketing of real estate at the Frankfurt such as “Corporate Compliance, Risk, and site. In the previous financial year, the Retail & Values Management”, “HR Top Executives”, Real Estate segment only generated income or “Finance and Investor Relations”. The costs in and around the Frankfurt site. of the central units are distributed across the 4 segments as appropriate. Segment structure Fraport Aviation Retail & Real Estate Ground Handling External Activities & Services > Airside and Terminal > Retail and Properties > Ground Services > Global Investments and Management Management, Corporate Safety, > Information and Telecommunications and Security > Facility Management > Airport Security Management > Corporate Infrastructure Management Revenue: €884.2 million Revenue: €455.7 million Revenue: €656.2 million Revenue: €398.5 million EBITDA: €236.9 million EBITDA: €356.5 million EBITDA: €44.3 million EBITDA: €152.4 million EBIT: €115.5 million EBIT: €275.0 million EBIT: €7.5 million EBIT: €84.8 million Allocated earnings: > 90 % at Frankfurt site > 90 % external business 2014 Compact Situation of the Group 11 Strategy oriented toward long-term market development Risk and opportunities management The Group strategy is oriented toward the The Fraport Group has established a comprelong-term forecasted development of the hensive, Group-wide risk and opportunities global aviation market and its market trends. management system, which makes it possible Despite short-term negative effects from for risks to be identified and analyzed at an political and economic crises, the financially early stage, and to control and limit those risks uncertain situation of various airlines, and using appropriate measures. Opportunities unilateral national and international burdens management helps companies to recognize from legislation, aircraft manufacturers, and opportunities at an early stage. Risk and aviation associations expect long-term stable opportunities management is a continuous growth rates in the aviation market. system with defined notification thresholds, and at the same time comprises risks that This forecast is derived from expected global result from compliance violations. economic growth as well as the growth of the middle class throughout the world. The Further information on risk and opportunicontinuing internationalization of work and ties management can be found in the most education continues to support this. An increase in traffic is also to be assumed as a result of expected sustained migration and tourism. recent annual report at www.fraport.de in the “Investor Relations” section. The risk and opportunities report also contains an +4.1% Air traffic is set to develop disproportionately overview of the company’s major risks and average expected worldwide well in emerging companies in Asia/Pacific, opportunities, assessments of the probability passenger growth p.a. until 2031 Latin America, Africa, and the Middle East. of occurrence, and possible financial conse(Forecast of Airports Council International) quences of the risks. As a result, Fraport has a broad international presence and, in addition to the mega hub in Frankfurt, operates a number of international airports in dynamic economic regions and airports that primarily serve tourist traffic. Agenda 2015 Utilize Growth Potentials Strengthen Increase Secure Profitability Customer Satisfaction Sustainability Manage Capital Expenditure The long-term stable growth forecasts and varying short-term framework conditions present strategic challenges for Fraport. The Executive Board has summarized these challenges into the five areas of “Manage Capital Expenditure”, “Strengthen Profitability”, “Increase Customer Satisfaction”, “Secure Sustainability” and “Utilize Growth Potentials”. Further information on the Fraport Group’s strategy can be found in the most recent annual report at www.fraport.de in the “Investor Relations” section. 12 Situation of the Group Stakeholder dialog Airports are of great interest to the public. Lars Mosdorf They give rise to regular industrial and political Head of Remuneration and Concessions debates; of course, this is also the case for Frankfurt Airport. As operator of one of the As Head of Remuneration and Concessions, largest hubs in Europe, Fraport AG is caught Lars Mosdorf holds consultation meetings between between the crossfires of a number of very Fraport and airlines. different demands. For some of our stakeholders, global challenges such as climate change are at the forefront of discussion, while aircraft noise is the most important issue for many people in the vicinity of airports. Other groups of persons pose questions regarding the economic value creation of the airport and its competitiveness, as well as the retention and creation of more secure and attractive jobs. The things asked of us are extremely varied and sometimes incompatible or even contradictory. We are able to implement many suggestions, but not all of them. We are nevertheless convinced that the exchange of information contributes to mutual understanding and the processing of solutions that find broad acceptance. Through its stakeholder dialog activities derived from the company’s most relevant areas of activity as defined in the Materiality Matrix (p. 14), Fraport is actively targeting all of the “Of course, airlines are one of our most important customer company’s major stakeholder groups. These include passengers and airport visitors, busigroups as an airport operator. In order to always be able ness partners, potential investors and owners, the public, politicians, and authorities. Particto closely coordinate all relevant operational and strategic ular attention is paid to neighbors of our sites affected by aircraft noise and the more than issues, we remain in constant exchange with them. For ex78,000 employees (as of 2012) at Frankfurt Airport, the largest workplace in Germany, ample, we consult with users on the topic of airport charges including in particular Fraport employees for whom we are directly responsible. The Fraport each year. In addition, further working group meetings are Group also stays in intensive contact with its main customers, the airlines, in order to held. An external authority, in our case the Ministry of Ecoregularly exchange information on a variety of issues and coordinate operational measures. nomics of the State of Hesse, approves the airport charges We see dialog as an important instrument for in accordance with Section 19b of the German Air Traffic us to obtain suggestions for the strategic direction of the company and indications for risk Act. This means that we can demonstrate institutionalized management. As a “learning organization”, we also focus on advancements in science liaisons and a transparent exchange of information with and technology. this group of customers.” 2014 Compact Situation of the Group 13 Major stakeholder groups Authorities Airlines Airport neighbors Passengers Business partners Politics Noise abatement Customers Airport Region visitors Hesse Our dimensions Stadtwerke Associations Community of sustainability Owners Frankfurt Foundations Investors Environment Employees NGOs Employees Academics Labor unions Examples of stakeholder communication in 2014 External: Internal: >> Annual Report 2013 >> Employees meetings >> Sustainability Report 2013 >> Management conference >> Environmental Statement 2014 >> “Fraport live” employee magazine >> Noise abatement reports >> Internal “Skynet” and “Galaxynet” >> Website www.fraport.de >> “Fraport Barometer” employee survey >> Passenger customer advisory council >> Dialog with members of the Executive Board – >> “Air Cargo Community Frankfurt” association “Ask the Executive Board” >> “Aviation World” and “Retail World” customer magazines >> Cooperation in the Airport and Region Forum >> Information events for airport neighbors >> Activities in associations >> Discussions with authorities 14 Situation of the Group 2014 Compact Very high Safety and security in air traffic Product quality and Noise abatement customer satisfaction Focus for Employment >> strategic development Value creation Climate and development Relevance to stakeholders environmental protection Appeal as an >> Risk control Compliance/ employer Governance Value added and engagement in the region Diversity and equal opportunities Procurement High High Relevance to Fraport Very high Materiality Matrix In addition to the internal risk and opportuniWe first developed a Materiality Matrix in involving the Executive Board and the manties management system, the Materiality Matrix 2010. The result was 17 areas of action, which agers of the business units, service units, and helps us to identify and take account of risks we developed from all the most important iscentral units, as well as representatives of our and opportunities for the benefit of Fraport, or sues for Fraport on the basis of the Guidelines most important stakeholders. It was checked to avoid impacts as appropriate. The systemof the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and that this matrix was up to date in 2014 and its atic exchange of information with the most in interactive dialog with the most important validity was confirmed. important internal and external stakeholders stakeholder groups of the company. The maenables us to develop perspectives for the trix reflects Fraport’s broad understanding of strategic alignment of the company. We sustainability which is not simply restricted to report major opportunities and risks in the environmental factors but also encompasses most recent annual report at www.fraport.de economic and community or social aspects. in the “Investor Relations” section. In 2013, we updated the Materiality Matrix, Organization of sustainability efficient manner, the drafting of the sustainSustainability program management ability report was consolidated with financial reporting on September 1, 2014 and has Fraport sets targets for strategically important The issue of sustainability has been covered already been carried out in the “Finance and issues and defines the measures necessary in the central unit of “Business Development, Investor Relations” segment for 2014. This to meet them as part of the sustainability Environment, and Sustainability” since Octoalso includes the maintenance of rankings program. A corresponding program was ber 1, 2012 and is the responsibility of the and assessments. developed for the first time in 2010. It is Chairman of the Executive Board. This unit structured analogously to the areas of activity summarizes sustainability issues of strategic of the Materiality Matrix. The content is reimportance and initiates their further develInclusion of international sites viewed and carried on each year, including in opment where appropriate. In addition, it is 2014. Items on the program for the subsidiary also in charge of environmental management At the international sites, the relevant environcompanies are also gradually being included. as well as the creation of the Materiality mental management and human resources The complete program can be found over the Matrix and the sustainability program. Since departments have thus far covered important following pages. 2014, the Executive Board has decided on sustainability topics. Through the successive decision-related sustainability topics, with introduction of a Group-wide applicable Code the involvement of themanagers of the busiof Conduct, corporate responsibility has been ness units, service units, and central units. In given greater attention, taking country and order to generate synergies in the drafting company-specific requirements into account. of reports and design processes in a more I Sustainability program 2014 The goal of the Fraport sustainability program 2014 is to show the further development of the Group’s sustainability services. Areas of activity Customers Safety and security in air traffic Product quality and customer satisfaction Employees Employee development Appeal as an employer Diversity and equal opportunities Noise abatement Noise abatement Environment Climate and environmental protection Community Valued added and engagement in the region Owners Compliance and governance Value creation Procurement II Sustainability Program 2014 Safety and security in air traffic Guaranteeing safety and security by preventing terrorist activity and protecting passengers in civil air transport, as well as operational safety over the entire airport site. Safety and security in air traffic and in operational areas are always of the highest priority for Fraport, thus no targets are set at this point. In order to guarantee maximum standards of safety and security at all times, we continuously further develop our processes and adapt them to changing circumstances. Something that presents a challenge here is designing necessary security controls and measures in a way that burdens travelers and employees as little as possible. Goals and measures that aim to increase customer satisfaction are included in the relevant area of activity. Product quality and customer satisfaction Innovation and the continuous improvement of our services, reflected in our customers’ high level of satisfaction. Ensuring Frankfurt site’s hub function and maintaining the Group’s competitiveness. Objectives: Lasting stabilization of passenger satisfaction at 80 % at the minimum, long-term retention of more passengers at FRA, improving the competitive position of the FRA hub Duration: 2016 Measure Status Definition of 5 work packages: Passenger satisfaction 2014: 80 % 1.) “Arrival and orientation”: Improving the arrival experience and finding your way around On 1.): 2.) “Culture, art, & atmosphere”: Creating an identity and >>Terminal 1: Implementation of signposts to kids’ play areas; signposts to recognition factor through the implementation of various hand-baggage trolley depot planned for 2014 and 2015 improvement projects for terminal infrastructure, e.g. art >>Terminal 2: Signposts for airline information above entrances planned for and culture projects 2014 and 2015 3.) “ Furnishing and comfort”: Adaptation to international >>Introduction of 3 new information kiosks at central process points in standards terminals in 2014, construction of four new information kiosks planned 4.) “ Relax & sleep”: Expanding our offer to include rest and for 2015 relaxation options 5.) “Work & explore”: Expanding workspace and On 2.): entertainment opportunities >>Enhancing wall surfaces, e.g. Terminal 1 departures level Executing and further developing service training for On 3.): employees with direct contact with passengers >>Introduction of free Wi-Fi access Objective: Increasing airline customer satisfaction (measurement tool: Customer Service Index) Duration: 2014 Measure Status Implementation of a package of measures for both airside and >>The survey tool was revised in 2014, with the goal of greatly streamlining landside as well as corporate safety and security, based on the it and accordingly making it more focused. survey results from airline representatives >>In addition to quantitative content, qualitative content is also requested from airline representatives. Measures to be implemented will be derived from the survey. Sustainability Program 2014 III Objective: Increasing the satisfaction of freight customers with infrastructure offers and efficient processes in CargoCity Frankfurt Duration: 2015 Measure Status Regular communication and cooperation with customers, >>“Air Cargo Community Frankfurt” association was founded and has process participants, and authorities assumed operations. The acquisition of additional partners is ongoing. Implementation of process-supporting intelligent IT systems to Working groups for the optimization of site quality have been set up. reduce status and waiting times and prevent unnecessary traffic >>Regular communication commenced with relevant authorities, further in CargoCity Frankfurt intensification of cooperation has been planned. Creation of additional infrastructure and parking spaces >>IT communication to improve processes has been introduced and integrated into regular operations. Additional system add-ons for the Frankfurt site are in development. >>70 parking spaces opened at the end of 2014. Further parking spaces are planned. Objective: Improvement in intermodal services for passengers to increase the proportion of originating passengers traveling to and from the airport via public transport Duration: 2015 Measure Status Connecting the baggage conveyor system to the check-in >>Planning concluded at Fraport counter in the AIRail terminal Expansion of ICE Rail & Fly and codeshare connections in >>Air China concluded a codeshare agreement with Deutsche Bahn for cooperation with the Deutsche Bahn rail network and airlines routes to Cologne, Dusseldorf, and Hanover in 2013. This has been marketed and used by Chinese passengers since January 2014. Objective: Growth in the originating market by increasing the catchment area for users of public transport Duration: 2015 Measure Status Promoting scheduled coach connections from German regions >>Planning concluded for a central coach station at the parking lot near to that are not optimally connected to Deutsche Bahn’s longTerminal 1 (P 36). distance train network to Frankfurt Airport Objective: Improvement in intermodal offers for airport employees Duration: 2015 Measure Status Verifying the improvement in rail and bus offers, in particular >>Early ICE from Hamburg/Cologne (arrival at FRA 4:35 a.m.) by Deutsche during marginal nighttime hours for shift workers Bahn will continue to run as planned; the rail network’s expectations in terms of passenger demand have been met. RMV plans to introduce 24hour operation for metropolitan trains going to the airport, in order to be able to offer even better options for commuters. Objective: Increasing the competitive position of the intermodal intersection at Frankfurt Airport in long-distance passenger rail transport Duration: 2015 Measure Status Initiatives with major cooperation partners to increase the >>The Fraport parent company cofinanced the “Transport and economic extent to which the airport is included in federal transportatibenefits of intermodality” study as part of the Air Transport for Germany on infrastructure plans initiative. The study was concluded in 2012. IV Sustainability Program 2014 Employee development Securing jobs in the company as well as encouraging employees to maintain or improve their physical and mental performance through appropriate training and education measures, as well as in the areas of occupational safety and health management. Objective: Continuous reduction in accident occurrences (total accidents) and days missed due to accidents Duration: 2015 Measure Status Improvement in the organization of occupational safety >>Review and completion of company-wide risk assessments Risk assessments >>Implementation of interface controls >>Continuation into 2015 Reduction in work-related health hazards and musculoskeletal >>Determining stresses using a strain log disorders >>Development of measures >>Use of innovative load-reducing technologies in the area of ground services Redesign of the training concept on the topic of occupati>>In addition to the existing extensive training opportunities, refresher onal safety for managers and employees in administrative courses for management (transfer of duties) were launched in 2013. departments >>Development of an e-learning module for employees in administrative departments. Its introduction is planned for early 2015. Objective: Medium-term stabilization and long-term increase in attendance rates Duration: 2015/2020 Measure Status Development and implementation of organizational and health>>Determining physical strain among ground services and air security promoting measures to prevent work-related physical problems control staff >>The development and implementation of measures began in 2013 and continued in the form of group discussions with employees in 2014 Improvement in gradual reintegration, especially of employees >>Measures developed for the better reintegration of employees with with long-term illnesses chronic illnesses; training measures designed and executed; continuation in 2015 Execution of health workshops, health panels, >>Strain and its causes were identified in many areas in 2014, and suggesand information events tions for improvement were developed and implemented. Continuation in 2015 Implementation of a corporate fitness concept >>Expansion of the fitness opportunities offered at the Frankfurt site by a mobile training component, the “fitness mobile”, with specific exercise opportunities for the torso and back muscles for employees in airside areas. >>2013: Introduction of an allowance for fitness training at home, continued in 2014 and 2015 >>2014: Launch of the “FRAzubi-Fit” program, which comprises seminars and an apprentice sports day; in addition, there is the option to collect points by participating in sport and health events, which can be converted into a shopping voucher. Introduction of company health insurance >>Reviewing the introduction of company health insurance for employees of Fraport AG and their relatives. Introduction planned from mid-2015. Sustainability Program 2014 V Objective: Guarantee of at least 110 training places per year Duration: 2018 Measure Status Differentiated training offers for graduates of all school types with >>2014: 107 places filled one-year job guarantee following conclusion >>2015: At least 110 places offered Objective: Integration of teenagers and young adults with learning difficulties, 75 % of participants taken on for apprenticeships Duration: 2015 Measure Status Continuation of the “Ready for Takeoff” vocational preparation >>Continued in November 2013 with a further twelve places program, expansion of Group vocational training to 8 subsidiary >>Expanded up to 17 places in spring 2014 companies (from start of training period in 2015) >>All graduates of the 2013/14 program were accepted for training >>Ratification of the vocational preparation program by the Executive Board resolved in June 2014 Objective: Needs-based training with a continued employment rate of 70 % in the second year following the conclusion of the training Duration: 2018 Measure Status A training concept oriented toward future personnel >>Continued employment rate 2011 – 2014: 81.2 % requirements, annual Group-wide needs analysis Objective: The development of specialist and management employees in the Group with an internal filling of vacancies on levels 1–4 of 75 % Duration: Ongoing Measure Status Further development of strategic succession planning >>Adopted in 2012, implemented annually Development and establishment of the concept of “specialist >>Successive implementation in the Fraport parent company planned for 2015 careers” VI Sustainability Program 2014 Appeal as an employer Creation of good working conditions and opportunities for development in order to gain and retain committed and qualified employees. Objective: Increasing employee satisfaction measured on the Group barometer from 3.06 to better than 3.0 (whereby 1 = very good and 5 = inadequate). Duration: 2015 Measure Status >>Employee satisfaction in the Fraport Group in 2014: 2.89 >>Employee satisfaction in the Fraport parent company in 2014: 3.14 Gradual development of performance-related >>In 2014, €7.55 million was distributed to collective payscale employees salary components (approximately 27 % more than in the previous year). >>Employees not covered by collective bargaining agreements received performance-related bonuses totaling €2.96 million in 2014 (2013: €2.90 million). Child care and kindergarten places offered for the children of >>Needs-based planning in the assignment of child care and kindergarten Fraport employees places Objective: Employee capital participation Duration: 2015 Measure Status Increasing the proportion of employee shares >>Program in development Supporting the initiative to find an employee shares association >>Support concept created Sustainability Program 2014 VII Diversity and equal opportunities Guaranteeing the same employment and promotion opportunities without preference or discrimination with regard to personal characteristics such as gender, ethnicity, nationality, age, religion, ideology, disability, or sexual orientation. Objective: Increasing the proportion of women in management positions to 25 %–35 % within the Fraport parent company Duration: 2018 Measure Status Increasing the part-time working rate of men and women in >>Proportion of management employees in reduced full-time employment management roles in 2014: 5.7 % Further development of underlying indicators The proportion of women in management positions was specified as a KPI. From 2014, additional underlying indicators will be recorded, such as: >>Female proportion •• of new hires •• in potential assessment centers >>Satisfaction of female employees (measured using the Fraport barometer) Analysis of salary increases for women >>Regular review on the basis of Logib-D structural data. The basis for this is the results determined jointly with the Cologne Institute for Economic Research, on behalf of the Federal Ministry for Family Affairs, Senior Citizens, Women, and Youth in early 2014. Development of specific training and courses for women >>Seminars and personal coaching appropriate for the target group aimed at women in management or with management potential Objective: Development of specialist and management employees in the Group with an immigration background Duration: 2020 Measure Status Development and implementation of a strategy for specialist >>In progress and management employees in the Group VIII Sustainability Program 2014 Noise abatement Improving the noise situation in neighboring residential areas and reducing the number of people impacted by noise. Objective: Reducing the proportional number of people affected by aircraft noise in light of the planned capacity expansion to 701,000 aircraft movements (nighttime protection zone = 183,026 inhabitants, daytime protection zone 1 = 28,980 inhabitants) Duration: Until capacity has been exhausted Measure Status Further development of selected runway and route utilization >>Original DROps concept successfully tried and tested for landings (dedicated runway operations, DROps) to create >>Measure limited by the introduction of a nighttime flight ban breaks from noise >>New “DROps early morning” concept in regular operation since June 28, 2013: Change in usage remains, application limited to first hour of operation, however >>With regard to operational direction 25, landing runway 25 is used for 99 % of takeoffs on DROps days, thus implementing the DROps concept. Putting into regular operation of the raising of the approach >>Trial operation since October 18, 2012 angle to 3.2 with ILS (instrument landing system) on the new >>Monitoring program carried out by DLR; maximum levels of noise reducRunway Northwest tion at the monitoring measurement sites between 0.5 and 1.2 db(A) >>Putting into regular operation recommended by Aircraft Noise Commission Introduction of a system for a satellite-supported, ground>>Cooperation agreement concluded with DFS to set up the systems, initial based augmentation system (GBAS) groundbreaking on October 17, 2013 for ground station, commissioning on September 3, 2014. In the meantime, GBAS allows the approach angle on all landing runways to be raised from the current 3.0 to 3.2 degrees, which has since then been possible on Runway Northwest. In the long term, the new landing system should also enable segmented approaches – with the goal of further noise abatement in the region. Development of GBAS-based, noise-reducing approach >>In development procedures Objective: Improving the noise situation of the affected population Duration: 2020 Measure Status Offer to acquire residential properties as part of the Casa 2 >>Owners of real estate situated within the Casa catchment area had the program in transition zones I + II opportunity until October 31, 2014 to submit an application for a buyout or compensation payment. To date, 250 residential properties have been bought as part of the Casa program and 266 compensation payments have been made. The package of measures in the Casa program amounts to a total of more than €100 million. >>The vacancy rate of residential properties is less than 10 % for leases typical for the area. Provision of funds for passive noise abatement for private >>Funding guidelines were determined by the Federal State of Hesse on households and eligible public institutions as part of the December 31, 2012. Funds are available. The public is informed by means Regional Fund of press releases. There are 23 eligible institutions that could benefit from this. Continuation of dialog with stakeholders from the region >>Joint monitoring and attainment of a positive vote for the regular operatiin the “Airport and Region Forum” in order to develop further on of the following measures: measures •• Raising the landing angle from 3.0 to 3.2 degrees for the northwest runway (in dependent and independent operation) •• Raising downwind flights by 1,000 feet •• The relocation of turning areas in the Mainz and Offenbach region (= raising of minimum flyover altitudes in this area) •• The raising of flight altitudes from 4,000 to 5,000 feet in dependent operation as part of an ILS extension (since 2013) >>Continuation of the “steeper approach” research project and the development of flight procedures for GBAS Supporting the Noise Impact Study initiated by the >>Module 3 of the NORAH study (“Noise-Related Annoyance, Cognition, Environment and Neighborhood House and Health”) has been concluded, and the results were presented in November 2014. In module 3, the focus was on the investigation of the reading abilities of elementary schoolchildren in second grade with regard to aircraft noise pollution. The other modules are in the survey or evaluation phases. Sustainability Program 2014 IX Climate and environmental protection Monitoring and reduction of the emission of climate-relevant gases (CO2 ) as well as of air-pollutants caused by the operation of airports. Careful handling of natural resources as well as maintenance and promotion of biodiversity on the airport site. Objectives: Reduction in CO2 emissions per traffic unit (TU: one passenger or 100 kg of cargo) by 30 % from 3.7 in 2005 to 2.6 kg/TU in 2020 (Fraport parent company, scopes 1 and 2 GHG Protocol), reduction in CO2 emissions by 2020 to 238,000 metric tons despite airport expansion (Fraport parent company, scopes 1 and 2 GHG Protocol, 2005 taken as a basis) Duration: 2020 Measure Status Use of alternative drive technology Successive implementation planned by 2015. >>Pallet loaders 20 % Previously used: >>Baggage truck (serial hybrid) 20 % >>Eight electric pallet loaders >>Conveyor belts 100 % (approximately nine percentage points out of a planned 20 % ) >>Cars >>Six serial hybrid baggage trucks (approximately three percentage points out of a planned 20 % ) >>91 electric conveyor-belt loaders (approximately 88 percentage points of planned 100 % ) >>Twelve electric cars >>Nine plug-in hybrid vehicles >>Two electric minibuses >>An electric passenger stairway >>Up to 15 Fraport-specific loading stations for cars; two of these stations are already in operation Energy optimization of the existing buildings of the Fraport >>Renovation of air-conditioning units in Terminal 1: parent company Total potential approximately 5,500 metric tons* of CO2, realized potential approximately 3,900 metric tons of CO2, a further 1,600 metric tons of CO2 in progress. >>Energy optimization in service and administration buildings, total savings potential approximately 4,000 metric tons of CO2, approximately 740 metric tons of CO2 in progress, realized approximately 915 metric tons of CO2. Use of LED lamps >>Terminal 1, in the entrance to Arrivals: in the planning stages >>Terminal 2, hall lighting in corridor to parking lot, 500 m longer passenger corridor: in the planning stages (estimated savings of 1,400 metric tons of CO2 per year) >>Carried out in seven apron lighting locations >>Concluded in parking lots Implementation of energy measures in baggage handling facili>>Reduction in drive power in early baggage stores, distributors, feeders ties (expected savings of 2,000 metric tons of CO2 emissions) >>Reduction in friction by replacing belts >>Modification of controls for improved shutdown of the GFA in off-peak periods >>Detailed planning of the aforementioned measures; implementation begins in December 2014; conclusion of measures expected at the end of 2018 Energy-optimized planning of Terminal 3 (by 2022) >>In the planning stages >>Building permit obtained * Reduction in potential due to postponement of the completion dates for multiple facilities to later than 2020, as well as a revaluation of the expected savings potential for facilities that are not yet completed. X Sustainability Program 2014 Objective: Reduction in CO2 emissions (scope 2 GHG Protocol) in 2015 from 2,800 metric tons to 2,200 metric tons (based on 2013) Duration: 2014 Measure Status Providing the cargo handling hall with LED lighting >>The conversion from hall lighting to LED lighting was concluded on (Fraport Cargo Services) September 30, 2014. Objective: Keeping the emission factor 15 % below the German national average (Energy Air) Duration: 2014/2020 Measure Status Managing and optimizing the electricity purchase portfolio >>Based on the nationwide deterioration in the energy mix in Germany – as a result of the increased use of coal – the objective was not met. Acquisition of renewable energy within the framework of financial >>The purchase of renewable energy continues to be pursued. opportunities optimized from 24.1 % to 30 %. Air quality Objectives: Determining and documenting air-pollutant emissions and emissions from the operation of the airport, medium-term evaluation of measures to reduce emissions Duration: 2015 Measure Status Development of measures to calculate air-pollutant emissions >>In the conceptual phase: caused by Inventory and expansion of existing operating data regarding >>Infrastructure infrastructure, research into current emission factors, trialing >>Aircraft ground services methodological approaches. >>Subsequent expansion to include landside traffic optional >>Preliminary partial results are available for heating oil and natural gas firing; the consolidation of results for infrastructure took place before the end of 2014. Preliminary results to be concluded by mid-2015. Objective: Reducing air-pollutant emissions and emissions from the operation of the airport Duration: 2015 Measure Status Introduction of electric ground handling devices >>(See Environmental conservation, measure “Use of alternative motor technology”) Sustainability Program 2014 XI Conservation of nature and resources Objective: Reduction in consumption of drinking water due to higher service water usage in Terminal 1 (to 38 % of total quantity by 2016) and in the southern section of the airport* (50 % by 2020) Duration: 2016/2020 Measure Status Increase in service water usage in Terminal 1 and in the southern >>In Terminal 1: section of the airport* 70 % of bathroom facilities (238) in Terminal 1 have since been provided with service water. >>In the southern section: Service water usage for new air freight halls in CargoCity South planned to an appropriate extent (in the planning stages). Commissioning of the first air freight hall planned for 2015, further commissioning planned to follow in 2017. * This refers to the area to the south of the takeoff and landing runway 07R/25L. This is where CargoCity South, the southern development area for the future Terminal 3, and maintenance facilities, such as for Lufthansa, are located. Objective: Improving structural diversity of up to 250 hectares Duration: 2015 Measure Status Introduction of twice-yearly mowing and/or strip mowing of the >>In the planning stages dry grassland in the southern parallel runway system and takeoff runway 18 west Objective: Ensuring the sustainable management of forest areas on the land owned by the Fraport parent company Duration: 2015 Measure Status Certification of Fraport forest areas >>In the planning stages Objective: Reduction in consumption of de-icing agent (N*ICE Aircraft Services & Support GmbH) Duration: 2015 Measure Status Increase in remote de-icing using a new remote >>Operational usability is being verified in a simulation. de-icing pad >>It was not possible to test any vehicles due to the mild winter in 2013/2014, and a new test is therefore planned for winter 2014/2015. Testing of the forced air de-icing process Objective: Reduction in paper consumption (N*ICE Aircraft Services & Support GmbH) Duration: 2015 Measure Status Switch to paperless work orders and electronic invoicing >>The transition has taken place, with a steady rise in acceptance being detected on the part of the airlines. XII Sustainability Program 2014 Valued added and engagement in the region Positive contribution to economic development in the region. Charitable commitment in the neighborhoods around the airport and dialog with our stakeholders. Objective: Promoting projects to support social developments in the region, especially in the areas of sport, culture, and education with a focus on youth work, integration, and volunteering Duration: Ongoing Measure Status In 2014, 1,660 individual measures in the region were supported >>See “Community” chapter financially by Fraport AG. Objective: Promoting environmental projects in the Rhine-Main region, particularly those with a focus on biodiversity, environmental conservation, and education Duration: 2016 Measure Status In 2014, 56 individual measures in the region were supported >>See “Community” chapter financially by Fraport AG’s Environmental Fund. Objective: Improving the number of regional training places Duration: 2020 Measure Status In 2014, 41 projects in the region were supported financially by >>See “Community” chapter Fraport AG’s Pro Region foundation. Objective: Promoting scientific research into air traffic, logistics, and mobility Duration: 2020 Measure Status The “Erich Becker Foundation – a Fraport AG foundation to pro>>In 2014, 20 scientific studies and projects in the region were supported mote science and research” supports scientific research in the financially by Fraport AG’s Erich Becker Foundation. field of aviation, including mobility and logistics, by providing grants and awarding prizes for special scientific achievements. Sustainability Program 2014 XIII Governance and compliance Compliance with laws and internal Group regulations. Principles for corporate governance and the Supervisory Board to ensure good and responsible corporate governance. Objective: Group-wide implementation of the Group compliance management system (CMS) guidelines Duration: 2015 Measure Status Documentation of resolutions made by the Executive Board >>2015: implementation of the content plus communication regarding the and shareholder representatives. Reviewing the content of the Code of Conduct for Employees and Suppliers, introduction of a whistleimplementation of the Group CMS blower system, reporting obligations, training. >>Execution of the CRA and derivation of suitable measures based on the Execution of a compliance risk analysis (CRA) gap analysis Inclusion of the German Group subsidiaries at the minimum >>Offering and rolling out of e-learning programs for compliance at approin the priate subsidiary companies via the “Human Resource Services” as well as e-learning program “Corporate Compliance, Risk, and Values Management” units in order to support training measures Objective: Ensuring Group-wide observance of Fraport’s Code of Conduct by employees, communication regarding values-based compliance, and further training measures Duration: 2014 Measure Status Sensitization and training of Fraport employees through e>>In August 2013, the e-learning “Code of Conduct” course was assigned learning and in-person events; successive introduction of the to all employees with “my Sky” access in their personal qualification Code of Conduct into the entire Group program (status as at end of December 2014: 90 % of employees obliged to take the course had done so). >>Two e-learning courses from May 2014 on dealing with gifts and invitations (status as at end of December 2014: 81 % of employees obliged to take the courses had done so) >>In-person event for senior managers of Fraport AG in November 2014 >>New in-person training sessions in 2014 on values-based compliance and the Code of Conduct. >>New in-person events on the German Securities Trading Act (internal training) Development and communication of regulations for the practi>>In 2013: Development of an implementation strategy, rollout in affiliated cal implementation of the new Code of Conduct companies concluded before 2014 >>Status as at December 2014: The Code of Conduct has been introduced and communicated internally in 20 affiliated companies. The introduction of the Code of Conduct has been scheduled at two affiliated companies: Northern Capital Gateway (in 2015) and Air Transport IT (May 2015). Objective: Anchoring sustainability into corporate processes Duration: 2015 Measure Status Increasing the complementarity of financial and sustainability >>Consolidation of financial and sustainability reporting in progress reporting; development of joint performance indicators Discussion of decision-related sustainability >>See “Situation of the Group”, p. 14 topics at Executive Board meetings, with the involvement of the managers of the business units, service units, and central units XIV Sustainability Program 2014 Value creation Increase in the company’s value in all business segments, long-term securing, and increase in profitability and financial equilibrium. Objectives: Expansion of terminal capacities to at least 64 million passengers per year and expansion of aprons in line with demands Duration: Until 2022 Measure Status Modular realization of Terminal 3 including the necessary aprons >>The building permit for the first phase of construction of the new Terand taxiways minal 3 was granted by the City of Frankfurt on August 12, 2014. Further planning and construction preparation is underway. >>Additional aprons were opened in 2014. A successive expansion will follow. Objective: Increasing net retail revenue to at least €4 per passenger Duration: Until 2019 Measure Status Optimizing existing rental spaces and strategies, qualitative >>Net retail revenue per passenger in 2014: €3.43 portfolio growth; Increasing economic efficiency through the monitoring and active management of tenants as well as the optimization of the marketplace industry mixture Objective: Securing and raising the proportion of external business in the Group’s earnings Duration: 2020 Measure Status Successful acquisition of airports and >>Acquisition of 75.5 % of shares in the company “Aerodrom Ljubljana, d. d.”; airport operators the complete acquisition of the company is planned in the framework of privatization, and the remaining shareholders are presented with a Further development of existing affiliated companies takeover offer in accordance with legal provisions. >>In addition, Fraport acquired 100 % of the shares in the US company Conclusion of further consulting contracts AMU Holdings Inc., which is the sole owner of Airmall USA Holdings Inc. (Airmall Group). >>Conclusion of consulting contract (master plan for airports in Africa) >>Fulfillment of consulting contract (ORAT Sao Paulo) >>Provision of consulting services as part of acquisition projects (for example, Airmall) and at subsidiary companies (for example, Antalya) Objective: Increase in cargo revenue Duration: 2015 Measure Status Measures to further develop sales >>Sales organizations in the relevant areas have been restructured >>New means of communication (newsletters) introduced for the cargo Communication and cooperation with process participants site. Communication and cooperation further optimized through association activities. >>Targeting of specific customer groups, for example, the organization of a pharmaceutical roundtable and establishing contact with suppliers of perishables. Sustainability Program 2014 XV Objective: Modifying airport charges to refinance infrastructure Duration: Until 2015 Measure Status Conclusion of publiclaw contracts and contracts with airlines and >>Charges for 2014 were increased by 2.9 %; market-driven development airline associations secured for 2015 Procurement Planning, implementation, and monitoring of the necessary instruments and processes to enforce sustainability standards at suppliers. Objective: Introduction of the Fraport Code of Conduct for Suppliers Duration: 2012–2014 Measure Status Publication and communication of the Code of Conduct for >>Took place in February 2013 Suppliers Group-wide implementation in supplier management >>Implementation during the rollout of the Code of Conduct for Employees; introduced at 20 associated companies. Assessment of relevant suppliers for compliance with the Fraport >>Suppliers of product groups and from countries with an increased risk are Code of Conduct for Suppliers assessed separately. Assistance in industry-spanning initiatives as well as cooperation >>Among others, Fraport AG is a committed member of Transparency Interin the implementation of standards national Deutsches Chapter e.V. and the UN Global Compact. Kapitel 2014 Compact 2014 Compact 17 Sustainability: Our business guidelines for the future Sustainability for us means structuring the future responsibly. We understand sustainable development to be a continuous process. We believe that the entrepreneurial scope for action can only be ensured by the consistent inclusion of non-commercial aspects in management processes. More detailed information and indicators can be found in our GRI Report at www.fraport.com/sustainability. 18 Traffic Development 2014 Compact Traffic Development Frankfurt site Despite a number of flight cancellations as a a rise in demand for tourist destinations, the With a growth rate of 1.8 %, cargo volume result of strikes, passenger traffic grew in finaninclusion of new destinations, more frequent increased moderately in 2014 to about cial year 2014 and reached an annual high at services, the moderate summer weather in 2.1 million metric tons. Following notable almost 59.6 million passengers. This increase August 2014, and the booming cruise market rates of growth in the first quarter, momentum was particularly strong in the months from all played a role here. Although strike and slowed in the following quarters. This also May through September, which recorded weather-related flight cancellations affected reflected the sluggish development in the significant growth – also due to high tourist domestic traffic in particular, destinations global economy. Chinese traffic proved to be a demand. Without the strikes or weather-relatwithin Germany still grew significantly by significant driver of growth for cargo developed flight cancellations, growth in passenger 2.1 %. In intercontinental traffic (– 0.5 %), ment in Frankfurt, with a significant increase in traffic of around 3.9 % to approximately increases in the flight schedule and the rise in cargo tonnage. The remaining higher volume 60.3 million passengers would have been seat capacity were comparatively low. Howcountries in the Far East reported declines, possible in financial year 2014. ever, a recovery in traffic in Asia, North Africa, however. Moderate tonnage increases by and North America was observed from August 1.7 % were achieved on connections to and In accordance with expansions to the flight onwards, but the strike-related cancellations from Europe. Business stagnated in highschedule, European traffic saw the most at the end of the year prevented the result volume North American traffic. significant increase at 5.2 %. In addition to from being better. Due to strike-related cancellations and the airlines’ continuing conservative supply behavior, the number of aircraft movements fell by 0.8 % in the reporting period to approximately 469,000. Without the strike effect, growth of around 0.5 % could have been achieved. Due to sustained consolidation measures (use of larger planes and increase in seat capacity) for 59.6 million various airlines, the maximum takeoff weights increased by a further 1.9 %. Had the cancellations not occurred, a higher growth rate of passengers in Frankfurt in 2014 boarded, around 3.0 % would have been possible here departed or transferred, approximately as well. The proportion of transfer passengers 1.5 million more than in the previous year. remained high at around 55 % . 2014 Compact Traffic Development 19 Top ten airports in Europe Passengers 1. London Heathrow: 73.4 million 2. Paris Charles de Gaulle: 63.8 million 3. Frankfurt: 59.6 million 4. Istanbul Ataturk: 56.8 million 5. Amsterdam Schiphol: 55.0 million 6. Madrid Barajas: 41.8 million 7. Munich: 39.7 million 8. Rome Fiumicino: 38.5 million 9. London Gatwick: 38.1 million 10. Barcelona: 37.5 million Cargo tonnage 1. Frankfurt: 2.1 million 2. Paris Charles de Gaulle: 2.1 million 3. Amsterdam: 1.7 million 4. London Heathrow: 1.6 million 5. Leipzig Halle: 0.9 million 6. Cologne Bonn: 0.7 million 7. Istanbul Ataturk: 0.7 million 8. Luxembourg: 0.7 million 9. Liège: 0.6 million 10. Milan Malpensa: 0.5 million Passenger development in Frankfurt Traffic shares / changes compared to previous year Far East Western Europe Domestic Eastern Europe 11 % / – 1 % 42 % / +5 % 11 % / +2 % 9 % / +6 % North America 14 % / +1 % Frankfurt Airport Middle East 5 % / +3 % Africa 4%/–5% Latin America 4%/–4% Continental 62 % / +5 % Intercontinental 38 % / – 1 % 20 Traffic Development 2014 Compact Development outside of Frankfurt In the last financial year, passenger figures rose At Lima Airport, passenger volume increased +3.1 % by just under 40,000 to just over 1.3 million (+3.1 %) at the airport in the Slovenian capital Ljubljana. Important reasons for the increase by 5.0 % in 2014 to around 15.7 million. Both domestic (+7.1 %) and international traffic (+2.7 %) grew in the reporting period. Cargo passenger growth at the were more passengers on routes to and from throughput increased by 2.0 % to approxinew Group company in Ljubljana Belgrade, as well as Tirana. mately 302,000 metric tons. The Bulgarian airports at Varna and Burgas carried more than 3.9 million passengers in the reporting period, and thus around 119,000 more than in the previous year (+3.1 %). The Burgas site reported an increase of 2.0 % to a good 2.5 million passengers. Varna Airport showed growth of 5.2 % and Investments in airports achieved just under 1.4 million passengers. Passengers in number of persons, cargo (freight and post) in metric tons In 2014, around 28.0 million passengers meant growth of 4.7 % at Antalya Airport. The number of international passengers increased by 3.4 %. The number of domestic passengers rose sharply by 10.5 %. Frankfurt, Germany Antalya, Turkey With nearly 14.3 million passengers, St. Petersburg Airport reported growth of 11.0 % in Shares 100 % Shares 51 % /50 % 2014 compared to the previous year. SigPassengers 59,566,132 Passengers 27,979,307 nificant growth of 22.8 % was recorded in Cargo 2,132,132 Cargo N/A Russian domestic traffic. International traffic Movements 469,026 Movements 176,191 grew 1.2 %. At approximately 5.3 million passengers, pasLjubljana, Slovenia St. Petersburg, Russia senger figures at the Hanover site grew slightly compared to the previous year (+1.1 %). Shares 100 % Shares 35.5 % While low-traffic domestic travel declined Passengers 1,307,379 Passengers 14,264,732 by 2.3 %, higher volume international traffic Cargo 9,831 Cargo N/A transported 2.0 % more passengers. Movements 31,405 Movements 147,415 Xi’an Airport continued to show a dynamic performance as passenger traffic increased by Lima, Peru Hanover, Germany 12.0 % to almost 29.2 million. High-volume domestic traffic rose by 11.2 % to a good Shares 70.01 % Shares 30 % 27.8 million passengers. International trafPassengers 15,659,066 Passengers 5,291,981 fic grew by 33.3 % to around 1.4 million Cargo 302,406 Cargo 15,184 passengers. Movements 155,093 Movements 76,031 Delhi Airport achieved significant growth of 8.4 % in 2014 in comparison to the previous Burgas, Bulgaria Xi’an, China year, with almost 39.8 million passengers. Significant growth continued to be reported Shares 60 % Shares 24.5 % in domestic traffic, with an increase of 10.2 % Passengers 2,530,368 Passengers 29,177,459 to 26.4 million passengers. International Cargo 5,354 Cargo 185,889 passenger numbers increased by 5.1 % to Movements 19,088 Movements 244,336 13.4 million. Cargo throughput increased significantly by 15.8 % to approximately 690,000 metric tons. Varna, Bulgaria Delhi, India Shares 60 % Shares 10 % Passengers 1,387,494 Passengers 39,752,819 Cargo 74 Cargo 689,716 Movements 12,063 Movements 323,701 2014 Compact Traffic Development 21 Gudrun Teloeken “Our Group companies abroad form an important part of our Group, which have once again gained in significance in 2014. We have ac> Head of Asset Management quired 2 further Group companies in the form of AMU Holdings Inc. in the Global Investments and Management unit in the USA, which specializes in retail concessions, and the operating company Ljubljana Airport in Slovenia. Through the acquisition of AMU Holdings Inc., Fraport AG has established a foothold in the largest aviation market in the world. The market for retail and food and beverage concessions at airports is developing gradually in the USA; there is a need to catch up with other countries. Ljubljana is a well-managed airport with a high proportion of business travelers. Slovenia also has considerable potential as a tourist destination, which has still to be exploited. We have also won the contract to operate a total of 14 regional airports in Greece, and expect this to be concluded in late 2015/begin of 2016. Our portfolio of Group airports is heterogeneous in many respects: Construction and maturity phases alternate at various sites. Airports in established European markets – such as Ljubljana – complement rapidly growing markets such as Xi’an, China. Smaller hubs, for example, Lima, are also represented, as are mainly tourist airports with major seasonal peaks, such as Antalya. As a result, our international airport business is diversified and exploits stable earnings potential as well as growth opportunities.” 22 Financial Development 2014 Compact Financial Development Revenue in € million 1) Revenue 2,339 2,413 2,310 2,384 At €2,394.6 million, the Group revenue in which was also a result of positive traffic de2014 was 0.8 % higher than the value for the velopment. In addition to Lima, the Twin Star previous year. Adjusted for the recognition Group company also achieved an increase in of earnings-neutral capacitive capital expenadjusted revenue. The decrease in revenue in diture in the Group companies Twin Star the Retail & Real Estate segment was primarily and Lima (IFRIC 12), revenue grew by €73.8 due to lower retail revenue and revenue from million to €2,383.8 million. land sales and energy supply services. At the Frankfurt site, traffic growth and the The new Group companies AMU Holdings increase in airport and infrastructure charges Inc. and Ljubljana contributed €27.8 million to 2011 2012 2013 2014 in particular contributed to the rise in revenue. revenue growth in the previous financial year. 1) Revenue adjusted by IFRIC 12, revenue without Outside of Frankfurt, the Group company joint ventures since 2013 (IFRS 11) Lima reported continuing revenue growth, EBITDA in € million 1) EBITDA 802 849 733 790 Despite higher personnel expenses, which winter services as well as energy and supply primarily resulted from increases in collective services. In external business, lower capacitive bargaining agreements, the Group EBITDA capital expenditure in the Twin Star and Lima improved from €732.9 million to €790.1 Group companies were the primary cause of million in 2014. The positive development a decrease in the cost of materials. of revenue as well as a decline in the cost of materials and other operating expenses were The EBITDA margin accordingly improved by crucial in the increase in EBITDA. 2.2 percentage points to 33.0 %. Adjusted for the revenue and expenses from the recA decrease in the cost of materials at the ognition of capacitive capital expenditure in 2011 2012 2013 2014 Frankfurt site resulted primarily from the connection with the application of IFRIC 12, 1) EBITDA since 2013, revenue without mild winter, which led to lower expenses for the EBITDA margin rose from 31.7 % to 33.1 %. joint ventures (IFRS 11) Result in € million Result The positive EBITDA development allowed main positive highlight of the financial result 251 252 236 252 the Group result to grow by €16.1 million to and increased its result contribution from €251.8 million in financial year 2014, in the €28.1 million to €38.3 million. A negative face of higher depreciation and amortization, contribution primarily resulted from the mara constant financial result, and higher income ket valuation of derivatives (2014: -€8 million taxes. While the increase in depreciation and against 2013: +€11 million) and a decline in amortization was primarily due to the termithe interest result by €5 million. The tax rate nal inaugurations in Varna and Burgas at the increased from 29 % to 33 % among others end of financial year 2013 as well as the new as a result of higher tax provisions. Overall, Group companies AMU Holdings Inc. and the earnings per share increased from €2.40 Ljubljana, the investment in Antalya was the to €2.54. 2011 2012 2013 2014 2014 Compact Financial Development 23 Financial position At the end of financial year 2014, Fraport’s diture at the Frankfurt site and the inclusion the positive Group result. At €4.9 billion, nontotal assets reached a value of approximately of the new Group companies Ljubljana and current liabilities remained almost unchanged €9 billion, and were therefore some €196 million AMU Holdings Inc. were the major reasons compared to the 2013 balance sheet date. above the level of the previous year. The for the increase in non-current assets. The Lower financial liabilities stood in contrast to reason for the increase was the rise in nondecline in current assets was primarily a result a larger position for deferred tax liabilities. current assets. On the liabilities side, the of the purchase price payments for the new At €819 million, current liabilities met the greatest increase was seen in shareholders’ Goup companies of AMU Holdings Inc. and previous year’s level. Slightly higher financial equity. While the proportion of non-current Ljubljana as well as the repayment of financial liabilities were almost entirely offset by lower assets grew from close to €7.7 billion to liabilities and the distribution of dividends trade accounts payable. around €8.1 billion on the assets side of the for financial year 2013. Despite the dividend balance sheet, current assets decreased by payment, shareholders’ equity increased by 17.6 % to €932 million. The capital expen€187 million to almost €3.3 billion – due to Structure of the consolidated financial position as at December 31 € million 8,081.3 931.9 Assets 2014 9,013.2 Liabilities & Equity 3,286.0 4,908.1 819.1 7,685.8 1,131.0 Assets 2013 8,816.8 Liabilities & Equity 3,098.8 4,902.5 815.5 Non-current assets Current assets Shareholders’ equity Non-current liabilities Current liabilities Liquid funds and financial debt As at December 31, 2014, Fraport’s liquidity underlying equity, this resulted in a debt ratio At the end of 2014, the Group’s financial amounted to just under €1.2 billion. In con(gearing ratio) of around 97 %. Free credit liabilities showed a balanced maturity profile. trast, financial liabilities amounted to approlines, which were available to Fraport in the ximately €4.2 billion. Overall, the net financial amount of approximately €487 million as at debt of the Group totaled approximately the balance sheet date, were not considered €3 billion at the end of 2014. In terms of the in this calculation. Maturity profile as at December 31, 2014 € million 1,179.6 4,192.4 287.6 464.7 376.1 516.1 1,131.5 236.6 421.3 413.1 2.6 321.2 0 Liquidity Financial 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 ++ liabilities Book values Nominal values 24 Financial Development 2014 Compact Statement of cash flows In the previous financial year, Fraport generatThe positive development of operating cash ed operating cash flow (cash flow from operflow and lower capital expenditure in properating activities) amounting to €506.2 million. ty, plant, and equipment and airport operatIn comparison with the previous year, this was ing projects led to a significant increase in free a considerable improvement of €52.0 million, cash flow, which improved from €34.3 million which was primarily the result of the positive to €246.8 million in the previous financial year. development of the operating business and In accordance with the new definition, the earnings as well as a lower decline in liabilities. free cash flow has also considered dividends received from joint ventures and minority Cash flow used in investing activities (without interests since 2014. While this made up close investments in cash deposits and securities) to €32 million in the previous financial year, increased from €418.4 million to €523.8 milthe 2013 value was adjusted for dividends in lion in the past financial year. The reason for the amount of approximately €17.1 million. €246.8 the higher cash outflow was the acquisition of the new Group companies AMU HoldTaking the cash flow used in/from financing ings Inc. and Ljubljana, which totaled some activities, the payment of dividends for million €271.1 million. For property, plant, and equipfinancial year 2013 as well as bank balances ment and airport operating projects, Fraport with a drawing restriction into consideration, used significantly lower funds in financial year the cash and cash equivalents of the Fraport free cash flow in 2014 due to a decline in investing activities. Group – according to the statement of cash financial year 2014. At €264.4 million, this was €143.2 million flows – amounted to €167.8 million as at below the previous year’s value. Including December 31, 2014. Compared with the investments and returns from cash deposits previous year, this meant an improvement of and securities, the entire cash flow used in €36.6 million. investing activities in the previous financial year amounted to €292.7 million, and was therefore €93.0 million higher than the previous year’s value. Summary of the statement of cash flows and reconciliation to the Group’s liquidity € million 131.2 506.2 – 523.8 231.1 –184.5 7.6 167.8 1,011.8 1,179.6 0 Cash and cash Cash flow Cash flow used Cash flow from Cash flow used Foreign currency Cash and cash Short-term current Group liquidity equivalents from operating in investing investing activities in financing translation effects on equivalents realizable assets as at as at activities activities without in cash deposits and activities cash and cash as at December 31, January 1, 2014 investments in securities equivalents December 31, 2014 cash deposits and 2014 securities 2014 Compact Financial Development 25 Segments Aviation In financial year 2014, the Aviation segment Segment contribution to Group revenue 2014 generated revenue amounting to €884.2 milin % lion. This was €38.6 million more than in the previous year. The key reasons for this growth 16.7 were the increased passenger numbers at External Activities & Services the Frankfurt site and the increase in airport charges. Despite an increase in personnel 36.9 Aviation expenses, the segment EBITDA improved by €29.0 million to €236.9 million as a result of 27.4 positive revenue development. Slightly higher Ground Handling depreciation and amortization led to a segment EBIT of €115.5 million, corresponding 19.0 Retail & Real Estate to a growth of €24.9 million. Retail & Real Estate At €455.7 million, revenue of the Retail & Real Estate segment was below the previous year’s value by €8.5 million. The decrease in revenue Segment contribution to Group EBITDA 2014 was primarily due to lower retail revenue, as in % well as revenue from land sales and energy supply services. Retail revenue fell largely 19.3 due to a changed passenger structure and External Activities & reductions in purchasing power in connection Services 30.0 Aviation with the strong € exchange rate. The “net 5.6 retail revenue per passenger” decreased from Ground Handling €3.60 to €3.43. With a decrease in expenses related to land sales, energy supply services, and utilities, the EBITDA rose by €6.8 million to 45.1 Retail & Real Estate €356.5 million. A slight decrease in depreciation and amortization led to a segment EBIT of €275.0 million, representing an €8.0 million increase compared to the previous year’s value. Ground Handling External Activities & Services The higher passenger number and the inThe revenue of the External Activities & Services crease in infrastructure charges led to a growth segment decreased in 2014 by €18.4 million in revenue by €7.2 million to €656.2 million in to €398.5 million. Adjusted for the recogthe Ground Handling segment. Whereas pernition of earnings-neutral capacitive capital sonnel expenses rose because of increases in expenditure in the Group companies Twin pay under collective bargaining agreements, Star and Lima (IFRIC 12), revenue grew material and other operating expenses fell. from €351.2 million in the previous year to Overall, the segment EBITDA saw growth of €387.7 million in the period under review. €10.1 million to €44.3 million. A slight deThe reason for the increase in revenue was crease in depreciation and amortization led largely the positive development in the exto a segment EBIT of €7.5 million. Compared isting Group companies in Varna and Burgas with the previous year, this meant a significant as well as in Lima. The newly acquired Group improvement of €11.9 million. companies AMU Holdings Inc. and Ljubljana also led to a rise in revenue. Overall, the segment EBITDA improved by €11.3 million to €152.4 million as a result of the positive underlying revenue increase as well as the new investments. An increase in depreciation and amortization led to a segment EBIT of €84.8 million, thereby equaling the previous year’s level. 26 Financial Development 2014 Compact Share development With a price of €48.04, the Fraport share The German equity market itself presented a closed financial year 2014 at 11.7 % lower mixed picture in financial year 2014. While €1.35 than the closing price in 2013. Fraport therefore had a market capitalization of €4.4 billion at the end of 2014 (previous year: €5.0 billion). the continuing low-interest-rate policies of national banks and the overall favorable economic conditions had a positive effect, geodividend proposal made to the Taking into account the €1.25 per share divpolitical crises, capping of earnings forecasts, Annual General Meeting 2015 idend payment of June 2, 2014, the Fraport and deteriorating economic prospects had a share fell €5.10 or 9.4 % in 2014. On an avernegative impact. Overall, the German DAX age day, around 100,100 Fraport shares were benchmark index closed the financial year traded in XETRA. at 9,806 points and therefore 2.7 % higher than the closing value in 2013. The MDAX After remaining almost unchanged in the increased by 2.2 % in 2014 and closed at first quarter of the financial year (– 0.3 % 16,935 points. compared to the closing price of 2013), the value of the Fraport share dropped by 4.8 % The shares of the other listed European airin the second quarter, primarily due to the ports performed as follows in 2014: Aéroports profit warning by Deutsche Lufthansa AG on de Paris +19.0 %, Vienna Airport +25.9 %, and June 11, 2014. In connection with the Group’s Zurich Airport +27.8 %. positive operating performance, the value re€4,436 covered slightly to €52.06 in the third quarter and gained 0.9 %. Disappointing nine-month Proposed appropriation of retained financial figures and the factoring-in of tempoearnings million rary negative effects from the planned acquisition of the concession to operate 14 Greek The Executive Board and Supervisory Board regional airports put pressure on the share in intend to recommend a dividend of €1.35 per was the level of Fraport market the fourth quarter and led to a reduction in share to the 2015 Annual General Meeting. capitalization at the end of 2014. the closing price of 7.7 % to €48.04. In relation to the closing price of the Fraport share at year end 2014, this would correspond to a dividend yield of 2.8 % (previous year: 2.3 %). The payout ratio in relation to the Group result attributable to Fraport AG’s shareholders of €234.7 million would therefore amount to 53.1 % (previous year: 52.2 %). Development of the Fraport share compared to the market and European competitors in % (index base 100) 140 100 80 January 1, 2014 December 31, 2014 Fraport AG DAX MDAX Aéroports de Paris Vienna Airport Zurich Airport Source: Bloomberg 2014 Compact Financial Development 27 Added value statement Unlike the external income statement, the region. It is important to remember here that added value statement does not take into airport operators are sector contractors and account the owners’ perspectives, but rather are precluded on legal grounds from granting illustrates Fraport AG’s proportion of private preference to companies from the surroundand public income. We make an important ing area when they place orders. contribution to creating regional value and social stability at our sites. In 2014, we paid Our Group companies abroad also make a our employees around €970.4 million in wagmajor contribution to value creation in their es and salaries and deducted approximately €132.5 million in direct taxes. In financial year 2014, we generated total revenue amounting respective regions, for example, through the payment of above-average wages and salaries – in comparison to national levels. More 73 % to around €2.4 billion. detailed information regarding the effects of Fraport AG’s order volume on our environment can be found in the GRI went to companies in the Around 73 % (€520 million) of the order report on our home page at www.fraport.com/ Rhine-Main region. volume from Fraport AG totaling €712 million sustainability. was placed with companies in the Rhine-Main Our added value € million 132.5 124.7 Public sector (deductions, taxes) Shareholders (dividends) 176.7 110.0 Lenders (interest expense) Company (retained earnings) 970.4 1,537.8 17.1 Employees (wages, salaries, Share of profits for shareholders with social deductions) non-controlling interests 6.4 Expenses for the common good (donations, sponsorship, etc.) 28 Responsible Corporate Governance 2014 Compact 30 Employees 34 Customers 38 Noise Abatement 2014 Compact Responsible Corporate Management 29 Responsible corporate management 42 Environment 46 Community 50 Our International Airports 30 Responsible Corporate Management 2014 Compact Employees The challenge of personnel management Our personnel management increasingly therefore offer our employees a varied range the world of work. These young people go focuses on sustaining the motivation, health, of opportunities for further training. Since through a two-year qualification program in performance, and therefore productivity of 2014, all employees have been able to apply ground handling services. Since the launch our employees in the long term in light of the for support for professional requalification, for of the project, 198 participants have been changing age structure in the Group. Against example, via the newly introduced training kept on as part of a permanent employment the backdrop of growing challenges such budget, provided that this is in the interests relationship. Our second project in this area as international competition in the aviation of the company. In addition, Fraport relies is called “Ready for Takeoff”, which was industry, the demanding expectations of our on its own junior staff. We provide training established in 2012, and each year aims to passengers and airlines, and consistent focus in 19 commercial and technical units, such help up to 14 young people who do not yet on earnings, the explicit goal is to harmoas in IT, mechatronics, and cleaning services. meet all the requirements for direct entry into nize the requirements placed on employees This is in addition to 8 dual study courses, training through an eight-month qualification with their personal, professional, social, and including industrial engineering and air traffic program. Assuming personal and professional methodological skills as well as their personal management. In tests by the Frankfurt Chamsuitability, the successful graduates then start health status. This allows us to guarantee the ber of Industry and Commerce, our trainees technical training. This was the case for 16 out high level of quality of our services and to regularly rank among the best graduates; of 24 people in the first two cohorts. The aim safeguard attractive jobs in the long term. the proportion of dropouts is exceptionally of the sustainability program is to take on at low at 3 %. least 75 % of participants into training, which we have thus almost met. Based on the good Internal training to combat the skills In order to open up better professional opporresult and the further decline in application shortage tunities for unemployed young people, we numbers in the technical segment, the Exinitiated the “Mobile Youth” program with the ecutive Board resolved in 2014 to continue In a working environment as specialized as support of the employment agency in 1999. the program for an indefinite period. Across the management and operation of an airport, The aim is to integrate young, unemployed the Group, we concluded 107 new training well-trained professionals are necessary. We men aged between 18 and 24 years into contracts in the year under review. We were 2014 Compact Responsible Corporate Management 31 Safety takes priority Fraport guarantees high occupational safety standards. Comprehensive measures are required in areas such as the handling of hazardous substances, in ground handling services, in maintenance, in internal transport and traffic, as well as infrastructural construction measures. This should steadily reduce the number of work accidents and the resulting days missed due to accidents. We failed to meet this goal in 2014, when the number of accidents in the Group increased to 1,473 (previous year: 1,342). We analyze the reasons for this in detail and develop corresponding measures. not able to fully reach our goal of hiring 110 new trainees each year, despite intensively In close cooperation with the subsidiary companies, we consistently implement searching for suitable applicants. the relevant statutory occupational safety requirements and also include external service providers and temporary employees. For example, this concerns the realization of building projects in cooperation with external service providers. Promoting health competence from the The number of work accidents on Fraport AG’s construction sites fell from 15 to outset 10 in 2014. Increasing efficiency and flexibility requirements as well as physically demanding activity in operating units may present issues that need to be tackled at an early stage. The infitness mobile initiative on the apron. Using creasing age of employees presents a further a mobile fitness center in a converted truck, challenge. By informing our employees about Fraport enables employees to strengthen their health-maintaining measures and behavior as core muscles through targeted exercise on the well as designing ergonomic workstations, we apron, close to their place of work and during are aiming to stabilize the attendance ratio in working hours. Encouraged by the success of the medium term and increase it in the long the program, we will make a larger vehicle term. In 2014, the ratio amounted to 92.7 %. available in operating areas from spring 2015. Promoting the health of our trainees from the Our preventive measures for health protection outset is the goal of the “FRAzubi-Fit” program range from regular health checks by the comlaunched in September 2013. This includes pany medical officers to tailored programs. practical options on the subjects of nutrition, Since fall 2013, we have been testing the exercise, and dealing with stress. 32 Responsible Corporate Management 2014 Compact Focus on diversity The international orientation of our business in the remuneration of women and men in The airport workplace is highly attractive to means that daily business at Fraport has been our company due to collective bargaining people of various nationalities. It provides characterized by diversity since the very start. agreements. However, the study did confirm opportunities to meet people of various We see the different cultural backgrounds, the need to promote more female employees nationalities, cultures, and languages every experience, and language skills of our emto higher positions. day. As at the end of 2014, 1,765 of 11,694 ployees as an opportunity to respond flexibly employees of the Fraport parent company did and creatively to changing requirements on not hold a German passport. The majority of the international markets and to benefit from Family-friendly working-time models these were employees from Turkey (1,045), them. Through our diversity management, we followed by Italians (145), Greeks (91), and therefore specifically promote the establishWe offer extensive support and opportunities Spaniards (85)*. These are spread over the ment of diverse teams, among other things. to our employees in order to help them to entirety of the company. The guaranteeing of equal opportunities for maintain a work-life balance. These range different groups of employees is required here from providing assistance in organizing paand will continue to form the focus at Fraport rental leave and family services to advice rePromotion without a German passport in future. We have recognized the “Charter of garding issues of domestic care. Our employDiversity”, a corporate initiative to promote ees can organize their working hours to be Frankfurt Airport also offers jobs that do not diversity in companies and institutions, since as flexible as feasibly possible. Approximately require any specific professional qualifications. 2007. This charter emphasizes the importance 250 employees worked partly from home For example, it is possible to hire unskilled of recognizing and valuing diversity and incor(2013: 210). In addition, we help families to employees in ground handling services and porating it into corporate culture. organize child care. Fraport has an allocated cleaning services, who will receive basic trainnumber of child care and kindergarten places ing and specific orientation. This also gives apBy 2018, we aim to increase the proportion of in the vicinity of the airport for the children plicants who have completed training which women in management positions from 24.3 % of employees. Through our cooperation with is not officially recognized in Germany a fair (2014) to between 25 % and 35 % within the “Fluggi-Land”, a child care facility initiated chance. A lack of knowledge of the German Fraport parent company, differentiated by by Fraport in 2003 and built in conjunction language is usually not a barrier. We promote business, service, and central units. Specific with Lufthansa, we provide our employees linguistic competences through targeted training sessions have been directed toward with reasonably priced and flexible child care German courses. Anyone who passes has the this goal, for example, our mentoring prowhere needed, which is available from 6 a.m. opportunity to advance. In ground handling grams and seminars for female specialist staff to 10 p.m., 365 days per year. Our efforts to services, around a third of load masters, bagand managers. In addition, we analyzed the ensure family-friendly employment for our gage supervisors, and transport masters were salary development of our female employees employees have been recognized multiple not German citizens in 2014. in 2014 in cooperation with the Cologne times within the framework of an audit by Institute for Economic Research. The results “berufundfamilie GmbH”, part of the Hertie show that there are no significant differences Foundation. Measuring the mood Using the “Fraport barometer”, we have been able to determine employee satisfaction in the Group. In 2014, the value increased to 2.89 (2013: 3.02; whereby 1 = very good and 5 = inadequate). The average employee satisfaction score in the parent company amounted to 3.14 in the previous financial year and was therefore largely stable compared to the previous year (2013: 3.12). Over 150 individual measures designed to improve employees’ immediate working environments were introduced in 2014. This allowed certain aspects of employee satisfaction to be improved despite continuing tricky conditions. Fraport aims to increase employee satisfaction to an average value higher than 3.0 in the long term. Both company-wide and department-specific measures * The figures refer to employees with a foreign and their evaluation will contribute to this. From financial year 2015 onwards, passport. No data was collected on employees with employee satisfaction will be determined by means of an online survey. an immigration background and German passport. 2014 Compact Responsible Corporate Management 33 Georgious Konstantinous “I have been working at the airport for 24 years. I came to Germany from Greece in 1989. A neighbor, who at the time worked in the management office, asked me whether I was interested in a job. I’ve been here ever since. At first, I worked for Piepenbrock, they changed to Pedus in 1994 and GCS in 1998 (Gesellschaft für Cleaning Service mbH & Co. Airport Frankfurt/Main KG). I had no experience in cleaning and received training. I started off as a special cleaner, and then a driver of wet floor scrubbers. There, I cover around 22,000 square meters in a shift – almost the size of 3 soccer pitches. I always work the night shift from 10 p.m. to 6 a.m. Working night shifts pays better than day shifts. It doesn’t take long to get from my apartment in Raunheim to the airport on the train. Working conditions are good: I always work inside the terminal. GCS offers further training and German courses every year. My uniform is provided and I have a Job Ticket. And they pay on time – which is not always the case in other cleaning companies. I also get on very well with my bosses and colleagues. It’s never even occurred to me to work somewhere else.” 34 Responsible Corporate Management 2014 Compact Customers Prerequisite for our success: Customer satisfaction At an international hub such as Frankfurt Aircooperates with a number of taxi companies process, which is available in 10 languages, port, we as operator must meet or exceed the that use assigned parking spaces directly in as well as “Home to Gate” – a service that expectations of our various customers every front of both terminals. Regional bus compasupplements customer care at the airport day. Passengers primarily want an airport nies benefit from the spacious stops outside through pickup services from home or from that is easy to navigate, short waiting times, of Terminal 1. another starting point. In addition, we have and clean infrastructure. Airlines demand begun to redesign some wall surfaces and are seamless, on-time handling on the ground thereby making an investment in improving and flawless interfaces. For cargo customers Easier orientation and free Wi-Fi the atmosphere of the terminal. and transport companies, short distances, the best possible connection to different modes We adapted the “Great to have you here!” Our efforts are continuing to pay off in 2014: of transport, and the central implementation service initiative to changing passenger reWith passenger satisfaction levels at 80 %, of all security measures are crucial. Operators quirements in 2014. In 5 subprograms, we we were able to achieve our ambitious goal of shops and restaurants at the airport expect plan to significantly improve signposting, the for overall satisfaction (≥80 % ) for the third route planning based on modern infrastrucatmosphere and comfort in the terminal, as year in a row in 2014. We received the title of ture, which gives passengers easy access to well as the range of recreational, work, and “service champion” in the ranking of a total of their product ranges. On behalf of the security entertainment opportunities. Among other 1,500 evaluated companies and facilities. As authorities, around 2,000 Fraport employees things, the airport’s provision of Wi-Fi was in the previous year, Frankfurt achieved a gold and some 700 employees of an external seexpanded in 2014, and the Wi-Fi can now be medal position and remains industry leader curity provider (I-SEC) implement statutory used by passengers and visitors free of charge among German airports with over 8 million requirements during passenger, baggage, 24 hours per day. New information kiosks and passengers per year. The rankings are created and goods checks. We provide attractive areas better signposts at heavily frequented interannually by the market research company in Arrivals for car rental companies. Their cars sections make the airport easier to navigate. Service/Value, Goethe University Frankfurt, are housed in parking areas that are as close as The “My Airport Guide” is also new – an indiand “Die Welt” newspaper, and form the possible for passengers. In addition, Fraport vidual companion through the entire airport largest service barometer in Germany. Our 2014 Compact Responsible Corporate Management 35 personal shopper service came in first place in the “Care and Assistance” category when the innovation prizes were awarded by the market research institute YouGov Service. Frankfurt as a transport hub The interconnection of various modes of transport is a further key activity that increases the attractiveness of Frankfurt Airport. We wish to further expand the airport’s catchment area and increase the proportion of passengers arriving and leaving via public transport. The agreement with DB for the booking of trains departure and arrival options for passengers combined usage of the ticket and departure with flight numbers to Cologne, Dusseldorf, and to connect the airport with locations that control systems by the modes of transport and Hanover via its global reservation system. are not well-connected to the rail network, involved makes the transfer process easier The boarding pass for the flight is then also Fraport is building a central coach station near for passengers. For example, we offer a valid for the journey via train. For routes to to Terminal 1. dedicated AIRail terminal for Lufthansa and Saarbrücken, Kaiserslautern, and Strasbourg, Deutsche Bahn’s (DB) AIRail service, in order Lufthansa offers daily bus connections that to facilitate travel to the check-in counters are also integrated into the three-letter code there and make it more attractive by providsystem. In addition, coaches regularly coning shorter routes. Since 2014, airlines such nected 20 major cities with Frankfurt Airport in as Air China have been offering a codeshare 2014. In order to promote reasonably priced 36 Responsible Corporate Management 2014 Compact Nighttime flight ban – when planes are grounded Fraport is fully committed to the results of the bombs were found were located directly are passed out. Some airlines provide their the mediation proceedings for the construcbelow the takeoff and landing routes, which passengers with vouchers so that they can tion of Runway Northwest. This expressly had to be disabled while the bombs were eat in the restaurants open around the clock also includes the ban on nighttime flights defused by the bomb disposal team. in the terminals. between 11 p.m. and 5 a.m. Our ground handling team, employees in the terminals, The terminal duty manager on duty is responand all technical processes are geared toCamp beds and toothbrushes sible for organizing emergency care. Along ward ensuring that each and every plane with a small team of night-shift employees, reaches the takeoff runway on time. HowevShould the reason for the delay not be within he or she looks after the involuntary overnight er, it is not possible to avoid very late planes the sphere of influence of the airline, special guests and tries to make this unfortunate situbeing affected by the nighttime flight ban. permission* may be requested. Should this ation as pleasant as possible. Every passenger In addition to strikes, inclement weather in not be granted, passengers must spend the receives an “overnight kit”, which includes the afternoons and evenings represents the night in Frankfurt until the first possible takeoff items such as a toothbrush, shower gel, and greatest risk factor here. In the event of heavy the next morning. The airlines usually accoma hand towel. Diapers and baby food are snow, fog, strong winds, or violent summer modate them in hotels in the surrounding provided for babies. Up to 500 people can storms in the region, flight operations may area. Should multiple aircraft be grounded be accommodated in the areas available for need to be discontinued temporarily or the and there not be any free beds, we provide this purpose. number of takeoffs and landings reduced. sleeping areas in various parts of the terminal. But there are also other challenges: In 2014, In general, passengers do not leave the transit 3 aircraft bombs from the Second World War, area and are accompanied into the C/D conwhich were found during construction work necting passage in order to be able to spend on Autobahn 3, in the new airport district the time before takeoff as comfortably as Gateway Gardens and Offenbach offshore possible. Provision stations with small snacks port were responsible for operation stopand drinks are provided here. Camp beds are page that lasted hours. The places where set up, and soft covers, sheets, and pillows Care team for special cases In order to support passengers as best as possible in exceptional situations – if planes cannot take off due to inclement weather or strikes, for example – we have developed a “hall color concept” for Terminal 1 in conjunction with Lufthansa. Each color represents a clearly defined ground service process. Our basic assistance team assists terminal operation employees in such special situations. Airport employees wear colored vests corresponding to the color code in Terminal 1 – or magenta-colored vests in other areas – and help travelers to get to where they need to be. Further employees form part of the special assistance team. They provide initial psychosocial counseling for (uninjured) passengers and people who want to meet them directly affected by aircraft accidents, as well as * Special permission for a takeoff between 11 p.m. catastrophes in vacation destinations, such as the tsunami in the Indian Ocean in and 12 a.m. is granted by the Hessian Ministry 2004 or the Costa Concordia disaster in 2012, as well as pass on information or of Economics, Energy, Transport, and Regional Develimportant contact details. All teams are part of what is known as the care team, opment. The reason for the delay therefore may not a component of Fraport’s emergency management. It is made up of around 200 be within the sphere of influence of the airline, and a voluntary employees from all units and the subsidiary company Fraport Security technical defect is therefore not sufficient. After midServices GmbH (FraSec). They work beyond their original area of responsibility night, no delayed landings or takeoffs are permitted; to ensure the operation of the airport during emergency and special situations. early landings before 5 a.m. are also not allowed. They are released from their positions for this purpose as well as for the training Exceptions only apply for medically necessary flights, required in advance. such as organ transport and emergency landings. 2014 Compact Responsible Corporate Management 37 Pets spend the night in the Animal Lounge Effects of the nighttime flight ban since its introduction in November 2011– December 2014 Should a cargo flight be affected, the process is similar to that for passenger planes. The 411 Nov. & Dec. 2011 airline has to decide whether it will apply for 25 special permission. Should the plane remain in Total 2012 Frankfurt, the cargo is generally not unloaded, 185 wherever possible. The crew travels to a hotel flights grounded in FRA Total 2013 and, depending on the new flight schedule 117 and the staff’s resting hours, the flight will Total 2014 continue the following day. This is not the case 84 for special cargo. In particular, this includes 46,032 Nov. & Dec. 2011 live animals and goods that cannot stay in the 2,625 (0.031%) aircraft overnight, such as foodstuffs. Should Total 2012 such cargo be on board, it will be unloaded 21,664 (0.038 %) again at the instruction of the airline represenpassengers grounded in FRA Total 2013 tative and brought to the intended location. (0.025 % of 12,279 (0.021%) Animals spend the night in the Animal Lounge total number of passengers) Total 2014 at Frankfurt Airport, and perishable goods 9,464 (0.016 %) are stored in the Perishable Center. At both locations, we ensure the spatial and climatic conditions that are required for expensive racehorses or delicate fruit. This ensures that the special cargo can be reloaded onto the plane on the following day and can reach its destination without incident. 38 Responsible Corporate Management 2014 Compact Noise abatement 1 Reduce noise, protect residents 2 4 Civil air travel enables global mobility, enables impact in the surrounding areas. Our goal is approaches. We and our project partners, the fulfillment of a variety of requirements, to stay below the noise values projected in the German Air Navigation Services (DFS) and and is of fundamental importance for the approval procedure for the airport extension Lufthansa, are expecting GBAS to make a economy, both nationally and globally. Howby taking measures within the scope of active major contribution to greater efficiency and ever, an airport located close to an urban area noise abatement. Active noise abatement relow-noise approach procedures. Up to 49 means irritation for nearby residents. We are duces the noise directly at the source or brings different approach routes on our 3 landing positioned in a field of tension at our main about improvements along the distribution runways are supported by just one GBAS site in Frankfurt. On the one hand, we are pathway. Passive noise abatement is targeted station. This opens up new opportunities responsible for tens of thousands of jobs, the toward reducing noise at the location where to relieve the burden on heavily populated economic importance of the biggest airport the noise pollution is experienced. We tackle areas. In order to use the system, aircraft must in the export nation of Germany, and the this issue by financing building measures have the relevant equipment in addition to prosperity of the Frankfurt/Rhine-Main Region. for noise abatement which go beyond the the technology on the ground. In 2013, this On the other hand, the downside to this is the statutory regulations. was the case for 4 % of all aircraft movements. noise impact for those sections of the populaWe anticipate that the proportion of aircraft tion who live in the region around the airport. movements where planes are equipped for Precise approaches with satellite assistance the GBAS system will grow over the next 10 In order to quantify the impact and to verify years to approximately 52 %. At the end of the effectiveness of countermeasures, Fraport With the commissioning of the “Ground Based 2014, the system was successfully moved from has been documenting aircraft noise for the Augmentation System (GBAS)” navigation trial operation to regular operation. past 50 years. A total of 28 stationary measystem in the year under review, Frankfurt suring stations and 3 mobile stations provide Airport is the first international air traffic hub an important set of data for assessing noise in Europe to offer satellite-assisted precision 2014 Compact Responsible Corporate Management 39 Active noise abatement 5 1 Creating breaks in noise Thanks to the DROps procedure, heavily burdened residential areas are provided with relief at particularly sensitive times. Takeoffs on certain runways or routes are bundled together to achieve this. 2 Flying around urban areas 3 In order to lighten the burden on as many areas as possible, takeoffs and landings have been optimized or reorganized. This is also supported by the installation of a satellite-assisted, precision ground-based augmentation aid to enable higher and quieter landing approaches. 3 Flying higher Downwind approaches are raised from 3.0° to 3.2°. Noise is reduced through the raised gliding angle. 4 Flying more quietly Noise-based fees for takeoffs and landings create incentives to use quieter aircraft. Passive noise abatement 5 Passive noise abatement measures include the conversion of windows, shutters, roofs, walls, and the installation of fans. The implementation of the potential measures depends upon the structural requirements of the property. In the form of MAR, DFS has been testing a further approach procedure at Frankfurt Airport since 2014. This abbreviation stands for “modified arrival routes”. The new procedure involves the raising of minimum flight altitudes before and in the first part of the northern and southern downwind approach routes by up to 2,000 feet (approximately 600 metres). The higher flight altitude provides the local populations under these approach areas with parture routes depending on the direction of in the form of the “noise breaks model” is some relief. operations between the hours of 5 a.m. and 6 expected to be introduced into trial operation a.m. This system creates breaks from noise for in April 2015. This should facilitate relief from people living in the vicinity of the routes not noise during the night through the alternatBundled approaches create breaks in noise being used. As the planes take off on parallel ing use of runways – including for landings. runways in an easterly or westerly direction However, operational or infrastructural reA further example of active noise abatement depending on the wind direction, there is quirements may also lead to the suspension is the “dedicated runway operations” procea specific DROps system for flight operation of the procedure. dure (DROps), which aims to reduce noise which also includes takeoffs from the west in the departure area by using alternate runtakeoff runway. In any case, construction ways. This procedure, which started regular measures on the runway system may have the operation in 2013, provides for a bundling effect that the procedure cannot be used on of takeoffs on defined takeoff runways or decertain days. A modified DROps procedure 40 Responsible Corporate Management 2014 Compact One problem – many solutions Who is offended by aircraft operations complains about aircraft noise. Each day, around 7,250 complaints are received as part of Fraport’s neighbor dialog. 95 % of these are automatically generated verification requests, i.e. they are automatically sent online by a piece of software. The rest is sent personally – usually via email. Fraport deals with each individual message and also investigates conspicuous flights on its own initiative. All questionable aircraft movements are compared with the values from noise measurement points and with flight plan depictions from German Air Navigation Services (DFS), where required. Should prescribed flight routes not be complied with, for example, we pass on the information to the aircraft noise protection officer of the Hessian Ministry of Economics, Energy, Transport, and Regional Development Measuring the influence of flight noise (HMWEVL). Route precision and altitude are also verified here. In addition, it is determined On behalf of Gemeinnützige Umwelthaus GmbH (UNH) in Kelsterbach, a whether noise-reducing takeoff and landing subsidiary of the Federal State of Hesse, experts have been investigating the approaches at Frankfurt Airport have been effects of traffic noise since April 2011. The NORAH (Noise-Related Annoyance, complied with. If the pilot has acted incorCognition, and Health) study is financed by the Federal State of Hesse, local rectly, DFS applies for summary proceedings communities, Deutsche Lufthansa, UNH, and Fraport AG. As part of the third at the Federal Aviation Office. module, the impact of aircraft noise on the reading abilities of children was determined – independent from other factors such as the socio-economic status The employees on the noise abatement team of parents or quality of education. This study found that aircraft noise has a low handle queries regarding passive noise abatebut discernible influence on reading performance, which is nonetheless within ment. The goal of this is reducing the noise the national average. A direct effect of aircraft noise on abilities prior to reading, level within buildings by means of structural such as listening comprehension, was not found. measures. Fraport has comprehensive statutory obligations for some 86,000 households Overall, children and parents assess the health-related quality of life and well-being at the Frankfurt site. These are located in a in the region as very high. The study found that children in all of the locations specific noise abatement area, giving them investigated feel well, are healthy, and are happy to go to school. This also applies a defined entitlement to submit claims for for children in areas with comparatively high aircraft noise. However, teachers passive noise abatement measures, which has stated that aircraft noise does affect classes. Over a third of children at such been determined by Hesse State Government schools sometimes have difficulty understanding their teachers. The study did not in accordance with the most stringent noise consider the fact that Fraport has been further developing and expanding active abatement regulations. We comply with the and passive noise abatement in conjunction with its partners since the data was full scope of these claims. Furthermore, we collected in 2012. The new knowledge obtained from the NORAH study is now have joined with the Hesse State Government being used to narrow the focus of the various measures even further. in setting up a Regional Fund that provides between €265 million and €270 million to finance further measures. A consequence of the expansion of Frankfurt Airport by Runway Northwest is the introduction of additional takeoff and landing routes. Owners who bought or constructed a property before the zoning decision and whose house or apartment lies within the approach flight path of the new landing runway are particularly affected by this. Fraport has therefore launched the Casa program and offered compensation payments to the owners of residential properties in Raunheim that are on the Further information can be found online at flight path of particularly low-altitude flyovers www.fraport.com/sustainability under (i.e. less than 350 meters). Fraport also offered “Aircraft noise abatement”. to buy residential properties in certain areas 2014 Compact Responsible Corporate Management 41 in Flörsheim and Kelsterbach, where aircraft €100 million for this purpose and the applinumber previously being 144 in Flörsheim. approach the new Runway Northwest at an cation deadline was extended to the end of Further applications for purchases and comaltitude of less than 350 meters. In 2012, we October 2014. Since then, Fraport has bought pensation payments are still being processed expanded the scope for the purchase option 250 residential properties and rents them out, (as at December 2014). to include transition zones as part of the “Alwith an average vacancy rate of only 3 % in liance for More Noise Abatement 2012”. The 2014. In addition, a total of 122 compensation volume of measures was increased to over payments were made in Raunheim, with this 3 questions for Manfred Ockel > Mayor of Kelsterbach What do you bring to the numerous committees? > Board member of the Aircraft Noise Commission First of all, committee work in the “Aircraft Noise Commission” as well > Co-chairperson of the Active Noise Abatement expert group as in the “Airport and Region Forum” and especially in the “Active in the Airport and Region Forum Noise Abatement expert group” makes it clear that noise abatement > Member of the Administrative Board of Gemeinnützige is a highly complex issue. Simple solutions are hard to find, however. Umwelthaus GmbH (Environment and Neighborhood House I therefore find it important to take a deep breath when it comes to Kelsterbach) noise abatement; continuously address issues and problems, support and motivate the relevant actors from air traffic control, airlines, airport operators, and the authorities to develop suggestions and solutions to reduce noise pollution from air traffic. How do airport neighbors and citizens of Kelsterbach benefit from your commitment? Why are you committed to noise abatement? This is a tricky one to answer, and it’s hard to achieve anything on your Mobility is an important driver of our economy and a basic human own when it comes to noise abatement. But I do believe that we have need. However, traffic does cause many problems that harm people managed to increase the significance of noise abatement in Frankfurt and the environment. Air traffic plays a major role in the Frankfurt overall over the past few years. Frankfurt has played a pioneering role urban area. Due to the extent of the traffic, noise abatement is a social in many issues surrounding active noise abatement. We can see this in responsibility for me. That means that all parties involved are required the requests we receive from other airport sites that want to find out to cooperate. As representatives of cities and local communities, it is about developments in Frankfurt. Even if these efforts are not always therefore our responsibility to work together on this task in order to perceptible to the residents, I still see the opportunities and possibilities strike a comfortable balance between mobility and noise abatement. offered by committee work to reduce noise pollution for the people living The utmost goal must be ruling out potential health risks. around Frankfurt Airport. 42 Responsible Corporate Management 2014 Compact Environment Energy-efficient climate protection Around 2 % of the CO2 emissions caused emissions should not exceed 238,000 metric companies from the “Transportation” sector by humans worldwide are ascribed to civil tons in 2020. to be listed in this index. aviation by the International Energy Agency. In contrast to air carriers – i.e. the airlines – airport operation itself only makes up a Measuring consumption and targeted GreenTec Award for e-mobility project very minor proportion of this. Responsibility intervention for the rise in average temperatures on the “E-PORT AN”, the joint project of Fraport, earth has been attributed to the increasing We have improved our data basis in order to Lufthansa, the State of Hesse, and the “Rhineconcentration of CO2 and other greenhouse identify high energy consumption and its causMain electromobility model region” won the gases in the atmosphere, with recognized es and introduce energy efficiency measures. GreenTec Award in the Air Traffic category in drastic consequences for humans and nature. Since 2013, the values of energy consumption 2014. The GreenTec Award is Europe’s largest Even the smallest measure helps to reduce and CO2 emissions have been generated from environmental and business award. The goal CO2 emissions and therefore protect the SAP based on causes and are made available of the various projects bundled under “E-PORT environment and our living spaces. Even at for further analysis each month. Fraport has AN” is to reduce CO2 emissions when handling an international air traffic hub such as Frankalso been contributing its climate reporting aircraft on the ground. Alternative drive techfurt Airport, small measures can allow many externally to the “Carbon Disclosure Project” nologies will be tested. The scope ranges from thousands of tons of the greenhouse gas to (CDP), the world’s leading climate reporting aircraft tow tractors with diesel-electric hybrid be saved. Using energy efficiently, reducing initiative in the financial industry. It analyzes drives to purely battery-powered pallet loaders consumption, and therefore making a contricompanies and their strategies on climate for plane loading, as well as electric vans and bution to environmental protection has been change and CO2 reporting. Since 2006, Fraport even solar-powered airstairs. In addition, a total important to Fraport for some time. In figures, has been participating in the CDP and it was of 21 electric cars were included in employee this means reducing the CO2 emissions that listed for the fifth time in succession in the car pools. A photovoltaic facility integrated into Fraport AG itself is responsible for by 30 % per Climate Disclosure Leadership Index (CDLI) the facade of the Fraport corporate headquarpassenger or 100 kg of cargo at the Frankfurt in the “DACH” region (Germany, Austria, ters provides power for the electric vehicles site by 2020 compared to 2005’s figures. This Switzerland). This index lists the best 10 % of parked in the car pool there. corresponds to the second goal: Total CO2 participating companies. Fraport is one of 2 2014 Compact Responsible Corporate Management 43 Energy management in terminals, buildings and facilities Our plans for energy costs in our terminals are ambitious. The increase in energy efficiency in the operation of the terminals, buildings, and equipment is crucial for achieving this goal – around 86 % of the CO2 emissions at Fraport AG stems from these areas. That is why we have gradually been replacing the air-conditioning systems in Terminal 1 since 2007. By 2020, we will have exploited the majority of the total savings potential of Fraport AG for this period at 5,500 metric tons of CO2. The energy optimization of service and administrative buildings saves around 4,000 metric tons of CO2. Further energy-saving methods include usage-dependent control of terminal lighting, the use of LED lamps in the cargo handling hall of the subsidiary Fraport Cargo Services, and the optimization of the 80 kilometer-long baggage conveyor system. Energy consumption here has been lowered in a number of ways including by reducing the frictional forces generated by the belts, using more efficient drives, and partially shutting down some parts of the conveyor system when there is no baggage to transport. Following the conclusion of the measures in 2018, we expect savings of 2,000 metric tons of CO2 emissions from the baggage conveyor system. “E-PORT AN” is part of the activities of the CO2 footprint at Frankfurt Airport and Fraport parent company in 2014 “electromobility in model regions” support program of the German Federal Ministry in % for Transport and Digital Infrastructure. The focuses of the research of E-PORT AN lie in Frankfurt Airport determining the energy needs for everyday use and optimizing battery sizes and lifetime. ~ 1.71 In addition, the effects of the large-scale use of million 86.1 Scope 3 (third parties at airport electric vehicles is taken into consideration in metric tons including air traffic in the takeoff and landing cycle) the scale of the power network at the airport. 2.0 11.9 Scope 1 (own consumption Scope 2 (external sourcing of of the Fraport parent company) energy of the Fraport parent company) 1.0 Fraport parent company Other (scope 1): (scope 1 and 2) Operation of emergency power systems (0.3 % ) Operation of fire alarm systems (0.1% ) 68.2 238,222 Operation of fire systems (0.6 % ) Energy consumption (scope 2) metric tons 5.1 District cooling consumption (scope 2) 13.5 12.2 Vehicle operation District heating consumption and equipment (scope 1) (scope 2) 44 Responsible Corporate Management 2014 Compact Red de-ices, green protects The Fraport investment company N*ICE Aircraft Services & Support GmbH (N*ICE), a joint venture of Fraport and Servisair, which is responsible for deicing aircraft, uses a mixture of propylene glycol and various proportions of water in order to de-ice aircraft. The red liquid removes ice and snow from surfaces and control elements, and the green liquid provides the aircraft with refreezing protection, which, depending upon the outside temperature and potential rainfall, lasts until takeoff. When it is very cold and the lead time of the refreezing protection has expired, the protection must be reapplied. In order to give even further consideration to environmental concerns, N*ICE has been applying the innovative N*ICE Advanced De-Icing System (NAD) from all 58 vehicles since winter 2012/13. With separate tanks for water and de-icing agents as well as a modern mixing system, the mixture used for de-icing and anti-icing can be adjusted to the prevailing conditions depending on the temperature. Fraport uses a potassium formate in a dosage corresponding to the weather conditions to de-ice flight operating areas at Frankfurt Airport. All agents biodegrade quickly and comply with strict environmental requirements. 2014 Compact Responsible Corporate Management 45 Use rainwater, save groundwater The operation of a large airport results in high We do not merely want to replace drinking water requirements as well as a large quantity water with service water, but also use water of wastewater. When handling the precious in a fundamentally frugal way. The greatest commodity of water, Fraport observes all savings achieved to date have been consistent aspects of modern water management. This use of water-saving techniques in wash basin concerns not only water consumption but fittings and toilet flushing. In technical areas, also the quality of the water that is introduced water is saved through methods such as the into the ecosystem via the airport area. Using use of circulation systems in vehicle washing over 550 groundwater measurement points at systems. Frankfurt Airport and in its immediate vicinity, we monitor the quality of the groundwater and ensure compliance with prescribed 300 kilometers of channels for sewage and threshold levels in conjunction with the rainwater authorities. Fraport operates 2 separate sewer systems Over the past 14 years, the proportion of The drinking and service water network at for wastewater and rainwater. This allows us service water in Fraport AG’s overall water Frankfurt Airport is 130 kilometers in length to avoid the overloading of water-treatment consumption at Frankfurt Airport increased in total. Drinking water is sourced from the plants in the event of heavy rainfall. The waste from 11 % to 24 % in 2014, and in 2011 Hinkelstein well system, located around 3 kilowater system has a sewer length of approxiand 2013 to as high as 25 %. meters to the north of the airport. We acquire mately 100 kilometers and contains wastewaservice water from rainwater treatment faciliter from toilet facilities, canteens, restaurants, ties in CargoCity South, in Terminal 2, as well vehicle washing systems, plane toilets, and as at Pier A-plus, in addition to from our own water used to clean aircraft. Wastewater from groundwater wells and treated water from the the northern section of the airport is puriMain River. We use it in sprinkler systems, toilet fied in the water-treatment plants in Frankflushing systems, and to irrigate green areas. furt-Sindlingen and Frankfurt-Niederrad. In The service water supply system in CargoCity the southern section of the airport, Fraport South has been extensively expanded. In the operates its own water-treatment plant. A north, Terminal 2 is already supplied with further 200 kilometers of sewers collect the service water, while 70 % of Terminal 1 and rainwater from the apron, aircraft positions, the neighboring office buildings have access de-icing pads, roads, parking spaces, and to this supply. Comprehensive supply to all roofs, for example. It flows through a number areas is planned to be finished by 2016. of safety facilities and filer systems and is then led into the Main River, the Gundbach River, or infiltration systems. 46 Responsible Corporate Management 2014 Compact Community Active for the region At the Frankfurt site, Fraport feels a particular we support not only the Bundesliga teams but endowed income yielded by the foundation commitment to the Frankfurt/Rhine-Main Realso young talent, as well as projects promoting assets amounting to €6.1 million is mainly gion. That is why we support regional children motor skill development and the social integraused to support projects, institutions, and and youth projects, initiatives for people with an tion of children. agencies which improve the training and job immigration background, ethnic minorities, and opportunities available to young people living the socially deprived, among others. Fraport is in the Frankfurt/Rhine-Main Region. Other particularly active in places where associations Creativity in the “Children’s Art Club” resources are channeled into the creation and voluntary organizations are dependent of new apprenticeship places and retaining upon help in order to carry out their work. We In the areas of culture and education, Fraport existing ones. Funds are also used to prohave been providing financial support for many supports initiatives such as the Rheingau Music vide equipment for training facilities. A total different social, sports, and cultural projects in Festival and the Weilburger Castle concerts. of some €400,000 was approved in 2014. the region around Frankfurt Airport under our Through long-term partnerships with some Another foundation was established in 1986 motto “Active for the Region” for many years. of Frankfurt’s cultural institutions, including on the initiative of the former Chief Executive The so-called “Neighborhood Framework” Städel Museum, Schirn Art Gallery, and the Officer Erich Becker under the name “Frankfurt forms the geographical limit for our sponsorLiebieghaus sculpture collection, we support Airport Foundation” and was renamed in his ship activities. The corresponding area has educational art programs such as the “Chilhonor as the “Erich Becker Foundation” in 2004. increased as new flight routes have come into dren’s Art Club”. In the “Summer Academy”, The purpose of the foundation is to promote operation. In 2014, we supported more than young people preparing for professional life academic development and research on the 1,600 projects of various clubs and associations, discover their creative potential. issues of air traffic, mobility, and logistics. The with donations or sponsorship amounting to a stable income from the endowed capital of total of €5.2 million. Commitment to professional training has a €1.5 million is used by the foundation to finance well-established tradition at Fraport AG. Since diploma theses, dissertations, post-doctoral In the Rhine-Main Region, Fraport is one of the the 1980s, regional apprenticeship projects theses (habilitations), and other projects. Since largest supporters of sport; its commitment exhave been supported by company funds. 1988, funding of around €3 million has been tends to both amateur and professional sports. The ProRegion Foundation was established in approved. Well-known names include FRAPORT SKYLINERS July 1999 in order to provide permanent and and Eintracht Frankfurt. At both associations, secure financial backing for these activities. The 2014 Compact Responsible Corporate Management 47 Recreation in urban areas The provision of funding for the RhineMain Parcels for children in Hungary and Romania Regional Park is a contribution from Fraport to building up a relaxation and adventure enviFor a number of years, Fraport employee Helmut Hofmann has traveled to ronment in the middle of an urban cityscape. children’s homes in Hungary and Romania to offer his help. Traditionally, Fraport Different features have been gradually melded employees send parcels to children in orphanages, facilities for the disabled, and together over the years, connecting up the poor families in the 2 countries each year at Christmas time. In 2014, a total of landscaped areas, historic gardens, monuments 7,025 parcels was sent, not least thanks to the participation of the employees of of industrial culture, and parks in a network of the Hesse Broadcasting Service and ZDF, Kaltenhof workshops for the disabled, paths and trails. In addition, this local recreationas well as some day care centers and schools in the region. Hofmann took the al area enhances the leisure value of the region. Christmas parcels to the children on a number of trips. Fraport paid for the gas Visitors can discover the Frankfurt area on foot required and provided some of the vehicles. On his trips, Hofmann was often or by bike. The “Fraport Regional Park Open” accompanied by other Fraport employees, including members of the Executive mobility festival has taken place yearly since Board. 2012. In 2014, the focus was on cycling mobility and therefore on the question as to what role bicycles will play in the future in the urban and recreational space of the Rhine-Main area. The RhineMain Regional Park has been sponsored using resources of the Environmental Fund, which Fraport has used since 1997 to support environmental conservation projects, research, and environmental educational projects. Since the Environmental Fund was established, more than 850 projects have been sponsored with funds adding up to nearly €35 million. 48 Responsible Corporate Management 2014 Compact The many aspects of responsibility Frankfurt Airport is a leading international air advantage of by the export-oriented German amounts to €9.1 billion and therefore 3.4 % traffic hub. The Frankfurt/Rhine-Main Region economy, which needs connections to other of Hesse’s overall economy. One in every has very high locational quality and an excelmarkets. 30 euros in Hesse is currently directly or inlent transport infrastructure. This is particularly directly generated due to Frankfurt Airport. important for companies which depend on Around 59,000 further jobs are created due global networking. 5.5 million people living Infrastructure secures jobs to the buying behavior of employees of busiin the metropolitan area around Frankfurt also nesses and suppliers. In total, some 175,000 benefit from this. They enjoy the advantages In 2012, around 78,000 people worked at the people benefit from the positive economic of traveling a short distance to the airport airport itself in more than 500 businesses. This effects of air traffic in Frankfurt. when they go on holiday, and a lot of people means that Frankfurt Airport is the biggest work for companies that benefit from their workplace in Germany and it makes a signifclose proximity to the airport. icant contribution to the economic strength Position among the competition Fraport is and prosperity in Germany and the Rhinecommitted to the Frankfurt economic hub Airlines, logistics companies, and not least Main region itself. Many export-oriented and the metropolitan region. This commitpassengers appreciate the airport for its companies as well as German and European ment includes cooperating in the “Frankfurt central location in the heart of Europe. High branches of major international companies Rhine Main Economic Initiative”, in which demand has led to more international and have selected the area around the airport as 150 companies are involved. As co-founder, international destinations being served here their location. They appreciate the advantages Fraport has been active in this area since 1996 than from many other airports worldwide. of the local infrastructure and benefit from the and provides its management. The initiative Its role as a hub plays a crucial role here: As high number of flight connections offered by aims to make the metropolitan region more connections to the entire world are very good the airport. attractive on an economic, scientific, and culhere, airlines offer additional flights to new tural level and therefore positions itself as best destinations. More than half of air passengers All of the companies based at the airport and as possible among the competition. A result transfer to another flight in Frankfurt. Fraport itself provide further employment of the cooperation is the House of Logistics stimuli in the area and also attract a number and Mobility (HOLM) center of excellence at The airport’s role as a hub makes it an attractive of service providers. This is also demonstratits location at the airport. The economic inicargo shipment terminal. Around half of the ed by a report ordered by Fraport from the tiative is also a project partner for the further over 2 million metric tons of cargo transported independent Swiss consultation and research development of the RhineMain Regional Park, each year are carried in the hold of passenger company, INFRAS. According to this report, the largest sponsorship project of the Fraport aircraft. Cargo shippers take advantage of the Germany’s largest air traffic hub secures Environmental Fund. extensive connection options at Frankfurt around 116,000 jobs at companies on the airAirport to get their goods to the destination port premises as well as at their suppliers and quickly. Frankfurt therefore ranks among the service providers. This corresponds to 2.9 % of most important air freight sites worldwide total employee numbers in Hesse. The added and as number one in Europe. This is taken value created by these employment effects Employee figures at Frankfurt Airport 1980 – 2012 31,800 53,300 62,500 71,000 78,000* 1980 1990 2000 2010 2012 * Number of employees including The Squaire and Gateway Gardens. The figures for 2014 were not available when this report went to press. 2014 Compact Responsible Corporate Management 49 FrankfurtRhineMain metropolitan region Gießen Fulda House of Logistics and Mobility (HOLM) center of excellence at its location at the airport. Wiesbaden Frankfurt Frankfurt Airport Mainz Aschaffenburg 5.5 million people in the metropolitan region benefit from Frankfurt Airport Worms 50 Responsible Corporate Management 2014 Compact Our International Airports Growth driven by expertise Worldwide, Fraport AG operates 14 airports with majority and minority shareholdings, as well as under management contracts. Fraport’s portfolio as a full service provider includes airport operation and management as well as consultation services for all airport-specific areas, such as ground handling services as well as terminal, retail, and real estate management. Our sites include the airports in Ljubljana (Slovenia), Lima (Peru), Varna and Burgas (Bulgaria), and Antalya (Turkey) and are presented in further detail here. LJU Ljubljana – Ljubljana Airport At our new affiliated company at Ljubljana Wastewater from the airport and aircraft is to protect the residents from noise caused Airport, environment-related activities have treated, and the water quality is monitored by airport operations, Ljubljana Aerodrom, been managed via an environmental manageby an external contractual partner. In addition, d.d. plans to set up a natural noise abatement ment system in accordance with ISO 14001 Ljubljana Aerodrom, d.d. has established a barrier by 2020 in cooperation with the local since 2011. The operating company Ljubljana waste management plan for the period from authorities. Aerodrom, d.d. has committed to being en2012 to 2015, which provides for the strict vironmentally responsible and to protecting separation of all kinds of waste. Furthermore, In the areas of health protection and occunatural resources. In order to reduce energy employees are encouraged to save resources pational safety, the operator is aiming for the consumption and CO 2 emissions, most during their daily working routine. utmost care. The organization of a number buildings at the airport have been heated of sporting events and the sponsoring of with natural gas rather than heating oil since In accordance with EU guidelines, Ljubljana in-house teams contribute toward a healthy 2013. A further focus on renewable energy is Aerodrom, d.d. introduced the systematic and capable workforce. The voluntary comalready planned. Since 2012, the operator has monitoring and measurement of noise in the mitment of employees is also promoted. been calculating the airport’s carbon footprint vicinity of the airport in as early as 2008. The and reached the first level of Airport Carbon results show that aircraft noise fluctuates beDepending on the season, operational emAccreditation in 2013. low the prescribed threshold levels. In order ployees sometimes work in difficult areas. Since 2013, they have been provided with standardized protective clothing that meets all the different requirements. To reduce workloads, Ljubljana Aerodrom, d.d. made investments in a number of areas in 2014, including new conveyor belts, and equipped the cargo warehouse with a hydraulic lifting system. Internal and external auditors carried out around 500 inspections of equipment and devices in the year under review. Ljubljana Aerodrom, d.d. divides its social commitment in the region into 3 areas: sport, art, and culture as well as social projects. Examples include supporting the Slovenian Olympic Team and the presentation of exhibitions in the terminal. Moreover, the operator is one of the sponsors of the “Ljubljana Festival”, the major cultural event in the capital. 2014 Compact Responsible Corporate Management 51 LIM Lima – Aeropuerto Internacional Jorge Chávez In 2014, Lima Airport Partners (LAP), the Personnel management at Lima Airport was LAP pays its employees above-average wages operator of Lima Airport, redefined its vision, audited by SGS (Société Générale de Surveilby Peruvian standards, and the company also mission, and corporate principles. In addilance SA) in 2014. The successful certification offers a voluntary bonus program. All employtion to service quality, integrated security, reflects the significant improvements that ees were financially involved in the success of innovation, efficiency, and financial sustainhave been achieved in the areas of payroll the company. LAP expanded its sponsorship ability, it now expressly considers social and accounting, performance management, commitment to 3 projects in the field of child environmental responsibility to be among recognition schemes, further training, and protection and care in 2014. Where possible, its core principles. Interaction with the most the working environment since 2011. The the activities are associated with environmenimportant target groups as well as social refollow-up audit is planned for 2016. This tal protection measures. sponsibility activities have been reviewed and certification is also associated with the inan action plan drafted for 2015/2016. clusion of LAP in the renowned “Asociación LAP maintains relationships with its stakeholdde Buenos Empleadores”, an association of ers and business partners, for example, via The environmental management system in “good employers” of the American Chamber monthly meetings with the airlines. External accordance with ISO 14001 was successfully of Commerce in Peru. market research institutes carry out surveys inspected by TÜV NORD in 2014. In the same of airlines, passengers, and concessionaires year, LAP certified its carbon footprint in acCompliance with the international standard annually. The results are presented to the cordance with ISO 14064-1 for the first time. for occupational safety measures, OHSAS management and improvement measures are This makes Lima one of the first airports in 18001, was also successfully certified by TÜV developed. In addition, employees’ opinions South America to be certified. Its commitment NORD in 2014. Participation in operational are integrated into improvement processes. to climate protection is also visible: During health and safety training is mandatory for Since 2012, LAP has surveyed employee the UN Climate Change Conference in Lima all employees. In addition, LAP audited 63 satisfaction in the company once every 2 in December 2014, LAP provided space in companies based at the airport for compliyears. In the year under review, the employee the terminal for an artistic installation, which ance with statutory requirements in the year satisfaction value amounted to 72 %, which showed approximately 10,000 employees, under review. represented a significant increase in comparpassengers, and visitors the consequences of ison to 57 % in 2012. their actions on the global climate. 52 Responsible Corporate Management 2014 Compact VAR/BOJ Varna and Burgas – Varna Airport and Burgas Airport At our sites in Varna and Burgas, we have made vacuum lifting systems have been introduced wall, which should be completed in 2015. a commitment to comply with internationally in baggage handling at both airports. This should reduce the noise pollution caused recognized standards and principles, such as by Burgas Airport in neighboring Sarafo. The the UN Global Compact. In early 2014, the FTSAM controls environment-related activcompany has operated its own aircraft noise operating company Fraport Twin Star Airport ities at Varna and Burgas airports via a joint monitoring system at both airports since Management (FTSAM) also adopted the environmental management system. This 2012. Each of the 4 stationary measuring Codes of Conduct for Employees and Supallows risks to be identified and minimized points lie within the modeled aircraft noise pliers introduced by Fraport in its regulations as well as environmental performance to profiles of between 60 and 65 dB(A) around and contracts. be improved. The operating company has the cities of Varna and Burgas. declared environmental protection to be The primary focus of personnel policy inone of the most important goals of the new In addition, FTSAM commits to initiatives at cludes the further training of employees as Code of Conduct. Various measures have both sites, such as donation and collection well as safety in the workplace and health probeen implemented in this context, such as campaigns for social facilities, and promotes tection. In addition to regular health checks, the separation of recyclable waste since 2013. cultural life as well as the development of health promotion programs and training on A further goal is the responsible handling of tourism in the region. handling specific risks in the workplace were the precious commodity, water. This includes carried out in 2014. Information campaigns the purification of rainwater at both airports, regarding the prevention of accidents, indiwhich can be charged with plane de-icing vidual measures, biannual monitoring, and agent in the event of snowfall or frost. analyses of health states should also reduce the rate of illness-related leave. In order to minTogether with the City of Burgas, FTSAM is fiimize the risk of back injuries in employees, nancing the construction of a noise abatement 2014 Compact Responsible Corporate Management 53 AYT Antalya – Antalya Airport ICF Airports, the operator of Antalya Airport, as possible, 4,500 cubic meters of wastewater to select additional insurance for them and approved a CO2 management plan in 2010, are treated in the airport’s own water purifitheir relatives, such as private health or life which was then expanded in 2011. In this cation system. insurance. plan, ICF assumes responsibility for almost all of the airport’s sources of emissions. The goal In dealings with employees, we have also Providing more than €500,000 in total, ICF Airis to reduce CO2 emissions per passenger in committed to complying with internationally ports supported social, culture, and education comparison with the previous year, but at recognized standards and principles such as projects in the region in 2014. In addition, the least in comparison with the average for the the UN Global Compact at our Antalya site. company funds the introduction of recycling previous three-year period. As early as 2012, In addition, ICF Airports creates added value systems at 2 schools each year. Antalya Airport reached the second highest for its employees by means of occupational level of Airport Carbon Accreditation (level 3), safety and health programs, additional finanwhich was verified once again in 2014. ICF cial benefits, and training offers. Since 2013, Airports also helps its business partners to monthly audits have aimed to cover risks in An overview of all affiliated airports and reduce their emissions. In 2014, a reduction of the fields of occupational safety and health other affiliated companies can be found on approximately 12,000 metric tons of CO2 was protection. All employees are trained with our home page at www.fraport.com. achieved, partly due to the supply of parked regard to these issues. In 2014, ICF Airports aircraft with ground power, which allows offered a total of 101 training courses in the engines to be turned off. The trigeneration areas of professional and personal developpower station, which has been in operation ment. Overall, approximately 7,000 training since 2011, facilitates further CO2 savings. In sessions were held. Within what is known as order to use natural resources as responsibly the cafeteria system, employees were able 54 Imprint 2014 Compact Imprint Publisher Fraport AG Frankfurt Airport Services Worldwide 60547 Frankfurt am Main Germany Tel.: +49 (0) 1806 3724636 1) Website: www.fraport.de Investor Relations Contact Stefan J. Rüter Head of Finance and Investor Relations Tel.: +49 69 690-74840 Fax: +49 69 690-74843 Website: www.meet-ir.de Email: investor.relations@fraport.de Concept und Design heureka GmbH, Essen Photography Michael Gernhuber, Essen Sabine Eder, Fraport AG Andreas Meinhardt, Fraport AG Stefan Rebscher, Fraport AG Fotoarchiv, Fraport AG House of Logistics and Mobility GmbH, Frankfurt Publication Date May 2015 Editorial Deadline April 2015 1) 20 cents (€) per call from a German landline; maximum of 60 cents (€) per call from a German cell phone.
