1 ANADOLU EFES SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 1 ABOUT THE REPORT Anadolu Efes, with an enthusiasm to create a better future, when material to better portray Anadolu Efes’ sustainability impact and performance. assumes its responsibility to new generations for building a resilient, sustainable and profitable business and delivering In order to relay Anadolu Efes’ operational expansion the best quality and responsibly consumed products. We have on sustainability performance in an accurate, timely, a firm belief that reaching our future goal relies on an honest, transparent and accountable communication with stakeholders comprehensive and clear fashion, the historical progress in order to overcome global and local sustainability challenges of our operational scope has been considered during the together. To that end, we employ sustainability reports that calculation of the data presented in this report. Therefore, we have been publishing since 2010, as a major tool for data regarding production in Russia and Ukraine, where communicating our performance in light of our sustainable operations were taken over in 2013 from SABMiller, is business goals regarding the social, environmental and included only post 2013, based on the actual operational economic impact of our operations. This report, therefore, scope during these years. discusses Anadolu Efes’ corporate commitments to its sustainability priorities through performance achieved in these We consider our reporting practice as a continuous fields, shares future goals and also showcases best practices. improvement area in our sustainability management. Therefore, Information disclosed in this report covers performance we will continue our efforts to further develop our reporting between January 1st, 2014 and December 31st 2014. practice in line with the Anadolu Efes Positive Impact Plan. To this end, we review our sustainability priorities in line This year we have developed our reporting practice in line with with the materiality criteria of GRI G4 Guidelines, as well as Global Reporting Initiative’s latest reporting framework, namely G4 changes in operational geography and market conditions and Reporting Guidelines. Thus, Anadolu Efes Sustainability Report regularly revisit our goals and targets regarding the sustainable 2014 has been published in accordance with “core” option development of Anadolu Efes. criteria of GRI G4 Reporting Guidelines. Hence, in preparing this report, GRI G4 Guidelines have been primarily employed This report has been developed and designed in an optimized for indicators shown and methods recommended for qualitative fashion for maximum readability and responsiveness for inand quantitative sustainability performance monitoring. Sectortended stakeholder group interests. For that reason, a complespecific performance evaluation indicators, as well as the set of mentary document, “Anadolu Efes 2014 Sustainability ReportCommunication on Progress (CoP) principles defined by UN ing Index”, featuring more detailed quantitative and technical Global Compact (UNGC), which we adopted in 2011, have also data on Anadolu Efes’ sustainability performance and reporting been taken into consideration in the preparation of the report . practice for readers such as sector specialists, analysts, researchers and academics, etc. is also available. This document Like the previous report, published in October 2014, this report also includes the GRI Content Index and UNGC Reporting Prinencompasses all our brewery operations in Turkey, Russia, ciple Index, prepared under the same principles. You can find Kazakhstan, Georgia, Moldova and Ukraine. Performance all the documents indicated above on our corporate website regarding subsidiaries such as Coca-Cola İçecek A.Ş. and www.anadoluefes.com or by clicking here Tarbes is not included within the scope of this if not specifically indicated. However, in line with the materiality and boundary Sustainability practices and performance outcomes setting criteria of G4 Framework, performance data regarding regarding Coca-Cola İçecek A.Ş., a subsidiary of Anadolu Efes, operations conducted by third parties such as suppliers, can be found in corporate responsibility reports published dealers, distributors and sales points have also been employed on the website www.cci.com.tr G4-6 G4-17 G4-19 G4-20 G4-21 G4-23 G4-28 G4-29 G4-30 G4-32 2 CEO STATEMENT Dear Stakeholders, ANADOLU EFES POSITIVE IMPACT PLAN During the past forty-six years in the brewery business, Anadolu Efes has successfully built a corporate philosophy that I may outline with four words: listening, delivering, growing and Through Anadolu Efes Positive Impact Plan, we intend to sharing. address both sector-specific and common challenges in order to generate new opportunities both for Anadolu Efes We listen to our stakeholders, not only when making the best and the communities we operate in. That’s why we have quality beers under more than 40 different, locally-tuned focused on eight priorities, namely; decreasing water use, brands with unique tastes, but also when designing our energy consumption and emissions, reducing packaging, strategies, and defining our policies and goals. We learn from enhancing our value chain, improving our talents, developing them, thereby successfully delivering what they expect from our communities, supporting moderate consumption and us, both locally and globally. And when it comes to delivering responsible marketing practices and the maintaining of reliable, performance, we aim high. Although we operate in a highly safe, and environmental-friendly operations. competitive business environment, we challenge ourselves even more to achieve bigger goals. And we enjoy business Despite the current market challenges, which negatively impact models that mobilize all parties around common goals to the achieving of our goals due to volatile sales volumes and generate shared values, not only in a commercial or financial regulatory limitations, in 2014 we continued to take further sense, but also in terms of the social, environmental and steps to increase our performance in all of our focus areas. economic aspects of our operations. This year in our beer production processes we used 22% less water, 17% less energy, and generated 27% less waste water and 14% less emissions by sold product volume when A BRAND NEW BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT compared to 2008. We reduced our injury rate to 1.33 and increased our employee trainings to 26.5 hours per employee. We increased our waste and by-product recovery rate to Beside rapid changes in the beer business that we encounter 95.6%, while reducing packaging use with light-weight and in our markets, the rapid increase in the world population returnable packaging. Meanwhile, we continued our support presents various challenges. A new generation is born with for community development through various projects and local new expectations. In the near future not only should we economies through local hiring and local procurement, which provide products and services that will correspond to those has reached 78.4% by expenditure. We maintained our efforts new expectations, but also businesses will be asked to create to enhance our value chain to generate robust business value more jobs, greater prosperity, a higher quality of life, in order for our stakeholders, especially through our Agriculture Support to overcome social, economic and environmental challenges Program that we are conducting in Turkey and Moldova, and such as climate change and a shortage of water and food; which plays a pivotal role in generating significant value both simply put, a better life than we provide today. In tomorrow’s for Anadolu Efes, and local economies and communities in the world, a resilient and profitable business will be defined as one future. We also continued our initiatives to support moderate that is responsible, accountable and responsive to community consumption and responsible marketing practices in all our expectations. Hence, it should focus on creating sustainable operational countries. value together with, and for all stakeholders. This is why we adopted the Anadolu Efes Positive Impact Plan; simply to Although we still have a way to go to achieve our 2015 targets, sustain a better life. we celebrate this performance as an outstanding success, G4-1 G4-2 3 given that these targets were set according to 2008’s market in terms of our eight commitments, for 2015, we aim to conditions, which are significantly different today. develop our corporate policies in priority areas such as water, energy and climate change, OHS, ethics and business conduct, responsible marketing and procurement in TACKLING CLIMATE CHANGE accordance with new requirements. 2015 will also see the conclusion of the primary period of Addressing climate change ranks amongst our top Anadolu Efes Positive Impact Plan. Thus, we will work on priorities. Possible impacts on agricultural production, analysing the outcomes of the 2008-2015 period and set energy market conditions, global emission limitations, new targets in order to overcome future challenges such changing demographics and consumer attitudes result as climate change, as well as supporting new Sustainable in social, economic, environmental, operational, market, Development Goals. Meanwhile we will enhance our capacity and regulatory risk potential, which may also influence and organization in terms of sustainability management. financial performance. Thus, combating climate risk is of While, continuing our support for international initiatives such major importance for the brewery sector, besides being a as the UN Global Compact, CEO Water Mandate and Women global challenge for humanity in general. For this reason Empowerment Principles, we will also monitor the local and we have the utmost focus on tackling this issue in a wide international sustainability agenda more closely. perspective due to its potential to open new opportunities for us. Therefore, as an operation based on agricultural Anadolu Efes operates with the mission of products, we emphasize our efforts against climate change bringing people together to share moments throughout our value chain, from agricultural process right of life by responsibly enjoying its brands. In through to distribution. While reductions in water and energy use as well as emissions are the most direct and this regard, sustainability is the most rational, visible achievements in climate performance, in fact, our responsible, and indeed the only possible way packaging and logistics optimization and cooler purchasing of realizing our vision of becoming the most practices, and most definitely our Agricultural Support admired beverage company in the markets in Program including barley and hops R&D studies carry vital which we operate. Hence, while emphasizing importance in our efforts. Moreover, we monitor the climate our commitment to support the sustaining of change agenda both locally and globally, especially in terms of the COP21 framework, observing and supporting a better life for future generations, I would governmental studies and global initiatives such as the UN like to thank all our stakeholders, notably, our Global Compact and CEO Water Mandate. employees, suppliers, dealers and distributors, as well as the investors and shareholders who invest in our shared future. 2015 AND BEYOND Development is an evergreen process amid constantly changing social, environmental and economic conditions. We should fine tune our way of doing business according to the new stakeholder expectations and business environment. Robin Goetzsche Therefore, continuing our efforts to improve our performance Beer Group President and Anadolu Efes CEO G4-1 G4-2 4 Sustainability Progress Chart* Energy & Emissions Water Management Management Priorities & Commitments Priorities & Commitments We are producing more beer using less water. We are reducing our carbon footprint by using energy resources more efficiently. Goals • In 2015, we will reduce specific water consumption per Goals unit product in breweries by 35 percent compared to 2008. • In 2015, we will reduce specific energy consumption and specific emissions • We will reduce wastewater discharges in line with water per unit product in our breweries by 25 percent compared to 2008. consumption reduction targets. • We will continue with practices that increase efficiency in our distribution • We will continue developing water saving and recovery operations. projects. • We will continue with the procurement of coolers with reduced environmental impacts and extend this practice in all country operations. • We will cooperate with regional and international • We will cooperate with regional and international initiatives for combating initiatives related to the protection of water resources. climate change. • We will publish Anadolu Efes Water Policy in 2015. • We will search out opportunities to employ renewable resources in our energy portfolio. Achievements • We will publish Anadolu Efes Energy and Climate Change Policy in 2015. • Compared to 2008; per unit produced, we consumed 22% less water in beer production and 21% less water in Achievements malt production. • Compared to 2008; we consumed 17% less energy and generated 14% • Per unit produced, we generated 27% less wastewater less CO2 emissions per unit product in beer production. in beer production and 26% less wastewater in malt • We kept our energy consumption and emissions per unit produced in production. malt production under 2008 values. In 2014, we maintained our emissions level despite a slight increase in energy consumption in malt production. • We achieved 97% procurement rate in environmental friendly coolers across all Anadolu Efes operations. • We conducted distribution optimization projects in various operations. G4-2 5 Enhancing the Product Value Chain Responsibility Priorities & Commitments Priorities & Commitments In order to generate more added value, we are enhancing We are working to create a consumer base that enjoys beer our value chain. responsibly and is familiar with beer culture. Goals Goals • We will develop business value throughout our value • We will carry out studies to increase quality systems chain. certification rates across all operations. Hence we will cover • We will start developing practices to evaluate our 100% of our facilities with food safety standard certification suppliers’ sustainability performance. by 2015. • We will support development of agricultural production. • We will continue to improve our practices in regard to • We will publish Anadolu Efes Code of Conduct for promoting a culture of responsible consumption of beer. Suppliers in 2015. • We will publish Anadolu Efes Marketing Communication Policy in 2015. Achievements • We continued our business development programs and Achievements projects together with suppliers, dealers, and distributors. • In 2014, percentage of production realized in facilities • We developed our supply chain risk evaluation and certified with food safety standards such as HACCP and/ management system. or ISO 22000 was 81%. On the other hand, ISO 9001 • We continued our R&D and agricultural support programs certification coverage by facility increased to 89%. in Turkey and Moldova. • We continued our responsible consumption campaigns in country operations. * All commitments, achievements, and targets indicated on this chart have been calculated and disclosed within the limits of country operations in the reporting scope. In upcoming periods, these indications may vary according to possible changes in the reporting scope. G4-2 6 Operational Community Reliability Development Priorities & Commitments Priorities & Commitments In order to be a reliable neighbor, we conduct safe and We care about the expectations of the communities in environmentally friendly operations. which we operate and support their development. Goals Goals • We will continue our operations with a target of zero • We will continue to develop our local procurement accident. practices. • We will increase our performance in recycling and reuse • We will continue to conduct projects to increase the of solid waste and by-products. quality of life for the communities in which we operate. • We will cover 100% of our facilities with ISO 14001 Environmental Management System Standard Certification Achievements by 2016. • In 2014, local procurements accounted for 93.2% by • We will publish Anadolu Efes Environmental Policy in operation, and 78.4% by expenditure. 2015. • We continued our community development projects • We will publish Anadolu Efes Occupational Health & and sponsorship in various fields such as environment, Safety Policy in 2015. education, health, arts and culture. Achievements • We decreased our injury rate by 18% to 1.33 compared to 2013. • We recovered 95.6% of solid wastes and by-products. • By 2014, 50% of our facilities were covered by ISO 14001 Environmental Management Standard Certification while OHSAS 18001 Health and Safety Standard Certification coverage incresed to 78%. G4-2 7 Talent Packaging Management Management Priorities & Commitments Priorities & Commitments In order to become an employer of choice, we provide a We reduce material consumption through greener fair work environment where our employees’ talents are packaging practices. valued. Goals Goals • We will continue with our practices aiming to reduce • We will continue to provide our employees with broader packaging weight per product sold. development opportunities. • We will give preference to greener packaging applications. • We will revise Anadolu Efes Code of Business Conduct • We will work to further develop our reclamation and Ethics in 2015. performance. Achievements Achievements • Compared to 2013, we increased our training hours per • We increased sales volume percentage of returnable employee by 8%, to 26.5 hours. bottles by 0.6% compared to 2013. • We signed Women Empowerment Principles, a joint • We reduced the glass use in one-way glass bottles by initiative of UNGC and UN Women. 1.3% compared to 2013. • We enhanced our talent development practices with • In 2014, we reduced plastic use as secondary packaging Anadolu Efes Leadership Pathway 2020 and Anadolu by 7% compared to 2013. Efes Capability programs. • We conducted lightweight and greener packaging projects. G4-2 8 ANADOLU EFES BREWERY OPERATIONS Anadolu Efes seeks to continuously expand its operational geography and become the most admired beer company in the markets in which it operates, while pursuing its activities in the light of its sustainable growth oriented management strategy. As of end 2014, Anadolu Efes has 15 breweries, 6 malteries in 6 countries and an annual production capacity of 38.8 mhl of beer and 245 thousand tons of malt. We deliver our products in over 70 countries and under more than 40 beer brands. Measured by sales volume, Anadolu Efes ranks as Europe’s 6th(1) and the world’s 11th largest brewer(2). MARKET OUTLOOK During 2014, socio-economic volatilities and economic constraints have continued to influence our extensive operational geography. In order to manage volatile market conditions in 2014, we took a proactive approach and made courageous decisions that would empower our future position. We estimate that current challenges will continue in the upcoming periods. To this end, Anadolu Efes ensures its ability to promptly adapt to new market conditions and optimize its operations accordingly. ANADOLU EFES TURKEY In 2014, Anadolu Efes maintained its leading position with a market share of 71%(3) in Turkey, which presents great potential for brewery operations with its population of 76.7 million(4) and annual beer consumption per capita around 4 2 1 12 litres(1). Anadolu Efes Turkey operates four breweries, two malteries and one hops processing facility. G4-4 G4-6 G4-8 G4-9 9 ANADOLU EFES RUSSIA Russia is a huge market for brewery operations with its population of 143.5 million(4) and annual beer consumption per capita of 55 litres(1). Anadolu Efes’ Russian operations account for the largest beer market in terms of sales volumes among all its beer operations and carries out its production activities with six breweries, four malteries and one preform production 6 44 facility. Anadolu Efes Russia has achieved second place in the market with a 14% share(3). ANADOLU EFES KAZAKHSTAN With a population of 17.4 million(4) and 24 litres of annual beer consumption per capita(5), Kazakhstan is one of the most important markets in its region. Anadolu Efes Kazakhstan carries out its production activities in two breweries, leading the market with a 58% share(3). 2 ANADOLU EFES MOLDOVA Moldova has a population of 3.6 million(4) and annual beer consumption per capita of 31 litres(5). With production activities carried out in one brewery, Anadolu Efes Moldova is the largest brewer in Moldova and the market leader. 1 ANADOLU EFES GEORGIA Georgia is a strategic market for Anadolu Efes as its beer market has great potential with a population of 4.5 million(4) and annual beer consumption per capita of 21 litres(5). Anadolu Efes Georgia carries out its production activities in one brewery and is the market leader. The Georgian beer market has great potential with its strategic location and low per capita beer consumption. 1 ANADOLU EFES UKRAINE Ukraine is the most recent country to be included in the operational geography of Anadolu Efes. According to 2014 results, Ukraine beer market is the world’s 13th largest beer market with its population of 45.3 million(4) and annual beer consumption per capita of 54 litres(5). Anadolu Efes Ukraine carries out its production at one brewery and ranks in fourth 1 in the market. (1) Company estimate, by the end of 2014. (3) Nielsen, by the end of 2014. (2) Canadean Global Beer Trends 2014 and (4) Turkish Statistical Institute, IMF. Nielsen by the end of 2014. (5) Canadean, by the end of 2014. G4-4 G4-6 G4-8 G4-9 10 ANADOLU EFES SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT We believe that our strategies on maintaining a resilient business ensure our goal of sustaining a better life. We, therefore, continue to develop our management practices and cooperate with stakeholders to increase our positive impact. T oday’s world is experiencing rapid change. As a result responsible way of realizing our vision. For us, it is the only of an increasing population, a new generation with a new possible way. life-style expectation has been born. In relation to this demographic change social, economic and environmental Therefore, we continue our efforts to manage our challenges also arise; new ideas, practices, growth and sustainability priorities efficiently through “Anadolu Efes development potential, and hopeful expectations also arise. Positive Impact Plan”, constituted in light of the motto Within this evolving environment, we believe that the key of “Sustaining a Better Life”, which forms the strategic responsibility of today’s businesses is to be more attentive infrastructure of the sustainability management plan of to stakeholders, and add value to life by generating fresh Anadolu Efes. In the reporting period, we maintained our ideas, products and solutions that meet their expectations, comprehensive, holistic, powerful and strategic stance while maintaining profitable growth. In tomorrow’s world, a thanks to our mature managerial profile. smart and profitable business will be defined as one that is responsible, accountable and responsive to community expectations. ANADOLU EFES POSITIVE IMPACT PLAN Operating in a geographical sphere with a population of over 300 million and huge socio-economic potential, Anadolu Efes has adopted the mission of bringing people Anadolu Efes Positive Impact Plan, contributing to the together to share moments of life by enjoying its brands establishment of a better life for future generations, is responsibly. Our vision, meanwhile, is to become the most guided by four essential behavioural patterns: emphasizing admired beverage company in the markets in which we values, focusing on priorities, energizing stakeholders, and operate. Sustainability, therefore, is the smartest and most sustaining achievements. G4-2 11 EMPHASIZE SUSTAIN VALUES ACHIEVEMENTS Collaborative Corporate Policies Entrepreneurial Systems & Processes Passionate & Proud Professional Sustainable ANADOLU EFES POSITIVE IMPACT PLAN FOCUS ON PRIORITIES Water Consumption Enhancing Value Chain ENERGIZE Energy & Emissions STAKEHOLDERS Packaging Product Responsibility Stakeholder Dialouge Community Development Operational Reliability Talent Management Priorities we adopt within the plan are defined as a PERFORMANCE EVALUATION result of a materiality process conducted in line with the principles of GRI G4 Guidelines. We not only adopt what matters for our business and stakeholders, but Within the framework of the Anadolu Efes Positive also identify where it matters. For this reason, we Impact Plan, we monitor our performance results evaluate potential sustainability issues throughout our obtained in priority areas through objective indicators value chain and prioritize them where their impacts are in accordance with GRI Guidelines and we share the significant. outcomes through our annually-published sustainability reports. Most of these priority areas constitute the main We manage stakeholder engagement with our components of our corporate performance evaluation collective business approach. Thus, we meet process. Sustainability targets are accordingly part of stakeholder expectations and cooperate with them individual and corporate performance evaluations. towards common goals. You may find detailed Through our performance based remuneration system, information about Anadolu Efes Positive Impact sustainability performance has a significant influence Plan and sustainability management on our on the remuneration of employees at every level. corporate website www.anadoluefes.com. G4-2 12 WATER01 MANAGEMENT 13 We are aware that more sources of clean water will be required to sustain a better life in the future. Every year, we consume WE AIM TO REDUCE WATER less water in our breweries and malteries, CONSUMPTION PER UNIT thus protecting the most valuable raw PRODUCED BY 35% material for society. BY 2015 AS COMPARED TO Water management is one of the areas in which we strive toward continuous improvement. Thanks to efficiency projects 2008. AS OF 2014, WE ARE implemented in the reporting period, Anadolu Efes maintained 63% OF THE WAY TOWARD its declining trend in water consumption. Although we have been working with full commitment to our 2015 water consumption ACHIEVING THIS GOAL. targets, a low sales volumes due to volatile market conditions negatively impacts the realization of specific water consumption targets, despite a significant reduction in total water consumption Water Consumption Trend in Breweries values. Thus we started to work on new targets for the post-2015 period of the Anadolu Efes Positive Impact Plan, which will be better aligned to new market conditions, as well as global and local expectations. WATER CONSUMPTION In 2014, the total amount of water consumption at Anadolu Efes breweries decreased by 7.6% compared to 2013. This reduction has resulted in a continued downtrend in specific water consumption to 4.3 hl/hl. Within the reporting period, Anadolu Efes Ukraine achieved the lowest specific water consumption value with a rate of 4.0 hl/hl, Water Consumption Trend in Malteries while Anadolu Efes Kazakhstan recorded the highest improvement performance by reducing its specific water consumption by 13%. At Anadolu Efes malteries, the downtrend in total water consumption continued, whereas specific water consumption increased to the 6.6 m3/ton level. This increase emerged not because of water consumption levels, but as a result of measurement improvements made at the Konya Maltery in Turkey. Thanks to projects targeting process improvement, behavioural change, increase in recovery and preference for more efficient equipment, Anadolu Efes saved more than 300 thousand m3 of water in 2014. 14 ANADOLU EFES RUSSIA KAZAN BREWERY: WASTEWATER MANAGEMENT COMPRESSORS COOLING SYSTEM MODIFICATION In the reporting period, Anadolu Efes Russia Kazan Brewery Anadolu Efes’ wastewater management is guided by the principles has conducted a project for improving water efficiency in the of reducing wastewater volume and pollution load at the source cooling of high pressure compressors. Within the scope of the through improved efficiency and recovery practices, and ensuring project, the cooling system of high pressure compressors was their discharge in line with limit values set by legal regulations. optimized to avoid water waste. Implementation of this project These principles allow Anadolu Efes to minimize environmental enabled a 73,000 m3 saving in water and 21,000 kWh in impacts, while ensuring water consumption efficiency. electricity. As a next step, the Kazan Brewery is working on the opportunity to use heat energy released from compressors for At Anadolu Efes breweries, the downtrend of specific heating the buildings during winter. wastewater discharge continued with a value of 3.0 hl/hl in 2014. During the reporting period, Anadolu Efes Kazakhstan operation recorded the highest improvement performance of ANADOLU EFES MOLDOVA VITANTA BREWERY: 17%, while Anadolu Efes Ukraine operation achieved the lowest REDUCTION OF WATER CONSUMPTION specific wastewater discharge value of 2.6 hl/hl. A water tank was installed at Moldova Vitanta Brewery for The downtrend also occurred at Anadolu Efes malteries, and collecting water from the final rinse in the bottle washer and the specific wastewater discharge of malt production facilities its supply to the crate washer. The project enabled an annual declined by 4% compared to 2013 to 4.8 m3/ton. reduction of 3,000 m3 of water. Wastewater Trend in Breweries ANADOLU EFES UKRAINE DONETSK BREWERY: WATER SAVING IN FILTRATION At Donetsk Brewery, an additional vessel was installed in order to collect water remaining in the filtration line. As a result, more than 10 thousand m3 of water was saved in 2014. ANADOLU EFES TURKEY ADANA BREWERY: CONTROL OF WATER USED IN CO2 SCRUBBER With this project, CO2 recovery unit water consumption at Adana Brewery was considerably decreased in 2014. Within the scope Wastewater Trend in Malteries of the project, a solenoid valve has been used to control the flow of incoming water based on the operation of a compressor. Additionally, the system was also modified to use recovered water whenever available. The project helped to save 13,410 m3 of water. 15 WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITIES ANADOLU EFES RUSSIA: SPRING RENOVATION PROJECT Anadolu Efes discharges wastewater only after minimizing During the reporting period, Anadolu Efes Russia continued the negative impact on the environment by improving the its Spring Renovation Project aimed at providing local citizens quality of wastewater generated in production processes access to clean water, fostering a culture of responsibility through state of the art wastewater treatment facilities. toward natural water sources and creating social partnerships. When deciding on wastewater treatment facility investments The number of springs renovated since 2011 reached 56, with we focus on remaining financially sound, while ensuring six springs renovated in 2014. It is estimated that each year minimal environmental impact. Therefore, we carry out over 70,000 people have access to clean water from these modernization studies at existing units in accordance with new water sources. The project, which is conducted in collaboration technologies, even though the units are fully in compliance with the Russian Youth Union, Green Cross and regional with environmental regulations. Likewise, while planning environmental authorities, also encourages voluntary employee new investments we prefer technologies that result in less participation. The Spring Renovation Project ranked among environmental impact even if this means additional costs. the winners of the “Leaders in Corporate Philanthropy 2014 Awards” in the “Best Project Responding to CSR Policy and In the reporting period, the wastewater treatment facility Principles” category. constructed in 2013 at the Anadolu Efes Moldova Vitanta Brewery was commissioned and put into use. Within the scope of the project conducted at the facility, all rainwater from the drainage system was collected in a reservoir. Then, the water was pumped to a filter system and after treatment was discharged to the municipal sewage system. This project increased our compliance with wastewater treatment regulations regarding rainwater. WASTEWATER TREATMENT AT ANADOLU EFES KAZAKHSTAN ALMATY BREWERY During the reporting period, wastewater released from an aerosol cleaner was reused for evaporative condensers and vacuum pumps at the Almaty Brewery. Water consumption decreased and 28,000 m3 of water was saved annually as a result of this study, which also provided savings on wastewater discharge costs. 16 ENERGY AND 02 EMISSIONS MANAGEMENT 17 In all our operations, we are reducing our carbon footprint through the efficient use of energy resources. Our increased energy WE AIM TO REDUCE OUR efficiency will positively contribute to the ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER sustaining of a better life. UNIT PRODUCED BY 25% BY 2015 AS COMPARED During the reporting period, we have continued our ISO 50001 Energy Management System Standard certification efforts and TO 2008. AS OF 2014, WE completed certification processes for the Natakhtari Brewery in WERE 66% ON THE WAY TO Georgia and Karaganda and Almaty breweries in Kazakhstan. Thus Anadolu Efes operations in Turkey, Georgia and Kazakhstan are ACHIEVING THIS GOAL. 100% covered by ISO 50001, which accounts for 50% of total operations. We also maintained our energy efficiency efforts through the Global Water and Energy Consumption Reduction Project, which was first initiated in 2012. In 2014, a work group comprising ENERGY EFFICIENCY employees from various Anadolu Efes breweries specialized in While energy consumption is reduced by 12% when different fields, conducted detailed site analysis of the Natakhtari compared to 2013, reaching the level of 3,147 TJ; and Almaty breweries in order to define a road map that aims to save specific energy consumption fell by 8% to 35.3 kWh/hl. approximately 300,000 m3 of water and 100 TJ of energy annually. Anadolu Efes Ukraine operation recorded the lowest Identified opportunities are converted into action plans by the working specific energy consumption level across all operations at group and implemented throughout the year. Our aim is to extend 25.8 kWh/hl. the project to achieve greater efficiency. However facing the same challenges as in water consumption, lower sales volumes due to new Within the reporting period, total energy consumption in market conditions have a negative impact on realization of our specific malteries maintained the ongoing downtrend, declining by energy consumption targets. Together with water related targets, we 21% when compared to 2013, to the level of 592 TJ, whereas are revisiting our energy and emission targets for better alignment specific energy consumption printed in parallel with that of with new conditions for the post-2015 period of Anadolu Efes Positive 2013 at 1,004 kWh/ton. Impact Plan. 18 In 2014, Anadolu Efes continued efficiency projects aimed at reducing energy consumption and greenhouse gas emissions. ANADOLU EFES RUSSIA UFA BREWERY: Through process efficient equipment preferences, change in USE OF FREQUENCY CONVERTOR behaviour and process improvement projects more than 90 TJ of Energy consumption at Ufa Brewery was substantially decreased energy was saved and about 5.9 thousand tons of CO2e emissions in 2014 by using the frequency convertor on the glycol pumps. was prevented. With this project, the flow rate was adjusted and stable pressure in the line was maintained. The study resulted in electricity saving of close to 0.1 TJ. ANADOLU EFES TURKEY ANKARA BREWERY: OPTIMIZATION OF ICE WATER TEMPERATURE IN BREWHOUSE Electricity consumption at Ankara Brewery was considerably EFFICIENCY IN DISTRIBUTION OPERATIONS reduced in 2014 through optimization of ice water temperature for the wort cooling system. In this project, the temperature of ice water has been increased according to beer type and the Distribution operations account for a significant share of the total brewery’s cooling load has been decreased. Implementation of energy consumption and emissions of Anadolu Efes operations. In the this project helped to save nearly 1 TJ of electricity and to prevent reporting period, we continued conducting projects on route planning 127 tons CO2e of GHG emissions. and logistic optimization and improvement to increase efficiency in our distribution operations. We have made distance-based improvements in plant-to-plant, plant-to-warehouse, and plant-toclient distribution operations. Nevertheless, the distribution distance ANADOLU EFES MOLDOVA: AIR RECOVERY KIT per sale was 3.4 km/hl in 2014 due to the decrease in sales volumes. AT BLOWER PROJECT Through the project conducted in Anadolu Efes Moldova, the We also decreased fuel consumption generated by forklift consumption of compressed air declined by the installation of an movements in handling processes. In comparison to 2013, the air recovery kit in the blow moulder, which resulted in 1.4 TJ of amount of fuel consumed per product in handling processes electricity and 187 ton CO2e emission savings. declined by 12.5% to 0.07 kg/hl. ANADOLU EFES KAZAKHSTAN ALMATY ANADOLU EFES KAZAKHSTAN: OPTIMIZATION OF BREWERY: INSTALLATION OF LED LIGHTING DISTRIBUTION PROJECTS FIXTURES IN FILLING HALL Anadolu Efes Kazakhstan has launched two new projects in In the reporting period, 31 regular lighting fixtures (80W) were order to optimize distribution operations in 2014. During the high replaced by energy-saving 47W LED devices, and 36 450W season, railway loading-unloading platforms at the Almaty and fixtures used in the filling hall at the Almaty Brewery were Karaganda plants are overloaded due to frequent and intensive replaced by 210W fixtures. As a result of this change, we saved empty bottle and other material arrivals. Thus the first project of approximately 0.2 TJ of electricity. Anadolu Efes Kazakhstan aimed at reducing this workload by collecting bottles from the largest supplier, by company trucks on an FCA basis. Through this practice not only is a significant saving in transportation achieved, but also constraints in the shipment ANADOLU EFES TURKEY ADANA BREWERY: of finished goods to customers are reduced. The second project HOT WATER RECOVERY FROM BREWHOUSE conducted by Anadolu Efes Kazakhstan focused on the stacking Through improvements made in the Adana Brewery in 2014, system. By changing the stacking system, the use of pallets for excessive hot water from the brewhouse was reused in CIP units. 1L beer packs became more efficient, hence carrying more beer, 2.4 TJ of heat energy was saved as a result of the project, which which results in more storage units in warehouses, and better also provided a considerable cost advantage. handling and transportation. 19 ENERGY EFFICIENCY IN COOLERS Coolers placed in sales points have great importance for the preservation of product quality, ensuring the consumption of products at ideal temperatures. However, coolers have a considerable negative impact on the environment due to high energy use and carbon emissions. For this reason, we continue maintaining our commitment to sustainability, while ensuring that consumers best experience our products with the procurement of environmentally friendly coolers. 97% of all coolers procured across all Anadolu Efes operations in 2014 were environmental friendly and conveyed this important message to our customers through specially designed stickers. Anadolu Efes is fully engaged in sustainable cooler management and aims to reach a 100% environmental friendly cooler portfolio in future procurements1. In 2014, Anadolu Efes Turkey launched a pilot project in partnership with a telecommunication service provider, to better track its coolers and maximise their cooling performance. Within this project coolers were connected with the service provider’s GSM network. Through the online tracking system, the temperature inside the cooler, whether the cooler door was closed or open, the number of door openings per day, whether the cooler was plugged-in or not, and the location of the cooler was traced online. In addition to cooler *Related data includes emissions from stationary combustion and energy purchased. Emissions arise from mobile combustion such as forklifts and company owned corporate tracking, Anadolu Efes ran a logistics project in its Kazakhstan vehicles, as well as fugitive emissions are not included. All calculations are made with Operation targeting the distribution of coolers to its dealers directly respect to GHG Protocol by employing IPCC emission factor values. from suppliers. With successful execution, this improvement project resulted in savings in logistics costs, as well as 12 tons of fuel saving ANADOLU EFES RUSSIA KAZAN BREWERY: HOT in transportation activities. WATER TANK TRANSFER Within the scope of the project conducted at the Anadolu Efes Russia Kazan Brewery, the externally located hot water supply system vessel is transferred into the boiler house. The vessel was used to recover GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS heat energy from steam boilers blow-off water and deaerator. Thanks to this project, almost 5 TJ of energy was saved, while 262 tons CO2e of GHG emissions were prevented. The project aims at reducing the The total volume of emissions at Anadolu Efes breweries was consumption of steam in the hot water supply system by 24%. reduced by 23 ktons CO2e to 237 ktons CO2e in 2014. Therefore, the specific emission value was reduced by 5% compared to 2013 dropping to 9.6 kg CO2e/hl. Within the reporting period, Anadolu ANADOLU EFES GEORGIA RECEIVED THE GREEN Efes Georgia operation achieved the highest level of improvement TECHNOLOGY AWARD in the amount of specific emissions at 17%, while also recording In the reporting period, Anadolu Efes Georgia Natakhtari Brewery won the lowest emissions level across all operations of 5.4 kg CO2e/hl. the Green Technology Nomination for the Georgian Green Business In the reporting period, the total amount of emissions in malteries Award 2014. The award is an initiative of the Ministry of Environment decreased by 22% compared to 2013 to 39 kton CO2e while specific and Natural Resource Protection to support Georgian businesses’ emissions in materies remained at 238 kg CO2e/ton as in 2013. actions regarding environmental protection and social responsibility. (1) Anadolu Efes categorizes “Environmental Friendly” coolers as coolers having at least one of the following features: LED lighting, Electronic Controller and Hydrocarbon Cooling Gas. 20 ENHANCING 03 THE VALUE CHAIN 21 IN 2014 WE REVISITED OUR PROCUREMENT PRINCIPLES TO DEVELOP ANADOLU EFES’ CODE OF CONDUCT FOR SUPPLIERS, WHICH WILL BE PUBLISHED IN 2015. WE MAINTAINED OUR SUPPORT FOR FARMERS THROUGH AGRICULTURAL SUPPORT PROGRAMS IN TURKEY AND MOLDOVA. WE AIM TO PROCURE ALL MALTING BARLEY NEEDED BY ANADOLU EFES MOLDOVA THROUGH LOCAL PRODUCERS AS OF 2017. support and R&D programs, we create positive value for farmers, while We are enhancing our value chain with ensuring the sustainability of our raw material supply with regard to the aim of generating more added value. quality and quantity. Through these value chain enhancement projects, Thanks to our business development we contribute to the productivity, business volume and working projects and agricultural support standards of our business partners, thus creating mutual benefits. programs, we create a positive impact on the business values of our stakeholders, while reinforcing our corporate VALUE CHAIN DEVELOPMENT PRACTICES sustainability. Our sustainability program aims to reinforce Anadolu Efes’ identity as a responsible, reliable and transparent customer. We also expect Anadolu Efes value chain system, which is among the main our business partners to comply with relevant regulations, components of our long-term success, provides a profitable and adopt the identical business ethics standards as Anadolu sustainable business model for all business partners, from suppliers Efes and attach particular importance to fundamental norms such to dealers and distributors. With more than 5,000 product and as human rights, occupational health and safety and environmental service suppliers, more than 150 barley and approximately 500 hop protection. That expectation was reinforced with the signing suppliers, thousands of farmers, nearly 500 dealers and distributors, of the UN Global Compact in 2011. and tens of thousands of on-trade and off-trade sales points, this large scale value chain enables Anadolu Efes products to reach Anadolu Efes carries out improvement studies that ensure consumers across our operational geography. dealers, distributors and sales points to adopt efficient business models and increase their business values. Together with thousands of business partners that form the basis of our We form business development partnerships with suppliers. value chain, we present one of the most successful growth examples. These initiatives include studies developed by country In addition to our business success, we realize programs in order to operations in accordance with local expectations and enhance the technical and managerial competences and business needs along with practices realized across all performances of our business partners. Thanks to our agricultural Anadolu Efes operations. G4-12 22 All Anadolu Efes country operations perform practices within Within the various improvement studies aimed at protecting their value chain geared at strengthening their cooperation with agricultural production from the impact of climate change, we business partners. In the reporting period, Anadolu Efes Russia have concentrated on improving varieties that are resistant to and Ukraine continued to implement the “Supplier Partnering arid climates, as they require less water, energy, and pesticide Program.” Within the scope of the program involving main consumption. The improved varieties have also enabled water suppliers of brewing and packaging materials, the working and and energy savings in malt production. For instance, by use of production standards of suppliers are evaluated, improvements Atılır and Fırat varieties registered by Anadolu Efes, 12 to 24% are realized and measures to increase supply chain continuity and on electricity consumption, 18 to 22% on fuel consumption, and safety are determined. 40 to 47% on water consumption (depending also on external environment and operating conditions) is saved when compared Anadolu Efes is committed to making a positive contribution to to the most common barley variety produced in Turkey. We have society and the environment by developing and implementing also significantly expanded hop cultivation areas in Turkey over the responsible business practices within its supply chain. We expect years through hop variety improvement and contractual production all our suppliers to help us fulfil this commitment by supporting studies carried out by one of our subsidiaries, Tarbes. With and respecting our values and principles in their business relations registered varieties provided to farmers, the efficiency and quality with us, as well as with their own suppliers and business partners. of hops are also increased. The hops program targets meeting all Anadolu Efes organizes supplier accreditation audits in order to demand through local production and supporting local agriculture ensure this objective is attained. In total, 38 supplier audits were by transforming hops into a value-added export product. completed across all operations in the reporting period. In that respect, a study defining the Anadolu Efes Code of Conduct for In 2014, we continued the agricultural support program that we Suppliers has also been launched for publication in 2015. have implemented in Moldova since 2012. Within the scope of the program, we carry out studies in order to provide the most efficient varieties for Moldova’s climatic conditions. We aim to meet all of our Moldova operation’s demand for malting barley from local SUPPORT FOR AGRICULTURE producers by 2017. In addition to this, the Moldova operation will supply its raw material without dependence on imports, and encounter a new product with export potential. Preserving the continuity of production, product quality and taste is an essential factor in ensuring the sustainability of Anadolu Efes’ BARLEY AND HOP VARIETIES DEVELOPED operations. For that reason, as one of our major principles, we ensure that barley and hop supplies are provided in the desired quality and BARLEYS REGISTRATION YEAR HOPS quantity, meeting the correct specifications, and at the required time. Efes 3 1992 Efes Aroma 1997 Ege We provide farmers operational trainings and various improvement Erciyes studies, as well as financial and technical support. Since 1982, we Güney have been conducting R&D studies on barley and hop in our Turkey Efes 98 1998 operations. Thanks to our studies, we have developed and registered Anadolu 98 15 barley and 7 hop varieties. The support program based on the contractual production model developed by Anadolu Efes, which aims Angora 1999 TARBES 99 to supply its demand for malt barley and hops from local producers Anadolu 99 and through its own registered varieties, has registered great success. Çumra 2001 2001 Pazaryeri 2001 The program has reached nearly 3,000 farmers and provided a Çatalhöyük livelihood for tens of thousands of people. Through innovations Başgül 2003 realized over time, the program has created more value than originally Atılır 2005 estimated. The program increased the level of farmers’ agricultural Fırat awareness, as well as their economic income. Moreover, our Meriç specialists had an opportunity to contact farmers through trainings, Erciyes 2006 field days, conducting technical surveys, seed distribution, and Yıldız 2007 giving technical advice on malting barley cultivation. With operational Durusu trainings and a variety of improvement studies provided to farmers, as well as financial and technical support, more added value is created Akdane 2011 for both producers and Anadolu Efes. Toprak 23 PRODUCT 04 RESPONSIBILITY 24 makes the products available at suitable locations and at reasonable We believe that our products add positive prices. In that vein, we provide more than 40 brands in our value to social life, and strive to develop operational markets. Through our product development studies, we consumer experience when enjoyed by focus on enhancing product quality, while ensuring the continuity and responsible consumers familiar with beer consistency of taste, as well as developing new products and flavours. culture. The level of customer satisfaction we reached through our product and service quality has an important role in our pioneer position in Anadolu Efes’ product responsibility is based on the following principles: our markets of operation. In order to maintain customer satisfaction, “producing high-quality beers”, “acting responsibly in terms of marketing we conduct surveys to evaluate customer expectations and to further processes”, and “creating positive value for stakeholders”. We provide improve customer experience. our consumers a wide range of high-quality products that meet their demand. And by increasing consumer awareness we promote responsible consumption. PRODUCT LABELLING AND CONSUMER INFORMING PRODUCTION QUALITY Anadolu Efes believes that the ability to access all necessary information on every product purchase is a fundamental consumer right. To that end, our customers can easily access all product information through product High quality beers can be provided through top notch raw materials labels, websites and customer-support lines. and processes. Therefore we process best quality barley and hop in our production facilities designed with state of the art equipment and We label all our products with content details that go beyond the processes. In order to ensure process quality and food safety during the criteria determined by local regulations. The packages reaching production process we rely on internationally recognized system standards the end consumer include the product’s alcohol percentage, such as ISO 9001 Quality Management Standard, ISO 22000 and HACCP responsible consumption and recycling warnings, as well as Food Safety System Standards. In that regard, 89% of our facilities are standard information such as production site, product amount and certified with ISO 9001 while ISO 22000 or HACCP Food Safety Standards expiration dates. The product labels are meticulously designed covers 81% of our production volume. We aim to complete the food safety to properly inform consumers, especially on a product’s alcohol standard certification process of all our facilities by 2015. content. Our country operations also implement additional information on labels in accordance with local regulations, consumption habits and industry structure. For example, for PRODUCT PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT several years Anadolu Efes Russia has been using “18 Years Old” and “Selling Beer to Minors is Prohibited” markers on its Our product portfolio management system aims to provide consumers product labels, as well as a “Drink Moderately” marker as part of with products that appeal to their expectation of quality and taste, and a voluntary initiative undertaken together with the Association of IN OUR OPINION, OUR PRODUCTS BEST ADD POSITIVE VALUE TO SOCIAL LIFE WHEN CONSUMED RESPONSIBLY. THUS, WE STRIVE TO RESPONSIBLY IMPROVE BEER CULTURE AND CONSUMER EXPERIENCE. OUR GOAL IS TO PROMOTE RESPONSIBLE CONSUMPTION THROUGH PROGRAMS CUSTOMIZED FOR MARKETS IN WHICH WE OPERATE. G4-16 25 Russian Beer Producers. Similar practices are also implemented communication, 3,500 visitors left the facility satisfied about nature of by other country operations. With the exception of Anadolu ingredients used in beer production. Additionally, a public degustation Efes Turkey, where local regulations prohibit product websites, with 120 participants was organized to promote beer culture and stakeholders from our operating countries can access product increase knowledge levels on beer. information through the corporate and product websites. However in all country operations stakeholders can receive ANADOLU EFES RUSSIA RECEIVES PRODUCT detailed information on products, convey their suggestions and QUALITY AWARD complaints by calling the support lines listed on labels. Every Anadolu Efes Russia received the gold medal at the “XIX. Best request made through our support lines is carefully evaluated Beer, Non-Alcoholic Beverage, Mineral and Drinking Water of and replied to accordingly. the Year” Competition, an organization held in Moscow as part of the “XIX. International Symposium on Beer and Soft Drinks Production”. Anadolu Efes Russia won the gold medal with its new DEVELOPING A BEER CULTURE products “Redd’s Mademoiselle”, “Amsterdam Navigator” and “387. OsobayaVarka”. Anadolu Efes strives to foster a refined beer culture throughout its operational geography. For this purpose, we carry out studies that ANADOLU EFES UKRAINE RECEIVES PRODUCT introduce customers to new tastes and beer varieties and create QUALITY AWARDS programs that improve consumption point and service quality. Anadolu Efes Ukraine received the grand award and gold medals in the “Best Quality of Light Beer” category at “SvyatoPiva 2014, We adopt a locally managed brand structure and build a versatile 16th International Beer, Non-Alcoholic Drinks, Mineral and Drinking brand portfolio in accordance with local taste criteria in order to Water Taste Competition.” Also in the same event, Anadolu Efes appeal different consumer preferences. For instance, we offer Ukraine received an award in the “Best External Design for Beer” consumers low-calorie, flavoured and non-alcoholic beer options in category. addition to our traditional beer brands. By producing non-alcoholic beer we provide those of our consumers who wish to socialize and enjoy the taste of beer without consuming alcohol an alternative ANADOLU EFES TURKEY ORGANIZES experience. We also introduce various innovative products catering DEGUSTATION PANELS to different consumer tastes. Anadolu Efes Turkey raised degustators through trainings and validation processes. Starting in 2014, each panellist is validated Anadolu Efes Russia provides “Brewery Tours” for different by Flavoractiv’s unknown flavour standards in terms of verifying stakeholder groups such as local authorities, media members, the reliability of degustations once every two months. Refreshment university students, and the general public. Visitors receive panels will be performed in breweries regarding validation results. relevant and reliable information on the company, its brands and production process. In 2014, a total of 6,400 visitors observed beer production processes through facility ANADOLU EFES RUSSIA ORGANIZES PRODUCT visits. Moreover, Anadolu Efes Russia continues to share QUALITY TRAINING AND AUDIT PRACTICES information on the history of beer, recipes based on beer, and In the reporting period, Anadolu Efes Russia carried out product recommendations on different food and beer combinations quality trainings and audits in order to develop quality in distributor through its “Beer and Food” brochure distributed to key processes and enhance communication with distributors. The stakeholders. The brochure also explains which type of glass is training program is implemented through visits to distributors’ suitable for which kind of beer. warehouses. Within the scope of the trainings presentations, degustations and visits to production areas were held. Audits During the reporting period, Anadolu Efes Moldova evaluated market were conducted at distributors’ warehouses to check compliance indicators regarding negative consumer perceptions of product with Anadolu Efes’ business standards. At the end of the audits, ingredients with timely and organized site visits in order to reverse recommendations and corrective actions were shared. the adverse impression. Through Anadolu Efes Moldova’s effective 26 RESPONSIBLE CONSUMPTION As Anadolu Efes we believe that a responsible consumption culture can ANADOLU EFES KAZAKHSTAN only be created by producers who follow responsible marketing principles. In line Anadolu Efes Kazakhstan organized several remarkable with this perspective, we carry out our campaigns to promote responsible consumption. In the marketing communication studies within reporting period, “A Sober Driver” campaign, which sought to the framework of rules defined by laws prevent driving under the influence, was covered extensively and industry initiatives, as well as by the by the local media. principles defined at the corporate level. During these awareness-raising events, Anadolu Efes Anadolu Efes avoids using any marketing Kazakhstan distributed mini-alcotesters to consumers and content that may encourage irresponsible explained how they are used to prevent excessive alcohol consumption behaviour, that may seem consumption. As part of the outdoor advertising campaign, discriminatory or politicised, or that may consumers were encouraged to avoid excessive consumption violate the value judgments of society with messages communicated through ten originally-designed or of a particular community. Anadolu billboards on the main streets of Almaty and Karagandy. Efes ensures that its products are only Additionally, volunteers visited 10,000 sales points in Almaty, sold at sales points abiding by the legal Karagandy and Astana and carried out various communication requirements, and that they are not sold to activities to prevent sales of alcoholic beverages to people people under the legal consumption age. under the legal age. Anadolu Efes carries out field projects in order to inform ANADOLU EFES MOLDOVA consumers about the risks of irresponsible alcohol consumption and raise awareness of responsible consumption Anadolu Efes Moldova initiated communication programs behaviour. Our country operations taking cultural differences within its “Do not Drink and Drive” campaign. For those into consideration, engage in various projects encouraging outdoor activities, locations of the highest visibility were used responsible consumption where types and details of practices to raise awareness of this important issue. In the reporting may differ by country. period, Anadolu Efes Moldova became a partner of CIPIDA 27 (Centre for the Prevention of Addictive Behaviour). Together You can access the responsible consumption projects with CIPIDA and other partners, the first anti-addiction undertaken by Anadolu Efes country operations about the book based on storytelling therapy was published. The dangers of driving under influence, and of underage alcohol book, entitled “Story of the Loss of Happiness,” is focused consumption on the website www.drink-moderately.com. on preventing underage consumption. In addition to the publication of the book, a large educational program was developed together with CIPIDA volunteers. Communication events were organized at 29 primary schools in order to raise awareness among pupils about avoiding addictive behaviour. ANADOLU EFES GEORGIA During the reporting period, Anadolu Efes Georgia has also disseminated the message of responsible consumption through the “Do not Drink and Drive” campaign. The message, advising consumers not to drive when even small amounts of alcohol are consumed, was communicated in selective magazines targeting drivers. In addition, articles on the campaign were also printed in daily newspapers. ANADOLU EFES RUSSIA Anadolu Efes Russia continued its outdoor campaign with posters featuring the message “Do not Drink and Drive”. Posters were placed on billboards along the main streets of Moscow during 2014. G4-16 28 OPERATIONAL RELIABILITY 05 29 We believe that in order to sustain a better life together with our stakeholders it is important to be a reliable partner OUR GOAL IS TO ACHIEVE and neighbour. We strive to create a 0 ACCIDENT RATE AND positive impact by carrying out safe and environmentally sensitive operations. MAXIMIZE OUR RECOVERY RATE FOR SOLID WASTE AND Anadolu Efes operational reliability understanding is based on operating with best possible safety and environmental BY-PRODUCTS. IN 2014, norms. WE DECREASED OUR INJURY OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY RATE BY 18% TO 1.33 WHICH WAS 1.63 IN 2013. Ensuring health and safety of all stakeholders, particularly our employees, is an indispensable part of our working WE RECOVERED 95.6% OF culture as well as our business strategy. We aim to improve our business processes and working environment SOLID WASTES AND BYcontinuously and senior management plays a capital role to PRODUCTS IN 2014, WHICH achieve that mission. Senior managers accentuate priority of occupational health and safety for our business as a WAS 94.6% IN 2013. strategic goal during leadership and strategic business plan meetings. Since employee awareness plays an essential role operations and take preventive measures. Our golden safety in creating a safety culture, occupational health and safety rules are defined not only for our plants but cover also our trainings play a crucial role in order to develop a behavioural offices and the road. During this study, we also developed change among employees towards our ultimate goal-incident our safety guidelines with clear visual contents in order to free workplace. In the reporting period, Anadolu Efes highlight principles, defined risks, and personal protective employees received a total of 14,259 person hours of OHS materials for use. Specifically for commercial teams who training. drive corporate vehicles, new measures are developed in order to enhance road safety. We also developed emergency In all our facilities we design occupational health and plans in all country operations, carried out trainings and safety management processes in accordance with OHSAS exercises. 18001 standard requirements. With ISO 18001 certification studies and independent assurance practices conducted in We assume health and safety as a continuous improvement our facilities, our plant coverage reached to 78% in 2014. area and develop studies to increase our performance. For Accordingly, we conduct risk assessment studies at all our this reason, performance evaluation, incident reporting and G4-16 30 analysis play a major role. In order to improve efficient incident Beside regular OHS measures, we also work on improving reporting and evaluation we built systems in every country wellbeing of employees through various practices. While operations based on common evaluation criteria in line with ILO these practices are decided in line with operation specific directives and GRI indicators as well as Anadolu Efes operation expectations, most common examples are e-books and norms. Furthermore, every country operation fine-tunes these trainings on stress management and breathing techniques, systems according to local regulations and work cultures. monthly healthcare and wellbeing bulletins, yoga classes, as Through these systems, incidents and near-misses are reported well as health and nutrition consultation by company medical instantly to related management bodies which carry out rootstaff and regular check-ups. We also provide on premise fitness cause analysis and take corrective actions immediately to facilities in available locations and membership discounts for avoid reoccurrence. In order to boost global learning across fitness clubs. We also conduct practices to improve ergonomy the entire Anadolu Efes operations, these reports and cases in workplaces. In that vein, we conduct practices to improve are published in four major operation country languages. Thus, illumination, indoor air quality, noise, humidity and temperature operations may learn from each other’s experiences and avoid as well as equipment use. the incidents. Joint employee-management Occupational Health and Safety All Anadolu Efes employees regularly receive health Committees are establised in Anadolu Efes operation sites. examinations and consultancy and take part in awareness These committees, working as an independent body in most raising activities organized by expert healthcare teams. Thanks operations while in Russia and Ukraine operations they work to the efforts of these teams, no cases of occupational disease as an integrated part of a larger body, consist of company were observed at any operations during the reporting period. managers, workplace doctors, occupational safety supervisors, The company’s employee healthcare practices also have a union representatives, foremen and employee representatives. positive impact on operation continuity by helping to reduce Studies of Occupational Health and Safety Committees the rate of general work absenteeism. During the reporting contribute significantly to the improvement of Anadolu Efes’s period, no fatal accidents occurred at any Anadolu Efes safety performance. They meet monthly in order to analyse operations. the causes of previous incidents, discuss existing risks and to determine the future measures to be taken to enhance health and safety conditions. The OHS Committees evaluate demands and expectations of Anadolu Efes employees in decision OHS DATA 2012 2013 2014 making and implementation processes through unions and Injury Rate 1.22 1.63 1.33 employee representatives. Outcomes of these analyses are Lost Day Rate 18.25 12.82 5.57 reported to the senior management regularly. Injury Rate: Total number of injuries x 200,000 / Total work hours. Lost Day Rate: Total number of lost days x 200,000 / Total work days. Unions, as employee representatives, are crucial part of OHS decision making processes. Thus, collective bargaining agreements also play a role in OHS management. These agreements, although minor Incident reporting improvement practices conducted during differences may be witnessed according to country operations, previous terms together with OHS trainings resulted in a significant have articles on: employer and employee responsibilities, joint performance increase in 2014. Hence, we decreased the injury management, employee OHS Committees, personal protective rate by 18% and the lost day rate by 57%. This means, in 2014 equipment, OHS regulations, norms, standards and certifications, we reduced not only the number of injuries relative to the total OHS audits and investigations, employee trainings, sanitary, health work hours but also the severity of injuries. and safety support, medical examinations. 31 methods designed in compliance with legal regulations. In ENVIRONMENTAL SAFETY 2014, 64 ktons of solid waste and 450 ktons by-products were produced as a result of Anadolu Efes brewing and malting processes. 95.6% of this amount was recovered, with 1% One of the crucial elements of our sustainability values is improvement compared to 2013, while the rest was disposed in ensuring that Anadolu Efes operations do not have a negative line with methods determined by legal norms according to their impact on the environmental quality and biodiversity within our type and class. operational geography. We are therefore careful not to locate our production facilities in regions that have either high biodiversity value or under protection such as RAMSAR locations. We also attach utmost importance to ensure that our operations do not cause a negative impact on water or other natural resources, air quality, land availability or species diversity. Thanks to our policies, working principles and improvement studies, no significant impact on biodiversity values or environmental quality has occurred within our operational geography during the reporting period. For maintaining a reliable environmental management we follow ISO 14001 Environmental Management Standard as a basic guideline across all our production facilities. As a result of our certification practise by 2014, 50% of our facilities are certified with the ISO 14001 Environmental Management System Standard while certification processes for remaining locations are ongoing. Hence we aim to complete ISO 14001 certification of all our operation by the end of 2016. In order to improve our environmental performance, our employees receive technical knowledge to perform required investments and managerial improvements. In 2014, 788 Anadolu Efes employees received 9,218 person hours of environmental training. Within the same period, around 6 million USD was spent on environmental expenditures and investments. We aim to develop the positive impact of our operations on environment through these investments and expenditures. The main goal of Anadolu Efes waste management is to reduce waste as its source and develop disposal methods for reusing the produced waste, thus minimizing the environmental effect. All Anadolu Efes production facilities follow waste-disposal 32 COMMUNITY 06 DEVELOPMENT 33 We seek to positively impact the by operation and 78.4% by expenditure. Local procurement development of the communities in which practices helped us positively impact local economies in addition to preventing supply dependency. we operate. Through our operations, we aim to enrich their socio-cultural life, We carry out various field activities and projects that contribute while taking into consideration community directly and indirectly to the stimulation of local economies in expectations. numerous cities. Through these practices we continue to positively impact local economies, increase employment opportunities and improve the business volume, profitability and productivity of small IN 2014, WE CONTINUED TO enterprises. SUPPORT THE ECONOMIC AND SOCIO-CULTURAL ANADOLU EFES RUSSIA: CITY LANDSCAPING PROJECT DEVELOPMENT OF OUR The City Landscaping Project conducted by Anadolu Efes OPERATIONAL GEOGRAPHY Russia aims to encourage corporate volunteering and employee networking, landscape urban areas and maintain THROUGH PRACTICES good relations with local communities. Within the scope of the project, 110 employees contributed to the development THAT CONTRIBUTE TO of more habitable areas for the citizens of Kaluga, Ulyanovsk, LOCAL ECONOMIES AND Novosibirsk, Kazan and Ufa. In 2014, more than five tons of garbage was collected and over 150 trees were planted. INVESTMENTS IN PROGRAMS The campaign helped to gain new partners in the regions, as well as bringing new experiences and generating positive THAT SUPPORTING emotions. EDUCATION, MUSIC, SPORTS, AND CULTURAL ACTIVITIES. ANADOLU EFES MOLDOVA: SUPPORT FOR TEXTILE EMPLOYEES In 2014, Anadolu Efes Moldova became sponsor of local textile Anadolu Efes is aware of the importance of increasing the sociobrands’ fashion events in order to support women’s empowerment economic and socio-cultural welfare of the communities in which and the local textile industry, which employs more than 20,000 women, thereby playing a considerable role in the national it operates in achieving its sustainability goals. During the reporting economy. period, we continued conducting projects that support local economic and socio-cultural development. COMMUNITY INVESTMENTS CONTRIBUTION TO LOCAL ECONOMIES Anadolu Efes provides support for sustainable tourism, Local employment is a significant pillar of Anadolu Efes’ human sustainable agriculture, sports, culture & arts, education and resources policy. The percentage of local senior executives health programs in countries where it operates as an indication has reached 87.5% in 2014. We also prefer to procure local of its sensitivity towards social expectations and needs. During products from local supply channels. In the reporting period, the reporting period, as Anadolu Efes we continued to support local procurement accounted for 93.2% of total procurement sports for the 38th year, cinema for the 27th year, music for the 34 25th year, theatre for the 22nd year, archaeological works for the Foundation has established more than 50 educational, health 19th year and projects aimed at the development of tourism for and other social-services institutions up to the reporting period. the 7th year. The foundation also provides scholarships for 900 students each year. The Anadolu Health Center, established in 2005 in cooperation with John Hopkins Medicine International, SPORTS provides free healthcare for more than 10% of its patients in Istanbul. Anadolu Efes Sports Club, established in 1976, is our largest In the reporting period, Anadolu Efes Kazakhstan sponsored community investment in sports. Anadolu Efes gifted moments of the Autism Children Rehabilitation Centre, while Anadolu Efes excitement and pride to all Turkey thanks to its successes many Moldova donated a car to the Municipal Hospital for Children in numbers and happened to be the first Turkish team winning a for patient transportation. European Cup in professional sports. As the first Turkish team to appear in Euroleague Final Four, the trophy case of Anadolu Efes includes 1 Korac Cup, 13 Turkish League Championships, 9 Turkish Cups and 9 Presidential Cups as of December 2014. The club has ARTS & CULTURE raised numerous stars from its youth development program and continues to present new talents to Turkish sport each and every year as a part of its efforts to take the Turkish basketball further. Anadolu Efes plays a pioneering role in supporting art and culture within its operational geography. In 2014, Anadolu Efes Moldova continued to be partner of the Moldova National Football Team and also organized an open In 2014, Anadolu Efes Turkey continued its partnership with the air fan-zone in the city centre where 60.000 supporters have country’s biggest and most important cinema event, Istanbul Film the opportunity to watch the games of the 2014 World Cup in a Festival, in the centenary of Turkish Cinema. Anadolu Efes Turkey welcoming and entertaining atmosphere. Moreover, Anadolu Efes once again sponsored the National Competition and Turkish Cinema Kazakhstan provided its support for the Street Football Championship section of the festival as in the past 27 years. In addition, Anadolu in Karagandy. Efes Turkey continued its support for theatre for the 22nd year. 10 different theatres all around Turkey, including all class-act theatres of the nation, were sponsored by Anadolu Efes Turkey, staging over 500 plays and reaching an audience of over 20,000 people. HEALTH AND EDUCATION In the reporting period, Anadolu Efes Moldova organized 112 cultural events with a total audience of 222,400 people in Anadolu Efes contributes to health and education projects different regions, bringing high class cultural events to Moldovan through Anadolu Group’s social organization, the Anadolu citizens and sponsoring the largest events and festivals such as Education and Social Assistance Foundation. The Anadolu Independence Day, Europe Day and Romanian Language Day. 35 FUTURE IS IN TOURISM THE STONEMASONRY, GOBEKLITEPE, THE OLDEST TEMPLE OF THE WORLD Anadolu Efes Turkey’s corporate social responsibility project “Future Is In Tourism” started in 2007 as Eastern Anatolia Tourism Development The project, initiated by Şanlıurfa Chamber of Commerce and Project (EATDP) in collaboration with the Turkish Ministry of Culture Industry in cooperation with Şanlıurfa Governorship, aims to revive and Tourism and the United Nations Development Programme the traditional stonework artisanship that is a cultural heritage (UNDP) aiming to create a tourism oriented local development model dating back 12 thousand years, as a new source of income for at Çoruh Valley. Within the project context, more than 20 homeyoung locals. The project also aims at strengthening SMEs in the accommodations were founded, many tourism-based civil society tourism industry and increasing the number of overnight stays at organizations were started to operate, cycling and walking routes Şanlıurfa. Göbeklitepe, assumed to be the oldest temple in the were created, local festivals as rafting or bird watching were organized world, accepted on the temporary list of UNESCO World Heritage. and through all these investments, the interest of domestic and international tourists to the area were increased. As a result, Uzundere district has been declared as tourism center by the Council of Ministers in 2013 which also provides the persistence of this sustainable tourism HERITAGE OF MALATYA: ARSLANTEPE model in the region. In addition, tourism trainings were initiated in 27 cities in collaboration with Boğaziçi University Lifelong Learning Center The project initiated by the Arslantepe Support and Development as a part of the project and more than 5.000 people received the Association in cooperation with the Battalgazi Municipality, aims certificate of tourism between the years 2007-2012. to create awareness and employment opportunities for the local community by demonstrating the link between local traditions, After five years of regional experience, ethnography and past life. The project, which will revive the social and Future Is In Tourism evolved at the national cultural potential of Arslantepe, will contribute to the promotion and level and has continued to develop and development of the 5,000 year-old “Arslantepe Barrow” archaeological support tourism in Turkey. It was aimed to settlement situated in Battalgazi Municipality of Malatya. One of the project’s goals is to raise local awareness of the history and value of acquire tourism a place as an alternative Arslantepe and turn it into an attractive tourism centre. sustainable development tool in Turkey, to prepare ground for the creation of local role models by encouraging entrepreneurship and to contribute to tourism by bringing SOUVENIRS OF SAFRANBOLU public instutitions, private corporations, universities and civil society together. The project initiated by Karabük University in cooperation with Safranbolu Chamber of Artists and Artisans, aims at increasing With Future Is In Tourism, three projects were funded as well as local tourism revenues by determining the purchasing behaviour of given consultancy, mentorship and communication supports to visitors, and designing new souvenirs that match with the traditional provide feasible and sustainable projects. In 2013, the “100% Misia”, culture of Safranbolu and meet the demands of tourists. During “Creating Women-Led Sustainable Tourism Initiatives in Mardin” the project, new souvenirs reflecting the history and culture of the and “Traditional Kitchen of Seferihisar” projects were supported. For region will be designed and variety of local souvenirs will increase the 2nd year, “The Stonemasonry, Göbeklitepe, the Oldest Temple notably while reviving traditional handcraft artisanship. These efforts of the World”, “Heritage of Malatya: Arslantepe” and “Souvenirs of are expected to increase local employment opportunities in the Safranbolu” projects were selected and supported. field, whereby Safranbolu will be able to offer its visitors a wide array of authentic products. For more information on Anadolu Efes Turkey’s “Future Is In Tourism”program and its projects, please visit website www.gelecekturizmde.com. 36 TALENT 07 MANAGEMENT 37 AFTER SIGNING UN GLOBAL COMPACT IN 2011, WE ENHANCED OUR COMMITMENT FOR DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITIES BY SIGNING WOMEN EMPOWERMENT PRINCIPLES, A JOINT INITIATIVE OF UNGC AND UN WOMEN. WE INCREASED OUR TRAINING HOURS PER EMPLOYEE, COMPARED TO 2013, BY 8% TO 26.5 HOURS. Productivity and creativity are the crucial Anadolu Efes consider personal and cultural diversity as factors that enable us sustain a better life. an enriching value for organizational culture. In this way, We strive to become the most preferred Anadolu Efes employees are never subjected to any form of discrimination based on their religion, language, race, employer by providing a fair work ethnicity, gender or any other kind of personal attribute or environment where talent is appreciated. cultural difference. As a result of this approach, as of year-end 2014, 12.5% of senior executives of across all operations are Employees are among the most valuable assets of Anadolu expats while 1,853 female employees are accounted for 25.2% Efes. We provide our employees work athmosphere befitting of Anadolu Efes total workforce. Women make up 10.1% of the human dignity and suitable to enhance their talents and blue-collar employees, 35.4% of white collars and 26.6% of achieving high performance. With a total of 7,352 employees senior executives. as of year-end 2014, we ensure that our workforce consists of creative, hardworking, well-educated and talented Anadolu Efes provides all employees with equal opportunities individuals. without any discrimination. Hence, we attach utmost importance to merit and objective factors while managing our human resources processes, especially in remuneration, HUMAN RIGHTS benefits and performance management. In terms of average male – female employee salaries, female employees at management level are remunerated 5% more than male The Anadolu Efes Code of Business Conduct and Ethics is employees, while at non-management level female employees the core policy document defining the company’s approach to remunerated 6% more during the reporting period. human rights and related practices. The document, covering all countries of operations, is binding for all Anadolu Efes employees. Anadolu Efes supports work-life balance of employees as an In addition, Anadolu Efes supports and abides by internationally essential part of its human rights approach. To this end, we recognized agreements and initiatives such as the UN Universal strive to increase operational productivity and efficiency to Declaration of Human Rights. By becoming a signatory of UN prevent overtime work and we encourage employees for regular Global Compact in 2011 and Women Empowerment Principles use of their annual leaves. When talented individuals prefer in 2014, we emphasized our commitment to supporting human leaving their jobs in order to care their new-born children, this rights. In 2015 we will revise Anadolu Efes Code of Business situation results both in loss of skilled workers and interruption Conduct and Ethics in accordance with our current local and of personal career development. In order to prevent that we international engagements. provide the necessary conditions that facilitates their return G4-10 G4-11 38 to work after parental leaves and their ability to meet their childcare needs. The duration of parental leaves is determined EMPLOYEES BY LOCATION in compliance with regulations of operation country in which they are based and various additional opportunities are offered after they return to work. Thanks to our facilitating approach, 54% of employees across al Anadolu Efes operations returned to work following their parental leaves. EMPLOYEES BY LOCATION Anadolu Efes does not tolerate child labour or forced labour. We expect the same attitude from our suppliers and business partners. All employees may freely exercise their collective bargaining, organization, and unionization rights. Hence unions of which Anadolu Efes employees are members can freely organize in our operation centres. We assume the responsibility on our part to enable employees to exercise of these rights. In parallel with this purpose, we also build constructive relations with trade unions. As of year-end 2014, 2,672 Anadolu Efes employees -2,090 males, 582 femalesare covered by collective bargaining agreements. In most countries of operation, the ratio of blue collar employees under collective bargaining agreements stands above 90%. However, overall unionization across all Anadolu Efes workforce stands at 36% due to the lack of union organization aimed at white-collar employees in most countries or lack of union organization in some geographical locations where we operate. As a result of the positive communication we have established with trade unions, In order to raise knowledge and awareness of our employees we concluded 26 successful consultation and negotiations with regarding exercising their rights, we provide them with human unions in different countries with no problems or working rights trainings. In the reporting period, 42 Anadolu Efes time losses experienced due to industrial relations in the employees received 289 person hours of training on human reporting period. rights-related issues. EMPLOYEES BY AGE GROUP EMPLOYEES BY AGE GROUP EMPLOYEES BY GENDER G4-10 G4-11 39 changing and demanding business environment. AELP2020 Program EMPLOYEES BY STATUS aims to plant and foster a common corporate language to drive high impact initiatives by endorsing new leadership trends and a learning approach that focuses on creating a collaborative environment and encourages our leaders to put new ideas into action addressing today’s real business challenges. AELP2020 Program provides our managers with tools, techniques and professional skills needed to manage their duties and responsibilities and to come around a common leadership understanding. Within AELP2020, Anadolu Efes Leaders work on Action Learning Projects which is a new learning approach exposing people to new ideas, skills and methods and making them reflect these learnings to real organizational issues and opportunities. Action Learning enhances business results while developing organizational and individual capabilities. In 2014 more than 50 leaders have participated EMPLOYEE DEVELOPMENT AND PERFORMANCE in Anadolu Efes Leadership Pathway 2020 Program. MANAGEMENT Anadolu Efes Capability Programs aim to map capabilities and identify We evaluate employee performance annually through a process based development needs of our leaders; hence develop them in order to on objective criteria. Within the scope of the process, the degree of ensure a ready pipeline which is able to lead Anadolu Efes organization achievement of individual and corporate performance targets including through the emerging landscape of volatility, complexity and ambiguity. sustainability priorities is evaluated. And the obtained results are More than 60 Anadolu Efes Leaders have participated in our Capability taken into consideration in determining improvement requirements, Program in 2014. Managing Director Capability Program, Next career-planning decisions and performance-based remuneration Generation Capability Program, Sales & Marketing Capability Program, processes. All employees with the exception of those under collective Quality Capability Program, Future Talents Capability Program are labour agreements are subject to the performance evaluation process. amongst the programs we offer. In accordance with our transparency principle, all employees receive feedback regarding their annual performance evaluations, development Anadolu Efes establishes open and direct communication channels and career plans. with its employees in order to ensure a strong and continuous communication that develops the corporation culture and operational In order to meet development requirements and increase employee efficiency. Employees are provided with access to current information performance, we provide our employees with training programs in all regarding corporate developments through the intranet, corporate operations. During the reporting period, training hours per employee publications and information boards. increased by 8% compared to 2013 and reached 26.5 person hours. In 2014; 194,543 person hours of training were held for Anadolu Efes In accordance to the results of employee satisfaction surveys we employees. We aim to create a talent and performance improvement carry out biannually in country operations, the expectations and oriented business culture in Anadolu Efes. In that vein, we provide our suggestions are put into practice. In addition, the Anadolu Efes employees at all levels with personal and professional development Employee Engagement Survey enables us to analyse our strengths opportunities all across our operations. These opportunities include and as well as areas of improvement. This survey also provides insight leadership, competence and skill improvement programs, special into the opinions of our employees regarding key issues that impact education programs, and foreign language programs along with employee engagement, such as corporate policy and processes, quality orientation and on-the-job training courses. In addition to the of life and work-life balance, career and training and development programmes organized locally, corporate learning and development opportunities, co-workers, managers, rewards and recognition, and programmes are organized by Anadolu Efes Headquarters. We seek company reputation. In 2013, we have renewed our survey practice for to establish a common leadership language and a systematic way of a more robust methodology. Through 2013 survey we have reached business by these corporate learning and development programs. 69% overall employee satisfaction. In 2014, we have put development Renewed in 2014, Anadolu Efes Leadership Pathway 2020 (AELP2020) studies into practice in line with survey results. The next survey which has been developed to support our top and midlevel managers in will also demonstrate results of our studies will be conducted in 2015. G4-10 G4-11 40 PACKAGING MANAGEMENT 08 41 We provide our consumers with products using less packaging material and ensure that packaging waste is reclaimed and OUR GOAL IS TO REDUCE recovered. NEW MATERIAL USE Packaging practices play a significant role in providing Anadolu FOR PACKAGING AND TO Efes products to consumers with the promised taste and quality, INCREASE THE LEVEL OF PACKAGING WASTE ensuring that products are consumed confidently, and spreading our corporate message. Packaging materials, however, lead negative impacts on environment as they cause waste, material consumption, indirect energy consumption and emissions. Hence, RECOVERED. we aim to minimize these negative impacts through reducing the weight of our packaging materials and increasing returnable Returnable packaging materials can be reused several times packaging and recycling practices. and reduce the need for new material, thus have a more environmentally friendly nature compared to one-way products. SALES VOLUME SHARE BY PACKAGING TYPE We reinforce technical features and durability of packaging materials by re-designing packaging materials and reduce the use of new material by increasing the amount of reuse. This way, we save approximately 150 ktons of glass on average annually. We aim to increase the rate of reuse and thus reduce the consumption of new materials through enhancing the durability of returnable packaging without increasing their weight. In the reporting period, Anadolu Efes Turkey increased returnable primary packaging rate to 66% compared to 63% in 2013. During the reporting period Anadolu Efes Ukraine reached to the level of 87% with returnable bottles in total volume share of sales. Anadolu Efes also carries out design projects in cooperation MATERIAL USE with packaging producers that focus on light weight packaging materials without compromising on durability. Through such projects, the environmental impacts of material and energy Anadolu Efes aims to reduce the one-way packaging material consumption, emissions and waste production are reduced while weight per distributed product in order to decrease material a cost advantage is also achieved. In 2014, Anadolu Efes Russia consumption. To that end, light-weighting and packaging launched a project for decreasing the weight of existing oneoptimization practices are developed in cooperation with way Efes bottles which resulted in approximately 16% material packaging suppliers through R&D studies. reduction, from 350 gr. to 295 gr. without compromising on quality. This project also reduced the glass waste. In an other In 2014 we marked 0.6% increase in sales volume percentage project conducted by Anadolu Efes Russia preform weight is of returnable bottles when compared to 2013 and that increased reduced from 29.9 gr to 38.3 gr. On the other hand, Anadolu from 13.4% to 14.0%. Regarding one-way glass bottles, we Efes Kazakhstan implemented a similar project where 7% cost achieved 1.3% reduction in terms of glass weight per sold saving was achieved. The usage of lighter glass bottles also made product. possible to pack products in trays instead of boxes. 42 We employ secondary packaging materials for protecting packaging wastes at the source, their storage in production plants our products from external impacts as well as facilitate their and recycling by authorized companies. Authorized institutions are handling and storage. We support reuse and recycling practices responsible for reclaiming and recycling the one-way packaging for secondary packaging depending on their types. materials. For instance, we aim to reuse wooden pallets, plastic boxes and crates as much as possible whereas for materials such as paper In 2014, 22,727 tons of one-way packaging material, comprising and cardboard, plastic bands and shrink wrap, we support the 15,954 tons of glass, 3,256 tons of aluminium, 739 tons of metals, recycling after their use. Our initiatives to use limited amounts 633 tons of plastics and 2,143 tons of paper and cardboard, were of shrink films and stretch films generated a significant reclaimed and recycled by authorized companies. reduction in secondary packaging weight. During the reporting period, country operations have studied possible The amount of reclaimed one-way packaging material differs reductions in secondary packaging materials and prepared depending on factors such as the availability of networks for the projects to be conducted in 2015 such as shifting from reclaiming and recycling of packaging waste in the country of cardboard boxes to trays. operation in addition to the social consumption patterns. Efes Turkey for instance, accounts for 76.8% of the total recycled In 2014, we have also conducted researches on reducing packaging waste volume since there is a widespread recycling packaging colours while maintaining the appeal of the packaging. network. Due to the same reason, the recovery rates of oneThis practice helped us to achieve a significant reduction in paint way primary and secondary packages vary from one country to use and provide a cost advantage. another. Authorized institutions have easier access to one-way secondary packaging, most of which is separated at open and closed sales points whereas the collection of primary packaging RECYCLING depends on consumers. With the aim of creating more opportunities for reclaiming Anadolu Efes seeks to ensure disposal through recycling of packaging waste, we support the development of recycling one-way materials used in delivery processes and of materials network in our operational geography. We also carry out various lost or deemed unfit for use during production while returnable projects in order to raise awareness among consumers regarding packaging materials are reused. We ensure the separation of recycling and warn them through product labels. ANADOLU EFES SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 44 45 Contact The ‘Anadolu Efes 2014 Sustainability Reporting Index’ document, featuring GRI Content Index, EY’s Assurance Statement and details on the implementation of the GRI and UNGC reporting principles as well as performance figures pertaining to the reporting period, can be found under the sustainability section of the corporate website or by clicking here To receive more information or communicate your suggestions regarding the Anadolu Efes Sustainability Report, please contact: Haluk ÖZDEMİR Anadolu Efes Group Corporate Affairs Director haluk.ozdemir@anadoluefes.com Anadolu Efes Biracılık ve Malt Sanayi A.Ş. Fatih Sultan Mehmet Mh. Balkan Cd. No: 58 Buyaka E Blok Tepeüstü Ümraniye 34771 İstanbul / Turkey Tel: +90 (216) 586 80 00 Fax: +90 (216) 387 91 46 Web: www.anadoluefes.com Legal Disclaimer The Anadolu Efes Sustainability Report (The Report) and the Anadolu Efes Sustainability Reporting Index (the Index) have been prepared by Anadolu Efes Biracılık ve Malt Sanayi A.Ş. (ANADOLU EFES) within the reporting principles of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and the U.N. Global Compact. All information and opinions contained in this Report and the Index, which does not purport to be comprehensive, have been provided by ANADOLU EFES and have not been independently verified for this purpose except the data, which has received Limited Assurance following ISAE 3000 from the independent audit firm EY as explained in their opinion statement. This Report and Index have been prepared solely for information purposes and does not aim to form the basis for any investment decision. No information in this Report and Index constitutes a proposal or part of a proposal relating to the sale of ANADOLU EFES shares, or an invitation to this kind of sales process, and the publishing of this report does not mean that a legal relationship of this kind has been established. All featured information and related documents are believed to be accurate at the time of this Report and the Index preparation, and all information has been provided in good faith and relies on trustworthy sources. However ANADOLU EFES does not make any kind of declaration, guarantee or promise in relation to this information. Accordingly, neither ANADOLU EFES nor any of its subsidiaries, or their board members, respective advisors, directors or employees shall be liable for any direct, indirect or consequential loss or damage suffered by any person as a result of relying on any statement in or omission from this Report and the Index or in any other information or communication in connection with the Report and the Index. G4-3 G4-5 G4-31 G4-32 www.anadoluefes.com
