Responsibility through innovation Sustainability Report 2014 Our six commitments 10 11 12 13 14 15 Our Community Environmental people Total investment in employee development engagement We have an active programme of engaging with our responsibility At the end of the year we employed 1,373 people Dialog’s environmentally responsible approach to business underpins US$1.9 million Waste Concept worldwide; a 24.8% increase on the prior year. We now local communities, and we know that our employees, everything that we do. We aim to minimise our use of natural resources operate from 30 locations in 15 countries and our global and future talent, value this, whether through fundraising, and reduce and eliminate all types of waste, following the principles CEP1001-E04 workforce continues to increase in diversity. charitable donations or volunteering. of redesign, reduce and recycle. We are ISO 14001 certificated and implemented into require all our suppliers to be accredited to, and comply with, this major design centres environmental standard. Dialog employees come from 58 nationalities. Engaging our people – The voice Corporate Giving Organisations supported by Dialog Reduce Hazardous substances We continue to recruit globally for the of Dialog Our performance: Dialog launched the Corporate Giving during 2014: Carbon emissions The monitoring of hazardous substances most talented people, identify centres of Listening to and involving our people in programme in 2012, focusing on the Dialog is working to systematically reduce used in our labs is one of the key objectives Our people 2014 2013 engineering talent and build our business shaping the business contributes to the communities local to the areas around CO2 emissions and minimise the carbon of our annual “Environment Goals and Charitable donations around them. In 2014, we opened two new performance and success of the company. Employee retention 93.3% 92.1% our business operations: footprint of our business, focusing on the Programme”. In 2014 achieved a reduction (by segment) design centres – in Taiwan and in the US – Our employees are highly engaged and Overall employee 94.3% 94.8% impact of our design centres. The Carbon of 20.7% across our major design centres n Artistic 22 and continued expanding our existing design are the key contributors to our success. retention rate Charitable giving – we give financial Disclosure Project recognised Dialog as one (indicated by the chemical used per number n Children’s 21 centres in Europe and North America. In 2014 we carried out a global engagement donations to local charities and groups of ten successful companies achieving the of chemically processed devices/samples). Diversity n Education 7 survey measuring levels of engagement, where employees are actively involved. “Scope-2-Indirect CO2 Emission Reduction”, n Environment 5 Developing our people commitment, intent to stay, discretionary Percentage of women 15.8% 15.0% In 2014 our local outreach programmes with a reduction of emissions of 44.5% in Recycle n Global disasters 14 We help our employees to achieve their full effort and job satisfaction. 74% of our overall included children’s charities, charities for our design centres in 2014, which equates We have also implemented a rigorous n Local Outreach 17 potential through training and development. employees participated in the survey and Percentage of part-time 3.9% 3.2% those with disabilities, youth education to 682 tonnes of CO2 emissions. In 2014 we recycling of precious metals, such as gold, n Medical 2 They are actively encouraged to take up our overall engagement score was 64% employees programmes, hospitals, environmental offset 100% of carbon emissions from our silver and copper, from waste and damaged n Other 8 learning opportunities in the form of favourable, placing us above our survey charities, local Foodbanks, and local youth air travel as well as all 100% of emissions products. In 2014 we increased the quantity Number of nationalities 58% 50% n Sports 4 technical and professional training, partner’s external benchmark. Our people sports groups. from our largest design centre in Nabern. of recovered copper by 164% and management and leadership training, also show higher intent to stay and higher This equated to offsetting 4,682 tonnes of recovered silver by 332%. on-the-job learning, virtual learning exceptional effort than average benchmarks. Fund-matching – if employees are raising emissions. Our targets for 2015 will be: environments and mentoring. In 2014 we We are now working on local and global money for charitable causes, then Dialog We believe that reusing and recycling launched our first Learning Management initiatives resulting from the Voice of Dialog will match those funds. Examples for 2014 • offset 100% CO2 emissions from our packing material and waste (including the System allowing us to globally deploy to maintain and further increase the included funds raised through sponsored air travel; PET and glass bottles used in our work training content and measure all training engagement of our people. walks, runs and cycle rides; organising • offset 100% CO2 emissions from rental areas) can contribute to the effectiveness of and development effectively. During the raffles, cake and craft stands; wearing and private cars used for business travel our resource management and sustainability. year we have also refreshed our nonChristmas jumpers and “jeans for genes”, purposes; and During 2014 we implemented Waste Employees by region technical training portfolio with new growing moustaches for Movember, and • measure and offset emissions from our Concept CEP1001-E04 into our major management and leadership courses and organising a global football tournament. second largest design centre in Swindon. design locations. launched the Dialog Graduate Development Programme which aims to give focussed development to our Graduate employees. n Asia 241 Volunteering – as well as monetary donations, we actively encourage employees Natural resources We take the scarcity of natural resources 682 tonnes n Europe 988 Reduced carbon The average training spend per employee in to participate in volunteering activities with seriously and consider the conservation n North charities and educational groups within their emissions by 682 tonnes 2014 was US$1,377. of raw materials, such as metals, to be America 144 local communities. During 2014, employees a priority. Dialog continues to identify were involved in giving presentations and potential methods to improve existing offering mentoring to schools; working with technologies and substitute alternatives, disadvantaged children; and organising such as copper for precious metals, to office family days which serve as events both to give something back to families and minimise our impact on the environment, and reduced costs without sacrificing 20.7% other local stakeholders and to raise further quality and performance. Reduced hazardous money for charity. substances used in our labs by 20.7% Dialog Semiconductor Plc | Sustainability Report 2014 Dialog Semiconductor Plc | Sustainability Report 2014 Dialog Semiconductor Plc | Sustainability Report 2014 Dialog Semiconductor Plc | Sustainability Report 2014 Dialog Semiconductor Plc | Sustainability Report 2014 Our people Community engagement Environmental See pages 10–11 See pages 12–13 responsibility See pages 14–15 16 17 18 19 20 21 Educational Transparent Supply chain partnerships governance Dialog is committed to fair wages, healthy and safe working conditions, Dialog works with a range of foundries and back-end vendors, We are concerned with encouraging young people into electronics, not just to attract the best and brightest talent to Dialog, but to ensure respect for human labour rights, and honest relationships. We have mainly in Taiwan, China and Singapore to mitigate the risk of the future pipeline for the engineering industry as a whole, and have a adopted the Electronics Industry Citizenship Coalition (EICC) standard Supply Chain disruption and constraints. The geographical number of global programmes within schools, colleges and universities. as the model for our own Code of Conduct to ensure that working spread also helps with disaster recovery planning. conditions for both employees and external suppliers are safe and that Regular health and all workers are treated with respect and dignity. safety audits carried out in major design centres Universities • Sponsorship of students at leading Ethics and human rights In 2012 we signed the UN Global Compact, When hazards cannot be adequately In 2014, Dialog carried out 30 vendor audits Supplier engagement Our major suppliers have committed to “In 2015 we have a ZERO controlled by these means alone, suitable covering a wide range of topics including universities Case study an expression of our commitment to human protective clothing or equipment is supplied, compliance and product quality (ISO 9000 & Dialog’s “Code of Conduct” which reflects target to engage with • Provision of access bursaries for low Women in engineering and labour rights, the environment, and and evacuation procedures and facilities are ISO 14000) reviews. These are supported our commitment to the Electronics Industry income students In 2013, Dialog launched our “Gary Duncan Women in Engineering anti-corruption and continue to be in place at Dialog’s and suppliers’ premises. reportable accidents by regular Business Reviews when Dialog Citizenship Coalition (EICC). In addition, suppliers for them to • Donation and awarding of academic committed to, and report on, the Ten during 2014 management meets its’ suppliers to discuss 100% of our major suppliers have their prizes Scholarship”, named after the former Principles of the UNGC. We have a health and safety policy designed supplier performance and future capabilities. own documented corporate social provide evidence of • Guest lectures and presentations VP of Engineering who had always to help Dialog staff work safely and without responsibility policy. • Industrial mentoring by engineering staff championed encouraging women into We take the issue of conflict minerals very risk to others. Dialog Semiconductor aims Environment carbon emissions electronics. Our first scholar that year was • Sponsorship of electronic engineering societies from Imperial College London. This year seriously, and support ending the violence and human rights violations in the mining of to safeguard, as far as is reasonably practicable, the health & safety and welfare Within our supply chain, we continually emphasise that environmental issues should We are working with our suppliers to develop recovery processes, resourceand offsetting.” • Provision of industrial placements our female scholar is from The National certain minerals from a location in Africa at work of its employees, and visitors to be an instinctive part of any decisionsubstitution technologies and methods to • Sponsorship of design-a-chip and University of Science and Technology in described as the “Conflict Region”. We have its premises. The company also accepts making process, and that suppliers should reduce CO2 emissions throughout the supply component design competitions Taipei, and is studying electronic achieved full compliance with the Dodd responsibility for seeing that the conduct of use environmentally-friendly technology to: chain. In 2015 we have a target to engage • Assistance with job-finding skills such engineering. Dialog pays her an annual Frank Wall Street Reform Act concerning the its affairs is not harmful to the health and with suppliers for them to provide evidence as CV writing and interview skills bursary and provides guaranteed paid sourcing of conflict minerals that originate in safety of employees or any other people • Reduce and eliminate emissions of of carbon emissions and offsetting. work placements and industrial mentoring. the Democratic Republic of Congo or affected by its actions. ozone-depleting, and other, chemicals; Schools We also sponsored the Women in adjacent countries. • Manage, reduce and dispose of Human rights • Participation in electronics projects – Engineering Society in 2014 and are It is the responsibility of all management hazardous substances safely; Dialog’s suppliers must demonstrate a mentoring by Dialog employees planning a programme of events during Health and safety to know, understand and implement this • Monitor and control waste water and commitment to upholding workers’ human • Careers talks and presentations 2015 designed to encourage girls to Dialog considers a safe and healthy working policy. It is also important that every solid waste emissions; rights and to treating them with dignity and • Work experience placements take up STEM subjects. environment to be essential in looking after employee understands their legal • Reduce and eliminate all types of waste, respect. Standards such as the Universal • Site visits to Dialog offices our employees’ morale, and in the production responsibilities and those of the company. including water and energy; Declaration of Human Rights, Social • Assistance with life skills such as CV of high-quality and innovative products. The Health & Safety Representative is • Reduce waste by maximising product Accountability International and the Ethical writing and interview skills responsible for updating and communicating yields; and Trading Initiative have been used as a basis Additionally, we require our major health and safety issues to all staff. The • Ensure all environmental permits are for these requirements. suppliers also to be committed to policy and guidance notes are reviewed obtained, maintained and kept current. recognising and ensuring the creation of annually or earlier if events necessitate it. All labour must be given voluntarily healthy working environments and safe As a fabless semiconductor company, and workers must be free to leave their working conditions. We expect them to The company has developed a it is important to Dialog that all of its employment on reasonable notice. Child provide evidence of suitable controls, comprehensive risk assessment procedure, manufacturing partners also follow their labour must not be used at any stage of safe working procedures, preventative to identify, evaluate and minimise hazards requirement to respect the environment. manufacturing. Working hours must not maintenance and general protective at the workplace. General Risk Assessment To this end every supplier is required to exceed the maximum set by local laws and measures in their working environments. covers those tasks, which are performed complete a self-audit questionnaire to wages must comply with all applicable laws. throughout the company, e.g. general identify and document compliance to Suppliers must ensure that workers are not office work. Specific Risk Assessments Dialog’s environmental requirements. Also, threatened or subjected to inhumane or cover those tasks not covered by the evidence of compliance to requirements is harsh treatment, harassment or any form General Risk Assessment, e.g. Lab Work. checked during regular supplier on-site of unlawful discrimination. Risk Assessment forms are available from audits (IS014001). the Health & Safety Representative. Dialog Semiconductor Plc | Sustainability Report 2014 Dialog Semiconductor Plc | Sustainability Report 2014 Dialog Semiconductor Plc | Sustainability Report 2014 Dialog Semiconductor Plc | Sustainability Report 2014 Dialog Semiconductor Plc | Sustainability Report 2014 Dialog Semiconductor Plc | Sustainability Report 2014 Educational partnerships Transparent governance Supply chain See pages 16–17 See pages 18–19 See pages 20–21 Contents 01 Continuing our sustainable ambition 02 What we do 03 The Dialog business model 04 Our vision and values 05 Our products 06 Sustainability roadmap 08 Stakeholder map 10 Our people 12 Community engagement 14 Environmental responsibility 16 Educational partnerships 18 Transparent governance 20 Supply chain 22 United Nations Global Compact 24 Managing risk 26 Key metrics 28 Group directory 01 Continuing our sustainable ambition Last year we reported on our sustainability journey and I am pleased to be able to report that this has continued significantly this year. We want sustainability to be part of our DNA, to be a part of the Dialog “fire in the belly” – to not just be something we do, but the way we do business. Our 2014 Sustainability Report highlights our commitment in key areas such as ethical governance, product innovation, diversity and inclusion, community involvement and giving, education, and environmental stewardship. We believe that striving to have a positive impact in everything we do and ensuring the long-term sustainable success of Dialog are, in effect, the same goal. Across our three key areas of making a positive contribution we have had substantial impacts: • Innovation – our primary focus and expertise is energy-efficient system power management. As well as enhancing user experience, our power management processor companion chips increase the performance of portable devices by extending battery lifetime and enabling faster charging, thus reducing the effect of usage on the environment. 2014 has seen us develop further energy solutions within low-energy Bluetooth, low power charging and energy efficient LED solid state lighting. • Our people and our communities drive our innovation and therefore our success and long-term sustainable future. We invest time and money not just into attracting and retaining the best talent for us, but also in ensuring the future pipeline of talent into the engineering industry as a whole. We sincerely believe in making a positive contribution to society, and we have continued to fund local and global projects to ensure the continued development of our communities and young people. • Our environment – we are continually committed to ensuring that everything we do has a low (or zero) impact on the environment. As we don’t manufacture our products, we do not have a large adverse effect on the environment, however we operate responsible practices within our own business, as well as ensuring them across our supply chain. We are proud that our business is based around a range of green IC solutions, and additionally we have taken further steps during 2014 to minimise the carbon footprint of our business and recycle precious materials from waste and damaged goods. 2015 promises further exciting developments to our sustainability programme, including our plan to appoint a member of our Board to represent sustainability and corporate responsibility. We are also carrying out our first materiality assessment to identify our key social and environmental priorities which will then drive our sustainability strategy. We will then put together a strategic Sustainability Think Tank which will pull together all aspects of our business and which this year will be championed by Sean McGrath, SVP Connectivity Business Group. Rebecca Fradley-Stokes Head of Corporate Social Responsibility, Sustainability and University Relations sustainability@diasemi.com Dialog’s long-term future and strategy for growth rely on us positively following the fundamentals of sustainable business. We recognise six commitments to our stakeholders, which aim to ensure we are economically sustainable, whilst embracing our duty to society and the environment. We also continue to adhere to and report on our commitment to the 10 principles of the United Nations Global Compact, demonstrating our guarantee to strive towards full sustainable operation in everything we do. I am proud to endorse our 2014 sustainability report and am looking forward to further progress during 2015. Jean-Michel Richard Chief Financial Officer Dialog Semiconductor Plc | Sustainability Report 2014 02 What we do Dialog Semiconductor creates and markets highly integrated, mixed signal integrated circuits (ICs), optimised for personal, portable handheld devices, low energy short-range wireless, LED solid-state lighting and automotive applications. The Company provides customers with world-class innovation combined with flexible and dynamic support, and the assurance of dealing with an established business partner. Business model Dialog has one of the biggest R&D We maintain deep expertise on advanced Innovation is at the core of our business. engineering teams in the world focused processes, test and packaging development Our highly skilled engineers, their knowon power management and mixed signal through our own teams. These areas of how and our intellectual property (IP) are know-how for mobile and connected expertise are fundamental to remaining our key assets. We have implemented a consumer applications. We believe the size ahead of our competitors and supporting “high-touch” fabless model – meaning we and focus of our engineering talent has our customers’ development of products have outsourced production – which allows become a sustainable source of competitive which are thin and light –­ features which us to remain flexible and maintain a low advantage. consumers value highly in portable devices. capital-intensive business while retaining Our foundry, test and packaging partners some core manufacturing and advanced We recruit globally the best talent are the leading companies in their field and packaging competencies in-house. we can and continually invest in we have developed a strong collaboration our people. We have a decentralised with them based on years of working Our business model has three dimensions approach to research and development together. To complement this, Dialog built on innovation: with teams in 15 countries. In a highly has developed a robust supply chain competitive talent market we believe management approach 1. Short design cycle. this flexible, decentralised approach 2. High touch fabless model with strong is advantageous. 3. Market-leading products production partnerships. Dialog’s focus and expertise in 3. Market-leading products. 2. High touch fabless model with strong power management and power production partnerships efficiency semiconductors contributes 1. Short design cycle to power efficiency and lower power Dialog has decades of experience in the “We don’t manufacture our products but consumption for a range of personal rapid development of integrated circuits use other existing third-party facilities to portable devices and applications in (ICs) over which time we have amassed do this, and therefore do not have a large the consumer products market. significant IP. For our customers, and in direct adverse effect on the environment” particular those in the consumer devices Our customers include the leading brands market, product development times are While we design and manage the in each of our markets. They are attracted short due to rapidly evolving consumer production of semiconductors in-house, we by the quality and performance of our requirements and competition in a vibrant outsource production to industry leading products – evidenced by our inherent design and changing market. wafer foundries such as TSMC, UMC and expertise, leading technology and ability to Global Foundries. This approach enables innovate – and our focus on high-growth The design of our customised solutions the flexibility to deploy the most advanced portable platforms and consumer devices. (Application Specific ICs) is well embedded production processes and meet market A business model based on high Tier 1 in our customers’ design cycle. We engage demand; and low capital intensity. client penetration results in high volumes, with our largest customers as an “extended and strong cash generation. R&D team”, delivering differentiation in Some of our teams within Dialog’s Global short design cycles. Operations and Quality organisation are based at our partners manufacturing sites, “Our business model Our integrated design approach helps enabling a continuous quality improvement to reduce component size and number process. is aligned with the which, in turn, helps our customers to reduce the overall cost of their products Our assembly and test partners are leading requirements of our and maximise performance. companies such as SPIL, ASE and UTAC. customers in the markets in which we operate.” Dialog Semiconductor Plc | Sustainability Report 2014 03 The Dialog business model of best-in-class technolo election gies > S > Customers Suppliers OEMs/ODMs Partners IP IP Design Manufacturing cycle cycle 6-18 months 3 months Innovation in Expert Expert engineering Mixed signal engineering talent analog talent an ag Product em cycle ent < < 1-5 years m rt pe ch Ex ain ng e ly in pp ee u rin Customers ts gt bus ale OEMs/ODMs Ro nt < < Value creation Partnerships Operational flexibility Quality 1 R  eciprocal cooperation with 1 Rapid new product development. 1 Inherent design expertise, customers and partners enhances 2 Decentralised R&D with 21 hubs. world-class engineering talent. our innovation capacity. 2 Best-in-class technology. 3 F abless model provides flexibility on process and capacity. 3 Highly integrated and power efficient ICs. 4 Fabless model allows us to deploy the most advanced production processes available. Dialog Semiconductor Plc | Sustainability Report 2014 04 Our vision and values Our sustainability vision To embed sustainable and responsible practices into the way we act internally and engage externally. Our sustainability values Connecting Giving Engaging Strengthening Caring Acting as a conduit for Giving of both money Engaging our employees Strengthening the Caring for people, building bridges and and time to local and to be happy at work, position of Dialog the environment and connecting people global communities. and engaging with our through our commitment communities, and internally through local communities to CSR and sustainability, making a positive CSR activities. and stakeholders. which sets us apart from impact on all three. our competitors. Sustainability across the business People Well-being Learning and Development Community investment Equal Our people opportunities University engagements Future pool of talent Governance Power management Innovation Redesign Clean and power R&D Reduce Tech efficient Investment Recycle products Dialog Semiconductor Plc | Sustainability Report 2014 05 Our products Effective power management and increasing energy efficiency remain at the core of the consumer electronics market. Dialog offers a range of green IC solutions that minimise the number of components required within consumer electronic products and the energy they consume. Mobile Systems Power Conversion Connectivity Dialog Semiconductor has been at the Acquiring iWatt in 2013, Dialog established Our new customer Xiaomi has included centre of the mobile computing revolution, itself as a leader in high efficiency AC/DC Dialog’s Bluetooth ultra-low power enabling our customers to produce lighter power converter and LED driver IC solutions SmartBond™ System on Chip in its new and thinner portable applications with for power adapters, portable chargers and Mi Band fitness tracking wrist band. higher power efficiency resulting in solid-state lighting (SSL) applications. These SmartBond™ enables the Mi Band to deliver longer battery life. Consumer demand ICs are designed to cost-effectively reduce up to 30 days of battery power from a for better power management and more energy consumption by maximising power single charge, more than double the battery power-efficient products continues to rise. conversion efficiency with digital technology life of its closest competitor, creating one of that uses fewer components. This leads to the most energy-efficient connectivity Dialog replaces multiple discrete power lower consumption of fossil fuels, less solutions available to consumers today. management components with one highly energy spent manufacturing unneeded integrated device, these single chip solutions components and lower total system cost The DA14580 is the first Bluetooth® Smart reduce energy usage and provide a for customers. certified system-on-chip (SoC). Bluetooth® simple, yet flexible, design at a lower cost. Smart is a part of the Bluetooth® standard We also offer a wide range of dimmable and that address peripheral and accessory Our core power management IC non-dimmable SSL LED driver solutions for applications with lower power and lower technologies increase energy efficiency lighting applications up to 45W, equivalent connection times than classic Bluetooth®. and extend battery life in a large range in brightness to a 200W incandescent bulb. For all of our Bluetooth® Smart devices that of portable devices such as smartphones, These LED drivers enable very high efficiency were shipped last year using coin cells, they tablets and Ultrabooks™. SSL bulbs, significantly reducing energy would have saved approximately 2 million usage and enabling consumers to benefit coin cell batteries during the lifetime of Typical usage tests show our Power from LED bulbs with an average lifespan of these products. Management Integrated Circuits (PMICs) ten years or more in comparison to just are able to decrease the power three to four years with Compact consumption of a portable device Fluorescent (CFL) bulbs. by up to 30%. Sustainability snapshot Dialog was the first company to introduce a zero-standby power AC/DC pulse width modulation (PWM) controller, the iW1700 that reduces no-load power consumption to less than 5 milliwatts, or effectively zero for cell phones, cordless phones, tablets and other portable devices. 1 The International Electrotechnical Commission IEC 62301 standard for measuring standby power rounds power usage of 5mW or less to zero. 06 Sustainability roadmap Our sustainability roadmap shows our journey so far and demonstrates commitment to where we want to be. Our highlights for 2014 were launching our first employee survey, significantly reducing our carbon emissions, launching our sponsorship programme in Asia, sponsoring the UK’s Women in Engineering Society and implementing a new waste concept into our major design centres. Roadmap legend Progress in brief 2013 2014 Future targets August November Integrated sustainability issues Became headline sponsor of UK into supplier audits to improve Women in Engineering Society. monitoring of sustainability issues in supply chain. 2014 2012 June February Launched first employee survey. Committed to the ten principles of the United Nations Global Compact. 2013 October Launched first annual sustainability report. 2014 December Hit US$500,000 in charitable donations and corporate giving. Dialog Semiconductor Plc | Sustainability Report 2014 07 2015 Target 2014 Offset 100% air travel emissions During the year + emissions from car travel. Reduced carbon emissions in design centres by 44.5%. 2015 Target Appoint a board member to represent sustainability and corporate responsibility. 2014 During the year Implemented Waste Concept CEP1001-E04 into major design centres. 2014 During the year Launched student sponsorship programme in Asia. 2015 Target Hit US$600,000 in corporate giving, CSR initiatives and charitable giving. 2015 Target Launch Dialog strategic CSR “Think Tank” across all functions. 2015 Target Carry out first materiality assessment to define the sustainability issues that matter most to Dialog and our stakeholders. Dialog Semiconductor Plc | Sustainability Report 2014 08 Stakeholder map We want to ensure that we are doing the right thing for each of our stakeholders, and recognise six commitments which seek to ensure that we are economically sustainable whilst embracing our duty to society and the environment. 2014 breakthrough moments Our people Community engagement Environmental responsibility In the 2014 employee engagement survey, We invested US$500,282 in local and We grew our portfolio of power-efficient 95% of the respondents said that when global corporate giving programmes. IC products. needed, they are willing to put in the extra effort to get a job done. Many of our programmes involved local We over-achieved our design centre community outreach such as foodbanks, carbon emission targets by 14.5%. We invested £1.9 million in developing helping the homeless and bringing IT our people. support to the disabled and underprivileged. We implemented the Waste Concept CEP1001-E04 into our major 14 of our locations were involved in CSR Our Swindon office sponsored their local design locations. and charitable activities. cricket club and their enhanced facilities led to one of their youth team winning the Implemented ISO 14001 environmental We had 35 people employed as members Wiltshire Young Sportsman of the Year. management system into Power Conversion of our Technical Ladder. Business Group. Education partnerships Supply chain support Transparent governance We are concerned about the lack of women We carried out 30 vendor audits, all to To support our corporate governance, in the electronic engineering industry and ISO 9000 and ISO 14000 standards. we implemented an online compliance therefore awarded our second “Women in e-learning package covering six areas: Engineering Scholarship” and sponsored We ensured that 100% of our key suppliers anti-bribery; anti-trust; conflicts of interest; the UK’s Women in Engineering Society. have a CSR policy. insider dealing; privacy and information security; preventing harassment – with a We awarded 15 university scholarships Dialog designs and manufacturing flows target of 100% completion by employees globally to support students through their are very robust, so Dialog is able to achieve by the end of 2015. university degree programmes. outstanding delivery performance and industry standard yield levels. We re-committed to the ten principles of We sponsored two student electronics the United Nations Global Compact, and design projects in Austria and Japan. Some of our teams within Dialog’s ensured that all our suppliers also adhere Global Operations and Quality organisation to their principles. We increased our partnership activity with are based at our partners manufacturing the University Technical College in Swindon, sites, enabling continuous supply We had no human rights or labour an educational institute for young engineers. chain engagement. issues arise either within Dialog or within our suppliers. Dialog Semiconductor Plc | Sustainability Report 2014 09 Sustainability snapshot This year we have increased the number of education partnership programmes, including universities, schools, colleges, and having a long-term partnership with the Swindon University Technical College. Stakeholder map Our people Transparent Community governance engagement Supply chain Environmental responsibility Education partnerships Dialog Semiconductor Plc | Sustainability Report 2014 10 Our people At the end of the year we employed 1,373 people worldwide; a 24.8% increase on the prior year. We now operate from 30 locations in 15 countries and our global workforce continues to increase in diversity. Dialog employees come from 58 nationalities. Engaging our people – The voice We continue to recruit globally for the of Dialog Our performance: most talented people, identify centres of Listening to and involving our people in Our people 2014 2013 engineering talent and build our business shaping the business contributes to the around them. In 2014, we opened two new performance and success of the company. Employee retention 93.3% 92.1% design centres – in Taiwan and in the US – Our employees are highly engaged and Overall employee 94.3% 94.8% and continued expanding our existing design are the key contributors to our success. retention rate centres in Europe and North America. In 2014 we carried out a global engagement survey measuring levels of engagement, Diversity Developing our people commitment, intent to stay, discretionary Percentage of women 15.8% 15.0% We help our employees to achieve their full effort and job satisfaction. 74% of our overall potential through training and development. employees participated in the survey and Percentage of part-time 3.9% 3.2% They are actively encouraged to take up our overall engagement score was 64% employees learning opportunities in the form of favourable, placing us above our survey partner’s external benchmark. Our people Number of nationalities 58% 50% technical and professional training, management and leadership training, also show higher intent to stay and higher on-the-job learning, virtual learning exceptional effort than average benchmarks. environments and mentoring. In 2014 we We are now working on local and global launched our first Learning Management initiatives resulting from the Voice of Dialog System allowing us to globally deploy to maintain and further increase the training content and measure all training engagement of our people. and development effectively. During the year we have also refreshed our nonEmployees by region technical training portfolio with new management and leadership courses and launched the Dialog Graduate Development Programme which aims to give focussed development to our Graduate employees. n Asia 241 The average training spend per employee in n Europe 988 2014 was US$1,377. n North America144 Dialog Semiconductor Plc | Sustainability Report 2014 11 Total investment in employee development US$1.9 million 12 Community engagement We have an active programme of engaging with our local communities, and we know that our employees, and future talent, value this, whether through fundraising, charitable donations or volunteering. Corporate Giving Organisations supported by Dialog Dialog launched the Corporate Giving during 2014: programme in 2012, focusing on the communities local to the areas around Charitable donations our business operations: (by segment) n Artistic 22 Charitable giving – we give financial n Children’s 21 donations to local charities and groups n Education 7 where employees are actively involved. n Environment 5 In 2014 our local outreach programmes n Global disasters 14 included children’s charities, charities for n Local Outreach 17 those with disabilities, youth education n Medical 2 programmes, hospitals, environmental n Other 8 charities, local Foodbanks, and local youth n Sports 4 sports groups. Fund-matching – if employees are raising money for charitable causes, then Dialog will match those funds. Examples for 2014 included funds raised through sponsored walks, runs and cycle rides; organising raffles, cake and craft stands; wearing Christmas jumpers and “jeans for genes”, growing moustaches for Movember, and organising a global football tournament. Volunteering – as well as monetary donations, we actively encourage employees to participate in volunteering activities with charities and educational groups within their local communities. During 2014, employees were involved in giving presentations and offering mentoring to schools; working with disadvantaged children; and organising office family days which serve as events both to give something back to families and other local stakeholders and to raise further money for charity. Dialog Semiconductor Plc | Sustainability Report 2014 13 Dialog Semiconductor Plc | Sustainability Report 2014 14 Environmental responsibility Dialog’s environmentally responsible approach to business underpins everything that we do. We aim to minimise our use of natural resources and reduce and eliminate all types of waste, following the principles of redesign, reduce and recycle. We are ISO 14001 certificated and require all our suppliers to be accredited to, and comply with, this environmental standard. Reduce Hazardous substances Carbon emissions The monitoring of hazardous substances Dialog is working to systematically reduce used in our labs is one of the key objectives CO2 emissions and minimise the carbon of our annual “Environment Goals and footprint of our business, focusing on the Programme”. In 2014 achieved a reduction impact of our design centres. The Carbon of 20.7% across our major design centres Disclosure Project recognised Dialog as one (indicated by the chemical used per number of ten successful companies achieving the of chemically processed devices/samples). “Scope-2-Indirect CO2 Emission Reduction”, with a reduction of emissions of 44.5% in Recycle our design centres in 2014, which equates We have also implemented a rigorous to 682 tonnes of CO2 emissions. In 2014 we recycling of precious metals, such as gold, offset 100% of carbon emissions from our silver and copper, from waste and damaged air travel as well as all 100% of emissions products. In 2014 we increased the quantity from our largest design centre in Nabern. of recovered copper by 164% and This equated to offsetting 4,682 tonnes of recovered silver by 332%. emissions. Our targets for 2015 will be: We believe that reusing and recycling • offset 100% CO2 emissions from our packing material and waste (including the air travel; PET and glass bottles used in our work • offset 100% CO2 emissions from rental areas) can contribute to the effectiveness of and private cars used for business travel our resource management and sustainability. purposes; and During 2014 we implemented Waste • measure and offset emissions from our Concept CEP1001-E04 into our major second largest design centre in Swindon. design locations. Natural resources We take the scarcity of natural resources seriously and consider the conservation of raw materials, such as metals, to be a priority. Dialog continues to identify potential methods to improve existing technologies and substitute alternatives, such as copper for precious metals, to minimise our impact on the environment, and reduced costs without sacrificing quality and performance. Dialog Semiconductor Plc | Sustainability Report 2014 15 Waste Concept CEP1001-E04 implemented into major design centres 682 tonnes Reduced carbon emissions by 682 tonnes 20.7% Reduced hazardous substances used in our labs by 20.7% Dialog Semiconductor Plc | Sustainability Report 2014 16 Educational partnerships We are concerned with encouraging young people into electronics, not just to attract the best and brightest talent to Dialog, but to ensure the future pipeline for the engineering industry as a whole, and have a number of global programmes within schools, colleges and universities. Universities • Sponsorship of students at leading universities Case study • Provision of access bursaries for low Women in engineering income students In 2013, Dialog launched our • Donation and awarding of academic “Gary Duncan Women in Engineering prizes Scholarship”, named after the former • Guest lectures and presentations VP of Engineering who had always • Industrial mentoring by engineering staff championed encouraging women into • Sponsorship of electronic engineering electronics. Our first scholar that year was societies from Imperial College London. This year • Provision of industrial placements our female scholar is from The National • Sponsorship of design-a-chip and University of Science and Technology in component design competitions Taipei, and is studying electronic • Assistance with job-finding skills such engineering. Dialog pays her an annual as CV writing and interview skills bursary and provides guaranteed paid work placements and industrial mentoring. Schools We also sponsored the Women in • Participation in electronics projects – Engineering Society in 2014 and are mentoring by Dialog employees planning a programme of events during • Careers talks and presentations 2015 designed to encourage girls to • Work experience placements take up STEM subjects. • Site visits to Dialog offices • Assistance with life skills such as CV writing and interview skills Dialog Semiconductor Plc | Sustainability Report 2014 17 Dialog Semiconductor Plc | Sustainability Report 2014 18 Transparent governance Dialog is committed to fair wages, healthy and safe working conditions, respect for human labour rights, and honest relationships. We have adopted the Electronics Industry Citizenship Coalition (EICC) standard as the model for our own Code of Conduct to ensure that working conditions for both employees and external suppliers are safe and that all workers are treated with respect and dignity. Ethics and human rights When hazards cannot be adequately In 2012 we signed the UN Global Compact, ZERO controlled by these means alone, suitable an expression of our commitment to human protective clothing or equipment is supplied, and labour rights, the environment, and and evacuation procedures and facilities are anti-corruption and continue to be in place at Dialog’s and suppliers’ premises. reportable accidents committed to, and report on, the Ten during 2014 Principles of the UNGC. We have a health and safety policy designed to help Dialog staff work safely and without We take the issue of conflict minerals very risk to others. Dialog Semiconductor aims seriously, and support ending the violence to safeguard, as far as is reasonably and human rights violations in the mining of practicable, the health & safety and welfare certain minerals from a location in Africa at work of its employees, and visitors to described as the “Conflict Region”. We have its premises. The company also accepts achieved full compliance with the Dodd responsibility for seeing that the conduct of Frank Wall Street Reform Act concerning the its affairs is not harmful to the health and sourcing of conflict minerals that originate in safety of employees or any other people the Democratic Republic of Congo or affected by its actions. adjacent countries. It is the responsibility of all management Health and safety to know, understand and implement this Dialog considers a safe and healthy working policy. It is also important that every environment to be essential in looking after employee understands their legal our employees’ morale, and in the production responsibilities and those of the company. of high-quality and innovative products. The Health & Safety Representative is responsible for updating and communicating Additionally, we require our major health and safety issues to all staff. The suppliers also to be committed to policy and guidance notes are reviewed recognising and ensuring the creation of annually or earlier if events necessitate it. healthy working environments and safe working conditions. We expect them to The company has developed a provide evidence of suitable controls, comprehensive risk assessment procedure, safe working procedures, preventative to identify, evaluate and minimise hazards maintenance and general protective at the workplace. General Risk Assessment measures in their working environments. covers those tasks, which are performed throughout the company, e.g. general office work. Specific Risk Assessments cover those tasks not covered by the General Risk Assessment, e.g. Lab Work. Risk Assessment forms are available from the Health & Safety Representative. Dialog Semiconductor Plc | Sustainability Report 2014 19 Regular health and safety audits carried out in major design centres Dialog Semiconductor Plc | Sustainability Report 2014 20 Supply chain Dialog works with a range of foundries and back-end vendors, mainly in Taiwan, China and Singapore to mitigate the risk of Supply Chain disruption and constraints. The geographical spread also helps with disaster recovery planning. In 2014, Dialog carried out 30 vendor audits covering a wide range of topics including Supplier engagement Our major suppliers have committed to “In 2015 we have a compliance and product quality (ISO 9000 & ISO 14000) reviews. These are supported Dialog’s “Code of Conduct” which reflects our commitment to the Electronics Industry target to engage with by regular Business Reviews when Dialog Citizenship Coalition (EICC). In addition, suppliers for them to management meets its’ suppliers to discuss 100% of our major suppliers have their supplier performance and future capabilities. own documented corporate social provide evidence of responsibility policy. Environment carbon emissions Within our supply chain, we continually emphasise that environmental issues should We are working with our suppliers to develop recovery processes, resourceand offsetting.” be an instinctive part of any decisionsubstitution technologies and methods to making process, and that suppliers should reduce CO2 emissions throughout the supply use environmentally-friendly technology to: chain. In 2015 we have a target to engage with suppliers for them to provide evidence • Reduce and eliminate emissions of of carbon emissions and offsetting. ozone-depleting, and other, chemicals; • Manage, reduce and dispose of Human rights hazardous substances safely; Dialog’s suppliers must demonstrate a • Monitor and control waste water and commitment to upholding workers’ human solid waste emissions; rights and to treating them with dignity and • Reduce and eliminate all types of waste, respect. Standards such as the Universal including water and energy; Declaration of Human Rights, Social • Reduce waste by maximising product Accountability International and the Ethical yields; and Trading Initiative have been used as a basis • Ensure all environmental permits are for these requirements. obtained, maintained and kept current. All labour must be given voluntarily As a fabless semiconductor company, and workers must be free to leave their it is important to Dialog that all of its employment on reasonable notice. Child manufacturing partners also follow their labour must not be used at any stage of requirement to respect the environment. manufacturing. Working hours must not To this end every supplier is required to exceed the maximum set by local laws and complete a self-audit questionnaire to wages must comply with all applicable laws. identify and document compliance to Suppliers must ensure that workers are not Dialog’s environmental requirements. Also, threatened or subjected to inhumane or evidence of compliance to requirements is harsh treatment, harassment or any form checked during regular supplier on-site of unlawful discrimination. audits (IS014001). Dialog Semiconductor Plc | Sustainability Report 2014 21 Dialog Semiconductor Plc | Sustainability Report 2014 22 United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress (COP) As part of Dialog Semiconductor’s participation in the UNGC, we are submitting this report as our official Communication on Progress (COP) covering the period from 1 January – 31 December, 2014. Jalal Bagherli, CEO Statement of continued support by CEO Labour standards Human rights and labour principles Dialog Semiconductor is pleased to reaffirm Dialog Semiconductor will uphold: Assessment, policy and goals its continued support of the Ten Principles Across our business and throughout our of the United Nations Global Compact in Principle 3: external suppliers, Dialog is committed the areas of human rights, labour, The freedom of association and the to fair wages, healthy and safe working environment and anti-corruption. effective recognition of the right to conditions, respect for human and labour collective bargaining. rights, and honest relationships. We have Being a signatory to the UN Global Compact adopted the Electronics Industry Citizenship enables us to demonstrate to all our Principle 4: Coalition (EICC) standard as the model for stakeholders our commitment to being a The elimination of all forms of forced and our own “Code of Business Conduct” to sustainable business. The Ten Principles are compulsory labour. ensure that working conditions for both embedded in all that we do – in the way external suppliers and employees are safe that we operate our business and treat Principle 5: and that all workers are treated with respect our people, the way we manage our impact The effective abolition of child labour. and dignity. This is in addition to adopting on the environment and the way in which principles from the International Labour we give back to the communities in Principle 6: Organization Standards (ILO), Universal which we work. The elimination of discrimination in Declaration of Human Rights (UDHR), employment and occupation. Social Accountability International (SAI), In this Communication on Progress we and the Ethical Trading Initiative (ETI). provide a summary of our activities in Environment relation to our ongoing commitment to Dialog Semiconductor will: Dialog adheres to the principle that all the UN Global Compact’s Ten Principles. labour must be given voluntarily and Principle 7: workers must be free to leave their employment on reasonable notice. Child Human rights Support a precautionary approach to labour must not be used at any stage of Dialog Semiconductor will: environmental challenges. manufacturing. Working hours must not exceed the maximum set by local laws and Principle 1: Principle 8: wages must comply with all applicable laws. Support and respect the protection of Undertake initiatives to promote internationally proclaimed human rights. environmental responsibility. Implementation Dialog and its suppliers take measures to Principle 2: Principle 9: ensure that workers are not threatened or Make sure that we are not complicit in Encourage the development and diffusion of subjected to inhumane or harsh treatment, human rights abuses. environmentally friendly technologies. harassment or any form of unlawful discrimination. Open communication and Anti-corruption direct engagement between workers and Dialog Semiconductor will: management is encouraged, even in those countries where there is no meaningful legal Principle 10: protection. We have a Whistleblowing Policy Work against corruption in all its forms, implemented and published on our intranet, including extortion and bribery. and in 2015 we will be implementing a Whistleblowing Helpline for all employees. Jalal Bagherli, CEO Every supplier is required to complete a self-audit questionnaire to identify and document compliance. We also carry out regular on-site audits of all of our major suppliers. Dialog Semiconductor Plc | Sustainability Report 2014 23 Measurement of outcomes • identify resource substitution and We believe that reusing and recycling In 2014, 100% of our major suppliers have resource recovery processes and take packing material and waste (including their own documented corporate social steps to ensure that conflict minerals the PET and glass bottles used in our work responsibility policy including the adherence are not used in the manufacturing areas) can contribute to the effectiveness of to human rights and labour principles in process; and our resource management and sustainability. accordance with the UNGC. We will ensure • ensure all environmental permits are During 2014 we implemented Waste that this does not drop in 2015. obtained, maintained and kept current. Concept CEP1001-E04 into our major design locations. We take the issue of conflict minerals very Implementation seriously, and support ending the violence Dialog is working to systematically reduce Anti-corruption and human rights violations in the mining CO2 emissions and minimise the carbon Assessment, policy and goals of certain minerals from a location in Africa footprint of our business, focusing on the Dialog believes that continued success in described as the “Conflict Region”. We impact of our design centres. The Carbon the semiconductor market can be achieved have achieved full compliance with the Disclosure Project recognised Dialog as one only by adopting continuously high Dodd Frank Wall Street Reform Act of ten successful companies achieving the standards of ethical behaviour when dealing concerning the sourcing of conflict minerals “Scope-2-Indirect CO2 Emission Reduction”, with customers, suppliers and workers. that originate in the Democratic Republic of with a reduction of emissions of 44.5% in We have publicly adopted a zero-tolerance Congo or adjacent countries. We also have our design centres in 2014, which equates policy on corruption and bribery – as clearly a published Conflict Minerals Policy, and to 682 tonnes of CO2 emissions. In 2014 we stated in our Code of Conduct – “No form require all our suppliers to provide written offset 100% of carbon emissions from our of extortion and bribery, including improper evidence documenting that raw materials air travel as well as all 100% of emissions offers for payments to or from employees, used to produce gold, tin, tantalum from our largest design centre in Nabern. or organisations, is tolerated”. and tungsten, used in the materials to This equated to offsetting 4,682 tonnes of manufacture components and products emissions. Our targets for 2015 will be: Implementation supplied to Dialog Semiconductor, originate Neither we, nor our suppliers offer or from outside the “Conflict Region” or if • offset 100% CO2 emissions from accept inducements or any other means they originate from within the “Conflict our air travel; of obtaining undue or improper advantage. Region” that the mines or smelters be • offset 100% CO2 emissions from rental We have a “whistle-blower” policy in place certified as “conflict free” by an and private cars used for business to protect employees’ confidentiality and independent third party. travel purposes; and encourage our suppliers to do the same. • measure and offset emissions from our To date, Dialog has never had a human second largest design centre in Swindon. Dialog has put in place a training rights or labour issue arise. programme for its Board of Directors, We take the scarcity of natural resources which are facilitated by an independent Environmental principles seriously and consider the conservation third party. Subjects covered so far have Assessment, policy and goals of raw materials, such as metals, to be been “The 2010 Bribery Act”, “BOD in Dialog’s environmentally responsible a priority. Dialog continues to identify Crisis Management”, and “Remuneration”. approach to business underpins everything potential methods to improve existing We have also implemented an online that we do. technologies and substitute alternatives, e-learning suite of six compliance training such as copper for precious metals, to programmes covering anti-bribery, We aim to minimise our use of natural minimise our impact on the environment, antitrust, conflicts of interest, insider resources and reduce and eliminate all and reduced costs without sacrificing dealing, privacy and information security, types of waste, following the principles quality and performance. and preventing harassment. of redesign, reduce and recycle. We are ISO 14001 certificated and require all our Dialog offers a range of green solutions This is supported by a suite of policies – suppliers to be accredited to, and comply that minimise the number of components Conflict of Interest; Financial Crime; and with, this environmental standard. required within consumer electronic products Code of Dealing. As well as a Guidance and the energy they consume. In power Note for all employees, The Code of Dealing As a fabless semiconductor company, it is management, our single chip solutions has a specific Guidance Note applicable to important that all of Dialog’s manufacturing reduce the number of discrete components the Executive Team and other employees partners are equally committed to that need to be used within mobile devices, specifically notified. respecting the environment. Within our while delivering energy savings. supply chain we continually emphasise Measurement of outcomes that environmental issues should be an Measurement of outcomes No incidents of bribery or corruption were instinctive part of any decision making The Carbon Disclosure Project recognised identified in 2014. In the future, should process, and suppliers should: Dialog as one of ten successful companies incidents of bribery or corruption be achieving the “Scope-2-Indirect CO2 identified, they would be dealt with through • design and manufacture only Emission Reduction”, with a further appropriate policies. Sanctions up to, and environmentally friendly products; reduction of emissions of 44.5% in our including, dismissal would be considered • monitor, reduce and eliminate all types design centres in 2014 which equates depending on the incident. of waste. This includes wastewater, solid to a total of 682 tonnes of carbon. waste, wasted energy, ozone-depleting We are aiming for 100% completion of CO2 emissions and other volatile organic We have also implemented a rigorous our online compliance training programme chemicals (VOC). We work with suppliers recycling of precious metals, such as gold, during 2015. relentlessly to maximise yields, minimizing silver and copper, from waste and damaged the number of chips that fail performance products. In 2014 we increased the quantity tests and need to be disposed of, of recovered copper by 164% and recovered alongside hazardous substances used silver by 332%. during the production process; Dialog Semiconductor Plc | Sustainability Report 2014 24 Managing risk In 2014, the Company established a Risk Management Office, to improve the identification of risk, assessment of probability and impact, and assignment of owners to manage mitigation activities. The Executive Team along with the Board has overall responsibility and oversight of Strategic risk the Risk Management Office. The Risk Risk Actions Progress in 2014 Management Office comprises members from internal control, purchasing, finance Human Capital – In order Dialog seeks to create In 2014, the number of and legal and is chaired by the Chief to successfully execute its a positive working engineers increased by Financial Officer. The Risk Management current and future business environment that results in approximately 26%. Office meets on a quarterly basis. commitments, Dialog low levels of staff turnover. needs to continue to build Dialog has developed an In December 2014, Dialog Key risks are formally identified and recorded organisational capability in effective recruitment process opened new design centres in a risk register that is reviewed quarterly 2 key areas: to attract high calibre staff in Taiwan and the US. by the Executive Team and the Audit Dialog has dedicated human Committee. The risk registers is used to plan • Continuous innovation resource managers to drive Staff turnover was 5.7% the internal audit activity and assess any in product development, further development of its (2013:5.2%).Dialog extended potential impact to the Company’s strategy. manufacturing and personnel and benchmark its its global Training & packaging technologies; employment terms to match Development programmes For an overview of our principal risks, please and industry top performers. with the introduction of see pages 46–50 of the Annual Report. • Leadership skills in Dialog has a decentralised the Technical Ladder and Below are set out the risks associated with an expanding and approach to research & Speciality Academies. aspects of CSR and sustainability. increasingly complex development with teams global operation. in 12 countries. In a highly The company also has competitive talent market a global learning and we believe this flexible development strategy and approach is advantageous, runs an active University allowing us to recruit talent partnership programme to where it resides and as a attract the brightest and defence mechanism to stop best university graduates to large scale “poaching” by the electronics industry and competition. our company. Dialog Semiconductor Plc | Sustainability Report 2014 25 Legal and compliance risks Risk Actions Progress in 2014 Compliance To Laws & Dialog continues to monitor Appointed in-house Assistant Regulations – Given Dialog’s the legislative changes across Company Secretary, who growth strategy it needs to key countries to ensure it also acts within the Risk ensure that it understands stays abreast of both global Management Office. and complies with the local and local legislative changes. law and customs wherever In 2014 Dialog introduced it operates. on-line training to strengthen for global compliance issues. Environmental Regulations Dialog carefully selects its In 2014, we continued our – As Dialog does not suppliers and regularly audits supplier audit programme to manufacture, assemble or their activities. fully cover all aspects of their freight any of its products performance in key areas. it seeks to ensure that its partners act within the law. Intellectual Property (IP) We seek to protect our Dialog holds in excess of Protection – As a highly current business and our IP 540 patent families. In order innovative company Dialog from being copied or used to strengthen establish has IP that is attractive to by others by appropriate use its governance processes, others. Dialog must ensure of patents, copyrights and the Patent Committee was that this IP is sufficiently trademarks on a global basis. established in 2014. protected both legally (via patents) or physically The Company strengthened (via security processes). its IT security especially in the Data Leakage Protection area. By selecting a new IT system in 2014 for rollout in 2015 Dialog, also, improved control over access granted to specific project data for employees and external third parties. Dialog Semiconductor Plc | Sustainability Report 2014 26 Key metrics 2012 actual 2013 target 2013 actual 2014 target 2014 actual 2015 target Number of employees 806 N/A 1,107 N/A 1,373 N/A Investment in training US$1 million US$1.5 million US$1.47 million US$1.7 million US$1.91 million US$2 million and development Members of 25 30 30 35 35 40 Technical Ladder % of employees 6% 10% 13% 20% 40% 50% participating in charitable activities Amount donated US$128,000 US$400,000 US$485,000 US$500,000 US$500,282 US$600,000 for corporate giving programme Number of locations 9 10 12 14 14 16 involved in charitable activities Number of interns 22 25 25 30 30 40 from partnership universities Number of students 8 10 10 12 12 15 with university scholarships Number of low-income 3 6 6 9 9 10 access bursaries Dialog Semiconductor Plc | Sustainability Report 2014 27 2012 actual 2013 target 2013 actual 2014 target 2014 actual 2015 target Number of Master 2 3 3 5 4 6 Thesis students Number of schools’ 14 15 18 20 20 22 liaison programmes Recycling rate in 92% 95% 95% Changing Waste Concept Waste Concept our five major the way we CEP1001-E04 CEP1001-E04 shall design centres manage implemented be implemented recycling in major DS in new acquired locations locations as well Dialog as one of ten Reduction of N/A Reduction of Further Reduction of Further successful companies 34% in our 39.8% in our reduction 44.5% in our reduction achieving the CO2 design centres design centres of 30% design centres of 30% emission reduction Major suppliers having 91% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% a formal CSR policy Increase collection 47% Further 225% Further 164% Further rate of copper from increase 5% increase increase 15% increase increase 15% increase scrap devices Increased quantity of 26% N/A 61% Further –41% decrease N/A since recovered gold increase increase 10% increase (the technology new technology is now based used is based more in copper) more in copper Increased quantity of 250% N/A 300% Further 332% Further recovered silver increase increase 10% increase increase 10% increase Dialog Semiconductor Plc | Sustainability Report 2014 28 Group directory Germany Japan Dialog Semiconductor GmbH Dialog Semiconductor K.K. Neue Strasse 95 Kamiyacho MT Bldg 16F D-73230 Kirchheim/Teck-Nabern 4-3-20 Toranomon Germany Minato-ku Phone: (+49) 7021 805-0 Tokyo 105-0001 Fax: (+49) 7021 805-100 Japan Email: dialog.nabern@diasemi.com Phone: (+81) 3 5425 4567 Fax: (+81) 3 5425 4568 United Kingdom Email: dialog.tokyo@diasemi.com Dialog Semiconductor (UK) Ltd Delta 200 Taiwan & Greater China Delta Business Park Dialog Semiconductor GmbH Welton Road Taiwan Branch Swindon 9F, No 185, Sec 2, Tiding Blvd Wiltshire SN5 7XB Neihu district UK Taipei city 114 Phone: (+44) 1793 757700 Taiwan, R.O.C. Fax: (+44) 1793 757800 Phone: (+886) 281 786 222 Email: dialog.swindon@diasemi.com Fax: (+886) 281 786 220 Email: dialog.taiwan@diasemi.com 100 Longwater Avenue Green Park Singapore Reading RG2 6GP Dialog Semiconductor GmbH UK Singapore branch Phone: (+44) 1793 756959 10 Ang Mo Kio. Street 65. Fax: (+44) 1189 450219 Unit # 03-11A Techpoint Email: enquiry@diasemi.com Singapore 569059 Phone: (+65) 64849929 The Netherlands Fax: (+65) 64843455 Dialog Semiconductor B.V. Email: dialog.singapore@diasemi.com Het Zuiderkruis 53 5215 MV's-Hertogenbosch Korea The Netherlands Dialog Semiconductor (UK) Ltd Phone: (+31) 73 640 88 22 Korea Branch Fax: (+31) 73 640 88 23 501 Dongsung B/D, Email: dialog.nl@diasemi.com 158-9, Samsung-Dong Kangnam-Ku, Seoul North America Korea, 135-830 Dialog North America Phone: (+82) 2 569 2301 2560 Mission College Boulevard Fax: (+82) 2 569 2302 Santa Clara Email: dialog.korea@diasemi.com California 95054 USA Phone: (+1) 408 845 8500 Fax: (+1) 408 845 8505 Email: NA_sales_enquiries@diasemi.com Dialog Semiconductor Inc. 675 Campbell Technology Pkwy Suite 150 Campbell California 95008 USA Phone: (+1) 408 374 4200 Fax: (+1) 408 341 0455 Dialog Semiconductor Plc | Sustainability Report 2014 Registered office Dialog Semiconductor Plc Tower Bridge House St Katharine’s Way London E1W 1AA UK Website: www.dialog-semiconductor.com
