United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2014 Statement of the Managing Directors towards the Global Compact „As a reliable and trusted partner of governments and non-governmental organisations around the world it is our duty and honor to commonly promote sustainable and socially responsible business practices. The ten principles of the Global Compact include many of the environmental and social repsonsibility standards which are part of the corporate culture and Code of Conduct of the Kärcher Group. Joining the United Nations Global Compact we are looking forward to jointly supporting and sharing sustainable and socially repsonsible policies with the international community.“ Volker Welzenbach Thomas Popp Managing Director Managing Director Kärcher Futuretech GmbH / UN Global Compact Report 2014 1 United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2014 Principle 1-2: Human Rights We respect and support the human rights and all relevant laws, values, standards and social orders of all countries. These principles are also part of our Kärcher Code of Conduct. Practical actions Measurement of outcomes  We regularly hold supplier audits. Our suppliers  In 2014 a number of 37 suppliers have been audited and need to commit to the Kärcher Code of Conduct, undersigned the Kärcher Code of Conduct. including social and environmental standards. Corrective actions are taken whenever necessary.  In 2014 five new suppliers have commited compliance with the Kärcher Code of Conduct.  In 2013 we were awarded with the certificate „Beruf  In 2014 a number of 112 employees were able to benefit und Familie“ enabling employees to better balance from this initative. job and family.  Every new employee in our factory is equipped with  In 2014 two newly employed workers have been given protective clothing and receives work safety safety instructions. instructions in advance. Kärcher Futuretech GmbH / UN Global Compact Report 2014 2 United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2014 Principle 3-6: Labour We condemn child labour and observe the legal rules and regulations on the minimum age of employees. We do not tolerate any form of discrimination on the grounds of gender, age, race, nationality, religion, handicap, social origin or sexual orientation. We advocate equality of opportunity. We condemn forced labour and corporal punishment, intimidation and molestation of employees. These principles are also part of our Kärcher Code of Conduct. Practical actions Measurement of outcomes  We regularly hold supplier audits. Our suppliers  In 2014 a number of 37 suppliers have been audited and need to commit to the Kärcher Code of Conduct, undersigned the Kärcher Code of Conduct. including social and environmental standards. Corrective actions are taken whenever necessary.  In 2014 five new suppliers have commited compliance with the Kärcher Code of Conduct.  In 2013 we were awarded with the certificate „Beruf  In 2014 a number of 112 employees were able to benefit und Familie“ enabling employees to better balance from this initative. job and family.  Every new employee in our factory is equipped with  In 2014 two newly employed workers have been given protective clothing and receives work safety safety instructions. instructions in advance. Kärcher Futuretech GmbH / UN Global Compact Report 2014 3 United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2014 Principle 7-9: Environmental Protection Our products, services and processes are designed to be environmentally-friendly. In all locations where we operate we respect environmental requirements and deal with natural resources in a responsible manner. We are ISO 14001 certified. These principles are also part of our Kärcher Code of Conduct. Practical actions Measurement of outcomes  We create synergies with our mother company using  In 2014 we added a container-based and highly efficient the Kärcher high pressure technology in our water WTC hybrid to our portfolio of water treatment systems. treatment and decontamination systems.  At the beginning of 2014 five of our energy efficient ultrafiltration water treatment systems were sent to the Balkan States to support the citizens during the floodings.  Our diesel driven field kitchen burners operate with  Our diesel burners enable a five times higher energy optimal energy efficiency. Our cooking modules are efficiency compared to electric burners. equipped with sandwich floors ensuring optimal heat conduction.  Environmental audits are conducted every year by  The position of Futuretech´s environmental officer has independent organisations such as TÜV. been reannounced recently.  All Futuretech factories are equipped with garbage disposal stations. Recycling standards are adhered to e.g. through waste separation, emission control etc. Kärcher Futuretech GmbH / UN Global Compact Report 2014 4 United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2014 Principle 10: Corruption We are against any form of corruption. These principles are also part of our Kärcher Code of Conduct. Practical actions Measurement of outcomes  Our procurment department took part in a 2014 anti Our procurement managers successfully completed this corruption training. year´s anti-corruption training. Kärcher Futuretech GmbH / UN Global Compact Report 2014 5
