United Nations Global Compact Communication on progress 2015 The Quality Connection DECLARATION OF SUPPORT 3 INTRODUCTION 5 HUMAN RIGHTS 6 LABOUR STANDARDS 8 ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION 10 ANTI-CORRUPTION 13 Declaration of support In support of the UN Global Compact Principles, METSEC has made it its mission to ensure observance of human rights and has recognised labour standards at all our manufacturing plants and sales outlets. This form of responsibility was already taken on in 2013 with the publication of the METSEC Social Charter, continued in 2014 with the METSEC Code of Ethics and taken further forward in 2015 by joining the UN Global Compact. Sustainability has especially high priority for . It means both a long-term business outlook and integration of ecological and social aspects into our management systems. We regard this as a contribution both to safeguarding our Company‘s future and towards the sustainable growth of business and society. This is why we have been certified in accordance with ISO 18001 since 2007 and why we have certified our principal production facilities in accordance with the ISO 14001 environmental standard. It is also why we launched our Green Technology Initiative in 2015, with which we are advancing towards being the leading manufacturer of cables for environmentally friendly technologies. Prevention of corruption is managed as a key compliance field in our Compliance Management System. Through this, METSEC ensures that its anti-corruption conduct is in accordance with the principles of the UN Global Compact. This METSEC Global Compact Communication on Progress documents our key steps towards upholding the ten principles of the UN Global Compact through to signing it, and details our measures and results since August 2014. METSEC is committed to ongoing support of the ten principles of the UN Global Compact and to continual improvement in applying those principles. Nairobi, July 2015 Hemal Doshi, CEO METSEC CABLES LTD Metsec Cables Ltd UN Global Compact 5 Metsec Cables Ltd Introduction Leading power cable manufacturer in Africa METSEC is a manufacturer of power cables and conductors with manufacturing plants in Kenya and Tanzania. We also distribute optical fibers, cables and cable systems as well as a provider of related services to the power and telecom utilities and other industries. Metsec Cables Ltd is part of the Doshi Group of Companies who have been operating in Africa for over 75years. Established in 1990, the company has now become one of East Africa’s largest and most successful cable manufacturers. In addition to tailor-made cable solutions, the organization can increasingly offer its customers complete solutions with perfectly harmonised components – from the cable itself to all the required components and complimentary products. The ongoing growth of the company as a provider of power and telecom infrastructure work and systems is a significant trend in this respect. Experience in and presence on the markets of the future METSEC focuses its business on the core markets of Power Utilities, Industry, Communication & Domestic Electrical requirements. Our customers include wellknown names such as ABB, Safaricom, Kenya Power, Ericsson, UN, Kenya Ports Authority, Rural Electrification Authority and Umeme. The company already leads the East African market as a supplier of Instrumentation Cables, Optical Fibre and HV Switchgear. Geared to global trends The company intends to benefit more from global trends in the future. These often present companies with major challenges, as they frequently entail greater consumption of resources and cause more damage to the environment. At the same time, however, they also provide some major opportunities. METSEC is therefore preparing itself, its products and services for the expected changes in demography, ecology, mobility, globalization, industrialization and urbanization. With particular respect to protecting the environment, METSEC aims to become the most innovative cable supplier for the Green Technology market. Tradition and progress since the beginning METSEC upholds the ability to change and maintain a keen sense for trends in the market and customer requirements that have always been among the key characteristics of the company. At the same time, long-standing values serve as a guide for acting in a predictable and responsible manner. » 6 Human rights PRINCIPLE 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of international human rights within their sphere of influence; and PRINCIPLE 2: make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses. METSEC supports and respects the protection of internationally recognized human rights within its sphere of influence and ensures that it is not complicit in human rights abuses. METSEC Social Charter and METSEC Code of Ethics Metsec Cables Ltd Social Charter applies directly to all Metsec Operations. Ensuring employee and human rights as well as assuming social responsibility have always been integral elements of our corporate policy. In the METSEC Social Charter, the organization commits to respecting internationally recognised human rights and to support their observance. We also encourage our business partners to respect this declaration in their own corporate policies. We regard this as a beneficial basis for reciprocal business relationships. In 2014, METSEC also introduced its own Code of Ethics. This Code of Ethics is binding for all METSEC employees of the Organization and has been made accessible to every employee. The Code of Ethics describes in unequivocal terms the values and conditions of responsible and integral behaviour that have always guided METSEC. It is essential that METSEC employees act in compliance with the internal regulations and the statutory regulations of the legal system that applies to them. Courses on METSEC Code of Ethics compliance The training courses on the METSEC Code of Ethics have been held in both English and Kiswahili. With these courses, METSEC can ensure that the employees trained on them are aware of the particular importance of protecting international human rights and can act accordingly. Additional clauses in all T&Cs further obligate all of METSEC’s suppliers to observe the protection of human rights. Human rights UN Global Compact 7 Health and safety at work Acting sustainably ensures our company’s future. Specific principles for action are embedded in our health and safety policy to safeguard everyone who works for or with METSEC. These include avoiding injury to or illness of our employees by preventive detection of risks and effectively averting any threats. Acting in a safety-conscious manner is part of every employee’s job. Compliance with all legal obligations on safety at work and other requirements is the basis for our activities and the applicable national standards are minimum requirements in this respect. METSEC undertakes to observe all pertinent laws and directives on safety at work as well as internal rules of conduct. Conflict minerals As a manufacturer, METSEC does not knowingly purchase materials containing conflict minerals. We are committed to further developing and managing the processes that we use to inform our suppliers that we expect them to supply us with “conflict-free” materials. Our aim is to guarantee that we can assure our customers with reasonable certainty that the components we buy for our manufacturing processes originate from responsibly managed sources. METSEC GUIDELINES AND SYSTEMS RESULTS AND KEY FIGURES The obligation to uphold internationally Every METSEC employee is, upon being recognised human rights is laid down in the recruited, handed or given access to the METSEC Code of Ethics and the METSEC METSEC Code of Ethics. Social Charter. The in-house training on the METSEC Code Around 20 employees and managers of Ethics subject area contributes to undergo this training every year sharpening the awareness among management and staff of human rights. Embedded in our guidelines for health and safety at work are principles for action that ensure the health and safety of everyone who works for or with METSEC. 8 Labour standards PRINCIPLE 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining, in addition to upholding PRINCIPLE 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour, PRINCIPLE 5: the effective abolition of child labour and PRINCIPLE 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. METSEC is committed to providing a working environment for its employees that is free of discrimination in both employment and occupation, and in which there is freedom of association. The right to collective bargaining is effectively recognised. METSEC strictly rejects child and all forms of forced labour. These principles are codified in the METSEC Social Charter. Measures Part of the annual Control Self Assessment of managers pertaining to METSEC’s Social Charter involves confirming at all of the branches that all employees are of at least the minimum age under local law and are at least 15 years old. The Control Self Assessment also proves that there is no discrimination when employing new staff or in the employment conditions. Furthermore, breaches of these principles require Human Resource Reporting and can also be reported directly to our Chief Compliance Officer via our internal compliance process. In addition, the Internal Audit department checks this on a random basis as a separate control factor of our Internal Control System (ICS). We received no reports of any breaches of this kind in 2014. Supply chain management In order to apply the principles of the UN Global Compact in everyday work, it is of great importance to METSEC that social responsibility is also taken into account in the context of supply relationships. This applies not only within METSEC, but also to suppliers’ operations and for the Company in general. Since 2014, our Wiring Systems Division has therefore been using a supplier self-audit to check potential suppliers in the selection process in accordance with the principles of the UN Global Compact. The supplier will receive approval to supply only if either the METSEC Social Charter and the Code of Ethics or the principles of the UN Global Compact are accepted. In addition to our Social Charter, which suppliers were already required to accept in the past as part of our General Terms and Conditions, the principles of the UN Global Compact have also been adopted in our T&Cs. Here we draw express attention to the fact that, in the event of any serious or repeated breach of the principles as detailed in the T&Cs, METSEC is entitled to terminate the supply relationship without notice. Diversity As Kenya and Tanzania has many tribes, our workforce includes people from many cultures and ways of life. Virtually all of the world‘s religions, including Christianity, Islam, Hinduism and Jainism, are represented. Labour standards UN Global Compact 9 Social commitment METSEC commits itself with donations for and sponsorship of various social projects, where we give priority to sustainability and a regional approach. In 2014, we made donations to children’s aid organisations, Water projects, schools, to name just a few projects. The charitable donations are routed through the Doshigroup’s charitable trust “The MANAV TRUST” METSEC GUIDELINES AND SYSTEMS RESULTS AND KEY FIGURES Meetings are held at METSEC on the All employees and managers have read General Act on Equal Treatment to ensure a and understood the “METSEC Code of working environment that is free of Ethics / and were taught those principles of discrimination. the METSEC Social Charter that concern labour standards. The right of association as well as equal As at the end of 2014, the proportion of opportunity and equal treatment are assured women in our entire workforce was in METSEC’s Social Charter. 40 percent. Through participating in the Diversity Charter Also as of this date, the management has METSEC ensures diversity and mutual respect. decided to increase the number of management positions held by women. In the selection of suppliers, a Control Self Our donations in 2014 increased by half Assessment ensures that suppliers accept compared to 2013. the principles of the UN Global Compact or alternatively the METSEC Social Charter and the METSEC Code of Ethics. Our principles on observing labour standards are also embedded in our T&Cs. 10 Environmental protection PRINCIPLE 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges, PRINCIPLE 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility, and PRINCIPLE 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. METSEC supports protection of the environment with a precautionary approach and has several ongoing initiatives to promote greater awareness of responsibility for the environment. We therefore encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. METSEC regards environmental protection as a primary corporate objective. Our environmental management is geared to keeping the impact of all our processes on nature as minor as possible. The principles of our environmental policy also play a role in the selection of our suppliers. Initiatives GREEN TECHNOLOGY At METSEC, this concept covers all products, system solutions and services that make the use of energy more efficient and easier on resources, thereby reducing emissions and pollution of the environment. Market segment Examples of applications for METSEC products Environmentally friendly power • Solar energy (e.g. photovoltaic installations and solar thermal energy plants) generation and storage • Geothermal (e.g. Geothermal plants at Olkaria) • Windpower (e.g. wind power farms) Energy efficiency • Measurement and control technology to reduce energy consumption • Energy-efficient automation and drive technology Raw materials and materials efficiency • Measurement and control technology to prevent waste • Lightweight materials and components Recycling management • Waste separation and disposal plants • Recycling (plastics recycling plants) Sustainable water management • Water treatment, distribution, supply and cleaning plants • Household appliances with high water consumption efficiency (eg Instant showers) Sustainable mobility • Charging cables and infrastructure • Rolling stock engineering Core markets Environmental protection UN Global Compact 11 Fields of application for Green Technology In 2014, METSEC further extended its product portfolio for Green Technology.  Solar Water Heaters  Instant Showers  LED Lighting Conserving natural resources METSEC endeavours everywhere to reduce energy consumption and thereby CO 2 emissions. Both Divisions run environmental management systems and multifaceted environmental protection activities, which are adapted to the respective requirements of their activities. Given the intensive use of electricity in our Wire & Cable Solutions Division, in 2014 we committed to implementing at least one project to increase energy efficiency. As a result, we saw considerable savings being made in terms of energy and cost in their production processes in 2015. A new guide to considering energy efficiency when acquiring production equipment and technical infrastructure is applicable across the Division and will also help reduce our energy consumption in the future. Furthermore an energy management system complying with ISO 50001 is currently being considered for adoption. 12 Energy consumption Energy consumption within the Group could be reduced by 20 percent by 2017. Energy Consumption 2014 2013 2012 0 200000 400000 600000 800000 1000000 1200000 1400000 1600000 Recycling METSEC participates in the recycling initiatives .Due to our use of PVC, which is 80 percent recyclable material, as one of the main element in our products, METSEC has an ideal starting position in terms of recycling. METSEC GUIDELINES AND SYSTEMS RESULTS AND KEY FIGURES In our environment management system we Group-wide, our sales of products that are are certifying our plants to the ISO 14001 made in environmentally certified facilities standard. Additionally, since 2013 we have or using energy efficient plant and had jn place a set of internal environmental machinery amounted to USD 22 million in guidelines. 2013-2014. As of 2013, only Kenyan facilities possess the ISO 14001 certificate. We are considering implementing the same in Tanzania Anti-corruption UN Global Compact 13 Anti-corruption PRINCIPLE 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. METSEC’s rules of conduct, which are laid down in the METSEC Code of Ethics, clearly reflect our anticorruption mindset. There are clear rules concerning both the giving and receiving of gifts as well as control systems that proactively monitor observance of these rules. Furthermore, we have pursued all reported suspect cases and have not found any instances of corruption. METSEC Code of Ethics – Prevention of corruption The METSEC Code of Ethics stipulates that no employee anywhere in the world may offer or demand any benefit relating to preferential treatment involving a business partner. For the past several years there have been training courses on this topic for all managers on METSEC’s first three management tiers. In 2014 this course will additionally be expanded to all pertinent staff worldwide and offered in more languages. Approximately 400 METSEC employees have been trained so far. This course has further sharpened our managers’ awareness concerning the prevention of corruption. Compliance audits by means of Control Self Assessments and a statement of undertaking to be submitted by each manager provide the prevention of corruption with a further safeguard. Compliance management system METSEC has developed its own compliance system that comprises the important compliance fields. These also include the compliance field “anti-corruption”, which is overseen by a compliance field manager. AVOIDANCE The avoidance process is based on the risk policy stipulated by the Management Board and the statement of our Management Board on compliance with the following key points: 1. Corruptive and anti-competitive behaviour is no way for us to carry out our business. 2. Offences against our compliance guidelines and any legislation are not tolerated within METSEC. 3. Every employee and every manager is responsible for preventing any violation occurring within METSEC. 14 The central Compliance Management System is designed to prevent non-compliance, so that we can be sure to fulfill the statutory regulations and our internal guidelines. Anti-corruption is one of the key compliance fields. The compliance field managers are tasked with updating the relevant internal guidelines and informing employees of them through training sessions. As experts in their compliance fields, they are also the point of contact for all matters arising in relation those fields. REPORTING Those responsible for risk management are also responsible for managing compliance. In analogy with risk reporting, compliance reports are also to be submitted on a quarterly basis. One Compliance Field Manager is responsible for each compliance field listed. Automated compliance checks, performed by means of self checks and a statement of undertaking to be submitted by each manager on an annual basis, provide compliance with a further safeguard. The content of our self checks is agreed on with the Compliance Manager. The status of the compliance checks is presented to the Corporate Compliance Committees, which then decide on ways of improving the process. PROCESS IMPROVEMENT The compliance field managers meet quarterly in a Corporate Compliance Committee and ensure that our compliance management system is continuously improved. In 2013, the compliance fields of “Anti-corruption” and “Code of Ethics/Social Charter” were split to enable an even stronger focus on the prevention of corruption. Further improvement was achieved by implementing the “INVESTIGATION” process within Compliance Management and the Internal Audit department. METSEC GUIDELINES AND SYSTEMS RESULTS AND KEY FIGURES The METSEC Code of Ethics sets out a Our anti-corruption guidelines are currently clear and binding set of rules for preventing contained in the METSEC Code of Ethics, corruption. have been made available to all managers and employees worldwide. . In addition to various instruments for Approximately 400 employees and all monitoring compliance, the Compliance managers have already completed this Management System contains a learning module. module on “Anti-corruption”. Through function separation METSEC ensures that situations at risk of involving corruption are avoided. Anti-corruption UN Global Compact 13 METSEC Doshi Group Complex CABLES Mombasa Road, Nairobi, Kenya LTD Phone +254-703-030000 Fax +254-703-030555 Email info@doshigroup.com www.metsec.co.ke
