Sustainability Report 2014 SBAB Bank AB (publ) CONTENTS SBAB Sustainability Report 2014 Read Contents more a sbab.s t e SBAB Sustainability Report 2014 SBAB in brief 1 Interview with the CEO 2 SBAB in brief Business environment  3 The business was founded in 1985 and it is wholly owned Stakeholders4 by the Swedish state. SBAB became a bank in 2011. SBAB’s core business is residential mortgages to private Strategy and objectives 6 individuals and housing financing to companies and Sound finances 7 tenant-owner associations. SBAB’s residential mortgages Responsibility and transparency 9 are also mediated by collaborative partners in the form of banks and estate agents. In addition to housing financing, – As a creditor 9 SBAB offers consumer loans and deposits in the form of – As an employer 11 savings accounts with competitive interest-rates. Sustainable housing 14 Governance and reporting 17 Vision: To offer Sweden’s best residential mortgages. Mission: To contribute to better housing and improved GRI Index 18 housing finances. Auditor’s review report 20 As of 31 December 2014, SBAB employed approximately 400 people, distributed between offices in Karlstad, Stockholm, Gothenburg and Malmö. At year-end, SBAB had a lending volume of SEK 261 billion and deposits via savings accounts of SEK 61 billion. Operating profit for 2014 amounted to SEK 1,644 million (1,085). AB Sveriges Säkerställda Obligationer (publ) (Swedish Covered Bond Corporation – SCBC) Annual report 2014 SBAB Bank AB (publ) Capital Annual Report 2014 adequacy and risk management While every care has been taken in the translation of this report, readers are reminded that the original report is in SBAB Bank AB (publ) 2014 Basel Regulations, Pillar 3 Swedish. Read our other reports! 1 SBAB Sustainability Report 2014 INTRODUCTION Interview with the CEO Hi Klas! What does sustainable business mean to SBAB? What challenges do you face in 2015? For us, sustainable business is about sound finances, There are a number of important challenges. Man responsibility and transparency as well as sustainkeeps consuming the earth’s resources at a pace able housing. Sustainable housing means betterthat is not sustainable. Properties, business premhousing and better housing finances, which our ises and homes account for a major share of global customer offering helps to create. It may involve energy consumption and, accordingly, for a major energy efficiencies or a better social housing part of the world’s carbon footprint. It will therefore environment. be a challenge for us to integrate sustainability into It also involves trust. Trust is something you earn products and services that contribute to a reduced by meeting your customers demands and wishes environmental impact from Swedish properties. every day. By being there and supporting our In 2015, we will continue the work on simplifying customers with knowledge and skills throughout the and clarifying our products, terms and conditions residential mortgage process, we build long-term and will strive for openness and transparency in relationships, which is another condition for sustainour sector. We generally prioritise areas where we able business. According to SKI (Svenskt Kvalitetshave the greatest possibility to influence positive index), we had Sweden’s most satisfied residential developments in society. I am convinced that we mortgage customers in 2014, which pleases us can cooperate with our customers and other stakeimmensely and proves that we do many things the holders to create long-term values that benefit the right way. In the same survey, many of our customcompany, our customers and society. ers express that they think we act in a responsible manner, which is highly important to us. What did SBAB achieve in 2014? This autumn, we carried out some organisational changes. Among other things, we created a new Sustainable Business function. Sustainable business is important, so it should be reflected in our organisation. We have also integrated sustainability fully in our governance model and business plan. These are two important steps in the creation of the right conditions and a stable platform for efficient and long-term sustainability work. We have also initiated work on integrating sustainability in products and central processes. Klas Danielsson, CEO of SBAB For us, sustainable business is about sound finances, responsibility and transparency as well as sustainable housing. Sustainable housing means better housing and better housing finances, which our customer offering helps to create. 2 INTRODUCTION SBAB Sustainability Report 2014 Business environment environmental impact. By integrating sustainability A changing world aspects into our core business, we are willing and able The world around us is in constant change. Meeting to make a contribution. We also believe that this may the challenges and taking the opportunities that are create new business opportunities. We have set objecinherent in change is a prerequisite for long-term profittives for 2015 and the future, according to which we ability. Important factors related to external conditions shall develop products that contribute to a better social that affect our business include developments related housing environment and reduced energy consumption to unemployment, economic stability and growth in in Swedish homes. Sweden and Europe. Increased indebtedness Materiality analysis Within the banking sector, we have also noted changes In 2013, we conducted a materiality analysis through and trends that are strongly linked to sustainability. One qualitative telephone interviews with representatives such trend is the increased indebtedness of Swedof important stakeholder groups such as customers, the ish households. This has led to increased regulatory owner, employees, investors and industry and trade asrequirements, including stricter rules on the capital sociations. We asked them which issues they considered adequacy with regard to residential mortgages and most important for us to focus on. The summary below upcoming amortisation requirements. The requirements shows the result of the analysis. on banks’ acceptance of responsibility and transparency with regard to products, terms and conditions have Key factors Ranking also been sharpened. For us, it is therefore important Financial performance 1 to not only adapt our operations to new regulations Sustainable products 2 and guidelines that we must comply with, but also to Ethics 2 develop our operations and products so that our cusCustomer relationships 3 tomers can feel safe when they take important financial Communications 4 Employees 5 decisions. We want our customers to fully understand Social responsibility 6 our products and services and how these affect their Business relationships 7 household finances. As part of an active stakeholder Environmental responsibility 8 dialogue, we therefore continue our work on the simplification and clarification of product terms and conditions and enhance our efforts to contribute to increased The result of the analysis was later used in an internal knowledge among our customers. project that involved the Board, Executive Management and employees. At the end of 2013, based on this maClimate terial, the Board adopted three particularly important Another issue that is of more current interest than ever focus areas within sustainable business: before is our climate. Climate change has been identified as a “mega trend”, i.e. the change affects our plan• Sound finances et and all of us who live on it. It is becoming increasingly • Responsibility and transparency obvious that man spends the earth’s resources at a • Sustainable housing pace that is not sustainable, and it is therefore necessary that we all help to address this problem. Properties, A number of company-wide objectives were also adopthome and business premises all account for a major ed within these areas. In 2014, these objectives have share of the global energy consumption. The same been further calibrated, and a number of operational thing applies in Sweden, and our consumption mainly objectives and actions have been designed to help us consists of heating, cooling and lighting. To influence achieve them. These objectives are included in the the development in a positive direction, both consumers company’s overarching business plan and the business and companies must take initiatives that lead to less plan for various parts of the operations. 3 SBAB Sustainability Report 2014 INTRODUCTION Stakeholders Our business builds on our stakeholders having trust in direction so that long-term values are created. SBAB and the values we represent. An open dialogue SBAB’s priority stakeholders are customers, the where we are attentive to our stakeholders’ needs and owner, employees and investors. wishes will help us develop our business in the right Customers Investors Collaborative Trade partners associations Suppliers Media Employees Owner CUSTOMERS The dialogue with our customers is at the heart of Customer satisfaction – results of confidence surveys SBAB’s operations, and all customer feedback constiKey figures 2014 2013 2012 tutes valuable information. Our main communication SKI Retail market 76.7 69.5 74 channels are the Internet and the telephone. The Reputation Index1) 62.2 60.9 61.5 Customer Centre in Karlstad responds to enquiries 1) Index figure in Reputation Index (Anseendebarometern) from Nordic Brand regarding our products and services, and it also Academy (NBA). receives viewpoints and suggestions for improvement. Regardless of the communication channel, we always Social media are becoming an increasingly important strive to exceed our customers expectations by providchannel in the communication with the company’s ing professional, fast and friendly service. To obtain a customers. We maintain an active dialogue with our clear picture of our customers’ views of the company, customers on Facebook, Twitter, our own blogs and we regularly conduct various kinds of customer sursbab.kundo.se. The dialogue with our customers also veys. These include customer panels, focus groups and takes the form of personal meetings, customer events, measurements using the customer loyalty measure Net information from SBAB’s Economic Research unit in Promoter Score (NPS). We also measure customer the form of analyses and reports, satisfaction through Svenskt Kvalitetsindex (Swedish Annual General Meetings, Quality Index, SKI) and in 2014, we had Sweden’s cr@sbab and sbab.se. most satisfied residential mortgage customers according to SKI. It is important that our customers have confidence in us, and this is measured in the Reputation Index (Anseendebarometern). In 2014, our index number was 62.2 which is an improvement compared to the previous year. 4 INTRODUCTION SBAB Sustainability Report 2014 EMPLOYEES INVESTORS Motivated and committed employees is a prerequiThe relationship between investors and SBAB is site for our success and one of the most important based on confidence in our employees, the comdrivers to meet set objectives. SBAB is a relatively pany’s business model and sustainable financial small organisation with short decision-making performance. Our sustainable business strategy paths, whereby information on the company’s has become increasingly relevant, as an increasing vision, targets and results is readily available to all number of investors include sustainable business in employees. Regular monthly and departmental their analyses and investment decisions. We regumeetings are held to disseminate information lary meet with Swedish and international investors and pursue a dialogue with employees regarding in person. The purpose is to keep investors well earnings trends, objectives and other relevant and informed about SBAB’s financial performance, the current matters concerning the company. SBAB company’s bonds and strategies and to describe pays attention to employees’ opinions and viewour view on economic trends in Sweden. For SBAB, points through annual employee surveys and career the dialogue with investors provides a greater development discussions. The CEO posts regular understanding of what blogs on the intranet on current issues, and his blog issues are important has an open comment function. Employees may to investors. In 2014, also use the “Ask the CEO” function on SBAB received an “oeour intranet. This allows employees kom Prime” rating for to pose questions anonymously sustainable business. if desired, and all questions are answered by the CEO in person. OWNER SBAB is wholly owned by the Swedish government. of the Board and the CEO of SBAB meet with the The owner’s governance of SBAB is exercised through Ministry of Enterprise and Innovation on a quarterly the Annual General Meeting, the Board of Direcbasis to account for SBAB’s development, including tors appointed by that Meeting in accordance with developments in sustainable business. the Companies Act, the Articles of Association and Additionally, the ministry in charge regularly organinternal guidelines. SBAB applies the Swedish Govises networking meetings with sustainability managers ernment’s ownership policy, in which the Government and other relevant employees of government-owned states the assignment and objectives, applicable companies to discuss sustainability issues in particuframeworks and stance on key matters of principle relar. It is our ambition to always be present at such garding corporate governance in government-owned meetings, which are also valuable opportunities for dicompanies. The ownership policy also requires that alogue and exchanging SBAB adhere to the Swedish Code of Corporate information on how other Governance. Since November 2014, the Ministry of government-owned comEnterprise and Innovation is the ministry in charge panies work with sustain(instead of the Ministry of Finance). The Chairman able business issues. 5 SBAB Sustainability Report 2014 INTRODUCTION Strategy and objectives Sustainable business at SBAB Focus areas Responsibility and Sound finances Sustainable housing transparency Strategic Long-term profitability allows We are open and transparent We finance sustainable objectives us to contribute to sustainable and accept responsibility, both housing, which results in less development in society. as a creditor and an employer. environmental impact and a better home environment. Overarching h A profitable business enAs a creditor h Increased marketshare with objectives sures return on equity. h We are open and transparent in regards to financing new our sales and marketing activities housing. SBAB is well-capitalised h and can afford to invest and our product terms and h Develop products that in reaching SBAB’s vision conditions, and our customers contribute to a better housing to “offer Sweden’s best recommend us as a funding environment, better housing residential mortgages.” partner. finances and reduced We accept responsibility for our environmental impact. h granting of credit, and assist our customers throughout the residential mortgage process. As an employer h SBAB is an attractive workplace that holds equality and diversity in high regard. h Our employees are considerate, skilled and proud to work at SBAB. Operational objectives Operational objectives Operational objectives Implemented in 2014 Focus for 2015 • Sustainable business, fully integrated into the • A new Code of Conduct. Company’s business plan and governance • Strategic product development focused on a model. better home environment and reduced energy • A new Sustainable Business function has been consumption. created, and the person in charge reports • Upgrading the supplier management system directly to the CEO. and updating supply agreements. • A new “Whistleblower” function. • Continued work on the integration of Sustain• A new system for improved reporting of enviable business in central processes. ronmental data. • “Most satisfied mortgage customers” in 2014 according to SKI (Swedish Quality Index) 6 SOUND FINANCES SBAB Sustainability Report 2014 Sound finances As a bank, we are a part of society’s basic In the autumn of 2014, a new strategic direction was infrastructure. Well-functioning banks contribadopted that involves focusing fully on the core business ute to development and employment in socie– residential mortgages. The investment in an extension ty. We create conditions that allow our retail customers of the product offering was therefore discontinued and to build financial security by saving and borrowing related depreciation is the primary reason for increased money in the different stages of life, and we enable costs in 2014 compared to the previous year. For further companies to operate and grow. It also means that we information regarding our performance, please see need to take responsibility for how value is created in SBAB’s Annual Report 2014. the company and that it is done in a manner that creates public confidence in us and our operations. Sound finances and long-term profitability are essential for our Profit/loss and balance sheet items, SBAB Group operations and investments in them to be sustainable 2014 2013 and beneficial to society’s development. We measure Jan–Dec Jan–Dec profitability through set targets for return on equity and INCOME STATEMENT ITEMS the company’s Common Equity Tier 1 capital ratio. Net interest income, SEK million 2,111 1,963 Other operating income , SEK million 1) 510 -70 Expenses, SEK million 1,008 -815 Financial targets Loan losses, SEK million 30 7 Operating profit, excluding net income/ 1,024 1,046 Company-wide financial targets expense from financial instruments, SEK million 2015 2014 Outcome 2014 Operating profit, SEK million 1,644 1,085 Return ≥10% ≥10% 12.1% Net profit for the year, SEK million 1,256 873 Common Equity Tier 1 capital BALANCE SHEET ITEMS ratio 22% 22%1) 29.8% SEK 502 million Lending, SEK billion 261.4 258.7 Dividends ≥40% ≥40% (40%) Doubtful loan receivables after individual 12 15 provisions, SEK million 1) Determined by the Board in December 2014, compared to the previous target of 18–20%. Deposits, SEK billion 60.6 45.9 Funding, SEK billion 243.2 243.9 1) Includes net profit/loss from financial instruments and net commission. Outcome The creation of long-term and sustainable profitability is One way of measuring how we generate economic vala prerequisite for developing the business, thus creating ue for stakeholders is by presenting information on the long-term values. financial value generated and how this is distributed. The operations performed well in 2014 and SBAB’s operating profit increased to SEK 1,644 million Direct economic value generated in accordance with GRI (1,085). Common Equity Tier 1 capital ratio amounted (indicator EC1). Income in 2014: SEK 2,653 million to 29.8%, exceeding the target of 22%, and the return on equity was 12.1%. SBAB’s owner has adopted a profitability target whereby the return on equity should be at least 10%. This target was met, and for the first Salaries and remunerations to employees, SEK 426 million time since 2004, the Board of Director will propose Operating expenses, SEK 452 million a dividend of SEK 502 million to the Annual General Payments to the public Meeting. This corresponds to 40% of the company’s sector, SEK 388 million Retained economic profit for the year after tax. value, SEK 1,387 million Loan losses remained very low at a positive SEK 30 million (positive: 7). 7 SBAB Sustainability Report 2014 SOUND FINANCES Sound finances and long-term profitability are prerequisite to our being able to conduct our business in a sustainable manner and make sustainable investments in our operations. Remuneration The portfolio includes investments in “Climate AwareWe believe in a simple and clear remuneration ness Bonds” issued by the European Investment Bank structure. We have therefore not paid any variable (EIB). These bonds finance projects linked to energy remuneration to our employees since 2012 and do not efficiency enhancement such as district heating and have any forms of incentive programmes. This applies additional insulation and the development of renewable to all employees, including members of the Executive energy such as wind power, hydroelectric power and Management and other key employees in the company. solar energy. Financing these projects contributes to We are of the view that this creates clear conditions making Europe’s energy supplies more sustainable, safe that help our employees make objective and intelligent and competitive, which in turn contributes to the EU business decisions with complete focus on our customattaining its climate objective for 2020. ers’ best interests. We are also under the impression By purchasing green bonds, we can indirectly invest in that our customers appreciate this, and what is good for projects that lead to reduced energy consumption and our customers is good for the company. environmental impact. It is our ambition to increase our holdings of green bonds within the scope of the current investment policy. Liquidity portfolio SBAB does not offer asset management services. The company’s investments are limited to the securities comprising the company’s liquidity reserve. This reserve SBAB’s holdings of green bonds is intended to guarantee funding at times when SBAB’s Invested capital (SEK regular sources of funding might not function in a satismillion) factory manner. The portfolio comprises liquid securities 2014 2013 with high ratings and 97% of the value of the portfolio Climate Awareness Bond (CAB) 215 215 can be used as collateral for repos with the Riksbank or another central bank. 8 RESPONSIBILITY AND TRANSPARENCY SBAB Sustainability Report 2014 Responsibility and transparency Responsibility as a creditor mortgage in November and December 2014 with a We strive to offer financial products that are five-year fixed interest period at a discounted price. sustainable for individuals as well as for companies, tenant-owner associations and society in general. A preThe lending process requisite for this is a sound credit granting. This involves Our granting of loans is based on a thorough credit being clear and open regarding terms and conditions evaluation that elucidates whether customers have for products and ensuring that sales and marketing are the financial capacity necessary to meet their commitconducted in a responsible manner. It is important that ments. Foremost, the customer’s repayment capacity is our customers fully understand the terms and conditions assessed. Loans are not granted if repayment capacity when they purchase a product or service from us and cannot be ensured. Secondly, any collateral for the loan that they feel secure when they make important finanis assessed. The credit evaluation for private individuals cial decisions. We strive to be easily understood and to includes a calculation of housing costs. be clear and transparent throughout the credit process. Our customer should feel secure having SBAB as their creditor and in their financial commitments. Calculation of housing costs It is also important that we, as a bank, contribute to + Borrower’s income1) the prevention of financial crime and maintain high – Housing expenses2) standards with regard to banking security and confi– Living expenses3) dentiality to protect our customers and minimise the risk = Surplus (or deficit) that the company is used in connection with financial crime. 1) Stated income is checked using, among others, credit information service UC. 2) Amortisation, running costs, monthly fees and stressed interest rates. 3) In accordance with the Swedish Consumer Agency’s guidelines – taking the number of minors and adults in the household into account. Overall sustainability targets1) 2015 2014 Outcome 2014 If this calculation indicates a sufficient surplus, the loan Customers who find that SBAB can be granted on the condition that there are no other states their terms and conditions circumstances indicating that we should not approve in an open and simple manner 85% 80% 88% the loan. If the calculation indicates a deficit, the loan is Customers who would recommend SBAB2) 80% n/a n/a not approved. For residential mortgages from SBAB, collateral is 1) SBAB uses NBA, Nordic Brand Academy as supplier of the underlying information. 2) This objective is new for 2015 so the objective and outcome for 2014 are missing. posted in the form of a mortgage on a property or a participation in a tenant-owner association. The loan may be equivalent to at most 85% of the value of the Transparent pricing of residential mortgages home. This limit, the mortgage ceiling, was introduced Transparent and straightforward pricing of residential in 2010. In total, 7% (11) of SBAB’s portfolio consists mortgages forms part of an open and trustful customer of loans with a loan to value ratio of more than 85% relation. Our pricing of residential mortgages is based – a percentage that is decreasing over time. We work on the current listed rates for each maturity published continuously to update our lending process to always on www.sbab.se. The customer’s specific interest rate is maintain a high level of quality in our granting of loans. presented as a deviation from the rate. The size of the deviation is based on the size of the customer’s residenAmortisation tial mortgage with us and the loan to value ratio of the We take the view that repayment contributes to commitment. The loan-to-value ratio can be described sound household economy. More than two thirds of as the proportion of loan in relation to the market value our residential mortgage customers amortise at least of the home. As a supplement to basic pricing, we one of their loans and an amortisation requirement is occasionally apply temporary offers on clearly stated imposed on all new residential mortgages with a loan to terms. An example of this was the offer to take out a value ratio of more than 75%, as well as for unsecured 9 SBAB Sustainability Report 2014 RESPONSIBILITY AND TRANSPARENCY continuity management1) and process development. Loan portfolio (% as per 31 December 2014) SBAB’s risk reporting has further been developed to also include key security indicators (KSI). This improves 7% and increases the Board of Directors’ ability to monitor 29% and govern SBAB’s level of security. We actively monitor 22% international, national and regulatory developments 0-50% 50-75% in security and welcome the new security regulations 75-85% introduced by the Swedish Financial Supervisory Au>85% thority in 2014. Identity theft and fraud are current societal problems 42% that affect our responsibility as a creditor and a bank. We inform new customers about what they should watch out for and which measures they should take to loans. Over the year, individual amortisation plans were protect themselves and their computers. In conjunction introduced for new customers, as recommended by the with SBAB’s well-defined operations, on-going transSwedish Bankers’ Association. action monitoring and controls, this minimises the risk In the autumn, the Swedish Financial Supervisory of SBAB’s customers being exposed to security threats. Authority stated that new guidelines on amortisation Swedish consumer protection laws further limits customare being developed. As soon as these enter into force, ers’ responsibility against unauthorised transactions. we will adapt our operations according to the new regulations. Counteracting financial crime Our operations shall be conducted in such a manner Credit management that the risk of the bank being used for money laundeWe have a responsibility to help customers who enring or financing of terrorism is minimised. An overarcounter temporary payment problems. The ambition ching risk assessment is made at least once annually is to establish a dialogue with the customer early on, to identify risks and undertake measures to prevent whereby we try to help the customer find a way out of the company from being used for money laundering. the financial situation that has arisen. This gives the As new products and services are developed, these customer an opportunity discuss with us the often-diffiare also encompassed by risk assessments of this kind. cult decisions that must be taken. Good knowledge of the customers combined with In 2015, we will initiate a project in which we will delimited operations, careful procedures, monitoring review ways of identifying and assisting customers in of transactions and on-going checks, minimises the risk financial difficulties at an early stage. We work continof the company being used for money laundering or uously on enhancing the credit process and minimising financing of terrorism. Our employees are required to loan losses. Loan losses remained very low in 2014. For report divergent transactions and events. further information regarding credit losses, please see SBAB’s Annual Report. Counteracting corruption As a company, it is crucial to maintain a clear stance Security against corruption. There are multiple reasons for this. Security represents an important area of our responsiCorruption undermines democracy, impedes economic bility as a bank, and we always focus on protecting our growth, distorts competition and also leads to serious customers. Our preventative work within banking seculegal and reputational risks. We follow the code deverity and banking confidentiality are of major importance loped by the Swedish Anti-corruption Institute and, in for our customer’s confidence in us. Our security work addition, apply an internal set of instructions regarding involves both prevention and control. We take measures gifts, rewards and other benefits. In the first quarter to detect and counteract threats in advance, whether of 2015, a new code of conduct was adopted by the they are aimed at SBAB or our customers. We continBoard of Directors. uously verify the efficacy of our protective measures. Security is always an important element in the manageNew whistle-blower process ment and development of products and services. In 2014, a “whistle-blower” process was implemenIn 2014, our security strategy has been adapted to ted, in accordance with which employees can report meet the changed risks and security needs following any internal irregularities. Instructions regarding the SBAB’s new development. The focus is on dealing whistle-blower process are available to all employees with fraud, IT security, information security, risk and via our intranet. 1) Continuity management describes how we intend to continue operating in case of an interruption or major operational disturbance. 10 RESPONSIBILITY AND TRANSPARENCY SBAB Sustainability Report 2014 Responsibility as an employer Age distribution per 31 December 2014 SBAB’s employees are the company’s most Percentage distribution (%) important asset. To achieve our vision and set objecWomen Men Total tives, it is important that we have committed employ20–29 years 8.0 6.2 14.2 ees and leaders who are motivational and set a good 30–39 years 12.4 13.0 25.4 example. 40–49 years 19.2 13.0 32.2 50–59 years 13.3 8.7 22.0 60–69 years 2.5 3.7 6.2 Overall sustainability targets Total 55.4 44.6 100.0 2015 2014 Outcome 2014 Proportion of employees who would recommend SBAB as an Length of employment per 31 December 2014 employer1) 80% 82% 73% Percentage Equality between women/men distribution (%) in a managerial position 45–552) 50/50% 41/59% Women Men Total 1) Information from NBA, Nordic Brand Academy. <3 years 14.4 17.6 32.0 2) Within a 45–55% range. 4–6 years 9.8 5.9 15.8 7-9 years 3.4 6.2 9.6 10-12 years 3.0 2.5 5.5 Equality and diversity 13–15 years 3.7 1.1 4.8 At SBAB, equality and diversity are priorities areas. >16 years 21.1 11.2 32.3 They are important to create wide-ranging expertise Total 55.4 44.6 100.0 and experience within the company. At SBAB, all employees are to have equal rights, responsibilities and opportunities regarding every aspect of the workplace, Leadership and skills development regardless of gender, transgender identity or expresSBAB’s managers bear a considerable responsibility sion, ethnicity, religion or other beliefs, sexual orienin establishing a consensus on vision, objectives and tation, disability or age. Equality and diversity aspects strategies. They should also be able to motivate and should always be taken into consideration in the daily engage their employees. Managers also have great work and in the recruitment of new employees. This is responsibility in contributing to the development of the also an important element of the UN Global Compact’s employees by holding career development discussions. principles on human rights, which we adhere to. The dialogue between the employee and the manager In 2014, SBAB’s company-wide objective for sustainshould result in individual business and career develable business was that at least 50% of all managers opment plans, in which employees’ goals are linked should be women. At year-end, 41% (41) of managers to those of the bank in general. It should be clear how were women. We did not meet our objectives and will the individual employee’s efforts contribute to the consequently increase our efforts to achieve a better company’s vision and objectives. Skills enhancement balance between female and male managers. Read programs are carried out continuously within SBAB. In more in our policy on equality and diversity on sbab.se. 2014, new employees attended introductory training To allow us to follow up properly on our work within sessions, and training in accordance with individual this area, we will start using an external tool to develop development plans has been provided. Employees have an equality index in 2015. It will help us see if we are also received training on new directives to combat heading in the right direction with regard to our equalmoney laundering and by year-end about 90 percent of ity work and determine within which areas we need to all employees had completed this training. work harder to meet our objectives. In the fourth quarter, a company-wide values project With regard to ethnic and cultural diversity, we are was initiated, and in 2015, management and employee currently able to serve our customers in eight lantraining programmes on inclusive management and guages. We aim to expand our service to ten different self-propelled employees will be carried out. languages. 11 SBAB Sustainability Report 2014 RESPONSIBILITY AND TRANSPARENCY SBAB shall be a workplace characterised by equality and diversity, where employees are satisfied and have the opportunity to develop professionally. Employee Survey Salary review Since 2001, we have conducted an annual employee Regular salary reviews are conducted within SBAB survey that show us how our employees perceive their to prevent any systematic or unreasonable salary work situation. Questions include job satisfaction, differences. In the event that such a difference would motivation, commitment, leadership and personal debe detected, an action plan would be developed and velopment. In recent years, the proportion of satisfied followed up in the next salary review. employees has diminished. This tendency was intensified in 2014, which can most likely be explained by Workplace discrimination changes in management and strategies. As a result of If workplace discrimination is reported, the company the change in strategies, cost savings were implementhas procedures in place for investigating and taking reed, leading to 23 employees leaving the company in medial action. Any discrimination should be reported to the last quarter of 2014. the immediate manager, who is to contact the Human Satisfied employees will be an important focus area Resources department. Alternatively, the employee in 2015 and in the future. We have therefore set a new may contact Human Resources directly. If the employee overarching objective for sustainable business where belongs to a union, a representative from that organiwe measure the proportion of employees who would sation is brought into the investigation. No known cases recommend SBAB as an employer. of discrimination occurred at SBAB in 2014. Results from external employee satisfaction survey (ESS)1) 2014 2013 2012 Questions/areas ESS Sector2) ESS Sector2) ESS Sector2) Overall employee satisfaction 63 74 70 73 70 70 Professional and personal development 57 68 65 66 68 64 Immediately superior manager Clear feedback on work performance 71 n/a 72 n/a 72 n/a Professional competence 81 79 81 77 83 73 Leadership qualities 72 71 74 67 77 63 Manager works persistently towards set goals 77 n/a 79 n/a 82 n/a 1) ESS = Employee Satisfaction Survey conducted among SBAB’s employees. 2) Average sector index. Key employee figures Key figures 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 Satisfied employees 63 70 70 73 771) Female executives at year-end, % 41 41 44 39 33 Positions at year-end, FTE2) 397 436 380 363 347 – of which were held by women, FTE2) 214 240 210 211 198 Average age, years 43 42 42 42 42 Personnel turnover, % 18 7 9 14 4 Short-term sickness absence, % 1.9 2 1.9 1.9 1.6 Long-term sickness absence, % 0.9 0.7 0.2 0.6 0.9 Total sickness absence, % 2.8 2.7 2.1 2.5 2.5 Use of health-promotion contribution by all employees, % 75 76 78 69 65 Proportion of male employees, receiving parental leave allowance, % 28 28 41 33 16 1) Prior to 2011, the employee satisfaction survey (Tempen) was conducted internally. The results have been recalculated for comparison with an employee satisfaction survey carried out with external assistance. 2) Number of employees expressed as a full-time equivalent, adjusted for sick leave and leave of absence. 12 RESPONSIBILITY AND TRANSPARENCY SBAB Sustainability Report 2014 Young adults Stress-related ill health Many young adults currently find it difficult to become By being aware of our own attitudes and of what causes established in the labour market. For us, young adults stress, we can prevent and avoid stress-related ill represent an important asset and we are trying in varihealth. Our employee survey measures stress. The reous ways to engage students and trainees in our operasult is discussed in each working group and followed up tions. Since 2012, our Customer Service unit in Karlstad regularly over the year. The group conversations focus has worked with students from Karlstad University via on identifying good habits/behaviour that contribute a resource pool. The students have been required to to reduced stress. Managers are trained to notice early undergo a comprehensive introduction programme warning signs of stress-related ill health. SBAB has equivalent to six weeks of full-time employment. internal instructions and directions in the area of work In 2014, SBAB had on average 55 (65) students per environment, fitness and health that are available to all month in the resource pool, equivalent to about 22 (24) employees on our intranet. full-time positions. Of these, 5 (13) students were given permanent employment in 2014. Fitness and health We want to create a work environment that contributes to the well-being of our employees. SBAB’s employees have access to health promotion contributions, healthcare hours, free gym access, subsidised health insurance, medical attention and medicine at no cost. We also have health ambassadors who encourage activities. Flexible working hours, reinforced parental pay and active prevention of long-term sick leave in cooperation with the occupational health services and the Swedish Social Insurance Agency are other examples of our efforts. In 2014, sickness absence amounted to 2.8% (2.7) and 1 (3) case of occupational injury was reported to the Swedish Social Insurance Agency. Read more about sickness absence in SBAB’s Annual Report, Note 8. 13 SBAB Sustainability Report 2014 SUSTAINABLE HOUSING Sustainable housing The level of engagement and knowledge is housing companies, politicians, etc. – can cooperate to high within SBAB, and we want to use our create a better social housing environment, where the operations to contribute to better housing and residents are satisfied and feel safe. better housing finances – in short, sustainable housing. Sweden faces numerous social challenges that are Better housing finances economically, socially or environmentally linked to housProperties account for a large share of the world’s and ing. Based on business intelligence, stakeholder and Sweden’s carbon footprint. By developing products that materiality analyses, we have adopted clear objectives give our customers the incentive to invest and implefor our continued work within this focus area. ment energy efficiency improvements in their homes, we can contribute to reducing this impact. Investments in energy efficiency also give our customers better Overall sustainability targets housing finances in the long term. By working with our 2015 2014 Outcome 2014 customers and integrating sustainability in our products Financing of new housing1) 6% 5.5% 6% and services, we can contribute to global and national Development of products that environmental objectives being met. In 2015, our aim contribute to a better home enviis to develop at least two sustainable products that ronment, better housing finances and reduced environmental provide an incentive to reduced energy consumption in impact2) 2 n/a n/a Swedish housing. 1) Refers to SBAB’s market share in %. 2) This objective is new for 2015 so the objective and outcome for 2014 are missing. Knowledge of finance We have extensive experience and knowledge in Financing of new housing funding of housing. Issues affecting homes and housing Not enough new housing is built in Sweden. Especially are deeply rooted in the company. To make objective in urban areas, demand vastly exceeds the supply of and sound decisions, our customers need to underhousing, which is an important reason to rising house stand various kinds of financial issues. In addition to prices. A low level of residential construction combined direct contacts with our customers via the Internet or with low interest-rates has caused rising levels of housetelephone, we attend trade shows, arrange seminars hold debt and prevented young people from entering and regularly publish relevant analysis and reports that the property market, and those who are not already contribute to disseminating and increasing the underon the housing ladder find it increasingly difficult to standing of finance. purchase their own homes. We want to contribute to the construction of more housing in Sweden, and our Economic Research unit objective for 2015 is to reach a market share of 6% with SBAB’s chief economist and private sector economist regard to the financing of new housing production. are financial experts who conduct independent analyses on aspects of macroeconomics, savings, housing finances and other issues related to private sector A better housing environment and finance. They also act as the company’s spokespersons improved housing finances on such matters and work to disseminate information A better housing environment and share knowledge and skills to investors, employees, It is our mission to contribute to better housing and customers, the public and the media. This work is conimproved housing finances. Better housing may refer to ducted in many ways and through multiple communithe social aspects of the housing environment. In 2014, cation channels. The Economic Research unit publishes we initiated a dialogue with stakeholders to find out regular relevant analyses and reports on current issues how we can cooperate to improve the social housing related to macroeconomics and private sector finance. environment in the Million Homes Programme and The reports have been drafted in a manner that makes other vulnerable areas. During the Almedalen week, them easy to read and understand for customers and we joined some of our property company customers in the general public. We publish “Boräntenytt”, a monthly seminars and panel discussions, where we discussed newsletter that analyses the interest-rate market and how various stakeholders – property companies, public provides a forecast of future residential mortgage rates, 14 SUSTAINABLE HOUSING SBAB Sustainability Report 2014 and a report on current information related to saving 20% from 2010–2014. At year-end, we could establish accounts and current issues related to private sector that we met our target by a healthy margin, as the finance. All reports and analyses are available for cusreduction was 36% from 2010–2014. This is mostly tomers and the general public, free of charge, on sbab. due to less travel and reduced electricity and energy se. Our economists are happy to respond to queries consumption. Following a dialogue with our landlords, and can also be followed on Twitter, where they have our offices have now been fitted with individual elecapproximately 4,400 followers. tricity meters. This facilitates the follow-up of electricity consumption and acts as a great incentive to save Corporate and Tenant-owner electricity. The property we rent in Stockholm holds a SBAB’s Corporate and Tenant-owner business area bronze certification according to the GreenBuilding regularly visits trade shows and holds seminars that are standard. primarily aimed for trustees and board representatives At the end of 2015, the Stockholm office will be from tenant-owner associations. In 2014, we attended relocated to new offices in Solna, outside Stockholm. 19 trade shows to share our knowledge and experiSustainability will be a important part of our work on ences. We also arrange our own seminars where the designing our new workplace. experts in the sector are invited to address topics such as board liability, efficiency measures or new legislation Business travel affecting tenant-owner associations. In 2014, SBAB We encourage our employees to use video conferencarranged ten such seminars. The creation of value in a ing instead of physical meetings and to travel by train tenant-owner association is not always about financial instead of by air, whenever possible. This has led to a value. On one of these occasions, we therefore invited reduction in air travel over the year. Carbon dioxide the initiators of Huskurage.se1), who told our customers emissions from air travel decreased by 30 percent comhow a tenant-owner association can use engagement pared with 2013. In 2014, 97 percent of all business and social guidelines in the association to improve the travel was by rail. social environment by increasing security for those who live in the property. Reusing and recycling We have the ambition to reuse office supplies and technical equipment. For example, we donate retired A climate-smart bank computers to the charity Stadsmissionen, where they We mainly distribute services and products over the are used in various parts of their operations. internet and telephone. Consequently, we do not need When our employees change mobile phones, the old any large network of branch offices. This contributes phone is returned and sold to companies that reuse or to keeping our direct environmental impact relatively recycle phones. We donate the proceeds from the sales low. Nonetheless we want to reduce what impact we do to charitable causes. When we cannot reuse materials have. The company’s carbon dioxide emissions have internally or externally, they are sent for recycling. Rebeen measured since 2008, and in 2010, we set the sidual waste is sorted at source if there is no possibility target that they should be reduced by 5% per year or of recycling or reuse. 1) Huskurage is a private initiative that has created tools for property owners, tenant-owner associations and property managers to engage with residents to prevent domestic violence. Read more at huskurage.se. Total carbon dioxide emissions (tonnes CO2) Source of emissions 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 Vehicle fuel 24 23 23 22 33 District heating 70 72 55 53 96 Electricity1) 17 18 17 16 10 Rail travel 1 1 1 1 1 Air travel 59 86 66 129 129 Residual waste2) and paper <1 <1 <1 <1 <1 Total 171 200 162 221 269 Percentage change in CO2 emissions -14 +19 -27 -18 n/a 1) As a result of changing system for reporting environmental data all figures have been recalculated with new emissionfactors. This mainly effects emissions with regard to electricity where a lower emissionfactor have been used for “green” electricity. 2) Refers to the office in Stockholm. 15 SBAB Sustainability Report 2014 SUSTAINABLE HOUSING New system for environmental data Financial coalition in cooperation with Ecpat In 2014, we invested in a new system for the manageSince 2012, we are members of ment and reporting of environmental data. The new the financial coalition against system contributes to a more accurate and, if desired, child pornography. The Financial more frequent reporting of data. It also facilitates the coalition cooperates with Ecpat identification of areas where we can work even more for the purpose of preventing efficiently on reducing the company’s carbon dioxide and rendering it more difficult to emissions. In 2014, work on improving trade in pictures featuring sexual and clarifying our requirements on abuse of children through finansustainability in supply agreements cial systems on the Internet. The complete was initiated. The new system for Carbon Accounting environmental data supports this Report is available on sbab.se. work, and in 2015, we will improve our follow-up of how our suppliers meet our sustainability requirements. Social engagement The foremost purpose of our social partnership project is to contribute to a better social housing environment. For a number of years, we have supported the operations of Stadsmissionen and, in 2015, we are embarking on a new partnership with FC Rosengård. Cooperation with Stadsmissionen Stadsmissionen carries out activities for homeless people and addicts. These activities are intended to help and give hope and courage to face life for vulnerable people who have no home of their own or otherwise live in deprived environments. In addition to financial support, we have arranged collections, and our employees have volunteered in various contexts. For example, our employees were involved in a porridge lunch in Kungsträdgården in Stockholm before Christmas. The full amount of the funds collected goes to various parts of Stadsmissionens operations. Our employees have also helped at Stadsmissionen’s coordination center, where collected clothes, furniture, etc. are sorted, priced and transported to charity shops for sale. In 2015, we aim to increase the opportunity for our employees to do volunteer work. Cooperation with FC Rosengård We want to contribute to better social housing environments in deprived areas. In 2015, we aim to enter into partnerships that contribute to this. In the first quarter of 2015, cooperation with football club FC Rosengård was initiated. The club runs a labour market project with the purpose of helping unemployed youths to find work or begin studies, using football, physical and mental heath as the starting point. Over the year, our employees will contribute to the content of the project by teaching and giving lectures to increase the understanding of issues related to everyday personal finances. 16 GOVERNANCE AND RESPONSIBILITY SBAB Sustainability Report 2014 Governance and reporting Board of Directors Responsible for sustainable Executive Management Sustainability Council business In 2014, a new Sustainable Business function was creatPolicies and instructions ed. This function was established in order to create an Every year, the Board adopts a number of policies at the organisational platform for long-term and efficient work statutory Board meeting. These are an important part of within this area. The person in charge of this function the internal governance and help the company to create reports directly to the CEO. This decision is in line with a consensus on company-wide issues and areas. SBAB the company’s ambition to fully integrate sustainable has policies on sustainable business, ethics, equality and business in all parts of our operations. diversity, money laundering and the financing of terrorism. In addition to these policies, a number of instructions adopted by the Executive Management also contribute to Responsibility and governance sustainable business. Examples of these are the instruction Within SBAB, the Board of Directors is ultimately refor the management of complaints, communication, work sponsible for ensuring that proactive, long-term efforts environment, bank secrecy, compliance and security. In to achieve sustainable development are carried out 2014, the Executive Management also adopted an inwithin the company. The Board also adopts a stratestruction regarding the whistle-blower process that makes gy, objectives and a policy for sustainable business. it possible for employees to anonymously report potential Furthermore, the Board monitors and assesses our irregularities within the company. In the first quarter of sustainability work. 2015, the Board of Directors adopted a new code of The new Sustainable Business function is responconduct. sible for developing a company-wide business plan, including a strategy, objectives and activities that are subsequently considered by the Sustainability Council Reporting and approved by the Executive Management. The We report sustainable business on the basis of GRI 3.0, Sustainability Council comprises the CEO, the Head of level C+. Reporting encompasses the Parent Company Sustainable Business (who convenes the meetings), the SBAB Bank AB (publ) and its wholly-owned subsidiary the Head of Communications, the Head of Retail and the Swedish Covered Bond Corporation, “SCBC”. The operaHead of Corporate Clients and Tenant-owner Associations of SCBC are conducted by employees of the Parent tions. The Council meets regularly and acts as a forum Company on the assignment of SCBC and applicable for issues linked to sustainable business. regulations and guidelines apply to both companies. SBAB A member of the Executive Management will be rereports specific indicators depending on their relevance sponsible for each company-wide sustainable business and on access to data and information. The quality of the objective. To ensure continuity and comparability, reporting is assured by independent auditing and confirthe objectives are fully integrated into the company’s mation. More information about sustainable business and governance model. The objectives are measured and policies is available at sbab.se. reported to the CEO and the Board once every quarter. SBAB has signed the UN Global Compact The actual work is to take place in the organisation, initiative, which comprises ten principles where the operation-specific expertise exists. Based concerning human rights, aspects of on the company-wide objectives, operational objeclabour law, the environment and corruptives and activities are identified and integrated into tion. Each year, SBAB issues a Commuthe business plans of each unit/department, thereby nication on Progress (COP) to the UN contributing to meeting the overarching objectives for Global Compact to account for the comsustainable business. pany’s efforts regarding the ten principles. 17 SBAB Sustainability Report 2014 GRI INDEX GRI Index It is SBAB’s own opinion that this report fulfils the reporting requirements for the C+ application level, according to GRI version 3.0. KPMG AB has reviewed the report and assures that it fulfils the requirements for the C+ application level. Indicator Reference Comments Profile Strategy and analysis 1.1 Statement by the CEO SR 2, AR 6-7 Organisational profile 2.1 Name of the organisation AR Cover, 4 2.2 Primary brands, products and/or services AR 4, 5, 28-35 2.3 Operational structure of the organisation, including main divisions, operAR 5, 28-35 ating companies, subsidiaries and joint ventures 2.4 Location of the organisation’s headquarters AR Cover 2.5 Number of countries where the organisation operates AR Cover, 4 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form AR 4, 53 2.7 Markets served AR 4, 8, 28´-35 2.8 Scale of the reporting organisation AR 3, 8 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure AR 6-7, 28, HÅR 2 or ownership 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period AR 14, SR 4 “Most satisfied mortgage customers” in 2014 according to SKI (Swedish Quality Index) Report profile 3.1 Reporting period 1 January–31 December 2014 3.2 Date of most recent previous report 27 March 2014 3.3 Reporting cycle SBAB’s Sustainability Report is updated annually as at 31 December. 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents sbab.se Christine Brosewitz, Chief Sustainability Officer, christine.brosewitz@sbab.se Report scope and boundary 3.5 Process for defining report contents SR 2-6 3.6 Boundary of the report SR 17 3.7 Specific limitations SR 17 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, etc. SR 17 3.10 Restatement of information New system for improved reporting of environmental data SR 15 has been implemented 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting period New system for improved reporting of environmental data SR 15 has been implemented 3.12 GRI content index SR 18-19 Governance, commitments and engagement 4.1 Governance structure of the organisation AR 52-63, SR 17 4.2 Chairman’s position AR 54 4.3 Number of members of the highest governance body that are independent and/or non-executive members AR 57, 60-63 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees AR 53-60, SR 5, 12 4.14 Stakeholder groups engaged by the organisation SR 3-5 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage SR 3-4 SR – Sustainability Report 2014 AR – Annual Report 2014 18 GRI INDEX SBAB Sustainability Report 2014 Indicator Reference Comments Performance indicators Economic performance indicators EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed, including income, SR 7 operating costs, employee compensation, gratuities and other public investments, profit carried forward and payments to public sector funders. EC9 Understanding and description of significant indirect economic impacts, SR 7-8, 14-16 including the scope of the impacts Environmental performance indicators1) EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source SR 15, sbab.se EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements SR 15, sbab.se EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight SR 15, sbab.se EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight SR 15, sbab.se EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method sbab.se Pertains to waste for recycling and incineration, see SBAB’s Carbon Accounting Report at www.sbab.se Supplement for the financial sector FS6 Percentage of the portfolio for business lines by specific region, AR 8, 28-35 size and sector FS16 Initiatives to enhance financial literacy AR 30, SR 14-16 Labour practices and decent work performance indicators LA1 Total labour force, divided by employment type, employment terms AR 93-96, SR 11-12 and region LA2 Total number and rate of employee turnover, by age, gender and region AR 94, SR 12 LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements All SBAB employees, except the CEO, are covered by collective bargaining agreements. LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days and absenteeism, AR 94, SR 12-13 In 2013, four cases of work-related injuries were reported and total number of work-related fatal injuries per region to the Swedish Social Insurance Agency. LA10 Hours of training per employee and year AR 94, SR 11 LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career SR 12 development reviews Refers to an index number and not percent LA13 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per AR 54, 64, 94 Only gender distribution is reported. category according to gender and age group, minority group membership and other indicators of diversity Human rights HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken SR 12 No incidents of discrimination have been reported 2014. Society performance indicators SO3 Percentage of employees who have undergone training in the SR 9 Approximately 90 percent of SBAB’s employees have taken organisation’s anti-corruption policies and procedures part in SBAB’s training to combat money laundering. SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary The organisation does not owe any significant amounts nor sanctions for noncompliance with laws and regulations have any sanctions been imposed on it for noncompliance with laws and regulations. Product responsibility performance indicators PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of surveys AR 14, SR 4, measuring customer satisfaction PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and No fines of this nature were incurred in 2014. regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services – Reported in full GRI Application Level – Reported in part C C+ B B+ A A+ SR – Sustainability Report 2014 Mandatory Self-declared AR – Annual Report 2014 Voluntary Third party opinion Voluntary Reviewed by the GRI 1) SBAB’s full climate report is available at www.sbab.se under Sustainable business. N.B. The indicators are reported in full or in part depending on the relevance and availability of data and information. 19 SBAB Sustainability Report 2014 AUDITOR’S REVIEW REPORT Auditor’s review report on SBAB Bank AB’s (publ) Sustainability Report To SBAB Bank AB (publ) Introduction We have been engaged by the Board of Directors of SBAB to review the Sustainability Report for the year 2014. Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and Executive Management for the Sustainability Report The Board of Directors and Executive Management team are responsible for preparing the Sustainability Report in accordance with the applicable criteria as stated on page 17 of the Sustainability Report and that consist of those parts of the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (issued by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI)) that are applicable to the Sustainability Report and of accounting and calculation principles developed by the company. This responsibility includes the internal control that is considered necessary for the preparation of a sustainability report that does not contain material errors, whether due to irregularities or errors. Auditor’s responsibility Our responsibility is to express a conclusion on the sustainability report based on our review. We have performed our review in accordance with RevR 6 Assurance of Sustainability Reports issued by FAR. A review consists of making inquiries, primarily of persons responsible for the preparation of the Sustainability Report, and applying analytical and other review procedures. A review is substantially less in scope than an audit conducted in accordance with IAASB’s Standards on Auditing and Quality Control and other generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden. The measures undertaken in a review do not permit us to be certain that we have become aware of all significant matters that might have been identified in an audit. Therefore, the conclusion expressed based on a review does not give the same level of assurance as a conclusion expressed based on an audit. Our review is based on the criteria defined above, which have been selected by the Board of Directors and the Executive Management. We consider these criteria suitable for the preparation of the Sustainability Report. We believe that the evidence we collected during our review is sufficient and appropriate in providing a foundation for our conclusion as expressed below. Conclusion Based on our review, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the Sustainability Report has not, in all material respects, been prepared in accordance with the above stated criteria provided by the Board of Directors and the Executive Management. Stockholm, 27 March 2015 KPMG AB Hans Åkervall Karin Sivertsson Authorised Public Accountant Expert Member of FAR 20 NARVA XXXXXXXXXX SBAB Sustainability Report 2014 Head Office: SBAB Box 27308, SE-102 54 Stockholm, Sweden (Visiting address: Löjtnantsgatan 21) Telephone: +46 771 45 30 00 Fax: +46 8 611 46 00 E-mail: kundcenter@sbab.se Reg. 556253-7513 sbab.se SBAB in Karlstad SBAB Box 1012, SE-651 15 Karlstad (Visiting address: Östra Torggatan 9, Arkaden) Telephone: +46 771 45 30 00 Fax: +46 54 17 71 10 E-mail: kundcenter@sbab.se SBAB in Gothenburg SBAB Box 53072, SE-400 14 Gothenburg (Visiting address: Södra Larmgatan 13) Telephone Corporate: +46 31 743 37 40 Telephone Tenant-owner Associations: +46 31 743 37 00 Fax: +46 31 743 37 10 E-mail: goteborg@sbab.se SBAB in Malmö SBAB Rundelsgatan 16 SE-211 36 Malmö Telephone Corporate: +46 40 664 53 59 Telephone Tenant-owner Associations: +46 40 664 53 40 Fax: +46 40 664 53 58 E-mail: malmo@sbab.se SBAB in Stockholm SBAB Box 27308, SE-102 54 Stockholm, Sweden (Visiting address: Löjtnantsgatan 21) Telephone Corporate: +46 8 614 43 55 Telephone Tenant-owner Associations: +46 771 45 30 00 Fax Corporate: +46 8 614 38 63 Fax Tenant-owner Associations: +46 8 614 38 60 E-mail: malmo@sbab.se 21
