COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2014 1 May 2015 Contents MESSAGE FROM THE CEO 3 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE SRBIJA (CAS) 4 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE GROUP 8 OUR ECONOMIC RESPONSIBILITY 11 OUR SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 21 OUR CIVIC RESPONSIBILITY 29 OUR ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY 41 FOSTERING OUR FRENCH CONNECTION 44 2 TEMA MESECA: THEME Message OFfrom 11. THE ZimskiMONTH CEO: na Tari theseminar We at Crédit Agricole Srbija believe that a bank like Crédit a new vehicle and kayaks bearing in mind that the Agricole, that is a member of a strong Crédit Agricole quality of life of our most vulnerable citizens— Group, has economic responsibilities to its clients, social children, was severely impaired due to catastrophic responsibilities to its staff, civic responsibilities to society floods. where we operate and environmental responsibilities. In order to address our environmental responsibility In each of these areas our intention is to demonstrate the in a more visible way, we have joined forces with the same high professional standards and effectiveness that French-Serbian Chamber of Commerce to award the we demonstrate in our daily business. best student works regarding solving the problem of transportation and C02 emission in the future. In 2014 we continued to provide support to our clients However, we are the most proud of our award winand launched our L’Esprit de Service project of new sales ning employee engagement project “Good Fairy Doapproach with the aim of long-term increase in customer brila’s Team” that has tripled the number of employsatisfaction as well as increase in competency and ees actively engaged in our CSR projects aimed at adpersonal satisfaction of our colleagues working in the vocating children’s rights and inclusive society for all. branch network. We are proud to be a responsible bank that embraces The project Danube Mission done in cooperation with ambition in an ethical manner equally towards our International HR Projects CASA DRHI, CAS HR People clients, our employees, our society and our environDevelopment Sector and Sales Network and Multichannel ment and we are determined to strengthen this direcDivision with the aim to strenghten cooperation and tion in the future as well. knowledge sharing between the regional banks in France and Crédit Agricole Srbija was a great success, generating fresh energy, drive and enthusiasm within the network. With great support from our Crédit Agricole Group, we Bruno Charrier were able to help three institutions in Obrenovac to President of the Executive Board reconstruct their flood-damaged premises, purchase Crédit Agricole Srbija 3 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE SRBIJA 4 Crédit Agricole Srbija Crédit Agricole Srbija is a universal bank, a member Over the years, Credit Agricole Srbija has positioned itself of Crédit Agricole, a leading French banking Group as a leader in certain niches, resulting as currently with 125 years of experience and recognized as a positioning itself as: bank of choice for citizens in Europe. Crédit Agricole is present in the Serbian market since • No. 1 in financing car loans September 2006, when it became the owner of the local Meridian Bank. • No. 2 in agro business The change of name to Crédit Agricole Srbija in 2009 also brings other significant changes – substantial • No. 2 in leasing of commercial vehicles investments into research, development and modernisation of the work process. • No. 1 in leasing of agro-mechanization Through the network of 81 branches in all major cities in Serbia, Crédit Agricole Srbija daily • No. 5 in new production of housing loans accommodates the banking needs of 260,000 clients. Every day nearly 900 expert banking professionals seek the right solutions for our clients. Crédit Agricole Srbija is a “bank of common sense” which accommodates all financial needs of citizens by providing a complete and contemporary range of banking products and services. The leading principle is a continuous dialogue with the customers so as to identify their true needs and the most efficient way in which the bank may respond to them. 5 Crédit Agricole Srbija OUR ECONOMIC RESPONSIBILITIES Our economic responsibilities are placed within the realm of our business lines: OUR CSR VISION Retail At Crédit Agricole Srbija (CAS) we are very much SBE aware that meeting our major corporate social Corporate responsibility goals represents a challenge. Agro Incorporation of all CSR activities into our core business would in a way represent an extension of it. We have our major responsibilities: economic, social, Each business line is aware of the following: civic and environmental and by acknowledging them, we have our tasks to fulfill within each of these broad Long-term financing for the economy is crucial groups. By committing to Global Compact we transparently Listening to our clients is a prerequisite for designing acknowledge, support and promote the United responsible products that really suit their needs Nations values and policies of all 10 principles. CAS goes a step further in promoting and supporting Ethics in our everyday business is the driver towards Children’s rights as part of the sustainable strengthened confidence in our products and services development policy of Crédit Agricole Bank Srbija for the sixth year now. Each business line accomplishes this through their specific All our responsibilities and commitments are range of products and services but behind each product enhanced by our corporate values: client in focus, or service there is a committed employee who is responsibility and ethics. motivated and engaged to fulfill this task in a responsible and ethical manner. 6 Crédit Agricole Srbija OUR ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITIES Our environmental responsibilities are in the realm of the whole Bank and its employees, but the Operations Division is the leader in overall projects aimed at cutting paper consumption, fuel consumption etc. Our responsibilities in this area are very clear: Controlling our direct and indirect environmental impacts OUR SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITIES through controlling the costs in the relevant areas Our social responsibilities are placed within Cutting paper consumption per employee as well as the realms of: energy costs Human Resources Using recycled materials whenever possible and making sure that everything that can be recycled is properly HR main tasks within this particular responsibility are sorted the following: Responsible purchasing policy and valuing suppliers that Recruitment and training are the two focal points are socially responsible within which diversity is embraced Our Environmental policy statement is a public document, Promoting well-being in the workplace while there is an Annual Environmental and Social Report for Financial Institutions that the Bank sends to EBRD. OUR CIVIC RESPONSIBILITIES Every big client of the Bank has to fill in the form based on Corporate Social Responsibility main tasks the standards found in EBRD reporting and submit it as within this particular responsibility are the part of the required documentation, during approval following: process. Corporate philanthropy projects in line with our SD The form designed for environmental purposes to check Policy focused on solidarity, culture and education, our clients’ alignment with our principles is with a special emphasis on children’s rights ‘Environmental and Social Due Diligence Checklist’. Compliance with the UN’s Guiding Principles on Human Rights Employee engagement in CSR actions with a targeted increase in number each year HR and CSR responsibilities are not taken lightly. Each year a few steps further are taken in the desired direction. As of 2013 the targets regarding employee engagement are incorporated into the managers’ annual performance appraisals. 7 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE GROUP 8 Crédit Agricole Group 9 Crédit Agricole Group 10 OUR ECONOMIC RESPONSIBILITY 11 Reliable partner in financing for the economy LONG-TERM FINANCING FOR THE BUSINESS ETHICS AND RESPONSIBLE ECONOMY PRODUCTS In order to contribute to the creation of a more Protecting the interests of all its clients is a priority for dynamic economy despite the burdening overall Crédit Agricole Srbija. market situation, Crédit Agricole Srbija focused on three areas: Therefore, business ethics is higly valued and CAS makes sure that transparency is ensured in all business Agriculture and young farmers in order to provide processes, together with improved marketing techniques them with the means to stay at their family farms and better and more efficient follow up through CRM. while developing and improving them As a result of having such rigorous ethical standards, the Small businesses and entrepreneurs in order to existing products are improved and new ones created for support, stimulate and strenghten this economic various segments of the society targeting very specific segment customer needs. Priority of client satisfaction through a new sales The next steps towards responsible products is further approach L’Esprit de Service while putting a intergration of our business ethics and the UN Global moratorium on loans for clients from flood afflicted Compact 10 principles into every aspect of our business. areas from May in duration of 3– 6 months. 12 Reliable partner in Agro At the Agricultural Fair the bank presented its special 81st INTERNATIONAL AGRICULTURAL FAIR conditions for financing agricultural machinery and a Package for Young Farmers with the aim of Crédit Agricole Srbija participated as a bank partner at stimulating the rural development by investment in 81st International Agricultural Fair in Novi Sad, held from family farms in Serbia. 20th to 26th May 2014. During the Agro Fair period there were activated over Being a reference bank for agriculture, and a leading 50% more Packages for Young Farmers in relation to bank in sustainable development in agriculture, CAS the average monthly activation, which confirms that follows the life cycle of each of its client’s projects from the product is actually tailored to the needs of young preparation to implementation, finding tailor-made farmers who see their future in the development of solutions to the needs of each client. Every client is fully family farms. supported during the process while Agro RMs are available to give the best piece of advice. 13 Reliable partner in Agro The clients will be able to get all the weather CONFERENCE “YOUR PARTNER FOR information on the site of the bank. Upon account SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT OF opening, the clients will be given a user name and a AGRIBUSINESS” password to enter the part of the site about weather forecast. By accessing the site, the clients can choose the Within 81st International Agricultural Fair, a conference desired location and after its selection, open fields titled Crédit Agricole—Your partner for sustainable with the weather conditions for the next 10 days, or development of agribusiness the experience of Crédit more detailed forecast for the next 48 hours. Agricole Group regarding support of young farmers was All parameters are updated twice a day in the presented by the Director of Agriculture Centre Loire morning at 8 am and in the evening at 8 pm. The Caisse Regionale, Mr. Jerome Boulan. information available to clients is the minimum and maximum temperature, relative air and soil A representative of the Embassy of France spoke about humidity, wind speed and precipitation in 24 hours. the EU support while a young farmer from Vojvodina, Aleksandar Mišić presented a case study of the farm development through three generations. Head of Corporate and Agricultural Banking, Ms. Marija Marić -Mitrović presented Crédit Agricole Srbija as a bank partner for agribusiness. Dr. Andjelko Mišković spoke about the importance of renewable energy and savings in agriculture. During the conference, clients were presented a new website about the weather forecast which implementation is expected next year. 14 Reliable partner in Agro SPECIAL OFFER FOR AGRICULTURE Extended Crédit Agricole Srbija favourable conditions of the special offer established for the 81st International Fair of Agriculture in conjunction with partners-distributors of agricultural machinery, were valid until 15th July 2014. In order to meet the existing and future customer needs, SUBSIDIZED LOANS FOR AGRICULTURE and being aware of the consequences of the catastrophic floods in the weeks mid-May, in cooperation with In April 2014 Crédit Agricole bank Srbija signed a partners dealers of agricultural machinery, the Agro contract with the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry Team decided to continue with the favorable financing and Water Management of the Republic of Serbia for conditions presented at the Agricultural Fair. loans with subsidized interest rates. Loans for livestock farming development were approved at an annual interest rate of 4%, while loans for the development of other agricultural 9th SUMMER SCHOOL OF AGRICULTURE activities, as well as investment in machinery and equipment were approved at an annual interest rate Traditionally Crédit Agricole Srbija takes part in the of 6% while those conditions applied to all banks Summer School of Agriculture organized by the Club 100P signatories of the contract. plus. In 2014 CAS was present at three events. The first one was on 21st August in a village Djurdjin at a farm of All loans were approved in dinars, were not indexed, Vlatko Dulić. The summer promotion included the and for the period of three years with a grace period demonstration of the agricultural machinery and of one year. The maximum loan amount was 5 equipment for approximately 60 farmers. million for individual producers, entrepreneurs and legal entities and 15 million for cooperatives. The second event was held in a small village Botos on 22nd August where representatives of the companies: Agrotech, Titan, Res Trade, Agropanonka and Milurovic Comerce were present and demonstrated the work of their agro machinery for about 50 farmers. The third and the biggest event was held on 26th August in a town Sombor for about 200 farmers. This event was the closing one for the Summer School and it ended by the demonstration of the agricultural machinery. Specialized CAS Relationship Managers for Agriculture were present and available at all times during the events. They were giving their expert advice to farmers regarding best investment deals for both agricultural machinery and equipment. It was an excellent opportunity for getting to know the clients even better and strengthen the relationship between the clients and the Bank. 15 CAS reliable partner in SBE SUBSIDIZED LOANS FOR SBE Crédit Agricole Srbija participated in the program of subsidized loans of the Government of the Republic of Serbia for liquidity and working capital intended for the economy. Keeping in mind the business needs of small businesses and entrepreneurs, the Bank was receiving requests for subsidized dinar loans with interest rate up to 5.45% per annum and the repayment period to 18 months which optionally included a grace period up to 6 months. Also, every client who decided to take a loan, received a gift Visa Business debit card, as well as the possibility of applying for a Visa Business credit card available with no annual membership fee, no maintenance costs and processing fees. In this way, Crédit Agricole bank provided strong financial support for the development of the business and the creation of new business ventures. SPECIAL LOCAL CURRENCY LOAN OFFER FOR SBE In spring 2014, in order to improve financing in local currency, the clients were offered a loan to maintain liquidity and working capital for small businesses and entrepreneurs, under conditions that were more favorable than those approved through subsidies in the Republic of Serbia the last 2 years. With the Praktik and Taktik loans, all the clients had the opportunity to opt for the Visa Business Charge card with no costs for annual membership fee and free of charge in the period in which it was not used. The terms for these loans were exceptionally favorable, but it is also known that the SBE clients are very different from private individual clients and their needs were researched in order to come up with a product that would allow for all the flexibility they need in their business. 16 CAS reliable partner in SBE ADDITIONAL SUPPORT FOR SBE In order to provide more support to small businesses and entrepreneurs, a range of responsible products in a specialized DobrodošliCA offer consisted of numerous benefits and discounts on many products and services. Discounts ranged from 15% to 100% and were related to the following products and services: overdraft, multi-purpose line of credit (short term and long term), the Taktik and Praktik loans for maintaining liquidity and working capital, long-term investment loans and loans for purchase of office space, VISA Business Charge credit card, Metro & Crédit Agricole credit card, opening a current account and E-bank.A range of products and services was tailored so that each in its own way, had the potential to stimulate and strengthen this segment of small businesses 17 Reliable partner in Retail FLOOD RELIEF —MORATORIUM ON LOANS Crédit Agricole has put a moratorium on loans for a period of 3 to 6 months for all its clients from flood afflicted areas in Serbia. This meant that citizens who had been clients of the Bank and residing in the most vulnerable flood areas had no obligation to pay their monthly instalments due from cash, consumer, auto and housing loans, and there was no calculatied any interest for that period. Given the gravity of the situation in which our fellow citizens were, the Bank tried to financially ease the situation by allowing its clients to primarily focus on treating the damage caused in their households. 18 Reliable partner in Retail L’ESPRIT DE SERVICE NEW SALES This training is one of the most important projects in the APPROACH network in 2014. The aims of the new sales approach, The Spirit of the Service include: a long-term increase in customer satisfaction, unique sales approach in the local banking market, improvment in customer service and The first phase of training L'Esprit de Service– The cross-selling, while increasing pleasure and personal Spirit of the Service, which involves the satisfaction of the colleagues in the branch network. implementation of a new sales approach, began in July 2014. During the summer period 280 colleagues in the network have undergone the new sales model approach training. The two day training included topics such as portfolio management, preparation for the meeting, phone conversation skills, conducting sales calls, identifying needs, presenting offers and arguments, resolving objections, closing the sale. The training is designed as an interactive approach, with many concrete examples and practical sales advice, and it resulted as the model that is successfully impemented in Crédit Agricole Group. The trainers are Regional Sales Managers. 19 Reliable partner in Retail BENEFITS FOR CLIENTS In cooperation with Bel Medic General Hospital, a Crédit Agricole Srbija's cooperation with AMAN has special co-branded DINA Card Bel Medic was created resulted in providing a discount of 5% when purchasing which allows a 5% discount on most medical services. goods in AMAN stores while using any of the CAS payment cards. In order to stimulate better care for one’s health, CAS has developed a special payment card that would All clients of Crédit Agricole Bank who make their remind their owners of the importance of good purchases in any of the company's 124 retail stores can health and timely check-ups. expect a discount of 5% on all goods. All clients in possession of DINA Card Bel Medic can In addition to AMAN market, owners of payment cards of make their appointments through Bel Medic Call Crédit Agricole have a number of discounts in retail Centre with the mention of this particular card and outlets of various activities, ranging from catering and enjoy the benefit of the discount. tourism, to culture and education. 20 OUR SOCIAL RESPONSIBLITY 21 Responsible Employer INTERNAL MOBILITY AND TRAINING SHARING BEST PRACTICES Danube Mission project done in cooperation with the Crédit Agricole Srbija is a socially responsible Crédit Agricole Regional Banks in France and Crédit employer, committed to fair treatment of all Agricole Srbija highlighted people care and respect, employees while ensuring a high-quality dialogue. knowlege sharing and valuing cultural differences. Internal mobility and training were in the focus of Aimed at strenghtening cooperation among peers in two 2014. Having a high respect for the individual and countries, it resulted in increased motivation and diversity, HR always gives priority to training and the implementation of many useful practices. development of talent at every level. Training and developing all employee skills are of major concern for CAS since it operates in a demanding environment. Internal mobility and filling in positions internally became most noticable in 2014 since internal mobility has become the means for meeting the growing need for a rich and varied career within CAS. 22 Responsible Employer STRUCTURE On 31st December 2014 there were 914 employees Majority of employees are with 6 to 10 years of work exin Crédit Agricole Srbija. Out of that number 320 perience, and also a large group is the one with employemployees are male and 594 female. ees at the beginning of their careers (<10 years of experience). In 2014 the average age of employees was 38 – for male employees 39 while for female employees 38. In 2013 average age of employees was also 38 for both genders. Age makeup of personnel 31.12.2013 31.12.2014 Age Female Male Total Female Male Total age < 29 58 22 80 56 14 70 30 < A < 39 350 210 560 338 192 530 40 < A < 49 108 70 178 127 83 210 50 < A < 59 68 22 90 70 26 96 Employees gender ratio in comparison to the type of 60 < A 4 5 9 3 5 8 Total 588 329 917 594 320 914 Labour Contract is given in the following table on Average 38 38 38 38 39 39 31st December 2014: FeTotal The majority of employees in the Bank is between 30 and LABOUR CONMal mal 31/12/201 TRACT/ GENDER e 39, with 338 women and 192 men in this category. e 4 Temporary 19 57 76 Permanent 301 537 838 Total 31/12/2014 320 594 914 EDUCATIONAL STRUCTURE BREAKDOWN Female employees comprise 65% of total number of employees, and represent 40% in top 10% top earners in the Bank. The level of education of our employees is high, with 55% of population with University degree. That is one percentWORK EXPERIENCE age higher than in 2013. The rest of educational breakdown structure on 31st December 2014 is shown in the Average work experience in Bank for 2014 was 12,9 chart below: years. For women average work experience was 12,6 years and for men 12,1 years. 31.12.2014 Work Expirience (in years) Female Male Total <1 22 11 33 1-5 39 28 67 6-10 224 117 341 11-15 152 96 248 16-20 55 28 83 21-25 43 17 60 26-30 38 12 50 30+ 21 11 32 Total 594 320 914 23 Responsible Employer TRAINING PROGRAMS In November 2014, CAS launched an E-learning platform, which makes the process of training more efficient and more open and available to all employees. In 2013 the number of internal trainings in Crédit Agricole Srbija was 36, while there were 32 external trainings. In 2014 there was a significant increase in number of internal trainings 66, but number of external trainings remained at the similar level 34. Most of these external trainings are related to legal or regulatory changes and obligations. The increase in number of internal trainings demonstrates our commitment to improving employees’ knowledge and skills by using our own expertise. The increasing trend of the number of internal trainings will be continued in 2015. 24 Responsible Employer BENEFITS FOR EMPLOYEES INTERNAL SATISFACTION SURVEY Crédit Agricole Srbija employees enjoy extended benefits while not only those required by the Labour In December 2014 CAS organized an Internal Satisfaction Law. Survey. One of those benefits is the health care system that is comprehensive and also includes family memebers. The goal of the survey was to measure transversal team effectiveness and how satisfied internal customers were It is of utmost importance for CAS that its employees with the service they received from supportive business are healthy and whenever it is possible to implement functions. early prevention of diseases, CAS encourages its employees through reminders sent via internal communications channels. The Internal Satisfaction Survey questionnaire measured HEALTH CARE the perception of service in three important areas: In 2014 all employees in CAS were eligible for one  Communication free medical check-up during the year. Also, all  Productivity family members have discount of 20% for all medical  Responsiveness. examinations. Besides medical examinations, all employees have free ophthalmologic examinations. 25 Responsible Employer RECRUITMENT VOLUNTEER FOR INTERNATIONAL EXPERIENCE— VIE PROGRAM Crédit Agricole Group is the fourth largest hirer of Recrutiment is a very important process within the corporate volunteers and can offer a great professional Bank and there is a lot of care and attention paid to experience and the opportunity to demonstrate every single candidate. knowledge. In 2014 there were more than 70% female VIE program is exclusively designed for graduate students candidates in total recruitment, including internship who are between 18 and 28, and preference is given to program. graduate students who have completed their education in the field of business or engineering at the most Besides Internship program, Bank is mostly oriented prestigious universities and have very good knowledge of in hiring of young and educated staff w/o experience. English. The average age of recruited employees in 2014 was VIA assignemtns allow young professionals to gain 31, with approximately 3 years of work experience. recognised experience and improve their employment possibilities, both in the Group and other companies. One of the main projects in the Bank is Internship program. In 2014 Crédit Agricole Srbija realized two VIE missions. The firts postgraduate that got an assignement within the The goal of the project is to hire apprentices (in Bank in February is Oussama Ganibardi and he is placed at accordance with the business needs), in order to Marketing and Communications and the second is Boris continue good hiring practice by engaging young, Guitton who is placed at Negotiations and Collection educated, candidates motivated to grow within Sector at the Administration Department. Banking business, and to recognize, develop and keep the best potential and to benefit from it in the Both graduates spend from 12 to 24 months within Crédit future. Agricole Srbija. 26 Responsible Employer In 2014 the following visits took place: DANUBE MISSION  The 2nd wave of RMs & MBMs in March 2014  The 3rd wave in June 2014 was a visit of French counterparts  Agro Mission took place in November 2014. The scope of the project is to improve efficiency of the branches. This project has been designed as a new motivational boost and an excellent professional prospect for the Network managerial population (RMs and new position of MBMs) and their proactive approach as agents of change. The aim of the project has been to help strengthen the feeling of belonging to the Group and raise awareness of the professional and cultural context as a positive stimulus to the Network managerial roles in the process of change in CAS, increase their motivation and add value to their professional approach and understanding of the big picture. All RMs and MBMs completed their mission, agreed their action plans and started with implementation. The 1st wave of RMs & MBMs took place in November 2013. Danube Mission—June 2014—French Counterparts visited Serbia 27 Responsible Employer CAS VISIT TO FRENCH COLLEAGUES AT CRÉDIT AGRICOLE CENTRE LOIRE On the first day of the visit, our colleagues were presented the Crédit Agricole Centre Loire branch and region while the second day was reserved for the branch in Pithiviers and commercial activities there. The visit to a farm/ cooperative organized in the French way was on CAS team in front of Crédit Agricole Centre Loire the second day as well and the visit to the sugar factory. The third day included a visit to the branch in the city of Within cooperation with International HR Projects Nevers and familiarization with risk policies, monitoring, CASA DRHI, CAS HR People Development Sector and delegating and in the afternoon our colleagues visited Sales Network and Multichannel Division developed the farm and acquainted themselves with the way the Danube project in 2013 as an answer to the viticulture is performed in Sancerre. changes that took place within the Retail Division. On 6th November, our team was presented with Agilor The fourth phase of the project planned for autumn and young farmers as well as the development and 2014 has just ended in November. digitalization, while the afternoon was reserved for a visit of a Castle on the Loire. In this fourth phase of the project, our eleven The last day of this mission to France, our colleagues colleagues: Aleksandar Simić, Head of Agriculture, spent in Paris. Radivoj Nićin,Commercial Group Leader—Supervisor, Dejan Mijatov, Senior Credit Analyst for Agriculture, Mara Knežić, Manager for Agro SME, Darko Ilić, Ivan Tucakov, Emil Jonaš, and Miljan Žunić, Agricultural Relationship Managers, Siniša Ristić and Vladimir Knežević, RM-SME Business Centre Belgrade 1 and Belgrade 2 and Silvana Janić, Group Leader and Translator, visited Crédit Agricole Centre Loire in the period from 2nd to 7th November 2014. The program of the visit was very intense and rich and it consisted of a number of presentations, meetings, field trips (Sugar plant Cristal Union, AXEREAL company) visits paid to the nearby towns, farms and farmers (vineyard in Sancerre) and introduction to the French market and the method of work of our colleagues in France. CAS team in front of Château de la Loire castle 28 OUR CIVIC RESPONSIBLITY 29 EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT 30 Good Fairy Dobrila Team EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT IN CORPORATE PHILANTHROPY Thanks to its employees, Crédit Agricole Srbija has made progress in the area of employee engagement when it comes to corporate philanthropy. Major CSR projects are designed to include active participation of employees and the importance of this ambition of Crédit Agricole Srbija is reflected in key manager’s annual appraisals. Good Fairy Dobrila is a recognizable symbol when it comes to inviting colleagues to take action. HELP A COLLEAGUE Her engagement success rate is soaring year after year. In times of distress, Crédit Agricole Srbija’s team selflessly Humanity has no price but it has its voice in goodwill gives great comfort and support to a colleague in to help in all the ways possible and CAS team is distress. “Help a Colleague” is a spontaneously formed known for being generous in all the cases where help project, initiated by employees who informed Internal is needed. Communication about the colleague who needed help. Within this initiative, there was another one as flood Respecting human rights and rights to privacy, if a relief project “I Care” in May 2014. colleage agreed, a mail was sent to all employees as a call for action. Whether the help was needed for In 2014 in Crédit Agricole Srbija, 698 employees medications, trip abroad for medical consultation or help responded by providing primarily financial support, to a family after a colleague’s passing did not change the but also all other kinds of supports needed in those fact that CAS employees responded immediately. particular cases. 31 Good Fairy Dobrila Team ADOPT A SCHOOL In 2012 employees of Crédit Agricole Srbija have ‘adopted’ the school for children with developmental difficulties “Dusan Dugalic” and all of their 95 pupils. One third of all CAS employees have decided to donate 1— 5 euros monthly from their salaries in order to provide healthy meals for the pupils twice a week. Since then, the ties with the school have become stronger and the Bank representatives were invited to school celebrations, employees collected Christmas shoeboxes filled with sweets and toys for their little friends and In 2014 over 4500 euros were collected from ‘foster become more aware of the needs of children with parents of Crédit Agricole Srbija’ who provided 7600 learning or motor disabilities. meals to their little friends at “Dusan Dugalic” school in Belgrade. CAS SUPPORTS EMPLOYEE INITIATIVES Children aged 4 and 5 under the supervision of their teacher, visited the employees of CAS branch and got KINDERGARTEN VISIT TO THE BRANCH OFFICE BAČKA acquainted with the concepts: the bank, cashier, PALANKA TO LEARN ABOUT BANKING PROFESSION money counting machine, ATM and savings. Within the educational practical introduction to the Demonstrations of the work of ATM and money various professions of kindergarten Mladost , a group of counting machine were definitely the most 18 children visited the branch of Crédit Agricole Bank in interesting leaving the strongest impression on the Bačka Palanka on 20th March 2014 and got acquainted children. The visit ended with handing out gift with the basic concepts of the banking world. packages with toys and sweets. Crédit Agricole Srbija is always willing to get involved in educational projects for children and we were pleased to welcome our important guests and answer their many questions. We are pleased that the children left the branch full of impressions and who knows, maybe we hosted some future banking professionals, said Jakov Račić, Branch Manager, CAS in Bačka Palanka. 32 Good Fairy Dobrila Team CREDIT AGRICOLE GROUP’S DONATIONS TO OBRENOVAC Kayak-CanoeTennis club Zabrežje will use the donation to rebuild facilities for winter training, and At the signing ceremony, on 1st October 2014, of donor replace three destroyed kayaks, so the children can agreements with the Primary School Jefimija , Centre for continue to compete and continue to win medals. housing and day care for children and youth with disabilities Obrenovac, and Kayak-canoe-tennis club Crédit Agricole Group and Crédit Agricole Srbija in Zabrežje , Crédit Agricole SA donated a total of 70,000 their CSR activities are traditionally focused on euros for the reconstruction of flood-damaged premises children, their well-being and quality of life. in the three institutions and replacement of one vehicle. I am very pleased that the Crédit Agricole Group as Good Fairy Dobrila Team of Crédit Agricole bank this an equally responsible member of both: the European time as well, meets the children’s needs. In elementary and the Serbian community, decided to support three school, Jefimija donation is planned for restoration of such important projects in Obrenovac, which are of complete school kitchen and dining room equipment and great importance for children. It is our privilege to as a result more than 300 children will have their daily support the children because they are our most meals at school. valuable citizens and therefore we hope that the quality of life for all children in Obrenovac will soon Centre for housing and day care for children and youth be such that in no way resembles the catastrophic with disabilities Obrenovac will receive a special van to floods that have befallen them. said Mr Bruno transport children and young people who, without the Charrier, President of the Executive Board of Crédit van, cannot reach their Centre at all. Agricole Srbija. 33 Good Fairy Dobrila Team BANK EMPLOYEE In the framework of the Working Group on Corporate Social Responsibility in Banking and Finance Global Compact UN in Serbia, Crédit Agricole Srbija has had within the joint project Bank Employee , five series of lectures to the students of the Schools of Economics and Legal Business Schools in Belgrade, Užice, Niš, Čačak and Subotica in 2014. The main topic Crédit Agricole Srbija became known for making it interesting and engaging was loans and securities. In all the schools CAS lecturer, Živorad Milanović, Housing Students in all visited schools, over 200 of them, were Loan Manager was assessed as a very intersting lecturer active and found the approach as well as the content because he transferred his knowledge in a simple and very useful. engaging way highlighting the practical aspects of work by connecting the theory and practice. GIFT VOUCHERS OF GOOD FAIRY DOBRILA: Crédit Agricole Srbija has awarded five most creative KIDS FEST children with gift vouchers worth RSD 5,000 each, as part of children's savings with Good Fairy Dobrila within the Kids Fest that lasted from 13th to 19th October in Belgrade, Kragujevac, Niš, Novi Sad and 25 more cities in Serbia, Within 10th Kids Fest a competition was organized for children aged 5 14 years with the task to express, in their own, unique and creative way what Kids Fest represented. Children's works of art including video content were received until the end of the festival while the ceremonial announcement of the winners was held on October 20th. „Good Fairy Dobrila“ of the Crédit Agricole Srbija is found where the chidren, and programs for children are, because she is the friend of projects that respect children’s rights and promote inclusion and creativity. 34 Good Fairy Dobrila Team CHRISTMAS SHOEBOX IN BELGRADE CHRISTMAS SHOEBOX IN NOVI SAD “Christmas Shoebox and theatre play for over 2,300 The Congress Hall of the Novi Sad Fair was very socially disadvantaged children was held at the Sava festive awaiting the New 2014. Center on 11th December 2014, after which the gifts for all the children aged 2 7 years in Belgrade were given There were two decorated Christmas trees on the out. stage and on the side tables all the Christmas shoeboxes, wrapped with a lot of care and attention More than 2,300 children from socially disadvantaged by the employees of four companies: Crédit Agricole families from 17 Belgrade municipalities were present at Srbija, METRO Cash & Carry, Novi Sad Fair and the Sava Center to watch the big New Year performance, Lafarge, were carefully arranged and displayed. and then received gift packages within the Christmas Colorful, sparkling and shiny, they were waiting for Shoebox project, organized by the Crédit Agricole Srbija the 220 pupils of the school for children with and METRO Cash & Carry Srbija in cooperation with NGO disabilities Milan Petrović . Food Bank, the company Air Serbia and with the support The show has drawn attention of the youngest of the City of Belgrade. equally as a bit older ones, and the moment of giving Children from all parts of the city accompanied by a out the wrapped Christmas shoebox was the highlight parent or guardian enjoyed the play Two Christmas of the afternoon that 16th December since the Trees , and then they received gift packages containing children were eagerly expecting their present from toys and sweets. the Santa’s helpers. 35 Good Fairy Dobrila Team GRAND PRIX FOR GOOD FAIRY DOBRILA TEAM At the Gala dinner held on 17th September 2014 to celebrate the fifth anniversary of the French-Serbian Chamber of Commerce, Crédit Agricole Srbija received the Grand Prix Award in the category of Corporate Social Responsibility for the employee engagement program in Magic Breakfast and Christmas Shoebox are the humanitarian activities titled Good Fairy Dobrila Team most comprehensive projects performed in Tim Vile Dobrile . collaboration with partners METRO Cash & Carry, Food Bank and the Secretariat of Social Welfare of the City of Belgrade, while the project “ Adopt a For the first time this year, the French-Serbian Chamber School Dušan Dugalić is one of those that of Commerce organized the Grand Prix competition for employees have initiated themselves. All projects about 90 member companies in the categories of promote the fight against poverty and a healthy diet Innovation and Corporate Social Responsibility. for children with disabilities as well as socially vulnerable children. 36 INTERNAL COMMUNICATION: ENGAGEMENT DRIVER 37 Internal Communication—Engagement Driver THE ROLE OF INTERNAL COMMUNICATION IN EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT Internal communication has an important role in building In Crédit Agricole Srbija, the relationship beteween a culture of transparency between management internal communication and employee engagement is and employees, and it succeeds in engaging employees in strong as the internal communication, using various the organization’s priorities where CSR is incorporated. communication tools, has become a true employee Effective and authentic communication is modelled from engagement driver. the top. New, completely redisigned intranet portal in 2014 is used for sharing information, but also to engage employees to share their talents and interests. One of the more popular pages is the one featuring photographs taken by employees. Every month, a Photo of the Month is chosen by all employees of the bank who vote for their favourites, while the winner gets a prize. 38 Internal Communication—Engagement Driver PAUZA—INTERNAL E-NEWSLETTER In the internal e-newsletter Pauza, every success is celebrated, every promotion mentioned and every new project presented. However, the most read column is about the employees’ hobbies or free time activites, where creativity, individuality and authenticity is highly valued. On a monthly basis, an employee who engages in an interesting sport, hobby or activity is presented and in this way, it is a celebration of diversity among us. Every issue of e-newsletter is sent to Communications Department in Paris and the English version is published on the international platform accessible to all Crédit Agricole Group employees. This is an additonal motivational and engagement factor among all employees. 39 Internal Communication—Engagement Driver INVITATION TO TAKE PART IN CHARITY The members representatives of the Chambers were TOURNAMENT FOR CHILDREN competing in small football and the collected funds would be directed to the purchase of books and renewal of children’s libraries in flooded and Every employee is confident that if there is a good cause, destroyed kindergartens of pre-school institution they can propose it to internal communications and the Perka Vićentijević in Obrenovac. invitation will be sent out flying. The collected amount during the match was RSD 70.000. The charities in this manner are going to be During the weekend on 12th July 2014 at Ada Ciganlija in organised in the future as well and our CAS football Belgrade, there was a humanitarian football event team will take part in them and moreover, do it with organised by the French-Serbian Chamber of Commerce pleasure. and Chamber of Italian-Serbian businesspeople. NEW YEAR PARTIES FOR CHILDREN OF OUR Traditionally, there are four Children’s New Year parties organised in four cities: Belgrade, Novi Sad, EMPLOYEES Nis and Kragujevac. As a proud organisation that is actively promoting The parties, organised by internal communication, children’s rights, the children of our employees are also include a Christmas theatre show, presents from highly valued. Santa and an inevitable photograph for a family album. In CAS, every newborn baby is celebrated and every child appreciated. 40 OUR ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY 41 Our Environmental Responsibility OUR ENVIRONMENT IS IMPORTANT CONFERENCE CALLS INSTEAD OF TRAVEL As a socially responsible company and an active Conference calls are a standard in CAS and they are used member of our community, Crédit Agricole Srbija is whenever phisical presence of the employee is not aware that ecologically responsible practice within the absolutely necessary. Bank also influences all other community actors and Conference calls save valuable hours on travel but also our employees. reduce the carbon footprint of the CAS as a whole. As of 2011 there has been an outsourcing project going ENVIRONMENTAL AWARENESS AMONG on for replacing MFU, printers, scanners and passbook EMPLOYEES printers. Printing is centralised and the number of printers, scanners and similar equipment is reduced by 50% since 2011 in part of the network and two regions. CAS employees are becoming more aware of the Printing in black and white is a standard while printing importance of our environment. Participation in ecological volunteering actions is in colour is an exception. becoming more popular and the number of employees involved raised by 5% in 2014 compared to 2013. Wherever possible, printing is avoided. Electronic Christmas cards have become a standard, while there An hour for our Planet is promoted via internal are no printed editions for employees — even the communications and employees are encouraged to monthly newsletter is always distributed in electronic switch off electricity for 60 minutes. form. 42 Our Environmental Responsibility would be a decrease of the emission of gases with the greenhouse effect. The students submitted their works with the emphases on the sustainable transportation model in the future. There were over 50 student works received from all regions in Serbia and from all universities. Due to the high quality of works, the Award Committee on which one of the members was Raško Tomašević, Head of Marketing and Communications at Crédit Agricole, selected five finalists. The finalists presented their works and answered questions regarding how to increase energy efficiency in the domain of transport and how to prevent the risks connected to high emissions of CO2 and fuel consumption. The first award, sponsored by Schneider Electric in the amount of 1500 € was won by Ivana Ziramov, Faculty of Technical Sciences Novi Sad. The second award was sponsored by Crédit Agricole Srbija in the amount of 1000 € and was won by Dragiša Gligorijević, Faculty of Traffic Engineering Belgrade while the third award, given by Egis in the amount of 500 € was won by Marko Vujošević, from the same Faculty of Traffic Engineering in Belgrade. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE SRBIJA SPONSORED A French-Serbian Chamber of Commerce will continue to STUDENT AWARD ON FUTURE OF TRAFFIC organize this competition in order to increase awareness among young people about the necessity of sustainable development in the future and Crédit Agricole Srbija will continue to support sustainable development actions in On 3th June 2014 French-Serbian Chamber of the field of talented students. Commerce, together with its partners: Schneider Electric, Crédit Agricole and Egis, gave out three Student Awards traditionally organised to promote sustainable development within higher education institutions. The award theme was: “How shall we move in the future?”. The students had a task to describe how they perceived the future of traffic: what kind of transportation would be used, how the traffic development would influence the environment and the quality of life and economy and whether there 43 FOSTERING OUR FRENCH CONNECTION 44 Fostering our French Connection CRÉDIT AGRICOLE SRBIJA SUPPORTED Baking workshop was organized by the French-Serbian FRENCH WEEK IN BELGRADE Chamber of Commerce in cooperation with its member, the worldwide leader in the production of yeast Lezafr, with the idea that the guests get acquainetd with one of the most famous symbols of France French pastry. French gastronomy needs no introduction, but, surprisingly, although the Serbs and the French both enjoy food, in Serbia are rare restaurants that offer specialties of this queen of cuisines– the French one, said Sanja Ivanić, Director of the Franco-Serbian Chamber of Commerce. Crédit Agricole Srbija supported the French Week held in Belgrade from 17th to 23rd November 2014 in the organisation of the French-Serbian Chamber of Commerce. As a representative of the French economy in Serbia and a member of the French-Serbian Chamber of Commerce, the Bank as a silver sponsor, supported a number of activities that were held throughout the week at various locations in Belgrade. CAS AT THE JOB FAIR She expressed hope that the occasional French dishes, which are now sporadically available at better Belgrade restaurants will be more available in the near future on more menus, as well as that Belgrade will have its first real French restaurant. BEAUJOLAIS NOUVEAU— AN EVENING OF YOUNG WINE The tasting of the first young red wine, with good music in a beautiful atmosphere Job Fair at Ulus gallery in Knez Mihailova Street was held of the building Cvijeta on 19th November 2014 and it was an opportunity for Zuzorić, was held on Crédit Agricole to present its products and services to all 20th November 2014 in interested visitors. the presence of over 200 guests, MORNING BAKING AND EVENING representatives of the French Embassy and other European institutions, French companies operating in GASTRONOMY WORKSHOP Serbia, government officials, media representatives and many other distinguished guests. 45 Fostering our French Connection CHARITY CHRISTMAS BAZAAR Crédit Agricole has, within the Charity Bazaar, organized Distinctive to the visitors of the Bazaar for its by the International Women's Club (IWC) for the outstanding selection of French wines and cheese, the fourteenth time, supported the event and the booth of booth of France, this year as well, was enriched with France and this year as well, participated in the high quality cosmetic products for face and body. traditional humanitarian action that took place at the Belgrade Fair on Sunday, December 7th 2014. Much to the delight of all the visitors to the At this year's Charity Christmas Bazaar representatives Bazaar, a strong of 47 countries presented their booths where French community in characteristic products and souvenirs of their respective Belgrade put the countries were on display and traditionally, the visitors maximum effort to could pay a visit to the booth of France as well. convey the spirit of France to their fellow citizens, so that they could enjoy in traditional French home made products from quiche, and selection of apple pies to Christmas cookies, the visitors could expect an excellent booth and abundant French charm. Proceeds from the Bazaar are entirely be devoted to projects supported by the IWC: assistance to vulnerable populations, persons with disabilities, the elderly, orphans, victims of violence, aid to victims of the floods occurred in Serbia in 2014, as well as the education of Roma children. 46 Fostering our French Connection CAS SUPPORTS MARVELLOUS WINDOWS OF FRENCH INSTITUTE IN BELGRADE Crédit Agricole Srbija traditionally supports the creation and showcasing of the Marvellous Windows in organisation of the French Institute in Serbia, which in Bruno Charrier, President of the Executive Board CAS 2014 explored the connection between innovative and Jasna Stojković , PR Communications, French technologies and the nature through the project “iX”. Institute in front of Marvellous Windows The revealing of Marvellous Windows was held on 11th December 2014 at 31, Knez Mihailova Street, to the The sixth edition of the Marvellous Windows of the delight of all Belgrade passers-by. French Institute in Serbia deals with the question of the nature of technology and the technology of nature which is presented through the four seasons. Each window corresponds to one season of the year, associated with one element, one colour and one old Slavic divinity: Moran, Vesna, Lada and Stribog. French designer and artist, Solin d' Aboville, traditionally cooperates on this festive project by sharing her knowledge and skills with Belgrade students. This year, As a representative of the French economy in Serbia and the showcase was member of the French Serbian Chamber of Commerce, prepared with the Crédit Agricole bank gladly promotes French culture and help of an architect traditional multifaceted correlation between France and Dragana Markovic, Serbia. and it represents a visual feast for all visitors of Belgrade and passers-by through Knez Mihailova Street. Photos of the exhibition taken by Slađana Novaković 47 www. creditagricole.rs 48
