Communication on Progress Declaration of Support and Progress Support Report m:con-mannheim:congress LLC Regarding Its Membership in The United Nations “Global Compact” Mannheim, Germany – August 2015 ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Introduction: The m:con-mannheim:congress LLC1 (hereafter m:con) is an established an respected service provider in the event and trade fair industry in Germany. Since 2008 m:con has been committed to the guidelines and principles of the UN Global Compact and was one of the first in this industry to join the U.N. Global Compact network. The commitment to a policy of sustainability within the corporate sector poses within the event and trade fair industry presents an enormous challenge, and requires a continuous and conscious handling of and respect for resources. This demands a high degree of innovative thinking as well as unceasing degree of self-reflectivity. m:con is sincerely committed to this issue. The subject of sustainability in the event and trade fair industry is influenced by and consists of various contradictions. Temporary structures that are intended for very short periods of time are quickly constructed with a great deal of effort, materials and energy. It is often the case in this industry that more priority is given to convenience and temporary construction rather than to longevity. In addition, many of the methods for advertisement for such events, simultaneously produce large amounts of paper products, which ultimately contribute to massive quantities of waste. Therefore, the power and influence of the event and trade fair industry in regard to ecological, economic and social sustainability cannot be underestimated. The m:con is consciously aware of the ongoing necessity for concrete measures regarding sustainability. We firmly believe that these measures must be communicated to our clients and partners and implemented within the conceptual planning of events and trade fairs. The m:con views itself as a pioneer in this field and increasingly strives to sensitize it clients and partners regarding the significance of sustainability in this sector. This report documents the achievements of m:con from April 2014 to September 2015 and also provides information regarding future projects that are currently underway. --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Human Rights/ social aspect Principle 1 Enterprises shall support and respect the protection of International Human Rights within their area of influence as well as Principle 2 – ensure that they are not guilty of violating human rights in any area of their business dealings The m:con company has been steadfast in its participation in socially oriented initiatives and projects. m:con strives to continuously increase its social engagement and firsthand participation in such projects. As in past years, the company carefully selects and pays very close attention to the sustainability of the projects in which it is engaged throughout the year. Moreover, m:con strives to find creative and innovative ways in which to be socially engaged in the city of Mannheim as well as in the Rhine-Neckar region. The company started the year off with a project that speaks not only to the physical wellbeing of its employees and visitors, but also generates funding for an extremely important cause, namely pediatric oncology. In cooperation with the company A Punkt Wellness LLC, m:con installed in January 2014 several massage chairs in the building’s foyer where they can be accessed by all. 1 These massage chairs can be utilized for 1 Euro per 5 minute session.Thus far, the massage chairs have generated proceeds of Euro 614,00. In order to generate a larger donation, m:con rounded off the amount to Euro 1,000. In addition, m:con also utilized the IMEX (the largest trade fair for meetings, congresses and conferences) 19-21 May 2015 as a creative means for fund-raising. For every business card that was left at the m:con stand, the company donated 1 Euro to pediatric cancer research. This small initiative brought in an additional Euro 200. The proceeds from these endeavors have been donated to the Pediatric Cancer Research Department of Mannheim’s University Clinic. m:con believes that this project is a prime example of how work-life balance can be coupled with the financial support of a good and important cause. On 20 September 2014 m:con took it upon itself to engage in the Rhine-Neckar regional volunteer initiative Freiwilligen Tag (Volunteer Day). Together with private businesses from the region and m:con employees, the Mannheim University Children’s Clinic’s (Klinik für Kinderund Jugendmedizin der Universitätsmedizin Mannheim) terrace received a long overdue makeover. The terrace was originally constructed for the enjoyment of the young patients and their parents. However, the terrace was not in the best condition and went until recently, mainly unused. The thirty volunteers from m:con and other companies wearing blue Tshirts with the logo Wir-schaffen-was (We Are Getting it Done!) took it upon themselves to assist in the make-over of the terrace. With the help of materials supplied by regional donors, the terrace was completely refurbished within one day’s time. A cooperative spirit between m:con and the Mannheim Children’s Clinic has existed for many years, and was continued in 2015. This year’s benefit golf-tournament on 4 July 2015 was a joint effort between m:con, Dorint Congress Hotel and the city’s ice-hockey team Adler Mannheim (“Mannheim Eagles”). The event generated € 20,000 to foster further neuroblastom research. Not only does m:con believe that the health and wellbeing of children and youth are extremely important, but fun & entertainment should also be part of their lives as well. On February 16, 2015, m:con co-hosted together with the carnival society Feurio e.V. a masquerade ball for children and youth between the ages of three and twelve years. Along with providing the young participants with games, costume contests and lots of fun, Mannheim’s cultural institution “Reiss-Engelhorn Museen” offered the youngsters the opportunity to craft carnival masks that were related to the theme of the museum’s current special exhibition Ägypten: Land der Unsterblichkeit “EgyptThe Land of Immortality”. Mannheim’s art gallery also contributed to this event by organizing a Vernissage on its premises with the paintings created by the children who participated in the event. On 13 September 2015 m:con will sponsor technical support, stage, transportation and personnel for the rowing regatta on behalf of a cancer prevention benefit event in Heidelberg titled: Rudern gegen Krebs (“Rowing Against Cancer”). This event underlines m:con’s social engagement not only in the city of Mannheim, but also in the region. See: http://www.rudern-gegen-krebs.de/7572.htm. The European Union has long been an advocate for sustainable development and recently established the European Sustainable Development Network. This is a European-wide initiative that aims to promote projects and activities that advocate sustainable development within its member states. The first European Sustainable Development Week (ESDW) took place from 30 May to 5 June 2015. This first time EU initiative proved to be quite successful with 4,116 activities and projects in twenty-nine European Union member states. The ESDW functions as an umbrella network for the already existent sustainable development weeks in countries such as France, Germany and Austria. Baden-Wuerttemberg, one of Germany most economically strong federal states, and views itself as the “federal state of sustainable ideas”. From 12-13 June 2015, it demonstrated its commitment to a more ecologically sustainable environment by promoting the ESDW in Baden-Wuerttemberg. Due to Pentecost and the Evangelische Kirchentage 2015 (Protestant Church Festival), the ESDW took place one week later than originally scheduled. Nevertheless, a total of 870 sustainable activities and projects were registered and documented for Baden-Wuerttemberg. 2 In cooperation with Dorint Congress Hotel, m:con was able to offer its employees on 12 June 2015 a hands-on experience of sustainable development by organizing a tour of the city’s newly acquired Benjamin Franklin Village (BFV) during the Sustainable Development Week. Opened in 1947, BFV was a former installation of the United States Army. With the restructuring of the presence of US military forces in Europe; the installation was recently closed and the city of Mannheim has been able to acquire 144,3 hectares of land. This area is in the process of ecologically sustainable conversion by city planners. Please see: http://www.konversion-mannheim.de/franklin-factory. The tour vividly showed how the themes of construction and housing for the future have been designed with ecological sustainability in mind. The BFV will provide space for an additional urban district in Mannheim where affordable housing, new work spaces and utility infrastructure will be available for Mannheim residents. m:con employees were also invited to enjoy a relaxed picnic after the tour and the event was rounded off with an exciting discussion about the conversion of the area. For more detailed information please see: http://www.nachhaltigkeitstage-bw.de/alle_aktionen/uebersicht/__Nachhaltigkeitswoche-im-DorintKongresshotel-Mannheim-a-d44cd54a308eccc7bd3fca4ab1fe8dbe.html. Diversity Within the Event and Congress Sector. In 2006, three DAX companies Daimler, Deutsche Bank, Deutsche Telekom along with BP Europe SE joined forces and initiated the Corporate Charter of Diversity in Germany. The German Charter of Diversity is based on the French business initiative titled Charte de la Diversité and served as a step in the recognition of the significance of diversity and the ensuing demographic changes regarding Germany’s workforce. Many companies have come to realize the significance of diverse teams and staff, and that such teams open new opportunities for innovative and creative solutions. The implementation of the Charter aims to create and maintain workplace environments that are free of prejudice and discrimination. Diversity and inclusion are topics that are important to the corporate culture and environment of m:con. In April 2013 the m:con congress center became a signatory of the Corporate Charter of Diversity for Germany and is as of now the sole congress venue and professional congress organizer in the Federal State of Baden-Wuerttemberg to support this business initiative. As mentioned in the COP for 2014, m:con partnered with Dorint Congress Hotel, Artists Society RhineNeckar and several art galleries in Mannheim and hosted a successful art auction titled: Kunst tut gut. The event took place on 30 November 2014 on behalf of the LGBTIQ2 community based organization named.KOSI.MA3. This organization advocates awareness and treatment of HIV-AIDS and other sexually transmitted infections for all individuals regardless of sexual orientation. See: http://www.rosengartenmannheim.de/kalender/kunst-tut-gut-benefiz-kunstauktion-zu-gunsten-von-kosi-ma/. The art auction generated approximately € 8,000 for this important cause. m:con has decided to partner with KOSI.MA for the future and will host this event every year. The next Kunst tut gut event is scheduled for 29 November 2015. In the past years m:con has taken architectural and constructional measures to ensure accessibility for individuals with reduced mobility and for those who are hearing impaired. m:con congress center is currently in the process of creating and installing pictographic images that indicate wheelchair and induction loop access. Induction loops are necessary for the generation of an electromagnetic field that produces a better tone quality and transmission for hearing aid devices. Pictographic images that display wheelchair and induction loop access will be visible from the main entrance, foyer of the building and throughout the entire area leading up to the two main conference halls. The wellbeing of employees and visitors with special needs is of great importance to the management of m:con congress center. Therefore one member of staff has been specifically delegated as the contact person for representing the interests and catering to their needs. The duties of this staff member entail the following: ! Attending to the concerns and complaints of employees and visitors with special needs 3 ! Revision and implementation of measures which further assist individuals with special needs in the workplace (preventive as well as conducive measures) m:con congress center fulfills the yearly quota (according to Art. 80 Section 2 of the Social Legal Code). This Social Legal Code stipulates that 5 % of the entire staff must be comprised of employees with special needs. In the case that these regulations are not adhered to, companies are penalized and required to pay a fine. The company is pleased to announce that it has not had to pay any fines during the last years. Future Measures: m:con congress center is continuously seeking to increase access for all clients and visitors with special needs. In the foreseeable future, the company plans to utilize audible signposts, which will give directions to the main event halls for the blind and visually impaired. Until now, wheelchair users could only access the building via a side entrance or via a temporary ramp that was installed at the front entrance. Permanent ramps for wheelchair access will be installed at the main entrance of the building by the end of 2015 or early 2016, thus ensuring equal access to the premises for all visitors with reduced mobility. Working Standards/ the economic and social aspect Principle 3 Enterprises should safeguard freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining as well as Principle 4 the elimination of all forms of forced labour Principle 5the abolition of child labour Principle 6 – the elimination of discrimination in both hiring practices and on-the-job assignment work As a one hundred percent subsidiary company of the City of Mannheim Investment Company LLC, m:con is legally obliged to uphold the stipulations of the Collective Wage Agreements for Employees in Public Service Jobs (TVÖD). m:con congress center strictly adheres to the statutory and standardized salary payment regulations entailed in this agreement for all current as well as future employees. As early as 1996 the company demonstrated it willingness to accommodate and promote a work-life balance model by introducing the possibility of home-office for several of its employees, in particular for those who take parental leave. While thus far female employees have primarily utilized this work model, there has been an increase of male employees in the company who have taken advantage of the possibility of parental leave while working part-time from home. In 2007, the flexi-time scale model was introduced so that employees are not required to punch a time clock and enjoy greater freedom to select their working hours based on individual needs. The company’s management and Workers Council entered into an agreement that permitted employees to individually and independently create their own work schedules as long as these remained within the time frame as specified by the company’s flexi-time scale. In order to ensure the accuracy of employee working hours, a detailed system, one which is similar to a traffic light account (Ampelkonto), was created and implemented. Work hours are accumulated and stored in an account that offers an oversight and management thereof. However, in order to better monitor the work-life balance of its employees, m:con will test an electronic method (time clock as of mid-September 2015) that precisely calculates and records work hours. Full implementation of this system is scheduled for 1 January 2016. The traffic light system works in the following manner: Green light: the employee is within the monthly 30 overtime and 10 minus hours limit Yellow Light: A warning is given if the employee has exceeded the monthly 30-50 hours maximum or is in overdraft with 1020 minus hours. In this case the employee’s Line Manager is contacted and asked to assist in finding a solution to decrease or increase the number of hours within the account. 4 Red light: In the case that overtime hours have surpassed the 50 hours of overtime limit or the work hours account indicates 20 hours in the minus; the Human Resources department and the Line Manager are called together to swiftly find and implement a solution. The topic of discrimination and exclusion are both taken very seriously by the m:con congress center. The company’s human resources policies strictly prohibit discriminatory practices or behavior towards its staff or during recruitment. Advertisements for vacancies are formulated in gender neutral language and are impartial to the sex, “race”, sexual orientation or religious beliefs of the applicant .As mentioned earlier m:con became the first congress center in Southern Germany to promote the topic of diversity by signing the Corporate Charter of Diversity for Germany in 2013. Since June 2014 the m:con’s staff has grown to 108 employees. The make-up of the staff is as follows: 89 employees (15 on a part-time basis), 8 auxiliary workers (all part-time), 11 trainees. In addition to a digital “Welcome Brochure” for all new m:con employees, an introductory workshop that offers an overview of the company’s various departments and specific tasks was implemented in December 2013. The head of each department at m:con was requested to give a 30 minute introduction and overview of her or his specific area and to explain exactly how the various departments interact and cooperate to complete the tasks that are demanded of a service provider. Further, a guided tour through the entire congress center has also become part of a welcoming incentive offered to all new employees so that they can familiarize themselves with the history and inner as well as outer workings of the building and its various halls. In 2015, the company introduced an additional tool “starter-kit” in order to better support new incoming employees. This starter-kit package entails all necessary detailed information regarding the company’s history, structure and regulations. The Human Resources Department also promotes comprehensive team-building incentives for its staff and has promoted events such as the “After Work” and “m:con goes …” These events offer an incentive to staff members to meet and interact outside of the work environment. In addition, the idea of team building constitutes an integral part of the company’s yearly summer celebration. m:con trainees are encouraged to create a concept and organize this event. The idea here is to offer m:con trainees the space for further development of their creativity, and the opportunity to independently plan and execute projects. The health and wellbeing of all m:con staff members are also of importance to the General Management of the company. In 2011 a joint collaboration ensued between m:con and the fitness and rehabilitation center “sportomed”. “sportomed” offers every m:con staff member the opportunity to work-out and enjoy the facilities of this fitness center without additional cost. The tenure of the current members of the company’s Workers Council (Betriebsrat) is ending in the first quarter of 2014. On 10 April 2014 the Workers Council held new elections and elected seven members who will serve a period of four years on the council. Most recently a female council chair was elected to replace the former council chair. The Worker’s Council continues represent the rights and interests of their fellow employees vis-a vis management. The Workers Council will continue to act as an impartial instrument in helping to uphold the predefined working standards as stipulated by the UN Global Compact. The Workers Council has and will continue with the improvement of communication measures. This is achieved by maintaining fixed weekly office hours where employees have direct access to members of the council. Communication is also enhanced by use of an intranet platform where employees and council members can exchange ideas and information. In addition, one member of the council has been assigned the duty of attending to the needs and concerns of the B.A. degree trainees and apprentices. 5 Education and Advanced Training The m:con congress center offers a combined vocational training and Bachelor of Arts degree in cooperation with the DHBW (Baden-Wuerttemberg Cooperative State University). Degrees can be completed in the following fields: • Event Technology • Event Management • Media Management • IT-Specialist • Application Development At the time of this reporting, our company currently has 4 trainees who are B.A. students from the Baden Wuerttemberg Cooperative State University; 6 are vocational-technical trainees. In addition, there 2 secondary school interns. It is m:con’s goal whenever possible to offer its trainees upon completion of their B.A. studies an employment contract. m:con also offers training opportunities and short term internships to high school pupils and students so that they can gain practical work experience in the event and congress management sector from early on. In addition, m:con introduced for the first time in the company’s history a two-year traineeship (2013-2015) in corporate communications. The company also offers every year to all its employees, according to their needs, the opportunity to participate in advanced training courses and workshops in all areas related to the event and congress management sector. In 2013 the company set an internal budget allocated at Euros 27,000 for the advanced training of its employees and in 2014 Euro 30,000. For the year 2015 m:con increased the budget for the advanced training of its employees to Euro 42,000. In 2005 m:con established The International Event & Congress Academy (IECA) which offers additional training to employed individuals who are already working in the event and congress sector. Since 2010 IECA has cooperated with the regional Rhine-Neckar Chamber of Industry and Commerce and continuously built upon and advanced the types of workshops and courses offered by IECA. Since 2012 the IECA Academy has expanded its seminar/course selection and includes workshops and seminars in the areas of sustainability in the congress and event sector, event management & compliance, diversity and intercultural communication. These seminars are open to not only outside participants but, also to m:con employees as well. New Office in Berlin: In June 2015 m:con opened an office in Berlin and will therefore expand the IECA Academy and offer additional seminars and courses for the event and congress industry. Additional seminars on the topics of sustainable development and compliance regulations in the event & congress industry will also be part of the roster for 2016. Environmental Protection/ecological aspect Principle 7 Enterprises shall take preventive actions and support preventative measures when dealing with environmental issues. Principle 8 – take initiatives to create greater awareness and responsibility towards the environment and Principle 9 – promote the development and distribution of environmentally friendly technology. Protection of the Environment/ Ecological Dimension In addition to creating public awareness regarding the issue of environmental protection and responsibility within the business and entertainment event sector, m:con has completed additional certification. In 2011 m:con received it first certification by the FAMAB -Sustainable Company. FAMAB Sustainable Company has developed a certification system for environmental sustainability for the event and trade fair sector in cooperation with the companies CO2OL and Viabono. FAMAB Sustainable Company has in the meantime 6 become a cross border European label. As of now, FAMAB is recognized as the sustainability certification process for Germany and Switzerland. After rigorous reporting and two extensive telephone interviews, m:con was awarded in 2011 the FAMAB certification for a two-year period and became re-certified in February 2014. The company is in the process of preparing for re-certification in 2016 m:con became a supporter in October 2012 of the German Convention Bureau’s (GCB) and European Association of Event Centre’s (EVVC) sustainability initiative titled Fairpflichtet .m:con also fulfilled the conditions for the Fairplichtet certification. Fairpflichtet advocates a sustainability codex for the German event and trade fair industry that corresponds to the principles of the UN Global Compact. m:con is as of the writing of this report in the process of completing its re-certification for 2015. m:con is proud of these achievements and has communicated its steady progress in the area of sustainability by issuing external and internal press releases. In the fall of 2014 m:con created an information stand (InfoQuelle) in the buildings foyer where m:con’s sustainability progress can be viewed. Please see: http://www.rosengartenmannheim.de/en/organiser/benefits/sustainability-2/ This area entails the following: • Global Compact certificate, • Fairpflichtet certificate • Sustainable Company certificate • ClimatePartner – carbon footprint calculation certificate • Charta der Vielfalt – diversity & inclusion • 100% green electricity for travel certificate awarded by the German Railways (Deutsche Bahn) Since January 2014 m:con is listed in the “Green Meetings 2.0” data base, which lists all event and congress organizers that offer green meetings: http://www.greenmeeting20.de/location/26-m-concongresse-tagungen-events-mannheim In November 2014 m:con reaffirmed its commitment to advocating green meetings in the congress and event industry with an online advertisement in the sustainable development publication titled ForumNachhaltig Wirtschaften : http://www.forum-csr.net/default.asp?News=8085.The advertisement underlines m:con’s capabilities in this area and also draws attention to its UN Global Compact membership and commitment to its principles.m:con installed a carbon footprint calculator and also had its carbon footprint calculated in November 2014 by the consulting firm Climate Partner LLC: http://www.climatepartner.com/en/services/consulting/carbon-footprint/. Climate Partner has offices located in Munich and Berlin and is a consulting partner of the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP). m:con will compensate its carbon emissions by donating to carbonoffset projects, which comprise the company Climate Partner project portfolio. On 20 November 2014 an in-house seminar for m:con’s business development team was conducted via video-conference with Climate Partner. The team received in depth training regarding use and implementation of the carbon-footprint calculator and tips and suggestions on how to motivate clients to take advantage of the opportunity provided by m:con to conduct green meetings and events. Deutsche Umweltpreis (2019)German Environmental Award: After fulfilling strict criteria regarding technical, administrative and organizational capacities; the German Environmental Foundation (DBU-Deutsche Bundesstiftung Umwelt) https://www.dbu.de/ selected the city of Mannheim and the m:con-manheim:congress center LLC from twenty-four competitors from the event and congress industry across Germany to host the German Environmental Award in 2019. See: http://www.forum-csr.net/default.asp?News=8397. 7 Our Claim: Sustainability in Cooperation with Specialized Partnerships As in past years, m:con still maintains its partnership with the facility management company WISAG Service Holding and the energy provider MVV Public Holding Company. Both corporations are vital to m:con’s infrastructure. WISAG and MVV provide m:con with the following services: Energy (electricity, heating, water) and electrical utility maintenance Documentation, reporting and consultation in regard to the optimization of these processes Technical building engineering management Maintenance of the facility and its premises Seating Housekeeping m:con maintains the following ecologically friendly measures for disposal of waste products and house-keeping: Utilization of bio-degradable cleaning products Leftover foodstuff is collected and processed into biogas by an organic waste contractor Sanitary facilities that utilize a “lotus effect” (water repellent) system In-house separation of waste materials The Dorint Congress Hotel is the catering partner of m:con and works in close cooperation with the company to provide sustainable catering options to clients. Our catering partner provides the following: Dorint Hotel has implemented a user-friendly Co2 calculator for guests Locally grown produce from the Palatinate region is utilized, which minimizes transport, thus reducing CO2 emissions Organic food catering services and Fair Trade coffee and tea upon request The utilization of energy saving of dishwashers that have reduced water consumption by more than 35% Reusable flatware is used for all events m:con-mannheim:congress LLC has installed its own CO2 calculator m:con Congress Center Mannheim Surroundings: Superb Location and Climate Friendly Infrastructure The m:con congress center Mannheim has a superb location in the low emissions zone of the city center and is seven minutes away (by foot) or 900 meters from the main station Mannheim’s main station is the second most important railway junction in the ICE highspeed intercity train system. Thirty minutes by train from Frankfurt International Airport makes arriving in Mannheim easy and as of January 2014 climate neutral train service, since the German National Railway now utilizes 100% green electricity. m:con congress center maintains its partnership with the German National Railway and provides visitors with a rail/travel event entrance ticket. In addition, m:con cooperates with the local transportation network (ÖPNV) of the Rhine-Neckar metropolitan region and provides congress and cultural event visitors with a combined public transportation and entrance ticket. Rental bicycles are offered free of charge to m:con guests and visitors during their stay in Mannheim 8 Electric cars are used by m:con for shuttle services to and from Mannheim’s main station and the city center. A public recharging station for electric vehicles has been implemented and is currently in use. The m:con Berlin office enables clients located in Northern Germany to reduce travel time and distance, thus reducing carbon (CO2) emissions. m:con continues to give much thought to the reduction of print products and the use of promotional items that conserve natural resources. On 29 February 2012 m:con introduced its mobile congress app for smart phones and an online questionnaire for customers to rate the agency’s performance and service. The introduction of these eco-friendly products has further reduced the need for printed congress guides and questionnaires. In regard to eco-friendly promotional items, m:con utilizes branded pencils, notebooks from FSC sources and textile-based key chains and refrains from products (i.e. plastic) that further tax natural resources and the environment. Fight Against Corruption Principle 10 Enterprises shall take action against all forms of corruption, and especially against blackmail and bribes. In April 2015 m:con’s detailed compliance system went into effect. In addition, a compliance brochure was produced that outlines the basic compliance principles as upheld by the (MCGK) Mannheim Corporate Governance Codex. This brochure will serve as a tool to better assist all m:con-mannheim congress staff members (Line Managers as well as lower level employees) in their interactions with clients in regard to compliance guidelines and standards. Pledge to Make Public Announcements: m:con is a 100% subsidiary of the city of Mannheim’s Investment Company (LLC) and as a contractor of public services we appoint all delivery, construction or service contracts according to policies stipulated by tendering laws against restrictions on competition (GEB). We ensure fair competition in conformity with the market for all contracts by making public announcements for all tenders. For more detailed information on this subject and general procedures, please see our website: http://www.mconmannheim.de/de/Bekanntgabe-Auftragsvergaben.htm. Compliance to the Pharamceutical Code: As a Professional Congress Organizer, the planning and hosting of scientific and medical conferences is one of our main activities. These conferences take place in collaboration with the pharmaceutical industry and members of this business sector. m:con always strictly respects the regulations of the pharmaceutical code (FSA-Code) as stipulated by the Union of “Voluntary Self-Regulation Controls for the Pharmaceutical Industry e.V.”) when planning and hosting an event so that such may be carried out according to the wishes of our clients and free of dishonest influences. 9 To ensure that all endeavors are transparent and adhere to these regulations, several m:con employees have attended workshops and received additional training so that they are informed about the contents, regulations and interpretations of the pharmaceutical codes that need to be considered while planning events that deal with or concentrate on this topic. Measure to Prevent Partiality As in the past, all invitations to m:con-mannheim congress events contain an explicit notification that anyone who receives an invitation to an event must ensure that her/his participation in the event has been authorized by the responsible authorities. Our invitations contain the following passage: “This invitation is being sent to you under the conditions that you have obtained the necessary approval from the responsible authorities to attend this event. If this has not been granted, then please disregard this invitation”. This progress report and the measures described within will also be made available in German, thus making it accessible to all our stakeholders. The report shall be posted on our Green Meetings website as of September 2015. Please see: http://www.rosengarten-mannheim.de/en/organiser/benefits/sustainability/ Furthermore, we continuously make reference to m:con’s membership in the UN Global Compact Network in order to foster more public awareness in our region for the UN Global Compact and its principles. Johann W. Wagner Chief Executive Officer m:con-mannheim:congress LLC Rosengartenplatz 2 68161 Mannheim, Germany 1 Hereafter referred to as m:con. 2 LGBTIQ – is the acronym for Lesbian, Gay Bisexual, Transgender/Transsexual/Intersex/ Queer 3 Kompetenzzentrum zu sexuelle übertragbaren Infektionen. Mannheim (Competence Center for Sexually Transmitted Infections. Mannheim) See: http://www.kosima-mannheim.de/. 10
