sustainability performance report 2014 Committed to Sustainability environmental leadership 4 Letter from CEO 5 About the report 6 Voices from stakeholders 8 About DyStar Vision, mission & core values Worldwide presence At a glance Products and services Memberships Economical performance 14 Governance at DyStar Board of directors Our Commitment To sustainability table of contents Senior management Two core committees Code of conduct Compliance management DyStar strives to be the 16 Sustainability at DyStar Actions environmental and innovation Approach Strategy global leader in our Committee Activities chosen industries. 20 Sustainability priorities Stakeholder engagement Materials assessment 22 Sustainability in numbers Ensure sustainable operations Provide responsible products & services Promote ethical practices innovative 38 Data at a glance 39 GRI® index leadership 52 UNCG index 53 Your views letter from CEO about the report Dear Stakeholders, munity development initiatives. Donation of This is DyStar’s fifth Sustainability Report performance data owing to its operation food and money in disaster-struck regions, since 2010 when we first began the annual at the earlier location for first six months I have great pleasure in presenting to you helping integrate differently-abled people practice of reporting on our sustainability have been reported. DyStar’s Annual Corporate Sustainability Rewithin society, and helping those suffering performance. port for 2014.This marks the fifth year of our from HIV/AIDS are few of the notable activiIn 2013, DyStar acquired the assets and busisustainability journey which began in 2010. ties undertaken by DyStar employees during This report presents our triple bottom-line ness of Lenmar Chemical Corporation of Dal2014. i.e. Economic, Environment and Social suston, Georgia and the site has been included At DyStar, we take unrelenting efforts to the Sustainable Apparel Coalition which is in tainability performance for the year 2014. in the boundary for Sustainability Report for meet our stakeholders’ expectations. With the process of developing an Apparel Index, Our commitment to financial stability has Our report focuses on the environmental the current reporting period, 2014. over 150 years’ experience, we have been which takes a full life-cycle view of an apparincreased in all three operation regions and social challenges that matter most to maintaining our business through very roel product and identifies all major social and Asia, Europe and America. We continue to our stakeholders who include local comreporting process bust customer relations, strong technical environmental impacts along the producboost our local economy where we operate munities, governments, non-governmenWe follow a content selection process to idenour entire operations. Any assumptions and expertise and a superior product portfolio tion chain from cradle to grave. We believe through procurement of materials and sertal organizations, customers, shareholders, tify the most material topics for our reporting. methodology used for analysis or reporting both in terms of competitiveness and qualthis will help from a more sustainable textile vices from local suppliers. This also helps investors, employees, media, academics, are included in the report as applicable. ity. Our employees' dedication and expertise value chain. us control quality, minimize costs, meet decontractors, and suppliers. This report serves The entire journey of the sustainability has been and continues to be a major reareporting process is led by DyStar’s SusThe information and basis for calculation in livery targets and increase efficiency of our as our formal Communication of Progress son for this success. We also understand the Over the years we have built our core strength tainability Committee with support from a this report are based on GRI standards. All of operations. (COP) to the United Nations Global Comfast-evolving consumer awareness towards in product stewardship which has enabled us cross-functional team of staff from all prothe data and information for the reporting pact (UNGC) principles. increasing need for more information as to to build strong and supportive relationships Our continued commitment to the United duction sites and offices across the world. period has been sourced from the responhow their clothes have been manufactured, with our widely expanding customer groups. Nations Global Compact (UNGC) ensures We illustrate how sustainability contributes sible business units using representative We assess all of our products for health & we are representing the highest standards to DyStar’s success and how we as a comWe identify and understand topics of signifimethods. the extent of use of chemicals, and the worksafety impacts at each stage of the product of ethics in our human rights, employment pany create value for our employees, sharecance to our stakeholders through a range of ing conditions in factories producing these lifecycle –product concept development, stakeholder engagements and reviews along All non-financial data in this report has been clothes. Coupled with the ever-increasing practices, anti-corruption and environmenholders, and partners. R&D, registration, manufacturing, marketing with our established internal processes. reported on a 100% basis for companies and number of world-wide regulations in the tal efforts. At DyStar, we strive to conduct & promotion, storage, distribution and supThe report has been prepared in accordance joint ventures where we are the primary opchemicals, dyes and textile industries, this our business activities with the highest poswith the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI®) G3.1 Our sustainability committee reviews the erator. We use proprietary sustainability data has underpinned our sustainability vision to ply, use & service and disposal, reuse or recysible standards of integrity and in line with Guidelines as per the Application level B and content to ensure that coverage is commanagement software for collection and improve our own production processes, decling. We continue to provide healthier, safer our Code of Conduct. The Code of Conduct covers 30 Core and 14 Additional Indicators. plete, relevant and balanced. We seek alignanalysis of sustainability information. The velop innovative products and services and and ecologically compatible products for the sets out our legal and ethical principles ment service for ‘Application Level’ of our resystem involves a two-tier data verification promote sustainable practices along the enapparel industry. which guide our daily work and help us upIn the next year, we intend to develop our port from GRI. The Application Level Service process in order to have the most accurate tire textile value chain. hold DyStar’s reputation as an employer of At DyStar, we strongly believe, employees are report as per the latest available framework Icon obtained from GRI has been placed on disclosure of sustainability performance. choice and a reliable business partner. key to what we achieve. We ensure through of GRI G4 and ‘In Accordance Core’ option. the first page of GRI Content Index. We have In 2010, we published our first Sustainabilour actions, that our employees benefit from We recognize that apart from our own unnot sought any external assurance for the feedback ity Report and established concrete goals their commitment and contribution to our derstanding and analysis, our sustainabilscope and boundary current sustainability report. We solicit your feedback to improve upon for reduction of our operational impacts. success. We provide a working environment ity goals and objectives depend to a large of the report the reporting process in future years. Any Our constant actions in environmental that recognizes the needs of our multiculturdegree on the feedback we receive from our The report captures the sustainability perabout our data query with respect to this report may be stewardship have helped us reduce energy consumption by 21.5% and GHG emission al and geographically-dispersed workforce. stakeholders and readers. We listen to your formance data for the business units, faciliWhile reporting on key sustainability peraddressed to: sustainability@dystar.com intensity by 14.8%. We closely monitor our We understand the importance of personal feedback and would be happy to see your ties and subsidiaries that are operationally formance indicators, we have made an atresource consumption and our major progrowth for our employees throughout their comments or suggestions in the enclosed and financially controlled by DyStar Group. tempt to apply a uniform approach for data duction plants have reported a continuous careers, and offer opportunities for them to feedback form. collection, measurement and calculation for enhance their knowledge and skills through Operations at the production plant in Hangreduction in energy intensity over the last 4 a wide variety of training and development Thank you for your support. zhou, China, were discontinued and moved years. We take pride in this achievement as programs. to the plant in Nanjing, China in 2013 and we operate in a challenging environment hence not included in the boundary for the that requires a broad and dynamic product The 2014 online report can be found at: Our strict adherence to health & safety policurrent reporting period. mix due to the constantly changing market With best regards, www.dystarsustainability.com cies and practices has resulted in significant and consumer requirements. Some laboratory activities in Singapore have reduction of Lost Time due to Injury at our For more on sustainability, see: workplaces. We consider this as a very imbeen terminated and hence its sustainability In addition to our commitment to reduce www.dystar.com/sustainability portant achievement in our effort towards data for the current reporting period is not environmental impacts of our own operaZero Accident at Workplace. available. The laboratory at Corlu, Turkey was For more on Global Reporting Initiative, see: tions, we remain focused on inculcating a closed in July 2014 and shifted to the site of www.globalreporting.org sense of sustainable operations in our value Eric Hopmann We believe in creating value for the society the production plant at Corlu. Sustainability chain partners. We are an active member of Chief Executive Officer through engaging our employees in com1 Data from subsidiaries with more than 20 employees has been included in the report. 4 DyStar su sta ina b il it y per fo r m a n ce repo r t 2014 DyStar su st ain ab i l i t y p e r for m a n ce re p or t 2014 5 “ voices of stakeholders Gerald Talhoff VP, GLOBAL MANUFACTURING, SUPPLY CHAIN, IT & SUSTAINABILITY Singapore We are pleased to share yet another disclosure on our sustainability performance with our stakeholders. While we continue with our key thrust to ensure that the needs of customers are fulfilled, we are striving hard to meet and go beyond our 2020 sustainability targets. It is a pride and honor to share that despite a near constant production activity in 2014 vs 2013, our overall energy consumption has reduced by 6.7%. We have been able to reduce electricity and steam consumption in several production plants including Nanjing (China), Naucalpan (Mexico), Pietermaritzburg (South Africa), Reidsville (USA) and Samutprakarn (Thailand). We have also increased our green energy mix by switching to partially renewable energy in Portugal. Our site management teams, supported by our global sustainability team, are busy analysing and taking up speDr. Clemens Grund VICE PRESIDENT TECHNOLOGY Germany Sustainability is the top priority for DyStar in Research & Development and Global Product Safety & Ecology. In 2014 DyStar launched a new black dyestuff for wool, Realan® Black MF-PV, which features a newly developed chromophore which is completely free of AOX and heavy metals. This permits ecologically sound dyeing processes and textile products which are compliant with all ecological and technical requirements. The dye has a very high fixation rate and outstanding build-up properties delivering great benefits for the customer. By using such ecologically-driven product innovation, customers can reduce the environmental impact of their processes by saving chemicals, water and energy. Sherrie XU GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY MANAGER China We live on a 4.5 billion year old earth and we have done a lot of damage to it. About 70% of the major fisheries have been depleted or are at their biological limit. Forest cover has been reduced by as much as 50% worldwide. Almost 40% of the world’s population is experiencing serious water shortage. Our natural environment is not for the benefit of us so that we can use and misuse it. Today there are four major environmental concerns in the world, specifically: • Water quality and quantity • Depletion of fossil fuels • Climate change resulting primarily from fossil fuels • Population growth – eventually exceeding the earth’s capacity. Sustainability management is defined as the intersection/interaction of environmental, economic, and We also developed our two-fold sustainability strategy to implement this goal: to not only reduce the impact of our operations but also to help our customers reduce their impact. Our results to date can be found in this report. Some of the highlights from the past year’s sustainability accomplishments include: • Our Pietermaritzburg plant in Africa engaged services of an external agency for segregation of waste into hazardous and non-hazardous. • Our Nanjing plant in China built a new waste collection & storage location, totally recycled 83,480kg waste. • Our Naucalpan plant in Mexico took back plastic containers from customers and suppliers. A campaign was run to save energy in electric lighting and use of electronic equipment. • At Reidsville in US, reduction of 40% of trash to landfill ” cific initiatives to further increase our energy social spheres. In working towards sustainability, we was achieved by implementing and further developing efficiency. Their combined efforts have helped must consider and properly implement all of these criour recycling program for cardboard, plastic bottles, us conserve nearly 18,000MWh of energy teria. glass, aluminium and paper. making our production and overall operation ”In recent years, legal ecological requirements • In our Mem Martins production in Portugal, the use of When we announced our long-term environmental more energy efficient and hence sustainable. related to our and our customers' products pre-heated dispersing agent was reduced. vision years ago, we set our goals to ensure we were have increased globally. In 2015, for example, We realize that our water consumption needs making measurable progress. Our goal is to reduce our Many of the challenges we face in sustainability are imto be monitored closely and we are taking up we need to implement GHS – the globally harimpact by 20% by 2020 in four areas: Energy, Water, possible to achieve on our own. We need partnerships with initiatives across the board to further cap our monized system for classification and labelWaste Water, and GHG. companies, governments, customers, NGOs and Academia water intensity. ling of chemical products – in many regions to cooperate and reach our common goal – to reduce our worldwide. For us occupational health, process and plant Dr. Christine impact on the planet. safety are key areas which we take very seriLorkowski Additionally there is an increased public conous in our global operation. We are very hapPDM, CUSTOMER cern on sustainability aspects. This concern is SERVICE ECONFIDENCE, ”Sustainability of all sorts is a key task and py to see our total lost injury days going down not only about chemicals in consumer prodREACH-MANAGER duty for the Product Management Team. by 90% in 2014. TECHNOLOGY / GLOBAL ucts, but also the environmental impact of a Therefore we work with Product Safety & EcolPRODUCT SAFETY & chemicals synthesis and their applications. As we move on to 2015, we will continue to foECOLOGY ogy Teams to ensure that all products not only cus on our sustainability mission, our targets Germany Via DyStar's internal product registration comply with the legal requirements worldfor 2020 and we are planning to include our process and extensive analytical monitoring wide, but also go beyond in terms of their own key supply chain aspects into our sustainabilroutines within the econfidence® program, sustainability by complying with voluntary reDyStar® Group and DyeCoo Textile Systems ity disclosures. we have implemented a chemical manageGuido quirements such as e.g. Brand & Retailer RSL’s are collaborating on the development of ment system based on which we are able to Krabbe (Restricted Substances Lists) etc. products, using DyeCoo’s breakthrough techprovide our customers with products of highGLOBAL PRODUCT nology of substituting carbon dioxide (CO₂) MANAGER We take considerable efforts through our est possible level of quality which are in full VAT DYES for water in the dyeing process. DyeCoo Texeconfidence® program to ensure that our compliance with legal requirements on marGermany tile Systems is the world's first supplier of inproducts are amongst the cleanest available dustrial CO₂ dyeing equipment, which uses “We create growth by developing new soluketing and use. Our team of experts is busy in the market.” Fanny recycled CO₂ gas instead of water to permeate tions for future challenges of environment. to ensure the provision of appropriate safety Vermandel textiles with dyes. This partnership will pave We care about sustainability reporting as it data sheets (available in 29 different languagMARKETING the way for more ecological products which creates an excellent platform for demonstrates). Ecologically based product recommendaDIRECTOR will meet the rigorous demands of the indusing our performance and shows leadership to tions referring to specific B&R applications are Germany At DyStar, we always seek to ensure that not try. This technology offers a huge potential our customers that DyStar is their sustainable derived by the experts and provided as a stanonly our own operations, but also those of to save water and energy, both of which are partner of choice for dyes, chemicals and dard on the daily business.” our Suppliers are sustainable. We lay strong top priorities for the textile dyers. In DyStar, we Julian services.” Metcalfe emphasis on policies covering child labour, fully commit to this project to offer the highest BUSINESS forced labour, wage management and husustainable solutions for the textile industry. MANAGER man rights all across our supply chain. We Charlotte, US make sure that the suppliers are screened well Vera to uncover any shortcomings. It is encouragHuang ing to see new disclosure requirements on susVP, GLOBAL PROCUREMENT & GM, tainability in the supply chain by GRI. We are China gearing ourselves to evolve systems that will enable us provide transparent and reliable disclosures on our supply chain. 6 DyStar su sta ina b il it y per fo r m a n ce repo r t 2014 DyStar su st ain ab i l i t y p e r for m a n ce re p or t 2014 7 DyStar is one of the leading global organizations delivering high quality about DyStar colorants, auxiliary chemicals, and services to the textile, paper and leather industry as well as other specialty chemical industries. vision our worldwide presence We strive to be the environmental and innovation global leader in our chosen industries. Raunheim Ludwigshafen mission More than 100 years of experience in production and application With the support of our shareholders we aim to invest in our leaderdevelopment for textiles dyes and chemicals, has set us up to conship to make a difference, by living up to global and legal business Milan sistently grow our business and also venture out into new markets requirements and environmental and social responsibilities and by Porto Istanbul Kyunggi-do Reidsville, NC Corlu Osaka and industries like paper, plastic and other specialty chemicals. reducing the ecological impact of both our own and our customers’ Dalton, GA Charlotte, NC Mem Martins Nanjing Wuxi Omuta Cairo Ankleshwar Shanghai operations. Karachi We will continue to use our expertise and creativity to support the Naucalpan Taipei Navi Mumbai Dhaka Hong Kong competitiveness and business growth of our customers Brands & Our focus is on quality and resilience for the entire supply chain of Mexico City Samutprakarn Medellin Singapore Retailers, Mills, Dye Houses, Printers and Laundries – by bringing to our customers. Through our innovative products and services we Quito market cost-effective and innovative new products as well as intehelp our supply chain partners to produce low-impact consumer Jakarta Lima grated technical and environmental solutions. products meeting the highest environmental and quality standards Gabus Global Headquarters in the most cost effective way. DyStar Office São Paulo Apiúna Key Production Site Pietermaritzburg core values Operates in 22 RE SPON SIBILIT Y I N N O VAT I O N EXCELLENCE DyStar at a glance $ 938 million Countries USD DyStar Group is owned by DyStar Global DyStar operates worldwide and respects a DyStar is committed to continuous innoThe quality of our products and services is a Holdings (Singapore) Pte Ltd, a special purwide range of legal requirements and cultural circumstances. We are committed to vation not only in products and services but also in manufacturing techniques and key factor in our company’s success and underpins the fulfillment of our corporate goals. pose vehicle jointly owned by India-based Kiri Dyes and Chemicals Limited and Chi2014 Revenue 14 Production conducting our business activities with the business processes in order to deliver envina-based Longsheng Group. Facilities in 12 highest levels of integrity and ethical stanronmentally compatible products and miniOur manufacturing processes, products and application methods are trend-setting. Our DyStar operates in 22 countries with 14 prodards. We ensure a safe and healthy environmize the impact on the environment of our industry-leading econfidence® program is duction facilities in 12 countries. We employ Countries ment for our employees with equal opportunities. We honor the intellectual property operations and those of our customers in the industry sectors we supply. designed not only to provide assurance to around 2200 people who manage our op27% erations across the world. The DyStar Group America 45% of our competitors. We take our responsiour customers that the dyes and chemicals bility seriously to protect the environment. we supply comply with legal requirements has offices, competence centers and agenOffices & but also to consult so that the selected cies in over 50 countries to ensure the availAsia Agencies Our products and manufacturing sites are ability of expertise in all important markets. in over 50 products are compliant with voluntary and 28% compliant with environmental and other relevant regulations. brand & retailer RSL (Restricted Substance The company is headquartered in SingaCountries List) requirements. The econfidence® propore. . In 2014 our revenue was $938 million Europe gram allows DyStar to build partnerships USD with a share of 45% in Asia, 28% in Eualong the value chain to foster more sustainrope and 27% in America. able production in the apparel, textile and leather sectors. Approximately We continue to create a motivating and creative work environment to attract talented 2200 Employees and services oriented employees. 2 For more details on company profile, locations and operations, please refer to our website www.dystar.com or our previous sustainability reports at www.dystar.com/Sustainability 8 DyStar su sta ina b il it y per fo r m a n ce repo r t 2014 DyStar su st ain ab i l i t y p e r for m a n ce re p or t 2014 9 about DyStar our products our services DyStar offers a wide range of products and services to support not are manufactured and sold in accordance with applicable chemical E CO LO G Y S O LU T I O N S only the textile value chain but also the leather, paper and specialty legislations such as REACH. DyStar offers many items which comchemicals industries. Our product innovation has resulted in over ply to industry eco-label standards such as Oeko-Tex® Standard 100 ● Enable our customers to undertake responsible and sustainable pro1,500 product-related trademarks across 100 countries worldwide. or individual brand and retailer Restricted Substances Lists (RSLs). duction Our products are designed to provide safe, toxic free and environSeveral “Positive Lists” are published on the DyStar website. ● Advise customers on relevant legislations and ecological issues mentally compatible solutions to our customers. All of our products ● Give guidance on DyStar products suited to meet various ecological DY E S specifications and requirements DyStar is the world’s leading supplier of textile dyes. We have by Featured Dyes which highlight their eco-friendly use, cost-effectivefar the broadest product range on the market, covering almost all ness are provided in our website. CO LO R S O LU T I O N S I N T E R N AT I O N A L fibers and quality specifications. Details of our wide range of ● Leading provider of color standards and color communication tools for DYES sustainable color communication services & INKS ● Supports brands and retailers by providing color tools, building color palettes, engineering colors and standards, and managing distribution REACTIVE DIRECT VAT ACID DISPERSE BASIC MORDANT DENIM to industry partners JETTEX® PIGMENTS DYES DYES DYES DYES DYES DYES DYES DYES DYSTAR T E S T I N G S O LU T I O N S – T E X A N L A B LEVAFIX® SIRIUS® INDANTHREN® TELON® DIANIX® ASTRAZON® DIAMOND IMPERON® INDIGO ● ISO 17025 certified, boutique testing laboratory with experience of testing over 125,000 samples of dyes, chemicals, fabrics and apparel for PROCION® SUPRALAN® PALANIL® CASSULFON® ecological parameters ● Has expertise in ecology testing and analysis according to the requirements of CPSIA, EU Eco-label and brands & retailers’ RSLs (Restricted REMAZOL® ISOLAN® Substances Lists) REALAN® (for wool) S U S TA I N A B L E T E X T I L E S O LU T I O N S ● Focus on three main components: consultancy, auditing and capacity building AU X I L I A R I E S AUXILIARIES ● Dedicated to assisting brands, retailers and industry partners implement DyStar has a wide range of textile auxiliaries which are designed to sustainable textile production that meets their quality and eco-requireoffer solutions for the entire textile wet processing chain – spinning/ ments and makes more efficient use of resources weaving, pretreatment, dyeing, printing, laundry, finishing and coatSERA® EVO® LAVA® ing. Our product range is categorized as: Our detailed services profile can be accessed on www.dystar.com/Services L E AT H E R A N D F U R DyStar offers superior quality leather dyes based on our expertise in products. By taking advantage of our specialized services our cusleather chemistry. Our products are available in several vibrant colors tomers are able to meet a wide range of test specifications and ecoand also help optimize the ecological profile of leather production for logical requirements. Some examples are Oeko-Tex® Standard 100, our clients. We are the original producer of Boehme® Fatliquors and RSLs from various brands and the SG label for leather manufactured Auxiliaries. Our products suit every application from economical shoe without toxic chemicals. upper dyeing to high fastness upholstery leathers and high-fashion Our detailed product profile can be accessed on www.dystar.com/Products 10 DyStar su sta ina b il it y per fo r m a n ce repo r t 2014 DyStar su st ain ab i l i t y p e r for m a n ce re p or t 2014 11 about DyStar memberships our economical performance DyStar is a prime promoter of sustainability in textile value chain and is member of several international organizations driving sustainability DyStar financial performance has seen a considerable improvement Our production has reduced by around 2% this year; however, we in textile, leather and associated industries. this year. Our gross revenue has increased from the previous year by maintained our costs at the same level. This exhibits a high level of around 14%, and has increased for all three operations Asia, Europe efficiencies in managing our operations. We are very happy to reC S R , S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y A N D INDUSTRY and America. This has been possible due to our persistent effort port that this year the economic value retained for the company E C O L O G Y O R G A N I Z AT I O N S A S S O C I AT I O N S to remain efficient in our operations, deliv ering quality products has increased by over 100%. We are proud to create more economic to our expanding client base and focused approach on R&D and value for our shareholders and this trend of increasing economic ● United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) ● Textile and Fashion Federation (Taff ), Singapore innovation. value reinstates our financial sustainability. ● Sustainable Apparel Coalition (SAC) ● Brazilian Association of Chemistry, Brazil ● Textile Exchange ● Association of International Chemical Manufacturers DY S TA R ’ S E C O N O M I C P E R F O R M A N C E (AICM), China ● The Ecological and Toxicological Association of Dyes and Organic Pigments Manufacturers (ETAD®) ● China Dyestuff Industry Association, China ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE 2013 2014 ● bluesign® ● Ankleshwar Industries Association, India DIRECT ECONOMIC VALUE GENERATED IN MILLION USD ● Global Apparel, Footwear and Textile Initiative (GAFTI) ● Anyer Merak Cilegon Chemical Manufacturer Association, Indonesia ● Singapore Compact for Corporate Social Responsibility REVENUES 822.86 937.99 ● South African Dyers and Finishers Association, South Africa ● National Committee of Responsible Care®, Indonesia ASIA 372.90 419.18 ● German Chemical Industry Association (VCI), Germany EUROPE 239.98 266.10 ● GOTS (Global Organic Textile Standard) AMERICAS 209.98 252.71 ● Society of Dyers and Colourists (SDC), UK ● American Association of Textiles Chemists and Colorists ECONOMIC VALUE DISTRIBUTED IN MILLION USD (AATCC), USA OPERATING COSTS 638.76 683.48 ● American Apparel and Footwear Association (AAFA), USA. ASIA 356.18 413.92 ● ABIT (Associação Brasileira das Indústrias Têxteis) – Brazilian Association of Textile Industries. EUROPE 164.24 146.09 AMERICAS 118.34 123.47 ● ABIQUIM (Associação Brasileira das Indústrias Químicas) – Brazilian Association of Chemical Industries. EMPLOYEE WAGES AND BENEFITS 107.20 118.03 ● SINPROQUIM (Sindicato das Indústrias de Produtos QuímiASIA 43.34 50.01 cos) – Union of Chemical Products Industries. EUROPE 41.56 42.68 ● ABQCT (Associação Brasileira de Químicos e Coloristas TêxAMERICAS 22.31 25.34 teis)Brazilian Association of Textile Colorists and Chemists. PAYMENTS TO PROVIDERS OF CAPITAL 12.55 11.34 PAYMENTS TO GOVERNMENT 14.49 25.01 ECONOMIC VALUE RETAINED 49.87 100.09 Our total expenditure on purchase of materials has gone down this helps us control quality, costs, meet delivery targets and make our year by around 6%, whereas our production has reduced by only operations efficient. Approximately 57% of our total material is pur2%. This was possible due to increased practice of recycle and reuse chased locally and almost all of services IT, transport, maintenance, at some of our production sites. Keeping in line with our past praccalibration, cleaning, security, freight transport, utilities, insurance, tice, we continue to purchase primarily from our local suppliers. This and consultancy services are sourced locally. 12 DyStar su sta ina b il it y per fo r m a n ce repo r t 2014 DyStar su st ain ab i l i t y p e r for m a n ce re p or t 2014 13 governance at DyStar board of directors and senior management two core committees Our Board of Directors and Senior Management team comprising PRIMARY RESPONSIBILITY OF THE BOARD INCLUDES: We have two core committees to assist the Board and the senior PRIMARY RESPONSIBILITIES OF THESE COMMITTEES ARE: five members each form the governance structure. Together they management in performing their tasks. are responsible for guiding the company to achieve our long terms ● Oversee the utilization of financial resources goals in a transparent and sustainable manner. ● Decide the appointment and compensation of senior management AU D I T CO M M I T T E E R E M U N E R AT I O N CO M M I T T E E Our board members are industry experts with many years of ex● Ensure compliance with laws, business ethics and risk management ● Monitor proper internal control process, risk management ● Ensure Human Resource policies of the Company are consistent pertise in handling corporate affairs and governance. They oversee policies and practices in its principle and aligned with Company’s strategic objectives and support promotion of transparency and good corporate gover● Review business plans and the strategic direction of the company nance in the company’s policies and operations. The board is head● Supervise the financial reporting and disclosure process ● Review and recommend remuneration framework for the maned by a Chairman who is not an executive officer of the company. agement and employees including appointing and defining ● Oversee the hiring, performance and independence of the external auditors remuneration package of senior management ● Define Global Organizational Structure and Development to ● Oversee regulatory compliance, ethics, and whistleblower BOARD hotlines support Company strategic growth OF ● Ensure Company compliance with laws and best practice in ● Supervise the performance of the internal audit function DIRECTORS Human Resource area ● Monitor Global HR initiatives enhancing business continuity, efficiency and organization competitiveness our code of conduct Ruan Manish Xu Amit Yao At DyStar, we strive to conduct our business activities with utmost Our code of conduct also guides us on our management approach Weixiang Kiri Yalin Mukherjee Jianfang integrity and in line with our code of conduct3. The Code of Conduct both for internal stakeholders and external stakeholders. Within the CHAIRMAN DIRECTOR DIRECTOR DIRECTOR DIRECTOR sets out our legal and ethical principles by which to guide our daily organization, it promotes transparent operations, employee satiswork and to help us uphold DyStar’s reputation as the employer of faction & retention, talent attraction, health and safety aspects. Exchoice and reliable business partner. It is binding for all our employternally, it promotes fair competition, customer satisfaction, respect ees and the entities who are a part of the DyStar Group. for local laws and above all high product and service quality. The Group CEO and President develops strategic plans and policies communication channels. Simultaneously, our employees are given compliance management in consultation with senior management, which are presented to direct access to senior management to raise their concerns or sugthe Board for approval. Senior management also periodically sengest any improvements in our policies or operations through our Being an international organization with operations across 22 counG l o bal tries, it is the responsibility of our employee to ensure we conduct our sitize the employees about ethical business practices and DyStar’s Open Door Policy. business activities and transactions with the highest level of integrity Co m pl i a nce Fu nc t io n expectations through company meetings and various other internal and ethical standards in accordance with all applicable laws and reguObjec t ive s lations on a global basis. ● Foster a culture of honesty and high ethical SENIOR Our Global Compliance Management Department was set-up to enstandards MANAGEMENT sure adherence to laws and regulations, Environmental, Hazard and ● Evaluate and mitigate risks for the Company Safety (EHS) requirements, rules of actions, established standards, ● Raise awareness among employees on the and social accountability guidelines, code of conduct, company need for adherence to laws and regulations guidelines and management directives by DyStar staff. ● Improve public image of the Company This function is driven by: Gerald Vera Eric Kevin Tan Victor Talhoff Huang ➊ Our Global Compliance Management Officer who is responsible Hopmann VP, GLOBAL HR, Leendertz VP, GLOBAL MANUFACTURVP, GLOBAL for ensuring compliance to laws and regulations in general at all GROUP CEO QUALITY & GROUP CFO ING, SUPPLY CHAIN, IT & PROCUREMENT & GM, DyStar entities worldwide. He is supported by the local CompliCOMPLIANCE SUSTAINABILITY GREATER CHINA ance Management officer and a team who are designated offiDyStar is proud of its internationally certified Management Systems: cers responsible for local compliance management. ISO9001 AND ISO 14001 CERTIFIED MANAGEMENT SYSTEM ➋ Group Legal Counsel, who is responsible for interacting with govADOPTED SA 8000: SOCIAL ACCOUNTABILITY GUIDELINES ernmental authorities in cases of deviation and also advises employees on laws and regulations, and legal considerations in case of deviation and non-compliance. 3 For detailed version of our code of conduct please visit www.dystar.com/corporate-social-responsibility 14 DyStar su sta ina b il it y per fo r m a n ce repo r t 2014 DyStar su st ain ab i l i t y p e r for m a n ce re p or t 2014 15 DyStar defines sustainability as a working closed system balancing economic success sustainability at DyStar with social and environment responsibility. relevance of sustainable actions for DyStar DyStar's approach towards sustainability At DyStar, we strive to understand our stakeholders’ expectations. consumption of energy, water and other resources, effluents and INDUSTRY We understand the key to sustainable business lies in addressing waste generation. The global textile industry is considered to be the single largest contributor to industrial the risks that threaten the common things we value. We are comwaste water and the largest user of pesticides. The social aspects associated with the mitted to address risks to ensure that we play our part as sustainWe are committed to a responsible approach towards maintaining industry have been under scrutiny for a couple of decades since the early 1990s. able business partners to global Brands and Retailers and other the health and safety of our customers, employees, and the local These factors coupled with increasing regulations restricting the use of chemiimportant stakeholder groups. communities in which we operate. With these objectives in mind, cals in the textile value chain and consumer preference for sustainable products we design and implement innovative systems, programs and prohave driven manufacturers towards sustainable production processes. We have aligned our sustainability approach to the overall issues cesses to mitigate any impacts. We also assist our customers in refaced by the industry and aim to address these issues through coducing their environmental impact by providing a wide range of A survey in developed economies, highlighted that around 78% of shopherent and consistent efforts each year. We measure the environsustainable products and ecological solutions for their operations. pers wanted more information as to how their clothes have been manumental impact of our own operations in the form of GHG emissions, factured, the extent of use of chemicals, as well as conditions in factories producing these clothes. This evolution in consumer behavior has influenced Brands and Retailers to think about the sustainability issues in their supply chain and ways to manage them. O U R R E N E W E D C O R P O R AT E S T R AT E G Y T O S T R E N G T H E N S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y B R A N D VA LU E In emerging economies, regulations surrounding energy, emissions, water use have also constrained Brands and Retailers to focus on the sustainability aspects of their supply chain. The progressive Brands are gradually demanding more information from their supply chain partners about material usage, energy consumption, carbon emissions, water & chemical footprint and labor practices. Product SafetyHOW INDUSTRY TRENDS econfidence® I N S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y A R E I M PA C T I N G DY S TA R Understanding Reduce DyStar globally caters to the business requirements of such Brands and addressing environmental and Retailers and is aware of its responsibilities towards its customers. The dyes and chemicals industry is extremely resource intensive and stakeholders’ impact of products has a focus on the following aspects from sustainability point of view. expectations & services SUSTAINABILITY ISSUES IN CHEMICAL AND DYING INDUSTRIES Sustainability at DyStar Energy Waste Achieve and water and pollutant Reduce consumption discharge Voluntary use of Sustainability environmental Targets resources by 2020 Two-fold Occupational Product Compliance health and safety and with laws and Sustainability safety innovation regulation Strategy As a prominent player in the global Dyes and Chemicals industry, all the aspects mentioned above are highly relevant to DyStar. As a responsible member of this industry, we are committed to continuously monitoring our environmental and social impacts and implementing strategies to attain the short and long term goals. 16 DyStar su sta ina b il it y per fo r m a n ce repo r t 2014 DyStar su st ain ab i l i t y p e r for m a n ce re p or t 2014 17 sustainability at DyStar Sustainable Process Development sustainability strategy Sustainable DY S TA R S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y C O M M I T T E E S T R U C T U R E Consumption We have strategically embedded sustainability into our daily work and Footprint as an important driver for company growth and products innovaReduction Eric Wide tion. We have a well-established sustainability management and Working Hopman experience in Chemical & reporting process and set global standards for the environment, Sustainable towards GROUP CEO/ Textile safety and health protection. We evaluate our footprints and aim Product establishing CHAIRMAN Industry for reduction every year. We conduct various types of health and Development closed loop safety trainings from shop floor employees to management teams. systems Sustainable We believe that innovation is one of the best ways to not only deEducation and Services rive value and pass this on to the customers but also create dyes & chemicals that are less harmful to the environment. Our in-house Sustainable innovation center focuses on sustainable product development to Product take advantage of business opportunities by offering our customers Innovation innovative products and solutions that contribute to more sustainGerald Ron Clemens John Stephanie Fanny Sherrie Talhoff Pedemonte Grund Easton Schank Vermandel Xu able manufacturing processes. VICE PRESIDENT PRESIDENT SALES GROUP VP TEXTILE SERVICES, HEAD OF MARKETING GLOBAL OF GLOBAL AREA AMERICAS/ TECHNOLOGY ECOLOGY MARKETING DIRECTOR SUSTAINABILITY T W O F O L D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y S T R AT E G Y MANUFACTURING, SUPPLY CHAIN, IT HEAD OF TEXTILE SERVICES Germany SOLUTIONS Great Britain COMMUNICATIONS US Germany MANAGER China & SUSTAINABILITY .................. .................. US .................. .................. .................. 1 Reduce our own 2 Help our customers Singapore .................. Passionate Expertise in operational impact reduce their impact .................. Expertise in about Innovations in Knowledge about industry Understands public opinion understanding customer Detailed understanding Detailed Sales & Sustainability trends, NGOs & & marketing on policies & ● Established sustainability structure ● Foundation of econfidence® expertise in demands Service Communities government supply chain & Sustainability legislations on ● Measure environmental performance ● Product safety & environmental compliance manufacturing sustainability ● Implement emission reduction strategies ● Sustainable product innovation Sales and demands Service ● Commitment to reduce our footprint in water, waste, energy, ● Sustainable processing – improving resource efficiency GHG The sustainability committee bring experience from different industo speak to DyStar employees, contractors and suppliers and help ● Sustainability Services ● Sustainability Reporting tries and government and aims at generating innovative ideas in all them build sustainability standards and commitment into practice. DyStar’s high performance dyes and chemicals help our customers of our areas of operation. During some visits, committee members visit local community and We have identified energy, greenhouse gas emissions, water and to shorten production time, decrease use of water and energy, iminterested parties, such as non-governmental organizations (NGOs). The committee meets every month to discuss the status of initiawaste as the main environmental impacts that we should focus on. prove color consistency and increase right-first-time rates. The high After each visit, the committee shares its observations with staketives as well as to view all the sustainability matrices in the company. Our target is to reduce environmental impact in these four areas by fixation levels of DyStar reactive dyes used for cotton textiles, will enholders and the management responsible for respective projects. Apart from this, the members also visit production units and offices 20% by 2020. Our aim is to achieve this goal by reducing our impact sure that the highest possible portion of dye stays on the textile and by 2% every year over 10 years from 2010. does not end up in the wastewater. For polyester textiles the DyStar Dianix® Green Range has been specially designed to meet the most sustainability activities stringent requirements of Brands and Retailers as well as delivering excellent application properties and fastness performance. 2014 DYSTAR SINGAPORE HEADQUARTERS T E A M B U I L D I N G D AY sustainability committee On Nov. 13 2014, DyStar-Singapore organized an outdoor Team In order to provide more focus on sustainability, we have formed a PRIMARY RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE COMMITTEE ARE: Building Day with a theme “Committed to Sustainability “ at Clarke Sustainability Committee for driving the sustainability agenda in the ● Formulate and direct DyStar’s sustainability strategy Quay. The objective was to strengthen bonding among all employcompany. The committee consists of seven members and is headed ees from various departments in the Singapore office. The meeting by our Group CEO and President. While the committee is respon● Set sustainability agenda for DyStar Group and identify also focused on teamwork, cooperation, engagement, interaction sible for designing, implementation and monitoring sustainability sustainability goals and initiatives & communication among colleagues across different departments. strategy of the group, the ground level operations are handled by a team which includes heads of Production and Supply Chain and ● Select the GRI® performance indicators for the company and designated sustainability champions in different countries of our review annual sustainability data 2 0 1 5 DYS TA R M U M B A I O F F I C E A N D A N K L E S H WA R P L A N T operations. Our Global Sustainability Manager is the spokesperson S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y A N D S TA K E H O L D E R E N G AG E M E N T M E E T I N G for the company on sustainability related issues and is responsible ● Review the overall progress of sustainability targets, environment management systems, health and safety, and ethical In March 2015, Global sustainability manager Sherrie Xu visited the and customers. The objective was also to assess whether we are for communicating and executing the company’s strategy to the code of conduct Mumbai Office and Ankleshwar plant to have sustainability meetputting our standards into practice. During this visit, the stakeholder external stakeholders and internal sustainability team. ings with various departments. The global sustainability team spoke engagement survey was drafted together with the global team. to DyStar employees, conducted trainings and discussed suppliers 18 DyStar su sta ina b il it y per fo r m a n ce repo r t 2014 DyStar su st ain ab i l i t y p e r for m a n ce re p or t 2014 19 sustainability priorities We consider stakeholder engagement is an stakeholder engagement materials assessment important tool to understand and assess This table presents a comprehensive view of our engagement with the stakeholders. Our global sustainability team has identithe key sustainability risks of our business. Economic fied a gross list of materiality aspects relePerformance, Since we operate globally across 22 countries, we understand addressing concerns STAKEHOLDER STAKEHOLDERS' DYSTAR’S MODES OF vant to our business through peer review, Market Presence EXPECTATIONS RESPONSIBILITY ENGAGEMENT stakeholder dialogues, and sectorial reports of our varied multi-stakeholders groups is of GRI®. This was followed by an exercise to key to our sustainable business program. Quality of Invest in research Provide information map those materiality aspects which signifiTo keep ourselves aware of their diverse products and development through various public with a two pronged and private channels cantly influence the assessment and deciexpectations and integrate them with our Minimal environapproach, ensuring such as our website, sion making of various stakeholder groups. Training of Labormental impact of high quality prodproduct brochures, sobusiness goals, we constantly engage with DyStar products ucts, and develcial media and updates employees, Occupational A similar exercise was conducted with the GROSS LIST the stakeholders to collect their inputs on and materials opment of more contract Health & environmentally Organize meetings and OF MATERIAL our performance as well as address their company’s top management. The results of workers Safety Health & safety sustainable prodseminars for customISSUES IDENTIFIED impacts of products and services. ers on environment, both the exercises were analyzed to identify concerns. This helps us define our roadmap CUSTOMERS ucts on customers Compliance with sustainability and our VIA PEER REVIEW health and safety products’ ecological the key materiality aspects for the company, AND towards sustainability. Not surprisingly, many of our stakeholders’ concerns overlap Appropriate regulations, and laadvantages The results reveal, top management considSTAKEHOLDERS labeling of DyStar beling requirements products based on various Attend industry forums ers operational issues namely ‘Disposal of EfDIALOG with our own, creating a common bond of standards and regand conferences understanding and a solid basis for collaboulations. Maintain fluents & Solid Wastes, Environmental Comcustomer informaConduct regular meetration to meet common goals. tion in highly secure ings with customers to pliance, and Water Use’ as very significant to systems. exchange information business. Heath & Our global sustainability team endeavored Safety Impacts Environmental to identify the key stakeholders through a Sustained and Formulate critical Update shareholders on The top management considers it very imof products, impacts of structured process. We engaged with varilong-term growth business strategies company performance portant to meet the expectations of its cusmarketing & materials of business for profitability and and sustainability initiaadvertising ous stakeholder groups and conducted an sustainability tives through periodic tomers. Accordingly, beyond the operational used Reasonable return meetings practices “Impact on-Affect By” test to conclude the on investment Timely and effective boundary of the business, top management SHAREHOLDERS list of prioritized group of stakeholders. This implementation of considers aspects namely ‘Environmensuch strategies prioritized group of stakeholders can most tal impact of DyStar’s products & services’, significantly influence DyStar’s economic, Create stronger and ‘Health & Safety Impacts of DyStar products long lasting brand environmental and social performance and equity on customers’, ‘Environmental Impact of maare, at the same time, most likely to be affectterials used by DyStar’ as very significant to K E Y M AT E R I A L I T Y Occupational Maintain the Strict adherence to ed by DyStar’s performance. health and safety emphasis on health and safety the business. A S P E C T S F O R D Y S TA R DyStar has designed and implemented Opportunities for high standards of workplace health regulations. Provision of protective gear and Diposal of FOR 2014 comprehensive and well-defined systems to growth and safety at our regular health checkups effluents, production plants. for the workforce. ConEnvironmental Based on the feedback received from our inengage with its stakeholders. Based on the Reward for perforEnsure ethical and tinuous review of the impacts of mance fair employment HR policies for fairness ternal & external stakeholders, industry analresponse received from our stakeholders, we practices and equality products & ysis and top management input, the followcontinue to improve our sustainability perforFair treatment services Encourage an Management interacing aspects emerged as the Key Materiality mance to match their expectations. Whenevopen-door policy to tion with employees in EMPLOYEES provide employees a number of ways on Aspects for DyStar for 2014: er necessary, we also revise these systems to prepare a more inclusive stakeholder engagement system for the company. at all levels access to management for sharing views and offering feedback regular basis Conducting team building and sustainability Compliance with marketing and ➡ Amount of water used, Compliance ● Environmental impact of materials used by DyStar ➡ ➡ themed outings for product labeling to national Reward and recogemployees to keep the environmental nize performance motivation levels high legislation TOP ● Health and safety impact of DyStar PRIORITIZED LIST OF laws MANAGEMENT products on customer An annual award to the S TA K E H O L D E R S best facility for sustainFEEDBACK abilitydriven initiatives ● Disposal of effluents, solid wastes ● CUSTOMERS ● SHAREHOLDERS Collaborate on supply of quality products and services Develop a network of reliable suppliers and work closely with them to source Continuous dialogue with our key suppliers to help them understand and explain issues ➡ ➡ ● Compliance to national laws for environment, marketing and product labeling ● EMPLOYEES high quality prodrelating to quality, Fair selection, ucts and services social, and environmenHealth & Safety Disposal of solid SUPPLIERS and respect for tal performance ● Environmental impact of DyStar ● SUPPLIERS contractual obliInfluence them Impacts of DyStar wastes, Environgations to continuously Seek their support and products on mental Impact of products improve their social participation in attaincustomers materials used Establish longand environmental ing DyStar’s sustainabilterm relationships performance ity goals 20 DyStar su sta ina b il it y per fo r m a n ce repo r t 2014 DyStar su st ain ab i l i t y p e r for m a n ce re p or t 2014 21 Optimize our resource consumption and reduce negative enivromental impact 1. sustainability in numbers: ENSURE SUSTAINABLE OPERATIONS We continue to work to reduce our impact on environment, to engage D Y S TA R ' S E N E R G Y C O N S U M P T I O N with the communities where we operate and to generate jobs and business opportunities for local economies. This section provides data on our safety, TOTAL ENERGY 308,715,237 344,901,186 321,831,306 economic, environmental and social performance in 2014. 400,000 400,000 400,000 400,000 Based on the outcome of our stakeholder engagement process, our sustainability 350,000 350,000 350,000 350,000 strategy has been set to focus on these key issues that have been identified as the most important in order to operate our core business sustainably. During the previous 300,000 300,000 300,000 300,000 93,295 DIRECT ENERGY 84,512 86,926 years, we have strived to improve our performances on these issues so as to become a re250,000 250,000 250,000 250,000 liable business partner for our customers, shareholders, suppliers and other key stakeholders. 200,000 200,000 200,000 200,000 DyStar believes in continuous improvement We report our sustainability performances across three broad areas: 150,000 150,000 150,000 150,000 when it comes to use of materials, energy, water, discharge of waste, emissions and effluents. DyStar management is committed 1. ENSURE SUSTAINABLE OPERATIONS Optimize our resource consumption and reduce negative enivromental impact Besides benefiting from product mix effects, INDIRECT ENERGY 100,000 100,000 100,000 100,000 224,204 251,606 234,905 50,000 50,000 50,000 50,000 2. PROVIDE RESPONSIBLE PRODUCTS & SERVICES to maintain environmental sustainability in its we have been able to reduce our energy operations and to meet environmental goals. Provide safe & environmentally friendly products to our customers in a responsible way consumption compared to previous year priWe have identified the key environmental asmarily due to strong emphasis on monitoring 2012 2013 2014 (Kwh) (Kwh) (Kwh) 3. PROMOTE ETHICAL PRACTICES pects for improvement over a defined timesand managing our energy consumption at cale. We monitor, measure and manage these Promote good governance, improved employee relations and social responsibilities all locations. We undertake energy conservaUNIT 2012 2013 2014 environmental aspects in various areas of tion campaigns throughout the year where operations such as research &, development, Germany an Environment Management System according to ISO 50001 is under implemenoperational teams at all locations undertake kWh 84,511,631 93,295,159 86,926,074 manufacturing, warehousing, packaging, and tation and should be certified before year end. In the course of this journey towards more TOTAL DIRECT ENERGY various local level initiatives to reduce energy GJ 304,242 335,862 312,933 transportation. We also monitor sourcing of sustainable operations, production sites and offices, with expert support from DyStar’s Process consumption. Some of the notable initiatives raw materials and use of natural resources Development teams, have implemented innovative measures including optimized production kWh 224,203,606 251,606,027 234,905,232 taken by our units this year are: TOTAL INDIRECT ENERGY as well as managing wastes, emissions, effluplans, improvement of operational efficiency, application of modern and efficient technologies GJ 807,133 905,782 845,659 ents and their impact on the environment. As to reduce the overall usage of resources and the generation of waste and emissions. The R&D ➊ Nanjing production plant in China: Grid Electricity Purchased kWh 69,383,175 74,979,492 74,504,695 part of its journey towards making its manand Product Development teams at DyStar continue to develop new products or new applica● Optimize operation of energy-intensive agement systems robust, DyStar has impletion processes that require less energy and water and result in lower quantities of harmful waste. equipment (air compressor and chiller). The Purchased Steam kWh 154,820,431 176,626,535 160,400,537 mented ISO 14001 certified environmental We continuously monitor our performance in these key areas against the internal benchmarks site has added a new system with 1000kW to avoid waste of energy. According to the estiTOTAL ENERGY kWh 308,715,237 344,901,186 321,831,306 management system (EMS) at three of its sites established by the management of the company and its board of directors. On the basis of this CONSUMPTION mation, 1.496 million units of electricity can and is considering expanding it further. In assessment, we develop appropriate strategies to address and prioritize relevant issues. be saved. In our offices, laboratories and R&D cenWe have set the target of reducing our ● Optimize the operation parameters of methanol distillation to decrease energy consumpter, electricity is closely monitored and all energy consumption by 20% by 2020 1.1 optimum utilization of energy tion by increasing efficiency of distillation; conpossible measures are taken to reduce the compared to 2010 targets and we are sidering the use of compressed air to replace There is a tremendous impact on Climate ally generated energy has a direct impact on In 2014, our overall energy consumption wastage of electricity. Some of these meaproud that our energy consumption nitrogen where possible. Change due to various energy production climate change through emission of greenreduced by approximately 6.7 % from 2013 sures are switching off lights during lunch has already come down by 21.5% from ● Replacement of compressors to optimize usage systems in the world. There is an urgent need house gases. levels. The decrease in energy consumption hours or when not in use, replacing exist2011 levels. We continue to monitor our to reduce global carbon dioxide (CO2) emisWith our globally widespread operation, that from 2013 is primarily attributed to the reduc➋ Gabus production plant in Indonesia: ing equipment with more energy efficient energy consumption very closely at all sion. In 2014, a report from Intergovernmental tion in purchased electricity and steam usage in ● Installation of inverter in agitator motor. ones, maintaining optimal temperature locations. Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) stated that include 14 manufacturing plants mainly prothe production plants at Nanjing (China), Nauof air conditioners, use of timer-plug for ● Replacement with LED lamps “Warming of the climate system is unequivoducing dyes & auxiliaries and 22 offices & labcalpan (Mexico), Pietermaritzburg (South Africa), At DyStar Colors Distribution GmbH, Gerdaytime operating, such as ice maker, waoratories, our energy requirement is considermany we have started implementation of cal and unprecedented, with emissions rising Reidsville (USA) and Samutprakaran (Thailand). ➌ Naucalpan production plant in Mexico: ter dispenser etc., putting stickers on light faster than ever before.” This is even more chalable. We use electricity for lighting, to run our Energy Management System as per ISO ● Ongoing campaign to save electricity conswitches to increase employees’ awareness, lenging because energy demand is continumachinery, IT systems, air conditioning plant The overall finished goods production quansumption in lighting and electronic equipment. 50001 guidelines. The Energy Manageetc. Large quantities of steam are required for tity in 2014 has reduced by 2.2% in comparipromoting car pool usage at our locations ously increasing. ment System will help to manage energy chemical and physical processes, mainly for son to that in 2013, which has contributed to ➍ Dalton and Reidsville production to optimize fuel consumption in vehicles. units in USA: consumption according to an international Energy consumption is one of the most critheating purposes. Most of the energy includthe reduction of electricity and steam usage. At several places, we have optimized the ● All conventional light bulbs were replaced standard and find additional savings poical environmental aspects for our sites. We ing steam is purchased from external suppliers However, other significant factors such as inwith energy-efficient ones. Employees are size of our offices to fit with our manpower therefore monitor energy consumption closeor government agencies; however at some crease in use of renewable power, primarily in trained to conserve energy in office and requirement. This has also helped us avoid tentials. The company will also receive tax ly in our company and have set up effective sites we do use natural gas, diesel and LPG to Portugal, product mix effects and energy effiplant. Employees are reminded to switch off unnecessary energy consumption. benefits from the state for implementing an energy management programs. With increasgenerate steam within the facility. Natural gas ciency measures at other sites have helped rethe lights, computers, printers when they Energy Management System according to leave office. Our measured savings in year 2014 ing costs and limited availability, energy has is also used to heat spray drier systems directly. duce the total consumption of electricity and ISO 50001. ● Installation of energy efficient air-conditionin are 17,497 MWh. become a valuable resource. We also realize In addition a small quantity of diesel and LPG steam. In 2014, our total indirect energy coring and thermostat devices. that consumption especially of conventionis used for transportation. responds to 20198.214 Toe (MT oil equivalent). 22 DyStar su sta ina b il it y per fo r m a n ce repo r t 2014 DyStar su st ain ab i l i t y p e r for m a n ce re p or t 2014 23 Optimize our resource consumption and reduce negative enivromental impact 1. sustainability in numbers: ENSURE SUSTAINABLE OPERATIONS 1.2 manage our GHG emissions EMISSIONS SOURCES ● <1% Diesel Stationary DyStar was one of the pioneer companies in For the previous GHG assessments, the base Considering the wide geographical spread For DyStar, Scope 2 continues to be the ma● 1% Fuel Stationary jor source of emissions and is responsible ● 5% LPG Stationary the dyes and chemical industry to monitor year was maintained as the GHG emission of our operations, we have deployed a cloud ● 0% LNG Stationary its carbon emissions at group level. Our first inventory for 2010. However, since 2011, based sustainability data management tool for 88% of total emissions in 2014. Scope ● 85% Natural Gas Stationary report was published for the year 2010 and DyStar has changed the data collection for better access, control and increased ac1 emissions, with a share of 12 % primarily since then every year we create an annual methodology, using the online software curacy of data collection. The data recorded comprises emissions from stationary com● 3% Diesel Mobile GHG Inventory Report. The assessment is solution with inherent checks for data qualin this system is reviewed by the site heads bustion, company owned vehicles, refriger● 2% Gasoline Mobile ant losses and chemical processes. Within ● <1% LPG Mobile conducted as per WRI/WBCSD GHG Protocol ity. Therefore, for the current and future for ensuring accuracy. Further, the assumpCorporate Standard and in accordance with GHG assessments, the base year has been tions used for data models and calculations Scope 1 emissions, natural gas combustion ● 1% Refrigerant Loss the requirements of ISO 14064 – 1: 2006 changed to 2011. are revised every year as per the latest intercontributes the largest share. ● 1% Process Emissions standards 4. national guidelines. % B R E A K U P O F T O TA L E M I S S I O N – The production plants of DyStar located in varD Y S TA R ' S G H G E M I S S I O N S PRODUCTION & NON PRODUCTION SITES ious parts of the world account for major share The ISO 14064 Standard and GHG Protocol of emissions. In 2014, approximately 97.8 % of EMISSIONS (T CO2e) define three “scopes” for GHG accounting 180,000 180,000 180,000 180,000 180,000 SITE TYPE the emissions were from the production plants and reporting purposes. These mark a dis31,019 SCOPE 1 SCOPE 2 TOTAL % and remainder were from offices and laborato160,000 160,000 160,000160,000 11% 160,000 18,554 18,654 tinction between direct and indirect emisSCOPE 1 12% 12% ries. 140,000 140,000140,000 140,000 140,000 18,097 Offices and Labs Total 1,244 2,223 3,467 2.2% sion sources, with the aim to improve trans13% Our overall emission intensity in 2014 has parency. Such delineation provides utility 120,000 120,000120,000 120,000 120,000 Production Sites Totals 17,410 135,415 152,825 97.8% remained similar to that in the previous for different types of organizations and dif100,000 100,000100,000 100,000 100,000 Total 18,654 137,638 156,292 100% year. However, our intensity in 2014 is still ferent types of climate policies and business 14 % lower than the intensity in the year goals. These three “scopes” are: SCOPE 80,000 2 80,000 80,00080,000 142,670 80,000 123,536 141,245 137,638 GHG EMISSION INTENSITY 2011, which was 1.46 MT CO2e per te. 60,000 60,00060,000 60,000 89% 60,000 87% 88% 88% SCOPE 1 GHG EMISSION INTENSITY Although the overall emission intensity has re40,000 40,00040,000 40,000 40,000 per MT of production 2011 2012 2013 2014 Direct GHG Emissions: are those that occur from mained nearly same, the intensity ratios at our sources that owned or operationally controlled 20,000 20,00020,000 20,000 20,000 TOTAL CO2 EMISSIONS 173,689 141,633 159,799 156,292 plants have gone down. This shows that our by the company. Reporting these emissions is mandatory for companies. operations are more energy efficient now and PRODUCTION VOLUME 119,116 118,411 127,812 124,890 we are having lower emissions per MT of our 2011 2012 2013 2014 SCOPE 2 EMISSION INTENSITY – production. 173,689 141,633 159,799 156,292 (tonnes CO2e / tonne production) 1.46 1.20 1.25 1.25 Electricity Indirect Emission Sources: are those TOTAL CO2e TOTAL CO2e TOTAL CO2e TOTAL CO2e that occur due to purchased energy (in the form % CHANGE with respect to As we continue to produce intermediates previous year -17.97% 4.53% 0.09% of electricity, steam, heat and cooling) from the and press cakes in-house instead of sourcgrid or district heating or cooling systems. Scope EMISSIONS (tonnes CO2e) % CHANGE with respect to ing them our overall efficiency has increased 2 emissions are also mandatory to report. EMISSIONS base year -14.18% SOURCE though the intensity per MT of finished prod2011 ucts remains on the same level like in 2012 SCOPE 3 % 2012 % 2013 % 2014 % base year E M I S S I O N I N T E N S I T Y AT P R O D U C T I O N P L A N T S and 2013. Other Indirect Emission Sources: which occur due to company activity but are not sources SCOPE 1 31,019 11% 18,097 13% 18,554 12% 18,654 12% owned or controlled by the company are called EMISSION INTENSITY EMISSION INTENSITY EMISSION INTENSITY At all locations we continue to work on reIN DYE PLANTS IN AUXILIARY PLANTS IN ALL PLANTS Scope 3 emissions. E.g. emissions from the transSCOPE 2 142,670 89% 123,536 87% 141,245 88% 137,638 88% ducing our absolute emissions in spite of our port of vendors to provide services to the comproduct mix. All the initiatives by DyStar to pany. Scope 3 emissions are voluntary for com2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 Total CO2e panies to report and are left to the company’s 173,689 141,633 159,799 156,292 reduce energy consumption directly reduce Emissions discretion. Based on the relevance of emission 2.49 2.12 .08 .04 1.25 1.25 our carbon emissions as well. By 2014, we activity in the overall company’s emissions, it may Total GHG emissions for 2014 show a marginal reduction by 1.77 percent compared to 2013. have reduced our emissions by over 10% choose to report or ignore it. With respect to the base year, 2011 the emissions are lower by around 10 percent. from base year – 2011 We remain committed HIGHLIGHTS FROM 2014 GHG ASSESSMENTS to our emission reduction target of 20% on a The above graph and chart depicts the The overall Scope 1 emissions have reScope 2 emissions in 2014 have reduced in GHG intensity basis by 2020. ● As for the largest plant producing mainly dyes, Ludwigshafen’s emission intentotal Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions in mained nearly constant during the pericomparison to 2013, because of reduction in sity in 2014 has increased by a very slight margin compared to 2013. However, it 2014, in comparison with the emissions in od, 2012 to 2014. The marginal increase usage of purchased electricity and steam. This has reduced compared to 2012. The reason is a higher ratio of in-house synthethe previous years and the base year, 2011. is due to the increased use of LPG and was due to reduction in production quantity sized Indigo material. Natural Gas for stationary combustion. as well as energy efficiency initiatives undertaken in some of the production plants. ● Emission intensity at Gabus has declined steadily; it has fallen by 3% compared 4 For more details on methodology, boundary and detailed results, kindly refer our website www.dystar.com to 2013 and by 17% with respect to 2012. 24 DyStar su sta ina b il it y per fo r m a n ce repo r t 2014 DyStar su st ain ab i l i t y p e r for m a n ce re p or t 2014 25 Optimize our resource consumption and reduce negative enivromental impact 1. sustainability in numbers: ENSURE SUSTAINABLE OPERATIONS 1.3 water consumption As part of our water management strategy, we focus on three main areas apart from process efficiency: Manufacturers of dyes and chemicals are major consumers of waAt DyStar, we measure the use of water and constantly strive to find ter – either directly in their manufacturing processes or for heating ways and means to reduce consumption. and cooling. Globally, fresh water has become an extremely limited resource. Industries are competing with local communities for fresh Most of our water requirement is met from public water supply or A. Recycling of Water water supply and consequently the cost of available clean water is from surface water where we draw water from available surface warising. ter bodies. Municipal supply is mostly used in our offices and R&D At DyStar, we strive to recycle water as much as possible without In 2014, we recycled 1,835,488 m3 of water which is 24.1 % of centers. At some sites, we also draw groundwater through pumps compromising on our process or product quality. Our operations our overall water consumption. The recycled quantity of water but its share is very minor in our total water balance. require large quantities of steam. At most sites, we recover the conin 2014 is around 9% higher compared to 2013. densate and reuse it as process water. Recycled water is also used in WAT E R I N T E N S I T Y the cooling systems which mainly gets evaporated. The rest is used TOTA L WAT E R R E C YC L E D & P E R C E N TA G E S (Water consumption in cubic meters per MT of production) for non-production activities such as cleaning of equipment, vessels and floors. Along with energy, water is also a key area in 2012 2013 2014 85 85 85 85 our sustainability agenda and we have comWater for cooling purpose is kept strictly separated from any chem75 75 75 75 mitted to a reduction target of 20% by 2020. ical process. Cooling takes place through indirect heat exchange via TOTAL WATER 1,691,079 1,691,079 1,835,488 RECYCLED (m3) plate or bundle heat exchanger systems or jackets in reactor vessels 65 65 65 65 In 2014, our absolute water consumpand other equipment. Because of this, the cooling water does not % 24.86% 23.74% 24.1% 55 55 55 55 tion increased by around 7% from 2013 get contaminated and since it is strictly monitored, it can be directly levels. Our water consumption per MT of reused or sent back to rivers. 45 45 45 45 6,802,705 7,109,298 7,614,932 59 56 61 product has increased from 55m3 per MT 35 35 35 35 of production in 2013 to 61m3 in 2014. B. 25 25 25 25 This increase is mainly due to change in our prod15 15 15 15 uct mix in 2014. This year we produced greater Effluent Management 5 5 5 5 volumes of products which are highly water intensive. We discharge our waste water in accordance with the local laws and WA S T E WAT E R D I S C H A R G E D regulations at all our sites. Quality and quantity of discharged water 2012 2013 2014 is maintained within the stipulated limits. All our production plants 2012 2013 2014 either have their own wastewater treatment units or are connected to external facilities. We continuously monitor and analyze our waste TOTAL WASTE WATER water before discharging it to state certified treatment facilities. 1,552,400 1,691,079 1,835,488 DISCHARGED (m3) We use a variety of techniques – from neutralization, coagulation WAT E R S O U R C E S WAT E R C O N S U M P T I O N WASTE WATER DISCHARGED and sedimentation, aerobic and anaerobic ponds and reactors, AS % OF TOTAL 22.82% 23.04% 24.03% Ground Municipal vacuum evaporator, ultra-filtration to reverse osmosis and other adWATER CONSUMED Water CONSUMPTION FROM Water 2012 2013 2014 vanced processes for treatment at various locations. We do not allow WATER SOURCES (m3) 2% any of our wastewater to be reused by other organizations. Ground water consumption 115,599 119,578 127,087 22% Municipal water consumption 1,333,786 1,654,851 1,672,859 Surface water consumption 5,353,361 5,334,869 5,814,986 C. Waste Water Reduction through Process Improvement TOTAL WATER 6,802,705 7,109,298 7,614,932 76% CONSUMPTION Besides the “end of the pipe” approach to treat the total effluent in turing with global supply chain management, we develop smarter the best possible way, we increasingly focus our efforts on minimizproduction plans that allow the minimization of cleaning water from ing waste water generation in the various steps of chemical proproduct change overs. Maximizing batch sizes on the various steps duction respectively on reconditioning and recycling waste water of production also contributes to the reduction of cleaning water Surface fractions on single product or even product stage level. Various inivolume and to the improvement of overall efficiency. Water tiatives have been started at our manufacturing sites and the results will be reported accordingly. Through close alignment of manufac26 DyStar su sta ina b il it y per fo r m a n ce repo r t 2014 DyStar su st ain ab i l i t y p e r for m a n ce re p or t 2014 27 Optimize our resource consumption and reduce negative enivromental impact 1. sustainability in numbers: ENSURE SUSTAINABLE OPERATIONS VA R I O U S M O D E S O F WA S T E WAT E R T R E AT M E N T T O TA L WA S T E G E N E R AT E D T YP E S O F WA S T E PRODUCTION DESTINATION OF TREATMENT TYPES OF WASTES 2012 2013 2014 FACILITY WASTEWATER METHOD Hazardous Waste (MT) 4,099 5,496 6,153 SOUTH AFRICA Settling tanks to allow sludge to settle and for treatPIETERMARTIZBURG Darvill Waste Water Treatment Facility ment at stable pH range between 6.5 – 7.5 37% Non-Hazardous Waste (MT) 3,911 4,256 3,668 Hazardous BRAZIL – APUINA River Itajai Aú Chemical & biological treatment Waste TOTAL WASTE 8,010 9752 9821 Treatment for removal of heavy metals from waste 63% Nanjing Chemical Industry Park / SembCHINA NANJING corp Waste Water Treatment Plant water within the facility. Discharged to third party for Non-Hazardous further treatment. Hazardous Waste 0.035 0.043 0.049 Waste per t of production No discharge to outside; Zero Discharge Waste water is filtered, passed through ultra-filtration Non-Hazardous waste INDIA – ANKLESHWAR Plant. and passed through 2 stage Reverse Osmosis system 0.033 0.033 0.029 per t of production Sludge sent for offsite treatment through Overall waste PORTUGAL MEMMARTINS Distillation through a vacuum evaporator 0.069 0.076 0.079 licensed contractor. per t of production Neutralizing coagulation and sedimentation; discharge JAPAN – OMUTA Recycled by third party. to external treatment facility (chemical park) K E Y I N I T I AT I V E S TA K E N B Y O U R U N I T S F O R WA S T E M A N A G E M E N T I N 2 0 1 4 THAILAND – SAMUTPRKAM Small amount, fully reused Chemical & biological treatment We dispose all our waste material in accordance with rules and TURKEY – CORLU River Ergene Biological and chemical treatment ➋ At Nanjing, China: regulations set by local governments and the guidelines stated by ● New waste collection & storage location was built and recycle regulaSent to City of Reidsville water treatment Coagulation and pH adjustment in a flocculation tank, the pollution control boards. Hazardous waste is generally sent to USA – REIDSVILLE tion was established. In total, Nanjing plant recycled 31te of waste.. facility biological treatment and dissolved air flotation licensed contractors for safe disposal. Non-hazardous waste is generally given to waste management services of local municipal au● Engaged qualified supplier to recycle some nonconforming prodSent to city of Dalton water treatment USA – DALTON facility Biological and chemical treatment uct and waste solvent thereby avoiding the incineration treatthorities. None of these wastes are transported outside the physical No discharge to outside. Flocculation treatment, neutralization, vacuum evaporaboundaries of the country where the unit is located. Some of the key ment and optimizing utilization of the material. INDONESIA GABUS Zero discharge to plant tion and spray drying initiatives taken by our units for waste management in year 2014 are: Discharge to municipal waste water ➌ At Naucalpan, Mexico: CHINA – WUXI Flocculation treatment, partial re-use of water treatment plant ➊ At Pietermaritzburg, Africa: ● Plastic containers were taken back from customers and washed and Monitoring and management of effluent within dis● Engaged services of a recycling company for segregation of reused. A total 540 containers were recovered in the year 2014. Discharge to chemical park waste water charge limits; cooling water is continuously monitored GERMANY – LUDWIGSHAFEN waste into recyclables and non-recyclables and further into haztreatment plant (BASF) and discharged directly through the chemical park pipeline system to the Rhine river. ardous and non-hazardous types. This helps in maintaining a ➍ USA Production: more accurate account of waste generated. ● At Reidsville, reduction of 40% of trash to landfill was achieved MEXICO NAUCALPAN Small amount Biochemical treatment and discharge by implementing and further developing our recycling program ● A drive to adopt the three tier system was initiated and refor cardboard, plastic bottles, glass, aluminum and paper. ports are generated on a monthly basis to show the amount of ● At our Dalton unit, a total of 105 lbs of paper and 13 lbs of alumi1.4 handling wastes waste generated and the amount we have saved by recycling. num were recycled. In our manufacturing processes, we generate large quantities of solid posed in a safe and responsible manner to licensed 3rd party disposand liquid waste material which are both hazardous and non-hazardous al companies. Such companies are regularly audited and evaluated 1.5 spill management in nature. Hazardous waste mainly consists of packaging material from by our operational and procurement teams. At DyStar, we have well-defined spill management procedures. There LOCATION PRODUCT(S) TOTAL VOLUME raw material supplies as well as of some product residues and residues were a small number of spills in 2013 and have made a concerted efOF SPILL The total amount of waste generated is correlating with our producOF SPILL SPILLED (Annual Number) from the distillation recovery of solvents or from waste water treatment. fort to train our employees and contractors on safe material handling Such residues are of liquid or solid nature whereas the packaging material tion output though it is not proportional – due to product mix efprocedures. As a result of this activity, the number of spills has declined Chemical spills on fects and local reclassifications of waste material. There are also one SOUTH AFRICA – cement surface-no 0.842 m3 usually is solid (big bags, pallets, paper bags, in-liners of drums, etc.). We in 2014. Our target is zero spills and we are working towards this goal. PIETERMARITZBURG (6 spills) time effects like the clean-up of waste water tanks and subsequent contamination of soil regard such packaging material as potentially hazardous since it has had contact with chemicals and dyes. Due to the large quantity of packaging disposal of sludge that occur once every few years. Corrective actions have been taken for all the reported spillage inciRaw materials, mainly material usage, the ratio of our hazardous waste material is more than dents. Spillages are immediately cleaned off and the loss of material TURKEY chemicals on cement 2.39 m3 In 2014, the amount of total waste increased slightly. Although KIMYA CORLU surface-no contami(6 spills) 50% of the total waste material. Our non-hazardous waste mainly consists is accounted. The reasons for each event of spill are analyzed and opthe amount of non-hazardous waste decreased significantly nation of soil of paper, typical household waste materials, packaging material and wooderators are made aware of the impacts and are asked to follow safer the amount of hazardous waste increased. en or plywood pallets that do not get in contact with dyes and chemicals. handling practices in future. Production and maintenance teams have 3.232m3 TOTAL (12 spills) Due to the different product mix and with a higher degree of backincreased their efforts to identify weak points in operation (e.g. faulty At DyStar, we have systems established to ensure that proper colseals, open valves, pipe connectors, pressure conditions, handling of wards integration, the specific quantity of waste per MT of total finlection, storage and handling is done before the waste is being dis drums and bags) and implemented preventive actions to reduce the ished goods has increased by a small margin. risk of spill incidents further. 28 DyStar su sta ina b il it y per fo r m a n ce repo r t 2014 DyStar su st ain ab i l i t y p e r for m a n ce re p or t 2014 29 Provide safe & environmentally friendly products to our customers in a responsible way 2. sustainability in numbers: PROVIDE RESPONSIBLE P RO D U C T S & S E RV I C E S At DyStar, ‘Product Stewardship’ and ‘Industry Outreach’ are the two forces S U S TA I N A B L E M AT E R I A L U S A G E that define our sustainable products and services endeavor. An important aspect of our product stewardship is sustainable maWe produce a wide variety of industrial chemicals to cater to our customers in terial usage. Even where our process requirements do not allow the the textile and leather industry. We help reduce costs, shorten lead times and meet use of recycled raw material we ensure that all raw materials are quality and ecological specifications of our customers. Some of these chemicals can utilized in the most efficient way. be harmful to human health if exposure to them is not controlled properly. Material Safety Data Sheets in compliance with the Globally Harmonized System or local implementing Packaging material is recycled wherever possible. In order to make legislations are provided for all our products which give detailed advice on safe handling, use our packaging in total more sustainable, we are constantly reviewing and disposal. Constant attention is given to quality control for potentially hazardous chemicals. Our our packaging requirements and try to either reduce material coneconfidence® program ensures that the risk of harmful contaminants is minimized in our products. At the sumption or to use more sustainable sources for packaging material. same time, it is our aim to provide our customers with the widest range of high quality products and services. Some of the initiatives we have taken in past few years include: ➊ Packaging and selling products in IBC containers of 1000 kg capacity instead of 50 or 200 kg drum. 2.1 product stewardship T R A N S PA R E N C Y I N L A B E L I N G & C O M M U N I C AT I O N S At DyStar, Product Stewardship is an inteWe assess all of our products for health & DyStar has built its core strength in Product ➋ Cleaning and reusing IBC containers which contained raw grated process for identifying, managing safety impacts at each stage of the product Stewardship through continuous research To safeguard our global customers, employees and supply chain materials for finished products. This has helped reduce use and minimizing the environmental, health lifecycle –product concept development, and innovation. Our R&D efforts are driven partners, it is imperative that our labeling practices are consistent of new containers. and safety impacts at every stage of a prodR&D, registration, manufacturing, marketing by the need to provide healthier, safer and with internationally recognized standards such as CLP and GHS. We uct’s life cycle. & promotion, warehousing, distribution and more ecologicallycompatible products for offer a wide range of products and by following the international ➌ At Pietermaritzburg, South Africa, we have recycled and reused packaging materials of capacities 150 l, 220 l and 1000 l. supply, use and disposal, reuse or recycling. our customers standards, we are able to provide our global customers with details about hazardous components and other relevant information relat➍ At Gabus plant in Indonesia, we are reusing waste packagPRODUCT SAFETY ed to our products. ing materials such as used pallets, used plastic drum & IBC At DyStar, making safer products is everyrequirements of REACH®. It is an assurance Our REACH registration activities make use containers. We have reduced the purchase of new packagDyStar’s Code of Conduct requires that customers are offered envione’s responsibility through all hierarchy that our products are in compliance with of our huge archive of toxicological and ing material by 1.2 t per month. ronmentally sustainable product solutions. We take utmost care to levels. We have a common objective to minchemical and environmental legislation in eco-toxicological testing reports that we ensure that our products are made, handled, transported, and disimize the environmental, health and safety each market in which they are sold. have generated over many years. These reg➎ All products as far as applicable are listed in the recycling posed of safely. Our commitment to the corporate principles and program for plastic containers. impact at every stage of a product’s life cycle. istrations already cover most of the high volgoals of maximizing safety and environmental protection guides REACH (the Registration, Evaluation, AuthoWe have created the econfidence® program rization and Restriction of Chemicals) is the ume textile dyes that DyStar supplies to the new product and process development, handling of products, oper➏ We are washing and reusing drums at our site in Naucalpan, European market. DyStar is now focusing on ation of plants, and responsible use of resources within DyStar Mexico. to cover the product safety and ecology isEuropean Community Regulation on chemregistrations in the final >1te band. sues associated with the manufacturing and icals and their safe use to protect the enviDyStar provides substantial information marketing of our products. The program now ronment and health, which came into effect Since the market for textile dyes is dominatabout the safe handling, storage, transplays an important role in driving sustainabilon June 1, 2007. REACH continues to be ed by specialties, the number of REACH-regport, use, and disposal of its products to its ity in the textile supply chain. The econfithe most demanding international chemiistered chemicals will increase significantly customers, sales partners and distributors. dence program is designed to provide assurcal legislation. REACH implementation and in the coming years up to the 2018 deadline. DyStar also welcomes the UN activities on ance to our textile customers that the dyes compliance has been a key priority at DyStar In view of this, we have already submitted development and revision of the “Globally Information present on and chemicals we supply comply with legal even before the legislation came into force. the next registration dossiers to ECHA, unDyStar product labels Harmonized System of Classification, Labeland voluntary requirements, RSL (Restricted der REACH, as we intend to register all indiing and Packaging of Chemicals (GHS)” and All DyStar product components (over 5000 in● Content, particularly with Substance List) requirements labels, laws & vidual substances contained in our products its national implementations. dividual chemicals) have been pre-registered regard to substances that logo’s and most importantly, comply to the within the prescribed deadlines. under the EU REACH Regulation. might produce an environDyStar reviews and updates its Hazard Lamental or social impact bels as well as Safety Data Sheets, for substances and mixtures, in compliance with ● Safe use of product the national regulations or standards re● Disposal of the product and specting individual transitional periods for environmental/social impacts implementation. This helps us ensure that information on physical hazards and toxicity from chemicals is available in order to enhance the protection of human health and the environment during handling, transport and use of chemicals, and to facilitate global trade activities. 30 DyStar su sta ina b il it y per fo r m a n ce repo r t 2014 DyStar su st ain ab i l i t y p e r for m a n ce re p or t 2014 31 Provide safe & environmentally friendly products to our customers in a responsible way 2. sustainability in numbers: P R OV I D E R E S P O N S I B L E P R O D U C T S & S E RV I C E S S U S TA I N A B L E I N N O VAT I O N Innovation is one of the core values at DySOne of the key innovation goals for DySfull compliance with Oeko Tex® Standard 100 2.1 industry outreach tar. We have an active Research & Developtar’s R&D is to help customers achieve new and meets all relevant Restricted Substance DyStar is committed to engagement with several industry associations or groups concerned with improving the sustainability of the textile ment Department tasked with developing milestones in terms of product and process Lists (RSL). It is bluesign® approved. and apparel industries, in particular in the area of better chemical management in supply chains. The details of such collaborations are given new products and processes for synthesis excellence, including shorter or more ecoThe Dianix® XF2 range was also launched in our website5. Brief updates on these activities: and application to support our leading marnomical dyeing procedures, reduced water ket position. Our rich heritage of over 150 and energy consumption, and lower waste, in 2014. The new Dianix XF2 range consists years of R&D includes intellectual property water and polluting effects. of five dyes. All dyes have been designed Z D HC (Z E R O DI S C HA R G E O F and manufacturers with participation from Each year DyStar produces a brochure giving from our previous parent companies. This to offer excellent wet fastness performance HA Z A R DO U S C HE M I C A L S ) academics and NGOs. The main objective product selection guidance and recommenIn 2014, we launched several new items, on critical polyester fabrics, particularly on of the SAC is to develop an index, the Higg dations for articles required to comply with has resulted in more than 1,700 patents and In response to increasing pressure from new for example the new Realan® Black MF-PV, polyester microfiber and polyester/elastane Index, which takes a full life-cycle view of Oeko-Tex® Standard 100. patent applications worldwide. regulatory requirements and from NGOs, which provides a completely metal free blends. They are able to meet the most dean apparel product and identifies all major Brands and Retailers are now requiring greater social and environmental impacts along the We build strategic collaborations with cusdyeing process for wool. Realan Black MF-PV manding Retailer and Brands specifications chemical disclosure along the supply chain. G LO B A L O R G A N I C T E X T I L E production chain from cradle to grave. tomers, industry partners, institutes and provides the highest wet processing fastfor high wet-fast outlets, whilst taking into This developing trend to greater transparency S TA N D A R D ( G O T S ) universities to help us understand and even ness, even higher than Mordant Black PV account the requirements of the relevant and traceability is a result of companies having DyStar works closely with many of the DyStar was one of the first companies to forecast our customers’ needs and ultimatetypes and far superior to other Reactive Black RSL’s with their clean eco profile. The dyes to work harder to protect their reputation and Brand and Retailer members of the SAC in have its dyestuffs approved for use on orly meet them. Our high performance textile types for wool. are fully compliant with the Oeko-Tex® Stanbrand integrity from negative publicity in the creating seasonal color palettes through its ganic textiles complying with the GOTS dyes and auxiliaries have improved ecologdard 100 and are bluesign® approved. The media and on social networks. Color Solutions International business headShade and metamerism are identical to Morstandard. DyStar offers an extensive range of ical and toxicological profiles and are of a Dianix XF2 dyes are characterized by good quartered in Charlotte, NC and in ensuring dant Black PV types with excellent build-up. A recent development has been the fordyes and auxiliaries which are approved with consistently high quality. This enables our compatibility in exhaustion & diffusion compliance of its products with Restricted Fiber coverage of Realan Black MF-PV is by mation of the Zero Discharge of Hazardous GOTS Version 4.0. customers to apply optimized coloration for best Right-First-Time dyeing of ternary Substance List requirements through its far superior to other Reactive Black types Chemicals (ZDHC) group of Brands and ReDyStar’s testing laboratory subsidiary, Texprocesses and to achieve superior technical, shades at 130 °C and furthermore they show econfidence® program. and even exceeds Mordant Black PV types. tailers who have committed to eliminate hazanlab is one of the few laboratories that has environmental and economic performance. good build-up to dark shades. Realan Black MF-PV is APEO and AOX free, in ardous chemicals from their supply chains DyStar supports the implementation of the capabilities of testing Dyes, Chemicals and by 2020. This commitment to zero discharge Chemical Management module of the Higg Auxiliaries for the Textile Chemicals, Auxiliary was made in response to a series of reports Index at wet processing facilities through caand Dyes industry as well as for the wet proS U S TA I N A B L E S O L U T I O N S F O R A L L F I B E R S and campaigns by Greenpeace. pacity building programs run by Sustainable cessing industry to GOTS Standards. Since Recently, with the increase in consumer inDyStar offers Best Available Technology (BAT) solid foundation of textile industry knowlTextile Solutions. DyStar is an active member of the Techni2007, Texanlab has tested over 2800 samples terest and the establishment of third party to reduce resource consumption and miniedge, DyStar helps its customers face the cal Advisory Committee (TAC) of the ZDHC for compliance to GOTS standards. It works Certification systems a greater focus has mize pollution from textile wet processing. upcoming challenges of the new eco fibers bluesign® closely with leading certification agencies to Group and our Sustainable Textile Solutions been given by the textile companies to the DyStar innovation processes have addressed and contribute towards realizing sustainabilbusiness unit provided expert input and onDyStar is a System organize seminars to build awareness about production of sustainable fibers. New alterboth environmental concerns and economity in the textile supply chain. the-ground assistance in the development of Partner of bluesign® GOTS standards and organic cotton.. natives have been investigated, developed ic realities such as saving resources, saving an audit protocol for ZDHC. DyStar has creatand the majority of DyStar products can be and introduced to the market. Challenges costs and meeting the short lead times deIn the area of organic cotton, DyStar was ed a positive list of products in keeping with found in the bluefinder tool established by one of the first companies to get its prodS U S TA I N A B L E T E X T I L E arise when these fibers have to be processed manded from the textile supply chain. its “Zero Discharge of Hazardous Chemicals” bluesign® technologies ag. DyStar has more ucts accredited for use on GOTS-approved S O LU T I O N S ( S T S ) in the industry using the available dyestuffs, commitment. This list includes those DyStar than 900 textile dyes and pigment preparaauxiliaries, and chemicals. With environmentally compliant dyestuffs, cotton and is engaged in updating its list of Sustainable Textile Solutions (STS) is dedicated products that do not contain as intentional tions, and more than 200 textile auxiliaries highly experienced process expertise and a approved products to GOTS Version 4.0. to assisting Brands, Retailers and industry partingredients any of the 11 chemical groups listed in the bluefinder database. This gives manufacturers the widest possible choice of ners implement sustainable textile producrestricted by the ZDHC group. In fact, the vast quality products to choose from when protion meeting quality and eco-requirements majority of our products do not contain any ducing bluesign® approved fabric and making more efficient use of resources. of these chemicals as ingredients. DyStar has The STS programs focus on three main comalways been committed to the highest stanponents: consultancy, auditing and capacity dards of product safety and through its econOEKO TEX® building. . The services we offer include: fidence® program is actively supporting the S TA N D A R D objectives of the ZDHC Group. 100 ➊ Restricted Substances Lists (RSL) Compliance Assessment Oeko-Tex® Standard 100 is a testing and certiS U S TA I N A B L E A P PA R E L fication system for textile products operated ➋ ZDHC Benchmarking & Improvement COALITION (SAC) by a global network of franchised laborato➌ Textile Mill Efficiency Assessment ries. With over 95,000 certificates issued the DyStar is a member of the Sustainable ApOeko-Tex® label is the best known and most ➍ Chemical Inventory Management parel Coalition (SAC), the collaborative venwidespread test label for textiles in the world. ture of leading apparel retailers, suppliers 5 www.dystar.com/commitments 32 DyStar su sta ina b il it y per fo r m a n ce repo r t 2014 DyStar su st ain ab i l i t y p e r for m a n ce re p or t 2014 33 Promote good governance, improved employee relations and social responsibilities 3. sustainability in numbers: PROMOTE ETHICAL PRACTICES 3.1 employee relations Our endeavor is to become an “Employer of Choice” in the dyes & chemical Our strong focus on occupational health and safety has been corroborated industry. At DyStar, we believe our people are our most valuable asset. We proby significantly reduced number of Lost Days due to injury in 2014. This has revide an environment for them to grow and excel in their roles, and where they can duced significantly by 90% compared to 2013. With strict adherence to the health cultivate their expertise and use their knowledge to the fullest. and safety policy and practices, DyStar has successfully ensured zero fatalities in the last three reporting periods. The number of workplace injuries has reduced significantly WORKFORCE TRAINING E M P LOYE E T R A I N I N G H O U R S with respect to previous year. This is a significant progress towards safety of our employees at workplace. Only one minor incident of occupational disease was reported this year in our We have foreseen the importance of having a Turkey production plant. skilled and motivated workforce as the com40,000 40,000 40,000 40,000 pany prepares itself to meet the challenges of growth in our industry. We will need to 35,000 35,000 35,000 35,000 35,105 L O S T D AY S D U E T O I N J U R Y T O TA L W O R K P L A C E I N J U R I E S be best prepared with employees, who are 30,000 30,000 30,000 30,000 able to multi-task, face stiff competition and 29,437 300 300 300 300 30 30 30 30 25,000 25,000 25,000 25,000 ensure high productivity. Thus, our focus for 25 2014 was to build a competitive workforce 250 250 250 250 266 25 25 25 20,000 20,000 20,000 20,000 across all levels and functions. 200 200 200 200 20 20 20 20 25 15,000 15,000 15,000 15,000 150 150 150 150 184 15 15 15 15 We regularly review the training require10,000 10,000 10,000 11,983 10,000 10 ments of employees and based on that an 100 100 100 100 10 10 10 15 5000 5000 5000 5000 annual training calendar is prepared. 5 9 50 5050 50 17.5 5 5 5 Our total training hours increased by over 6000 hours in 2014 from year 2013. 2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 O U R H E A LT H & S A F E T Y P E R F O R M A N C E In 2014, our total workforce remained almost constant at 2200 porary, and contract employees. Our employee turnover rate is Occupational health and safety is an importdirect and long-term health risks by identiOur strong focus on occupational health and employees from 2195 in 2013. This includes permanent, tem0.22% for year 2014. 5 employees left the organization in the year. ant part of our sustainability agenda. Our fying such hazards and providing informasafety has been corroborated by significantly vision for Occupational Health & Safety is tion, training, and suitable protection. Both reduced number of Lost Days due to injury focused on all stakeholders. This includes our new and experienced employees are trained in 2014. This has reduced significantly by 90% employees, contract workers, haulage conregularly on health and safety issues through compared to 2013. With strict adherence to 3.2 human rights practices tractors, visitors and neighbors of our sites. safety camps, toolbox talks and safety camthe health and safety policy and practices, DyStar joined United Nations Global Compact Though we have not carried out any formal D Y S TA R ' S K E Y H U M A N DyStar has developed and implemented a paigns. We ensure that the employees adhere DyStar has successfully ensured zero fatalities (UNGC) with the objective of strengthening assessment of our operations and of our supRIGHTS COMMITMENTS policy for plant safety and hazard prevention to our strict measures on PPE usage. Periodiin the last three reporting periods. The numour commitment towards sustainability. pliers for human rights violation or risks of as part of its “Guidelines for Responsible Care cal medical check-ups, followed by special ber of workplace injuries has reduced significhild labor but, we do not support or tolerate ● The international Labor Organizain Environmental Protection and Safety”. We treatment for those suffering from particular cantly with respect to previous year. This is The United Nations Global Compact is a strachild labor and forced or compulsory labor tion’s (ILO) core labor standards and identify and assess the hazard potential, and health issues are arranged for the employees. a significant progress towards safety of our tegic policy initiative for businesses that are within our operations as well as in our supTripartite Declaration of Principles risks associated with plant design and proemployees at workplace. Only one minor incommitted to aligning their operations and ply chain. We do not tolerate discrimination concerning Multinational Enterprises cesses. Keeping such risks to the minimum is We comply with all applicable local and nacident of occupational disease was reported strategies with ten universally accepted prinand Social Policy (MNE Declaration) based on gender, race, community or sexual one of the essential criteria for the final choice tional health, safety regulations and labor this year in our Turkey production plant. ciples in the areas of human rights, labor, enorientation. All our employees have the free● The Universal Declaration of Human of the design and processes. New machines laws, such as COIDA (Africa), OSHACT 18001 vironment and anti-corruption. dom of association, right to form and join Rights to be installed on-site and new products to Act 85 of 1993, ISHL (Japan), and OSHA (USA). trade unions, and collective bargaining. The We have set out our commitment to the So● The OECD Guidelines for Multinational be launched in the market undergo pre-reqrepresentatives of trade unions have access uisite safety assessments as per the legal D Y S TA R S A F E T Y R E C O R D cial Accountability Declaration6 in the form Enterprises to their members at the workplace. of a directive in the company’s Code of Con● The United Nations Global Compact norms. Our subcontractors also have to folDETAILS 2012 2013 2014 duct. We analyze and respond to every inlow strict guidelines to work on our sites. The Ten Principles Total Lost Days – Injury 266 184 17.50 fringement of this formal obligation. We also implementation and training is ensured by ● SA8000 Standards ensure our business partners follow these the Ecology, Health, Environment and Safety Total Occupational Disease Incidents 0 0 1 principles while discharge of services to us. ● The Responsible Care Global Charter (EHES) departments at each of our sites. Total Workplace Injuries 9 25 15 We fulfill our responsibility to provide sufFatalities 0 0 0 ficient protection to our employees from 6 For detailed Social Accountability Declaration refer to www.dystar.com/corporate-social-responsibility 34 DyStar su sta ina b il it y per fo r m a n ce repo r t 2014 DyStar su st ain ab i l i t y p e r for m a n ce re p or t 2014 35 Promote good governance, improved employee relations and social responsibilities 3. sustainability in numbers: PROMOTE ETHICAL PRACTICES S O C I A L A C C O U N TA B I L I T Y D E C L A R AT I O N K E Y P O I N T S 3.4 compliance ● CHILD LABOR ● DISCRIMINATION ● REMUNERATION DyStar products are in full compliance with these, Corlu (Turkey) and Mem Martins (PorIn all of these reported cases, a proper root DyStar does not support or tolerate DyStar does not tolerate discrimination DyStar ensures that the wages paid the applicable chemical legislation relating tugal) units paid minor administrative fines to cause analysis has been conducted and corchild labor within its area of responsion based on any race, ethnic origin, always meet at least legal or industry to health and safety in the markets in which local authorities for violation of local laws. rective actions have been implemented to bility gender, religion, philosophy, political minimum standards they are manufactured and sold. We sell over avoid any further risk of non-compliance. We or union membership, disability, age or five thousand individual chemicals and have In Nanjing, a penalty of 100000CNY was paid have also upgraded our processes to capture ● FORCED LABOR sexual orientation ● MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS made sure that each of them is pre-regison account of disposal of sulphuric acid; anmore relevant information now. We have DyStar does not engage in or support DyStar regularly reviews and checks tered under the EU REACH® Regulation. We other penalty of 200000CNY was paid beestablished a central database which is now the use of forced labor ● DISCIPLINARY PRACTICES the adequacy and effectiveness of this strive hard to comply with all local, national cause rain water from the production site was maintained by the Global HSE function. The DyStar does not allow or engage in or directive, and strives to improve its getting mixed with local rain water collecting ● HEALTH AND SAFETY and global environmental laws. We have database includes all relevant data of waste support the use of corporal punishcontents deployed very stringent processes to undersump. In Corlu, a penalty was imposed bewater, waste materials and by-products from DyStar does everything it can to provide ment, mental or physical coercion and stand and study non-compliances of all sorts cause a temporary construction space was all manufacturing sites. DyStar’s Global Coma safe and healthy working environment verbal abuse of its employees and carry out root cause analysis of all such being utilized for storing drums. In Mem pliance Management function has also been ● FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION, RIGHT incidents. Martins, a risk assessment document that had reviewed and re-organized to further increase ● WORKING HOURS TO COLLECTIVE BARGAINING been prepared by a licensed consulted was effectiveness relating to environmental comDyStar complies with applicable laws During the reporting year, Nanjing (China) found methodologically insufficient. DyStar respects the right of all personpliances throughout the organization. and standards production unit reported minor incidences of nel to form and join trade unions and to bargain collectively environmental non compliances. Other than 3.3 social initiatives DyStar’s social responsibility has been defined in keeping with the operations, local teams are responsible for identifying and executing main points of SA 8000, an international standard on accountability, social initiatives based on the needs of the local community. Our key and the principles of Responsible Care®. We believe in creating value initiatives with our communities in various geographies are noted for the society through community development activities. In our below: O U R K E Y S O C I A L I N I T I AT I V E S Supporting HIV/AIDS affected in Africa: Community assistance in Mexico: ● Our production unit in Pietermaritzburg, Africa supports Tabitha ● In 2014, we donated clothes and toys to local communities in Ministries that provide assistance to the communities of PieterHidalgo state. maritzburg to care for those affected by HIV/AIDS. They also run ● Made charity contribution to Mexican Red Cross the Hope Centre for orphaned and abandoned children ranging in ages from birth to 6 years old. DyStar makes monthly donaCommunity service in India: tions to assist them in their efforts. Total amount donated in ● Our site representative monitors ambient air quality in our local 2014 is ZAR 30,000. community areas. Helping the disabled in Brazil: Community service in Indonesia: ● Our Brazil production unit donates money to a charitable entity ● Provides drinking water free of cost to local people staying APAE to support the cause of integrating the differently-able around our facility people into the society. In 2014, we have donated USD 2,000 for ● Donate staple food during Eid celebration the cause. Food donation in USA: ● The employees of DyStar’s production unit in Reidsville donated canned foods to Reidsville food bank at Thanksgiving and Christmas. In total around 300 lbs of food was collected. ● Employees donated clothes, toys and shoes for the needy by donating to the Salvation Army. 36 DyStar su sta ina b il it y per fo r m a n ce repo r t 2014 DyStar su st ain ab i l i t y p e r for m a n ce re p or t 2014 37 DATA at a glance GRI® Index G3.1 CONTENT INDEX KPI DESCRIPTION 2012 2013 2014 A P P L I C AT I O N L E V E L B ECONOMIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART I: PROFILE DISCLOSURES Economic Value Generated (USD) 764,138,154 822,864,771 937,990,000 EC1 Economic Value Distributed (USD) 774,529,892 772,997,639 837,860,000 1. Strategy and Analysis Total Purchase Value Costs (USD) 526,028,854 706,682,221 643,001,791 EXPLANATION PROFILE LEVEL OF LOCATION REASON FOR EC6 DESCRIPTION FOR REASON DISCLOSURE REPORTING OF DISCLOSURE OMISSION Amount Spent on Local Suppliers (USD) 263,173,985 434,856,785 363,409,558 OF OMISSION Statement from the most senior deciENVIRONMENT 1.1 sion-maker of the organization. Full Letter from the CEO Description of key impacts, risks, and Raw Materials (MT) 103,188 111,275 114,747 1.2 opportunities. Full Letter from the CEO EN1 Packaging Material (MT) 4,577[1] 4,770 5,679 2. Organizational Profile Associate Materials (MT) 1,002 1,742 1,942 2.1 Name of the organization. Full About DyStar Direct Energy Consumed (KwH) W 84,511,631 93,295,159 86,926,074 About DyStar: Our Primary brands, products, and/or EN3 2.2 services. Full Products and Solutions Direct Energy Consumed (GJ) 304,242 335,862 312,933 Operational structure of the organization, including main divisions, About DyStar: DyStar EN4 Indirect Energy Consumed (KwH) 224,203,606 251,606,027 234,905,232 2.3 operating companies, subsidiaries, and Full at a Glance joint ventures. EN8 Total Water Consumed (m3) 6,802,705 7,109,298 7,614,932 Location of organization's headquarAbout DyStar: DyStar 2.4 ters. Full at a Glance EN10 Total Water Recycled (m3) 1,691,079 1,688,019 1,835,488 Number of countries where the Total Direct GHG Emissions – Scope 1 (tCO2e) 18,097 18,554 18,654 organization operates, and names of countries with either major operations About DyStar: DyStar 2.5 or that are specifically relevant to the Full at a Glance EN16 Total Indirect GHG Emissions – Scope 2 (tCO2e) 123,615 141,245 137,638 sustainability issues covered in the report. Total GHG Intensity (tCO2e/MTof production) 1 1 1 About DyStar: DyStar 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. Full at a Glance Total Wastewater Discharged (m3) 1,552,400 1,638,286 1,854,050 Markets served (including geographic EN21 About DyStar: Our 2.7 breakdown, sectors served, and types Full Worldwide Presence Wastewater intensity per t of production 13 13 15 of customers/beneficiaries). About DyStar: DyStar at a Glance; Our Hazardous Waste (MT) 4,099 5,496 6,153 Worldwide Presence; and Our Products and Solutions; Non-Hazardous Waste (MT) 3,911 4,256 3,668 About DyStar: Our Economic PerforTotal Waste 8,010 9,752 9,821 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization. Full mance; Sustainability in Numbers: Promote EN22 Ethical Practices: Employee Relations; Hazardous waste per t of production 0 0 0 Annual Production Volume – FG w 40% Indigo Soln: 124,890 Non-Hazardous waste per t of production 0 0 0 MT Significant changes during the reportOverall waste per t of production 0 0 0 About the report: 2.9 ing period regarding size, structure, or Full Scope and Boundary ownership. EN23 Total number and volume of spills 38.1m3 0.39 m3 3.232 m3 (14 spills) (3 spills) (12 spills) No related awards Awards received in the reporting 2.10 period. Full received during the EN30 Environmental Protection Expenditure (USD) 8,147,284 8,971,565 7,191,218 reporting period 38 DyStar su sta ina b il it y per fo r m a n ce repo r t 2014 DyStar su st ain ab i l i t y p e r for m a n ce re p or t 2014 39 GRI® Index EXPLANATION EXPLANATION PROFILE LEVEL OF LOCATION REASON FOR PROFILE LEVEL OF LOCATION REASON FOR DESCRIPTION FOR REASON DESCRIPTION FOR REASON OF DISCLOSURE REPORTING OF DISCLOSURE OMISSION DISCLOSURE REPORTING OF DISCLOSURE OMISSION OF OMISSION OMISSION For organizations that have a unitary 3. Report Parameters board structure, state the number and Governance at 4.3 gender of members of the highest Full DyStar Reporting period (e.g., fiscal/calendar governance body that are independent 3.1 year) for information provided. Full About the Report and/or non-executive members. Most recent report Mechanisms for shareholders and emDate of most recent previous report 3.2 (if any). Full was published in ployees to provide recommendations Governance at 2013 4.4 or direction to the highest governance Full DyStar 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.). Full About the Report body. Contact point for questions regarding About the Report: Linkage between compensation for 3.4 the report or its contents. Full Your Views members of the highest governance body, senior managers, and executives Governance at 3.5 Process for defining report content. Full About the Report: 4.5 (including departure arrangements), Full DyStar Reporting Process and the organization's performance (including social and environmental Boundary of the report (e.g., counperformance). tries, divisions, subsidiaries, leased About the Report: 3.6 facilities, joint ventures, suppliers). Full Scope and Boundary Processes in place for the highest See GRI Boundary Protocol for further Governance at guidance. 4.6 governance body to ensure conflicts of Full DyStar interest are avoided. State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report (see About the Report: Process for determining the composi3.7 completeness principle for explanation Full Scope and Boundary tion, qualifications, and expertise of the of scope). members of the highest governance Voice of Stakehold4.7 body and its committees, including Full ers Basis for reporting on joint ventures, any consideration of gender and other subsidiaries, leased facilities, outindicators of diversity. sourced operations, and other entities About the Report: 3.8 that can significantly affect compaFull Scope and Boundary About DyStar; Govrability from period to period and/or Internally developed statements of ernance at DyStar: between organizations. mission or values, codes of conduct, Our code of con4.8 and principles relevant to economic, Full duct; Sustainability Data measurement techniques and environmental, and social performance at DyStar: Sustainthe bases of calculations, including asand the status of their implementation. ability Committee sumptions and techniques underlying estimations applied to the compilation About the Report: Procedures of the highest governance 3.9 of the Indicators and other information Full About our Data body for overseeing the organization's in the report. Explain any decisions not About DyStar; Govidentification and management of to apply, or to substantially diverge ernance at DyStar: economic, environmental, and social from, the GRI Indicator Protocols. Our code of con4.9 performance, including relevant risks Full duct; Sustainability and opportunities, and adherence or Explanation of the effect of any re-stateat DyStar: Sustaincompliance with internationally agreed ments of information provided in ability Committee standards, codes of conduct, and earlier reports, and the reasons for such No re-statements 3.10 re-statement (e.g., mergers/acquisitions, Full have been published principles. change of base years/periods, nature of business, measurement methods). Processes for evaluating the highest About DyStar; governance body's own performance, Sustainability at Significant changes from previous 4.10 particularly with respect to economic, Full DyStar: Sustainabilireporting periods in the scope, boundAbout the Report: environmental, and social perfor3.11 Full ty Committee ary, or measurement methods applied Scope and Boundary mance. in the report. Explanation of whether and how the Sustainability at 4.11 precautionary approach or principle is Full DyStar: SustainabiliTable identifying the location of the addressed by the organization. ty Strategy 3.12 Standard Disclosures in the report. Full GRI Index Governance at Externally developed economic, enviPolicy and current practice with regard DyStar: Compliance ronmental, and social charters, princi3.13 to seeking external assurance for the Full About the Report: 4.12 ples, or other initiatives to which the Full Management; Reporting Process About DyStar: Memreport. organization subscribes or endorses. berships 4. Governance, Commitments, and Engagement Memberships in associations (such as industry associations) and/or national/ international advocacy organizations in which the organization: * Has positions Governance structure of the organizaAbout DyStar: Memtion, including committees under the 4.13 in governance bodies; * Participates Full berships Governance at in projects or committees; * Provides 4.1 highest governance body responsible Full DyStar substantive funding beyond routine for specific tasks, such as setting stratemembership dues; or * Views membergy or organizational oversight. ship as strategic. Indicate whether the Chair of the Governance at List of stakeholder groups engaged by Our Sustainability 4.2 highest governance body is also an Full DyStar 4.14 Full executive officer. the organization. Priorities 40 DyStar su sta ina b il it y per fo r m a n ce repo r t 2014 DyStar su st ain ab i l i t y p e r for m a n ce re p or t 2014 41 GRI® Index BASIS FOR IDENTIFICATION AND SELECLEVEL OF OUR SUSTAINABILITY EXPLANATION EXPLANATION PROFILE REASON FOR PROFILE LEVEL OF LOCATION REASON FOR TION OF STAKEHOLDERS WITH WHOM TO REPORTING FOR REASON OF DESCRIPTION FOR REASON OF DISCLOSURE PRIORITIES OMISSION DISCLOSURE REPORTING OF DISCLOSURE OMISSION ENGAGE. OMISSION OMISSION Approaches to stakeholder engageOur Sustainability 4.15 ment, including frequency of engageFull Priorities DMA LA Disclosure on Management Approach LA ment by type and by stakeholder group. Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engageSustainability in NumOur Sustainability 4.16 ment, and how the organization has Full Priorities bers: Promote Ethical responded to those key topics and conEmployment Full Practices: Employee cerns, including through its reporting. Relations; Voice of Stakeholders Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engageSustainability in NumOur Sustainability 4.17 ment, and how the organization has Full Priorities bers: Promote Ethical responded to those key topics and conLabor/management relations Full Practices: Employee cerns, including through its reporting. Relations; Voice of Stakeholders Sustainability in Numbers: Promote Ethical STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART II: DISCLOSURES ON MANAGEMENT APPROACH (DMAs) Aspects Occupational health and safety Full Practices: Employee Relations; Voice of Stakeholders DMA EC Disclosure on Management Approach EC Sustainability in Numbers: Promote Ethical Training and education Full Practices: Employee Letter from the CEO; Relations; Voice of Economic performance Full About DyStar: Our EcoStakeholders nomic Performance Aspects Sustainability in NumLetter from the CEO; bers: Promote Ethical Market presence Full About DyStar: Our EcoDiversity and equal opportunity Full Practices: Employee nomic Performance Relations; Voice of Stakeholders DMA EN Disclosure on Management Approach EN DMA HR Disclosure on Management Approach HR Sustainability at DyStar: DyStar approach Sustainability in Materials Full Numbers: Promote towards Sustainability; Non-discrimination Full Voice of Stakeholders Ethical Practices: Human Rights Practices Sustainability at DyStar: DyStar approach Sustainability in Energy Full towards Sustainability; Freedom of association and collective Numbers: Promote Voice of Stakeholders Full bargaining Ethical Practices: HuSustainability at DySman Rights Practices tar: DyStar approach Water Full Sustainability in towards Sustainability; Voice of Stakeholders Numbers: Promote Child labor Full Ethical Practices: HuSustainability at DySman Rights Practices tar: DyStar approach Emissions, effluents and waste Full towards Sustainability; Sustainability in Voice of Stakeholders Prevention of Forced and compulsory Numbers: Promote Full Aspects Sustainability at DySlabor Ethical Practices: Hutar: DyStar approach man Rights Practices Products and services Full towards Sustainability; Voice of Stakeholders Sustainability at DySDMA SO Disclosure on Management Approach SO tar: DyStar approach Compliance Full towards Sustainability; Sustainability in Voice of Stakeholders Numbers: Promote Local communities Full Sustainability in Ethical Practices: Transport Partial Numbers: SustainSocial Initiatives Aspects able Operations Sustainability in Sustainability at DySCompliance Full Numbers; Voice of tar: DyStar approach Stakeholders towards Sustainability; Overall Partial Voice of Stakeholders; Sustainability in Numbers: Sustainable Operations 42 DyStar su sta ina b il it y per fo r m a n ce repo r t 2014 DyStar su st ain ab i l i t y p e r for m a n ce re p or t 2014 43 GRI® Index EXPLANATION EXPLANATION PROFILE LEVEL OF LOCATION REASON FOR PERFORMANCE LEVEL OF LOCATION REASON FOR DESCRIPTION FOR REASON OF DESCRIPTION FOR REASON OF DISCLOSURE REPORTING OF DISCLOSURE OMISSION INDICATOR REPORTING OF DISCLOSURE OMISSION OMISSION OMISSION DMA PR Disclosure on Management Approach PR ENVIRONMENTAL Sustainability in Materials Numbers: ResponCustomer health and safety Full sible Products and About DyStar: Data at Services: Product EN1 Materials used by weight or volume. Full a Glance Stewardship Sustainability in Sustainability in Numbers: ResponNumbers: ResponPercentage of materials used that are sible Products and EN2 recycled input materials. Partial Services: Product Not available Product and service labeling Full sible Products and Services: Product Stewardship: SustainStewardship able Material Usage Aspects Sustainability in Energy Numbers: ResponMarketing communication Full sible Products and Sustainability in Services: Product Direct energy consumption by primary Numbers: Sustainable Stewardship EN3 energy source. Full Operations: Optimal Utilization of Energy Sustainability in Numbers: ResponSustainability in Compliance Full sible Products and Indirect energy consumption by primaNumbers: Sustainable Services: Product EN4 ry source. Full Operations: Optimal Stewardship Utilization of Energy Sustainability in Energy saved due to conservation and Numbers: Sustainable EN5 efficiency improvements. Fully Operations: Optimal Utilization of Energy STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART III: PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Initiatives to provide energy-efficient Sustainability in or renewable energy based products Numbers: Sustainable EN6 and services, and reductions in energy Partial Operations: Optimal Not available requirements as a result of these ECONOMIC initiatives. Utilization of Energy Sustainability in Economic performance EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy Partial Numbers: Sustainable Not available consumption and reductions achieved. Operations: Optimal Utilization of Energy Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, operating costs, employee compensaAbout DyStar: Our Water EC1 tion, donations and other community Partial Economic PerforNot available investments, retained earnings, and mance Sustainability in payments to capital providers and Numbers: Sustainable governments. EN8 Total water withdrawal by source. Full Operations: Water Consumption Sustainability at DyStar: DyStar's apSustainability in Financial implications and other risks proach to SustainabilPercentage and total volume of water Numbers: Sustainable EC2 and opportunities for the organizaPartial ity; Sustainability in Not available EN10 recycled and reused. Full Operations: Water tion's activities due to climate change. Numbers: Sustainable Consumption Operations: Optimal Utilization of Energy Emissions, effluents and waste Market Presence Total direct and indirect greenhouse Sustainability in EN16 gas emissions by weight. Full Numbers Range of ratios of standard entry level Sustainability in wage by gender compared to local Numbers: Promote Sustainability in EC5 minimum wage at significant locations Full Ethical Practices: HuNumbers: Sustainable of operation. man Rights Practices Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas Operations: Manage EN18 emissions and reductions achieved. Full our Emissions; and About DyStar: Our Optimal Utilization of Policy, practices, and proportion of Economic PerforProprietary Energy EC6 spending on locally-based suppliers at Partial mance; Data at a information significant locations of operation. Glance Sustainability in Total water discharge by quality and Numbers: SustainEN21 destination. Full able Operations: Indirect economic impacts Water Consumption Sustainability in Sustainability in Understanding and describing Total weight of waste by type and Numbers: SustainNumbers: Promote EN22 Full EC9 significant indirect economic impacts, Partial Ethical Practices: Not available disposal method. able Operations: including the extent of impacts. Handling Wastes Social Initiatives 44 DyStar su sta ina b il it y per fo r m a n ce repo r t 2014 DyStar su st ain ab i l i t y p e r for m a n ce re p or t 2014 45 GRI® Index EXPLANATION EXPLANATION PERFORMANCE LEVEL OF LOCATION REASON FOR PERFORMANCE LEVEL OF LOCATION REASON FOR FOR DESCRIPTION FOR REASON OF DESCRIPTION THE REASON INDICATOR REPORTING OF DISCLOSURE OMISSION INDICATOR REPORTING OF DISCLOSURE OMISSION OMISSION OF OMISSION Sustainability in Sustainability in Total number and volume of significant Numbers: SustainNumbers: Promote EN23 spills. Full able Operations: Spill LA9 Health and safety topics covered in Full Ethical Practices: EmManagement formal agreements with trade unions. ployee Relations: Our Health and Safety Performance Products and services Training and education Sustainability in Numbers: ResponAverage hours of training per year per Sustainability in Initiatives to mitigate environmental LA10 Full sible Products and employee by employee category. Numbers EN26 impacts of products and services, and Partial Services: Product Not material extent of impact mitigation. Stewardship; and Industry Outreach SOCIAL: Human Rights Sustainability in Numbers: ResponInvestment and procurement practices Percentage of products sold and their sible Products and EN27 packaging materials that are reclaimed Partial Services: Product Not available by category. Stewardship: SustainPercentage of significant suppliers, Sustainability in able Material Usage contractors and other business Numbers: Promote HR2 partners that have undergone human Partial Ethical Practices: HuNot available rights screening, and actions taken. man Rights Practices Compliance Monetary value of significant fines Sustainability in Freedom of association and collective bargaining and total number of non-monetary Numbers: Promote EN28 sanctions for non-compliance with Full Ethical Practices: Operations identified in which the environmental laws and regulations. Compliance Sustainability in right to exercise freedom of association Numbers: Promote HR5 and collective bargaining may be at Full Ethical Practices: HuOverall significant risk, and actions taken to man Rights Practices support these rights. Total environmental protection expenSustainability in EN30 ditures and investments by type. Full Numbers Child Labor Operations identified as having signifSustainability in SOCIAL: Labor Practices and Decent Work icant risk for incidents of child labor, Numbers: Promote HR6 and measures taken to contribute to Full Ethical Practices: Huthe elimination of child labor. man Rights Practices Employment Sustainability in Prevention of forced and compulsory labor Total workforce by employment type, Numbers: Promote LA1 employment contract, and region. Partial Ethical Practices: Not available Operations identified as having Employee Relations Sustainability in significant risk for incidents of forced Numbers: Promote Sustainability in HR7 or compulsory labor, and measures to Full Ethical Practices: HuTotal number and rate of employee contribute to the elimination of forced Numbers: Promote man Rights Practices LA2 turnover by age group, gender, and Partial Not available or compulsory labor. Ethical Practices: region. Employee Relations SOCIAL: Society Labor/management relations Local communities Sustainability in Percentage of employees covered by Numbers: Promote LA4 collective bargaining agreements. Full Ethical Practices: HuPercentage of operations with impleSustainability in mented local community engagement, Numbers: Promote man Rights Practices SO1 impact assessments, and development Fully Ethical Practices: programs. Social Initiatives Occupational health and safety Anti-competitive behavior Percentage of total workforce Sustainability at About DyStar: Misrepresented in formal joint manageTotal number of legal actions for DyStar: Sustainability sion; and Core Values: ment-worker health and safety comLA6 mittees that help monitor and advise Partial Strategy & CommitNot available SO7 anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, Full Responsibility; Govtee: Sustainability and monopoly practices and their on occupational health and safety ernance at DyStar: Committee outcomes. programs. Code of Conduct Sustainability in Compliance Rates of injury, occupational diseases, Numbers: Promote lost days, and absenteeism, and numEthical Practices: EmLA7 ber of work-related fatalities by region Full ployee Relations: Our Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary and by gender. Health and Safety SO8 sanctions for non-compliance with Full None Performance laws and regulations. 46 DyStar su sta ina b il it y per fo r m a n ce repo r t 2014 DyStar su st ain ab i l i t y p e r for m a n ce re p or t 2014 47 GRI® Index UNCG Index EXPLANATION PERFORMANCE LEVEL OF LOCATION REASON FOR INDICATOR DESCRIPTION REPORTING OF DISCLOSURE OMISSION FOR THE REASON THE TEN PRINCIPLES OF THE UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT OF OMISSION SOCIAL: Product Responsibility UNGC Description Page / Section Principle Customer health and safety Life cycle stages in which health and Sustainability Support and respect prosafety impacts of products and services in Numbers: Sustainability in Numbers Human Rights Practices; Governance at are assessed for improvement, and Responsible 1 tection of internationally DyStar – Our Code of Conduct PR1 percentage of significant products and Full Products and proclaimed human rights services categories subject to such Services: Product procedures. Stewardship Total number of incidents of non-comMake sure business is not Sustainability in Numbers Human Rights Practices; Governance at pliance with regulations and voluntary 2 complicit in human rights DyStar – Our Code of Conduct PR2 codes concerning health and safety imFull None abuses pacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes. Uphold freedom of assoProduct and service labeling ciation and the effective Sustainability in Numbers Human Rights Practices; Governance at 3 Sustainability recognition of the right to DyStar – Our Code of Conduct Type of product and service inforcollective bargaining in Numbers: mation required by procedures, and Responsible PR3 percentage of significant products and Full Products and services subject to such information Services: Product requirements. Support elimination of all Stewardship Sustainability in Numbers Human Rights Practices; Governance at 4 forms of forced and comDyStar – Our Code of Conduct Total number of incidents of non-compulsory labor pliance with regulations and voluntary PR4 codes concerning product and service Full None information and labeling, by type of outcomes. Support effective abolition Sustainability in Numbers Human Rights Practices; Governance at 5 Marketing communications of child labor DyStar – Our Code of Conduct Sustainability Programs for adherence to laws, stanin Numbers: dards, and voluntary codes related to Responsible Eliminate discrimination in PR6 marketing communications, including Fully Products and Sustainability in Numbers Human Rights Practices; Governance at advertising, promotion, and sponsor6 employment and occupaServices: Product DyStar – Our Code of Conduct ship. Stewardship tion Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary PR7 codes concerning marketing comFull None Support a precautionary munications, including advertising, Sustainability in Numbers Sustainable Operations and Responsible promotion, and sponsorship by type of 7 approach to environmental Products outcomes. challenges Compliance Undertake initiatives to Sustainability in Numbers Sustainable Operations and Responsible Monetary value of significant fines for Sustainability 8 promote greater environProducts in Numbers: mental responsibility non-compliance with laws and regulaPR9 tions concerning the provision and use Full Promote Ethical Practices: Comof products and services. pliance Encourage the development and diffusion of Sustainability in Numbers Sustainable Operations and Responsible 9 environmentally friendly Products technologies Work against all forms of 10 corruption, including extorSustainability in Numbers Human Rights Practices tion and bribery 48 DyStar su sta ina b il it y per fo r m a n ce repo r t 2014 DyStar su st ain ab i l i t y p e r for m a n ce re p or t 2014 49 your views Your feedback is important to help us improve our sustainability performances as well as future reporting. Please find time to answer the following questions: 1. How are you related to DyStar? Choose any of the below options: ¡ Employee ¡ Shareholder ¡ Customer ¡ Supplier ¡ Regulatory Body ¡ Local Community ¡ Industry Association ¡ Media ¡ Others (please specify)_________________________________________________________________________________________ 2. Your view of the reporting quality (Check in the appropriate circle) ¡ Excellent ¡Good ¡Needs Improvement ¡Poor 3. Which of the following aspects are ‘Excellent” or “Good”? (You can check more than one) ¡ Layout & Design ¡Quality of Information provided ¡Neutrality ¡Ease of understanding ¡Information Flow/navigation 4. Which of the following aspects are “Poor” or “Needs improvement”? (You can tick more than one) ¡ Layout & Design ¡Quality of Information provided ¡Neutrality ¡Ease of understanding ¡Information Flow/navigation 5. How do you rate our following sustainability performances? (a) Economic Performance ¡Excellent ¡Good ¡Needs Improvement ¡Poor (b) Environmental Performance ¡Excellent ¡Good ¡Needs Improvement ¡Poor (c) People Performance ¡Excellent ¡Good ¡Needs Improvement ¡Poor (d) Product Performance ¡Excellent ¡Good ¡Needs Improvement ¡Poor (e) Social Performance ¡Excellent ¡Good ¡Needs Improvement ¡Poor 6. Any other comments/ suggestions_____________________________________________________________________________ ___________________________________________________________________________________________________________ ___________________________________________________________________________________________________________ 7. Details of the respondent: a. Name:______________________________________________________________________________________________________ b. Company:___________________________________________________________________________________________________ c. Contact Details (email/phone number):____________________________________________________________________________ Please email your responses to: Ms Sherrie Xu, Global Sustainability Manager, DyStar Singapore Pte Ltd Email: xu.sherrie@dystar.com 50 DyStar su sta ina b il it y per fo r m a n ce repo r t 2014 DyStar su st ain ab i l i t y p e r for m a n ce re p or t 2014 51 Committed to sustainability At DyStar, our products and services help customers worldwide reduce costs, shorten lead times and meet stringent quality and ecological specifications. Raunheim Ludwigshafen Milan Porto Kyunggi-do Reidsville, NC Istanbul Corlu Osaka Dalton, GA Charlotte, NC Mem Martins Nanjing Wuxi Omuta Cairo Ankleshwar Shanghai Karachi Naucalpan Taipei Navi Mumbai Dhaka Hong Kong Mexico City Samutprakarn Medellin Singapore Quito Jakarta Lima Gabus Global Headquarters DyStar Office São Paulo Apiúna Key Production Site Pietermaritzburg Information and our technical advice whether verbal, in writing or by way of trials are given in good faith but without warranty, and this also applies where proprietary rights of third parties are involved. Our advice does not release you from the obligation to check its validity and to test our products as to their suitability for the intended processes and uses. The application, use and processing of our products and the products manufactured by you on the basis of our technical advice are beyond our control and, therefore, entirely your own responsibility. Our products are sold in accordance with our General Conditions of Sale and Delivery. Bluesign is registered trademark of bluesign technologies ag, Switzerland. ETAD is registered trademark of The Ecological and Toxicological Association of Dyes and Organic Pigments Manufacturers (ETAD), Switzerland. GRI is registered trademark of Stichting Global Reporting Initiative, The Netherlands. Öko-Tex is registered trademark of Forschungsinstitut Hohenstein Prof. Dr. Jürgen Mecheels GmbH & Co. KG, Germany. REACH is registered trademark of The European Union, represented by the European Commission, Belgium. Astrazon, Boehme, Cassulfon, Dianix, Evo, Imperon, Indanthren, Isolan, Jettex, Lava, Levafix, Palanil, Procion, Realan, Remazol, Sera, Sirius, and Supralan are registered trademarks of DyStar Colours Distribution GmbH, Germany. Global Headquarters DyStar Singapore Pte Ltd 100.0001.00.1508 Tel: +65 66 71 28 00 Fax: +65 66 59 13 28 DyStar.Singapore@DyStar.com www.DyStar.com
