UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2015 1 1 Indhold Introduction Many of the world's leading business enterprises and organisations contact Plesner, not only because of our legal expertise but also to get advice that is of critically operational importance to Student Volunteers 4 their business. Our clients trust us because we invest in understanding their The School Project  8 organisation, the context in which they operate and the possibilities and challenges they face, and we draw on the significant Employee satisfaction 14 range and depth of our expertise when finding commercial, effective solutions for our clients. Environment and climate 16 But our clients also trust us because due to our market-leading position we find that it is natural to be a responsible business. Women and their careers 20 Just as focused as we are on providing the best possible advice and Plesner's CSR-team 24 service to our clients just as dedicated are we in our work to make the best possible positive difference to our surroundings. We wish Global Compact 25 to act responsibly in respect of our employees, our stakeholders, the local community and the environment that we live in. CSR policy 26 Our CSR programme is one of the most far-reaching CSR programmes in this line of business in Denmark and an important aspect in the life of the firm. The programme has five main themes: the School Project, Student Volunteers, employee satisfaction, women and their careers and environment and climate and all the initiatives in the programme relate to the United Nations Global Compact's ten principles in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. Today the CSR efforts have spread widely in our organisation with our CSR team members leading the way. We try to be a model example in all our activities and the full support from all Plesner partners to the CSR efforts makes it possible. CSR is about openness and transparency and we report the goals Responsible partner: Casper Münter that we are working on and the specific results of our effort to Text: Birgitte Boers, Ulla Schade the United Nations Global Compact. We are pleased and proud Photo: Nima Baharlooie, Johannes Persson, to report on the progress that we have made in respect of the Søren Brissing and Birgitte Boers CSR objectives that we set one year ago. Cover: Nima Baharlooie I hope you will enjoy reading the report. Layout: Doppel Design Printed by: Grafisk Rådgivning Tom Kári Kristjánsson, Managing Partner June 2015 Photo: Johannes Persson 3 Photo: Søren Brissing Student Volunteers is a collaboration between Plesner and the Legal Debate Society (Juridisk Diskussionsklub) at the University of Copenhagen that makes a difference to the charitable organisations in Denmark. The purpose of the project is that law student volunteers supported by professional Plesner lawyers use their skills to do pro bono work for selected Danish humanitarian organisations. Student Volunteers Pro bono legal advice that creates value for all parties. Since the project started in 2013 Student Volunteers has experienced a positive development and today the collaboration is a fixed part of Plesner's organisation. The primary goal is clear: to support a good cause in the local community by offering to provide free legal advice to selected charitable organisations focusing in particular on helping children and young people as well as people who are seriously ill. Today the collaboration includes seven charitable organisations (see box) that all find the collaboration both constructive and professional. At the same time we are constantly negotiating with new organisations wishing to receive legal assistance from Student Volunteers. A type of collaboration with many winners With Student Volunteers the parties have developed a type of collaboration benefiting both charitable organisations and law students and Plesner's employees. The law students get the opportunity to become involved and improve their legal skills with practical work experience and at the same time they learn the value of voluntary work. The students collaborate with experienced Plesner lawyers who guarantee legal advice of the highest standard. 4 “ The Student Volunteers project makes it possible for the students to practise their legal knowledge for the benefit of less privileged or marginalised groups at an early stage in their education. It also provides an opportunity to meet other clever and committed individuals from Plesner, the charitable organisations and the group of volunteers. The project successfully joins together the possibility of thorough legal study and personal development and social interaction and good deeds and at university it contributes to increased awareness of the value of doing voluntary work. For that reason Student Volunteers is very valuable to the Legal Debate Society (Juridisk Diskussionsklub) and to our members. Anders Lytzhøft-Olsen, President, the Legal Debate Society (Juridisk Diskussionsklub) A partner and an assistant attorney with the assistance of our HR department are responsible for the internal coordination at Plesner. The set-up makes it possible to quickly establish contact between Student Volunteers, the attorney who is best to do the work and the relevant professionals at the charitable organisations. We find that Student Volunteers add much value to the organisations and both the students and our own employees express pride in the advice they are providing on a voluntary basis. In the service of a good cause We receive many applications from students wishing to participate in the project. The Legal Debate Society (Juridisk Diskussionsklub) at the University of Copenhagen is responsible for coordinating the work between Plesner and the law students and every six months it selects, in collaboration with Plesner, ten law students who are to be involved in the collaboration based on motivated applications. Each of the law students commit in advance to spend 60 hours on the work over a specific period. The work we receive from the charitable organisations is very varied and places demands on the law students' professional skills. We constantly monitor whether the number of students and Plesner employees involved matches the charitable organisations' need for assistance and how such resources can best be used. The expansion to seven charitable organisations together with the interest from new organisations provide a solid basis for continuing the pro bono legal work in the service of a good cause. Selected organisations Student Volunteers provide advice to selected Danish charitable organisations • Børn og unge i Voldsramte Familier (The Danish Non-Governmental Organization for Children Exposed to Domestic Violence) • Børns Vilkår (Danish Children's Welfare) • Julemærkefonden (The Danish Christmas Seal Foundation) • Red Barnet Ungdom (Danish Child Rights Ambassadors) • Scleroseforeningen (The Danish Multiple Sclerosis Society) • Make-A-Wish Ønskefonden Danmark (Make-A-Wish) • Muskelsvindfonden (NEW) (The Danish Progressive Muscular Atrophy Foundation) 5 Collaboration with the heart in the right place Competent efforts for the benefit of children with lifethreatening illnesses and their families. Ønskefonden Danmark (Make-A-Wish) is run as a result of the commitment of about 150 dedicated volunteers who pull together without receiving any remuneration to make wishes come true for children with life-threatening illnesses. We are happy to do so both in Denmark and on the board of directors. But just as important is our collaboration agreements such as this one with Plesner that has the expertise and will to help and has the heart in the right place at the same time , says Jan S. Hansen, Deputy Chairman of Ønskefonden Danmark (Make-A-Wish). Since the start of the collaboration at the beginning of 2015 Ønskefonden Danmark (Make-AWish) has received assistance in particular with writing applications to foundations and associations whose donations are an important part of the basis for its work. The work to select relevant foundations and associations and to draft the applications in the right way is very time-consuming. Plesner lawyers and the student volunteers are clever and have the sharp mind and the fine nib required for this work that is essential to the foundation. There is no doubt that we have benefited. According to Jan S. Hansen, the central contact to key individuals with Plesner works very well and makes it easy to communicate. He predicts that in future other relevant work will be done, such as legal assistance with the drafting of collaboration agreements with sponsors or the drafting of wills for individuals wishing to donate money to the foundation. We are very pleased with the collaboration and I hope to see it grow at a gentle pace. We find that the fact that Plesner as a leading law firm is willing to associate its name with and provide assistance to our foundation is a sign of confidence and recognition of our work. We are in no doubt that the network represented by Plesner will be of great value to us. There are many competent individuals both among the employees and the students who can help us spread the positive message. Ultimately, it will mean that the number of individuals supporting Ønskefonden Danmark (Make-A-Wish) will increase so that we give hope, strength and happiness to these very ill children and their families. That is our paramount ambition , emphasises Jan S. Hansen. The object of Ønskefonden Danmark (Make-A-Wish) is to make wishes come true for children between the ages of 3 to 18 who suffer from a life-threatening illness to give them and their families hope, strength and happiness. The foundation was established in Denmark in 1999 and so far it has made wishes come true for 1,500 children in Denmark. 6 Photo: Søren Brissing “ In the course of the 60 hours during a term I got the opportunity to use my legal background and knowledge to support Danish charitable organisations and at the same time work in a number of legal areas. Marie-Louise Wincentz Klein Seize the Wincentz Klein has already got a bachelor's degree in International Business from the Copenhagen Business School and when studying for her degree she helped start opportunity! a school in the slums of New Delhi and develop a sustainable and long-term strategy for the school. Student Volunteers also turned out to be everything she wished it to be, and more. Voluntary work with a profesThe efforts are really appreciated sional focus – it makes sense to Marie-Louise Wincentz Klein's work has consisted, among me. other things, of helping Scleroseforeningen (The Danish Multiple Sclerosis Society) with a marketing law matter. I would recommend others at any time to become a student It turned out to be a challenge just to understand the volunteer. The work makes it possible to invest in the develquestion. But as student volunteers we luckily work together opment of one's own skills and at the same time become an in pairs and we are able to supplement each other. With active part of a valuable community of student volunteers, my International Business degree I was better at seeing and attorneys, assistant attorneys and other students working understanding the problem from the Society's point of view at Plesner. I would very much like to use my legal knowledge whereas by fellow student volunteer had special knowledge to take social responsibility and make of the Danish Marketing Practices Act. Together with a difference , says Marie-Louise Wincentz Klein. Plesner's attorneys, who are very dedicated and helpful, we Already as a first-term law student she became aware did the work. When the work has been done, useful and of the possibility of working as a student volunteer at constructive feedback is given and as a student volunteer Plesner. Voluntary work is not new to her. Marie-Louise you always feel that your work is appreciated. 7 Photo: Nima Baharlooie The School Project We are experiencing increasing interest in the School Project, particularly from business enterprises that see the project as a unique opportunity to support children and young people's education. Since its start in 2011 the development of the School Project has been very positive. Starting with one lower secondary school class at Nørrebro Park Skole who took their 9th grade exams in 2013 we are now working with two more classes at Nørrebro Park Skole of about 40 pupils, who will all start 9th grade after the summer holidays 2015. One of these classes joined the project in the autumn of 2014 after the pupils themselves indicated that they were interested in the possibilities that became available to their fellow pupils. At Blågård Skole we started collaborating with a 7th grade in 2013 and in June 2015 they will take their 9th grade exams. We understand from the school management that it is expected that more or less all pupils will continue their studies, either at an upper secondary school, a polytechnic or in the 10th grade. The school management, the class teacher and the pupils have expressed great satisfaction with the course of events and we expect to continue the collaboration with another 7th grade after the summer holidays. 8 “ The object of the School Project is to encourage the pupils to understand the importance of taking school and education seriously and to From a cautious start we motivate them to focus on the many job opportunities and the extent of can see that the message freedom that may become available through further education. about the School Project is now spreading. More A collaboration run by role models and more companies are Today the projects at Nørrebro Park Skole and Blågård Skole operate in a fixed structure and a Plesner attorney is project coordinator in respect supporting the project of each school. We collaborate closely with the schools and follow, because they can see that together with about eight role models (four for each school), several it is a unique project that lower secondary school classes where many pupils have other ethnic makes a difference for backgrounds than Danish. the pupils and motivates The same applies to the role models who all have medium or high-level education. It is important for the pupils that they are able to identify them to focus on with the role models, who know the challenges faced by the pupils every education. I do not doubt day. Each class is divided into small groups centred around a role model. that it works. In that way the role models are able to build up personal knowledge of and close relations with the individual pupils. Shaina Jabbar, Attorney, Associate The role models meet the pupils once a month, every second month in Partner and responsible for the class and every second month for a visit to a company. The meetings in School Project – and herself a class last approximately 1-2 hours and take the form of an open dialogue former pupil at Nørrebro Park Skole between the pupils and the role models. The groups have, for instance, worked on setting realistic goals in respect of improving grades in individual subjects and discussed what it means to make an effort in terms of school work to reach your goal. Increased interest from companies During the past year we have experienced increased interest in the project, from the media and particularly from Danish companies wishing to invite the pupils to visit them which is an important part of the project. By doing so, they support the object of the project which is to give the pupils an exiting look into the day-to-day work at a Danish company and open their eyes to the value of education. A visit to a company normally lasts three to four hours and includes tours of the premises, an introduction to the company and presentations by employees who talk about their training or education and their jobs. In 2014 the classes visited Sund & Bælt, McDonald's, Falck, Dong Energy and the City Court of Copenhagen, among others. The pupils have been welcomed warmly everywhere and one of the companies even helped secure work-experiment placements. The project makes a positive difference Annual progress meetings are held with the two schools to evaluate the projects and define the future work. Even if the overall framework of the project is relatively fixed and by and large works well, we are open to continuous improvements as well as new ideas. We have received much positive feedback from teachers, pupils, Plesner's own employees and the many companies that we collaborate with. Today we do not doubt that the work with the School Project makes a positive difference. 9 Role models lead the way The School Project strengthen the pupils' development and satisfaction. We are lucky that three of our four role models have been with us from the start in 2013. It gives the collaboration the stability that is necessary in order to get to know each other really well. We rely on the role models more and more, both in respect of the teaching and the pupils' satisfaction and get good advice about how we can do even better , says Jimmy Klüver Nielsen, teacher at Nørrebro Park Skole and an active participant in Plesner's other School Project. The process started in 2013 with an 7th grade and had such a positive development that it was decided last year to include another 8th grade. Most of the role models have another ethnic background than Danish as do most of the pupils and as a consequence they know from their own experiences some of the challenges faced by the pupils. Our pupils have quickly established a confidential relationship with the role models who come from outside the school and they can talk to them about some of the things that are a bit outside the school's domain. At the same time they can give the pupils advice about how to apply for jobs, how to present themselves and on the whole how to act among other people outside school. The reality brought into the class room Visits to companies are another important part of the School Project that have really helped making the pupils interested in their future. So far the classes have visited very different workplaces; from companies in the financial sector and companies in the fast food sector to the police and a court of law. Next time the pupils will visit Berendsen, a large service company, which has invited the pupils for a project day about environmental and social responsibility. As teachers this is something we love because it is easy to make the reality that we see at the workplaces a part of the teaching. For example, their work with responsibility is a subject that we can make a part of our everyday life in school and use actively in the teaching , explains Jimmi Klüver Nielsen. Less absence Experience shows that some pupils in the 8th and 9th grades start to become tired of going to school and do not attend. But now it can actually be proved that absence is reduced in the lower secondary classes that are a part of the School Project. At Nørrebro Park Skole they do not doubt that the project is also important to the pupils' personal development. This is why teachers and pupils in the future 9th grades are looking forward to continuing and developing the School Project collaboration. It is very positive that the pupils have accepted the role models so quickly, and vice versa. This is why we hope to be able to rely on them even more in future. It also impresses us that all the companies that we have visited have allocated so many resources to make the visits so very special to us. We are very grateful , says Jimmi Klüver Nielsen. 10 “ The best thing about the School Project: the visits to the companies were both nice and serious at the same time. After the visits we always make presentations for the role models and the class. To stand in front of others and show what you can do require preparation and proper presentations. When we are together in the School Project you have to put away your inner child and become more grown up. About the role models: by now we have come to know the role models really well and it is rewarding to talk to them, especially in small groups where we also talk about more personal stuff that is not for everyone to hear. Thoughts about the future: I would like to work with people, perhaps as a psychologist or a policeman. But first I would like to go to upper-secondary school. Thea Ventrup, 8.C, 15 years old “ The best thing about the School Project: the visits to the companies give us new ideas about what we can become in the future. At the same time we get to know our fellow pupils better by being together with them in the School Project. It works really well. About the role models: they have told their personal stories about how they have fought to get where they are today. And we have learned from them that good results require hard work. This is how the role models help us move forward. Thoughts about the future: for a long time I only thought that I was to be in school for nine to ten years. But today I think differently. I like working with my hands and I would like to become an engineer or a doctor. Mohammed Abuhamad, 8.B, 14 years old 11 Courage to follow your dreams The pupils from Nørrebro Park Skole got a look inside the world of job opportunities when Sund & Bælt invited them to visit the company. We learned about the School Project through Plesner which is our law firm. In Sund & Bælt we have very few sponsorships but the few that we have are targeted at children, young people and socially marginalised people. It means that the project fits in nicely with our own commitment to social responsibility , says Marianne de Montis, environmental and CSR specialist with Sund & Bælt. In the past year the company has opened its doors twice to pupils from Plesner's School Project. The two 8th grades from Nørrebro Park Skole started by visiting the company's administration offices in Copenhagen and in April 2015 they went on an excursion to the bridge between the two Danish islands Zealand and Funen (Storebæltsbroen) and the small Danish island Sprogø. At both visits the pupils were introduced to employees working very different jobs in customer service, office work, analysis and communication and not least running and maintaining the large plants, the focus being on Storebæltsbroen. The employees of the future The gigantic infrastructure projects that we are working on must last for many years to come. This is why we take the very long view and also in the future will we depend on being able to hire well-educated and qualified people. We would very much like to encourage young people to go in a direction where they can make a difference by inspiring them to get an education. At Sprogø the Sund & Bælt employees talked about the important work with both nature protection and working environment and a guided tour under the motorway at Vestbroen (a 6.6 km combined road and railway bridge) impressed the pupils who asked a lot of good questions during the tour. Marianne de Montis would like to recommend other companies to open their doors to pupils who in a few years will be the employees of the future. The pupils are incredibly interested when they visit the workplaces. We would like to show them that with a very multifarious background and education it will be possible to get a job at Sund & Bælt. Hopefully, it will encourage them to follow their dreams. At the same time the visits generate good energy internally in the company. It has been a really good experience hosting visits by the pupils and it has made our employees proud. 12 Sund & Bælt Holding A/S is the parent company of the wholly owned subsidiaries A/S Storebælt, A/S Øresund, Sund & Bælt Partner A/S, BroBizz A/S, A/S Femern Landanlæg and Femern A/S. Photo: Nima Baharlooie 13 Employee satisfaction Specialised knowledge employees are the backbone of Plesner's organisation and the possibility of continued development is what drives our employees. We believe that there is a direct connection between employee satisfaction and our ability to deliver a top performance in collaboration with our clients. This is why our focus is always on our organisation, our development, both as individuals and as a team, and on how we make our professional competencies optimally interact. And not least on our management. Secretarial competency development In the last couple of years lawyers have become more and more specialised. As a consequence of this specialisation there is a need to collaborate across departments on big projects. In order to support such development we have launched the development project Project Spring which focuses on competency development and specialisation in our business support unit. The project is being carried out and developed over the next few years by ongoing further training and the setting up of competency teams. 14 Photo: Johannes Persson In connection with Project Spring we have started working with the secretarial staff. From being very much generalists Project Spring makes it possible for the secretarial staff to become specialists. From the start the secretarial staff have been involved in the work with uncovering the areas for which interdisciplinary teams are to be established. By having the competency teams do specific work, the secretarial staff will be able to engage in an area of specialisation or other business-supporting work together with the rest of their secretarial colleagues and they will share knowledge and develop best practice. In practice, the secretarial staff will still be placed locally together with the lawyers with whom they work on a day-to-day basis. The intention is also that they are to use half of their time in their competency team. By strengthening their specialisation we ensure that the secretarial staff are able to provide professional support across Plesner's organisation as required. Improved managerial support At Plesner we are focusing on developing a management culture characterised by openness, acknowledgement and involvement. For such purpose we have put management culture on the agenda for the past couple of years and through training we have worked on the continued development of Plesner's many managers. The next natural step is to support the managers by increasing the focus on managerial role sparring. This is why today we have three experienced HR-partners who each is responsible for their business units and who support the managers in their day-to-day work. The HR-partners' primary job is to offer sparring to both managers and employees, the purpose being to improve management culture and the collaboration throughout the organisation. Accordingly, the strengthened managerial support contributes to improving the working environment and everyday satisfaction. Collaboration Value-adding advice to our clients depends very much on our ability to match expectations and give each other feedback. We are continuously to make each other better and know when the client's experience is not only about the legal advice but is just as much about the collaboration in the team providing the advice. This was why 'collaboration' and 'feedback' were the natural topics during Plesner's annual project day when interrelations and the shared goal were once again the focus. In June all Plesner employees gathered in Båstad, Sweden, for a fantastic day where, led by the consultancy firm SiriusPartner, we challenged each other and developed new ideas to improve team collaboration and feedback across specialist fields. High-quality feedback In 2014 we introduced a new model for performance evaluation with a relating bonus scheme. The evaluation is targeted at assistant attorneys and attorneys who will receive feedback three times annually on their performance from their closest superior. It is an ambitious goal and we are still working on the implementation of the system. The goal is to ensure that we use the system in the same way across the organisation and make sure that the employees are receiving regular feedback that contributes to their development. When the new evaluation system has been fully implemented in the course of next year, we expect to make an employee satisfaction survey. 15 Environment and climate It is our goal to continuously reduce our negative environmental impact. Our work on reducing Plesner's impact on the environment is still focused on the following action areas: • Energy and carbon emission • Purchases • Waste management and cleaning • Staff canteen Energy and carbon dioxide In the reporting period our energy optimisation efforts have resulted in a further reduction in our carbon dioxide emission. The kWh consumption has been reduced from 991,224 in June 2014 to 953,523 in June 2015, which is an improvement of 9.6% in the reporting period and it also means that the positive development from the preceding period when the energy consumption was 1,065,711 kWh is continued. This reduction is particularly caused by focusing on light sources and replacing all photocopiers and toners with more environmentally friendly models that all fulfil the criteria for the Nordic swan ecolabel. We continue our work on energy optimisation all over the Plesner building. Purchases Our purchasing policy focuses as much on environmental considerations as on economy, function, quality, durability and packaging. These factors are important when choosing and negotiating with suppliers and important to our consumption. In the reporting period we consequently succeeded in reducing the total amount of office supplies. As a consequence of more work being done electronically and printing on both sides of the paper we have reduced our paper consumption by 12.5% compared to the preceding reporting period. In the next period the goal is to continue replacing as many office supplies with environmentally friendly products as possible and to further reduce the paper consumption by keep focusing on printing on both sides of the paper. Waste management and cleaning Our goal is to increase the amount of recycling of the total amount of waste that is removed annually from Plesner. Our waste handling scheme with Stena Recycling A/S ensures that cardboard, paper, electronic equipment, iron, glass, toners and light sources are sorted and recycled and that waste food is used as biofuel. We maintain our focus on reducing the amount of waste, including reducing the number of newspaper subscriptions by informing employees of online newspapers. The daily cleaning is done by a cleaning company which has been approved and certified in compliance with the Nordic swan ecolabel. It is therefore guaranteed that environmentally friendly cleaning products that are free of perfume are used. 16 Energy consumption June 2012 – June 2013 1,065,711 kWh June 2013 – June 2014 991,224 kWh (-7 %) June 2014 – June 2015 953,523 kWh (-4 %) Photo: Johannes Persson 17 18 Photo: Birgitte Boers Ecology and quality in focus As a result of our continued focus on organic products, we reached our goal of keeping environmental considerations in our staff canteen at minimum the same level as last year, and more. Our staff canteen is run by Meyer Kantiner which is the only Danish canteen supplier that has a documented eco/organic profile and uses at least 30% organic products. In the reporting period June 2014 to June 2015 Plesner's staff canteen used 63% organic products. It means that we are moving closer to the Danish Veterinary and Food Administration's silver medal, which requires minimum 65% organic products. In the preceding reporting period our staff canteen's organic product percentage was 40%. This significant increase is primarily a result of the following initiatives: • We now have organic milk in our coffee machines. • Only organic products are purchased in several food groups, including flour, dairy products and cold cuts. • 100% organic fruit and vegetables are primarily purchased. But at the height of the season when the markets are full of locally grown quality products, the fruit and vegetables purchased are not all organic. At the same time as prioritising organic products it is our goal to ensure that Meyer Kantiner maintains its focus on environmentally sound values such as: • Animal welfare • The shortest possible distance of transport (Danish products are the first choice, then Nordic or European) • A minimum amount of nitrite (the supplier makes most of its cold cuts itself) • More quality instead of quantity • Health and well-being In the next year we will focus our efforts on getting the Danish Veterinary and Food Administration's silver medal, which means that the organic percentage must consistently be more than 65. Finally, we will focus on food waste, including registering the amount of food that our staff canteen throws away. From 40% to 63% organic products This significant increase is primarily a result of the following initiatives: • We now have organic milk in our coffee machines • Only organic products are purchased in several food groups, including flour, dairy products and cold cuts • 100% organic fruit and vegetables are primarily purchased. But at the height of the season when the markets are full of locally grown quality products, the fruit and vegetables purchased are not all organic 19 Women and their careers Good feedback on Plesner's mentor scheme for its women lawyers. More diversity in the group of partners and among the employees provides a breeding ground for more value-adding solutions for our clients. This is one of the reasons why we at Plesner work actively on becoming better at further developing and retaining our female talents. One of the things that we have done is to establish a mentor scheme and we have held a number of panel discussions targeted at our women lawyers. We are also looking at other initiatives that may help women have a career at Plesner. The mentor scheme got off to a positive start The mentor scheme is an offer to women lawyers when they have become third-year assistant attorneys at Plesner. About half of the target group accepted the offer of a mentor and the scheme has now run for a year. The participants themselves chose whether they wanted a mentor from Plesner or a mentor from outside Plesner. In June 2015 we evaluated the scheme by sending out a questionnaire to all mentees. The questionnaire asked questions about the participants' needs and expectations before joining the scheme and about what the participants had gained from the scheme and if they had any suggestions for improvements. The feedback has generally been good and emphasises that it is an area worth addressing in order to motivate more women to consider a career as partner. We have therefore decided to continue the scheme for yet another year. Well-attended panel discussions Every six months we hold panel discussions where the women participants meet and discuss a subject that takes their interest. During the past year a meeting was held with the theme 'Sale and business development' giving inspiration as to how a lawyer works on keeping and developing relations with existing clients and how lawyers become better at spotting new business opportunities. Another panel discussion focused on negotiating techniques and gave the women good advice about becoming more conscious and strategic negotiators both privately and at work. Each panel discussion was attended by a large part of the target group. Closer follow-up before, during and after maternity leave In the next year we will specifically systematise talks before, during and after maternity leave in order to ensure a closer dialogue between women employees, their superiors and an HR-partner. At the same time we will establish a set-up with peer-to-peer sparring as a fixed part of our offer to employees who become parents for the first time. By doing so, we wish to give the employee a closer connection to Plesner and their colleagues while on maternity leave. As a part of this initiative we hope to strengthen the dialogue between the employee and her closest superior for the purpose of becoming better at balancing expectations as to flexibility and the framework applying to the collaboration in each department. 20 Photo: Johannes Persson Award-winning career efforts Once again our efforts to motivate female legal talents have been noticed outside Plesner. For the second consecutive year Euromoney has named Plesner the best Danish law firm in 'Europe Women in Business Law 2015'. Women and their careers • 58 partners – 10 of whom are women • 60 attorneys – 23 of whom are women • 48 assistant attorneys – 23 of whom are women June 2015 21 My career path has become clearer The mentor scheme has confirmed my belief that with the necessary planning and focus my career dreams can go hand in hand with having a family. I learned about the mentor scheme during my job interview when I started at Plesner one year ago. It made good sense and I was off to a flying start as a newly hired employee , says Rikke Maria Falck Jensen, an attorney specialising in property law. Wishing to get sparring about the career opportunities in Plesner she chose a mentor in Plesner and she got a male colleague and partner as a mentor. During the past year they have held about six confidential meetings. It turned out that we both had families with small children. My mentor is a father himself and he has faced the same challenges as a young partner, so he is a perfect match for me. Important initiative Rikke has thought about the mentor scheme being a special initiative targeted at women lawyers. For some, there may be a built-in assumption that women need special treatment. However, I quickly eliminated this small degree of scepticism. As an attorney I do not want to be chosen or be rejected because of my sex. But studies show that many women lawyers choose not to have a career as partner. This is why I think that it is a very important initiative when Plesner works actively on making it more attractive for women lawyers to opt for a career. Rikke herself is very determined to go for partnership when the time comes. To her the purpose of the mentor scheme has been to get some tools to reach her goal and keep the focus on the steps of development that are a part of the process. Such plan is also conditional on her husband and family supporting her. It must be possible to have a career and a family. I believe that I will be more complete as a person and a better colleague when I succeed in having a good work-life balance. This is why I have used the conversations with my mentor to clarify where to focus while my children are small and how to streamline my efforts to reach my goal. A career plan Rikke has benefited the most from the career plan that she has got out of the scheme. It was a bit of an eye opener that she had not thought about herself. My mentor encouraged me to make a plan for my career with the professional and personal goals that I would like to reach in order to be considered for partnership. The plan has given me a more clear picture of what I have to do and when. My goals have become clearer and I can see the road that I am to follow. And I have received confirmation that it is possible to go for one's career dreams, also in good balance with my family , says Rikke. 22 Rikke Maria Falck Jensen, 36 years old, first-year attorney, married, two children at the ages of two and six. Works in Plesner's practice area Commercial Real Estate. “ Your mentor helps you to realise what you really want to do with your career. So drop your guards and be open and honest about your wishes. It is also OK to express any doubts. And give something of yourself, you will get lots in return. Rikke's best advice to others considering becoming a part of a mentor scheme. Photo: Søren Brissing 23 Plesner's CSR-team Our CSR team is responsible for implementing and developing our CSR policy. In addition to the team, a large number of employees are involved in the practical implementation of our CSR work. Plesner's CSR team includes: Casper Münter Shaina Jabbar Attorney-at-Law, Attorney-at-Law, Partner Associate Partner Area of responsibility: Area of responsibility: Casper is responsible for Shaina is responsible for Plesner's CSR policy the School Project. Torben Nørskov Anders Friis Attorney-at-Law, Attorney-at-Law, Partner Partner Area of responsibility: Area of responsibility: Torben is Plesner's Anders is responsible for Compliance Officer and employee satisfaction. is also responsible for the compliance with professional ethical rules. Mikkel Vittrup Pia Valentin Erichsen Attorney-at-Law, CFO Partner Area of responsibility: Area of responsibility: Pia is responsible for Mikkel is responsible for environment and climate. our Student Volunteers pro bono project. Henriette Stakemann Charlotte Lindahl Attorney-at-Law, Servicechef Partner Area of responsibility: Area of responsibility: Charlotte is responsible Henriette is responsible for for environment and the project Women and climate. Their Careers. 24 How we implement UN Global Compact The UN Global Compact's Plesner's CSR 10 principles initiatives Human Rights: Human Rights: • Our firm should support and respect the protection • Student Volunteers of internationally proclaimed human rights within • The School Project its sphere of influence • Further and supplementary training of employees • Our firm is to make sure that it is not complicit in • Leadership programme human rights abuses Employee rights: Employee rights: • Employee satisfaction surveys • Our firm should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the employee's • Women and their careers right to collective bargaining • Employee performance reviews • Our firm should support the elimination of all forms • Quarterly reviews of assistant attorneys and of forced and compulsory labour. legal interns • Our firm should support the effective abolition of child labour The Environment: • Our firm should support the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation • Reduction of energy consumption • Reduction of paper consumption The Environment: • Electronic processes • Environmentally labelled products • Our firm should support a precautionary approach • Reduction of food waste to environ mental challenges • Environmentally correct removal of waste • Our firm should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility • Organic products in the staff canteen • Our firm should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Anti-Corruption: • Policy implemented – constant compliance Anti-Corruption: with legislation • Our firm should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery 25 CSR policy We comply with the Danish Act on Measures to Prevent Money Laundering and Financing of Terrorism. We comply with the legislation in relation to disclosure of inside information about listed companies and As a leading Danish law firm we restrictions on trade with securities listed on the stock exchange. We have established internal procedures in recognise our obligations to our order to prevent insider trading. stakeholders, including clients, One of our partners has been appointed Compliance employees, suppliers and the Officer and his primary task is to ensure that external society that we are a part of. rules governing our profession are transformed into internal rules and that these rules are complied with. The Compliance Officer reports to the board of directors. Our CSR policy focuses on governance, ensuring an ambitious, attentive and safe working environment and We have established strict rules for our partners' and using our competences for the benefit of charity work employees' business activities outside Plesner and there for persons or groups in Denmark. are also strict rules for our partners' private financial transactions. Each year the firm's external auditor We have joined the UN Global Compact, and in doing examines the partners' compliance with the rules. so we undertake to support the ten principles that are universally accepted in the areas of human rights, We have created a manual on case management and labour, environment and anti-corruption. quality assurance and we have established general terms and conditions for our services. We will: Our goal is to retain and attract clients that demand • Provide legal advice according to the the most specialised legal advice on the market and as highest ethical and professional standards a result we have to be prepared at any time to provide • Operate our firm in a socially and environmentally legal advice according to the highest professional responsible manner standard. Consequently we only employ the best quali• Provide free legal advice (pro bono) fied employees in their field of expertise. • Otherwise support the local community, eg through We find that continuing practical and theoretical school projects training is very important. A considerable part of our employees must have completed supplementary Legal advice training abroad and all partners, senior attorneys and We recognise that as a law firm we have a special status managers of our administrative staff receive executive in a society based on the rule of law. training through our leadership programme. Our partners (the owners of the firm) have all pledged to We ensure professional development by establishing act in a manner that will be a credit to the legal profespractice groups, by creating and maintaining relevant sion, to observe the rules applicable to members of the and committed departments with a high professional Danish Bar and Law Society and to maintain a standard standard, by employing knowledge employees and by which both professionally and in terms of service and applying an open door policy. appearance is in line with the firm's standing as one of Our administrative functions must at any time be able to Denmark's largest and most respected law firms. provide the most professional service. In accordance with the Danish Bar and Law Society's We evaluate our partners, salaried attorneys and rules and our impartiality procedures we ensure that administrative functions continuously. there is no conflict of interest or loyalty before accepting In addition we maintain close relations to the leading an assignment. law firms in all significant countries that Denmark trade Before accepting an assignment we also assess whether with. clients and specific tasks are in harmony with the firm's ethical standards. 26 Social and environmental Pro bono work responsibility A central element of the CSR work is to use core competences for charitable work in the local community (pro Employee satisfaction is very important to us. bono). Our goal is to have the most satisfied employees in the Our core competence is legal knowledge. We want to business at any time. To attain this generally applied provide free legal advice of our usual high standard employee satisfaction surveys will be carried out at primarily to selected organisations that support poor, less suitable intervals. privileged or marginalised persons or groups in Denmark. We want to focus on the parameters that influence For the purpose of supporting law studies in Denmark satisfaction, including our culture, clients, types of work, and making the students aware of the importance of pro the professional environment, recognition, leadership, bono work we provide, among other things, legal advice employment conditions, career prospects, diversity, in collaboration with law students selected by the assomental work environment, social activities, our domicile, ciation of law students at the University of Copenhagen. layout of the work place, canteen services, health policy We are responsible for the provision of such advice. This etc. collaboration is called »Student Volunteers«. We make a determined effort to develop all our talented Each year Plesner donates a considerable number of employees and their career planning. hours to our attorneys' participation in pro bono work. We want equal opportunities for everyone who possesses the professional and business qualities required for becoming a partner in our firm – regardless of Supporting the local community gender, ethnicity etc. In addition to legal pro bono work we support, among other things, the initiation of school projects. It is a fact that large Danish and international law firms only have few female partners. This is also the case with It is a fundamental human right for everyone regardless of Plesner. We do not wish to introduce quotas etc on the their background to have fair and equal rights to educanumber of women. We do wish, however, to improve tion. The Danish State provides the educational framethe framework for our talented female attorneys who work for everyone regardless of their background, but the we find fulfil the requirements for making partner so personal framework which is often necessary for getting they continue their career with Plesner with a view to an education is not always available to all young people. becoming partners in the firm. The majority of our employees are highly trained and We wish to establish special development programmes network professionally and privately with other highly and mentoring schemes for our talented female trained people. We therefore see on a daily basis the attorneys, we will look into the possibility of introducing extremely positive effect of such training. greater flexibility and ensure staff retention through Some people do, however, grow up in environments greater transparency and information. that do not fully appreciate or give priority to education. As a socially responsible firm we are committed to We are confident that we can make a difference in such improving the environment even if our environmental environments. We wish to establish long-term collaboraimpact is limited. It is our goal to continue to reduce the tions with selected schools and persons who have broken firm's impact on the environment. the established pattern and can act as role models for the pupils. We focus for example on constantly reducing our carbon emission, primarily by using less energy, using less paper The purpose is to motivate the pupils to focus on school through optimisation of the transition to electronic work and on getting an education following their school processes, by increasing the use of eco-labelled prodeducation and to open the pupils' eyes to the many job ucts, by increasing the use of more environmentally opportunities and the degree of freedom that further sound paper and office supplies, by disposing correctly education may imply. The central elements of such of waste, focussing particularly on recycling and using as motivation are regular contact between role models and many organic products as possible in the staff canteen pupils and several annual visits to various companies and and when serving meals and refreshments in connection sites where the pupils get first-hand impressions of the with meetings and conferences. many job options. 27 Plesner is recognised as one of the leading law firms in Denmark, particularly focusing on transactions, complex dispute resolution and legal advice at executive level. Our aim is to become a market leader in our areas of priority and to maintain such status. We know that achieving this aim requires that Plesner constantly evolves and is Denmark's most innovative law firm and the natural home for the best and most visionary people. Our ambition runs through everything that we do in Plesner. It governs our way of accumulating and sharing knowledge. And it is crucial to our way of thinking and collaborating, our recruiting of staff and our acceptance of work and to the solutions that we provide. Amerika Plads 37 DK-2100 København Tel +45 33 12 11 33 Fax +45 33 12 00 14 www.plesner.com CVR 42938513 28
