LETT Law Firm Global Compact Communication on Progress March 2015 Managing Partner statement Responsibility is the rule of thumb as to how we in LETT run our business as a law firm, and it constitutes an integral part of our values. Therefore, we find it comes naturally to us to be part of United Nations Global Compact, and we are proud to publish our third Communication on Progress. Our Communication on Progress follows the structure of the 10 principles set out in the United Nations Global Compact and documents our focus and activities in 2014 within Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. For each of these four areas, we also describe planned initiatives for the year to come. In this way, we use our commitment in United Nations Global Compact to continue to set new responsibility goals in LETT. About LETT Henrik Sjørslev Managing Partner LETT LETT is a full-service law firm with a focus on providing high-quality legal advice to business clients as well as the public sector. We cover Denmark from our offices located in the centres of Copenhagen and Aarhus. We create the best solutions for our clients not only in the legal sense but also in terms of business, strategy and ethical standards. We find that this is the best path to satisfied clients and long-term cooperative relations. And to being the obvious choice of lawyers for business clients and the Danish public sector. Our values provide the setting for what we do and make a promise to the outside world about the approach and conduct represented in LETT: Decent We assume responsibility for our assignments and attach great importance to ethics and responsibility. Top standards Our business is based on first-rate professional expertise and quality. We are ambitious and dedicated on behalf of LETT and our clients to obtaining the best possible results. Dynamic We bring great commitment to any assignment and see solutions where others see problems. Unpretentious We meet our clients and colleagues at eye level in an informal working environment also characterised by a good sense of humour. Direct We aim at being approachable and attach great importance to being personal and open. 2 3 Human rights a number of talks on health-related topics, and our emlonged sickness periods due to stress by dealing with the ployees have had access to a health-care portal where stress situation early and by ensuring that our HR departdoctors, nurses, sports physiologists, dieticians, coaches, ment takes part in offering those of our employees who etc, have answered questions about health. Furtherhave suffered from stress a phase-in plan which reduces more, all our employees were in 2014 offered a volunthe risk of relapse. tary health-care check, which included measurements of blood pressure, cholesterol, blood sugar, fat ratio, BMI Employee satisfaction and fitness rating. Approx 70% of all our full-time emEmployee satisfaction is monitored via internal climate ployees made use of this offer. The health-care check analyses, of which the purpose is to identify the genAs a law firm, we are capable of realising our business goals only if we have a healthy working environment showed that the health status of 77% of our employees eral climate and to see how we can become even better was high, however that of 14% was poor. in our management and the cooperation in and across that enables our people to be satisfied and develop as individuals. As a result, we take good care of our job functions and office locations. The latest analysis of people and uphold a company culture that respects people irrespective of gender, race, nationality, religion, Sports employee satisfaction in LETT was made in 2012, and it faith, sexual orientation, age or disability. At LETT, we aim at having the most committed and satisfied In 2014, LETT supported a number of different sports acshows that, in general, satisfaction among our employees employees within the Danish legal-profession sector. tivities intended to improve the health status and to open is very high. up for getting-together opportunities in a social context. These sports activities included running, individually as Our professional working environment to for our clients have international aspects. These matwell as in teams, company football and various kinds of The greater part of the professional development in LETT ters include disputes between Danish and foreign parcore training. In addition, LETT was, also in 2014 part of Our goals and activities 2015 is via cases and assignments which each individual emties, international business transactions or cross-border the Danish We bike to work campaign, which focuses ployee solves in his/her daily work after having received reorganisations. This imposes special requirements on on being active during transportation to and from work. LETT Lifestyle instruction, sparring and feedback from his/her immediour legal staff not only in terms of legal expertise but The purpose of LETT Lifestyle is to attend to emate superior. This experience-based learning is supported also as regards language and cross-cultural skills. In orTop-quality food ployee satisfaction in LETT. In previous years, our by more formal learning activities, including further eduder to get the necessary international experience, 4 of During the past year, LETT has been going for a nominafocus was on food and exercise, and, in 2015, the cation and research, internal and external lecturing, seour experienced lawyers have been seconded to foreign tion for the Danish canteen prize, which is awarded by theme is job satisfaction. Preconditions of job satcondments and stays abroad. law firms or followed international training programmes the Danish Agriculture and Food Council to canteens in isfaction include good social relations, and we will in 2014, and during the same period, 12 of our trainees Denmark that have a burning passion for professionalism shine a focus on these through various activities Career-trails have been on educational leaves for the purpose of interand innovation and promote craftsmanship quality. The such as a cookery group where our staff memAbout one year ago, we introduced LETT's career-trail national studies. objective of our canteen is to offer healthy and tasty food, bers in an informal way will get the opportunity model. Its purpose was to get a general picture of the and in 2014 it met the criteria set by the Danish Vetenary to prepare and have dinner together with other various development opportunities which we offer our leOur physical working environment and Food Administration for the bronze medal in organic staff members, with whom they may not have gal staff and the resulting requirements relating to comLETT complies with the rules, guidelines and standards serving by achieving 30% applied organic food and bevclose working relations. This initiative has been petencies and performance. for working environment and indoor climate of the Danerages. In 2014, the Danish Food Control Agency paid an developed with a view to employees who may not ish Working Environment Authority. To ensure that our ordinary inspection visit to LETT's canteen in our Copenbe interested in taking part in sports activities or The most important tool for supporting and planning the employees enjoy high employee satisfaction and good hagen office. Our canteen has a so-called elite smiley , friday-afternoon arrangements. continued employee development is our performancehealth, we offer a number of supplemental schemes which which means that the canteen ranks among the best to review concept, which, in LETT, is called PPDR, because ia include safety insurance, a massage-therapy scheme, observe the rules. Workplace stress the concept is based on personal performance and develvitamins/food supplements and flu vaccines, sports acFor the purpose of enhancing our knowledge and opment. Being designed as a management and dialogue tivities as well as a breakfast and lunch scheme, etc. Mental working environment competencies concerning stress even further, one tool, this tool contributes to balancing development acLETT expects that everybody contributes to a sound workour HR-team members is to undergo training as a tivities and professional performance as well as ensuring Working-environment committee ing environment. Therefore, it is expected that nobody stress coach in 2015. continued specialisation within legal disciplines and/or According to the statutory requirements in the Danish Act bullies or harasses any colleague or employee. Should industries that encounter special legal issues. on working environment, we have a working-environment anyone be exposed to problems of this kind or become Employee satisfaction committee that consists of management representatives aware that bullying or harassment is taking place, it is, A survey to assess the employee satisfaction in LETT's junior-lawyer training programme as well as representatives elected by our employees. Its therefore, expected that such person immediately takes LETT is planned to be carried out in 2015. In 2014, we created an electronic competence card which tasks are to plan, manage, advise and inform on as well action about the problem by, eg, contacting our Managing is the basis of LETT's junior-lawyer training programme. as supervise the work related to safety and health within Partner, HR manager or a similar person in LETT, whom The competence card, which supplements the possibilour area. this person trusts. ity for transfers between departments, will help ensure that, during the three-year training programme, our junLETT Lifestyle Workplace stress ior lawyers will be introduced to all relevant legal topics. Since 2013, health and satisfaction have been on our In 2014, we put particular focus on dealing with prolonged In this way, the competence card serves as quality asagenda. We have entered into a cooperative relationship stress and have prepared LETT's stress-management polsurance of the training programme of each junior lawyer. icy, so that each staff member knows his/her responsibilwith a supplier offering massage therapy, zone therapy ity in stress situations irrespective of whether you are Secondment and training and acupuncture to our staff during working hours. As head of a department, a colleague or a stressed-out staff More and more often, the major matters that we attend part of the cooperative relationship, we have in 2014 had member. The objective of these efforts is to avoid pro4 5 Labour Environment LETT respects and promotes diversity in terms of employment and our daily relations. Diversity makes us LETT pays attention not to cause more environmental harm than absolutely necessary. As a service busistrong and in LETT we too are to reflect the surrounding community in a natural way. Therefore, we enness, our environmental harm is first and foremost connected with our office buildings and office operations courage everybody to apply for the advertised jobs, irrespective of background, and we will clamp down on as well as transportation. Our approach is based on 3R reduce, reuse, recycle. unsuitable conduct such as bullying and harassment due the differences set out above. Reduce In LETT, employees are employed and are treated on the Gender composition among lawyers LETT observes relevant legislation and guidelines conenvironmental gain, because the new system cools by basis of their professional capabilities, competences and At the end of 2014, 37% of our lawyers were women. cerning the environment. We continue to reduce our enmeans of water instead of a refrigerating agent. conduct. As a result, no discrimination is made concernCompared to 2013, this is a 1% decrease, which is not ergy consumption and CO2 emissions and to focus on ing eg ethnics, religion or sexual preference. satisfactory, as our intention is to have an equal gender choosing more environmentally friendly and energy-wise Changing our printer portfolio composition of our workforce. products and solutions for instance in relation to light At the end of 2014, we replaced our printer portfolio and We have a full set of policies regarding Human Resources sources, cleaning products or stationary. A part of LETT’s had new printers installed that are prepared for followpolicies. These include e.g policies regarding stress, pregRetaining women electricity consumption is windmill generated. me printing, and experience has it that this is less paper nancy, illness, health, etc. One of our declared goals is to retain a higher number of consuming. women lawyers throughout the entire career, and this is We respect and support measures for reduction, including Recruitment committee ia to be supported by LETT's career-trail model, through fat elimination, two-flush functions, temperature reducFocus on less food waste In 2013, LETT set up a new recruitment committee of offers of increased flexibility and reduced working hours tion during the night and cleaning using environmentally Our canteen has in 2014 focused on reducing food waste. which the major objective is to act as our HR departduring a period of the employment. We are pleased that, friendly products using water-saving methods. Our initiaSome of the initiatives that have been carried out are ment's professional sparring partner at any employment at the end of 2014, more than half (52%) of our lawyers tives concerning reduction and recycling are in our operaadjustments of the selection on the daily lunch buffet, of trainees and junior lawyers in our offices in Copenhawere women, and this, compared to previously, is a very tions and service function, which assesses new measures individual servings and improved planning of menus and gen and Aarhus. Together with our HR department, the positive development. This positive development will be as regards the effect and derived expenses. purchasing. committee ensures a consistent professional approach to crucial as to achieving our goal of more women in manathe assessment of new lawyers and junior lawyers as well gerial positions and in our Executive Committee. We have focus on organic food, and as a result, 30% of Recycle as law students. the food and beverages served in our canteen in 2014 We respect and support measures for recycling, includOpenness and dialogue were organic. ing waste sorting, reuse of cardboard and paper waste, In addition, the recruitment committee also participates LETT acknowledges that all employees have the right to environmental scrap as well as collecting household glass in the planning of employer-branding activities in order to individual freedom of expression and opinion and we enIn our cooperation with the two cleaning contractors jars, batteries and plastic bottles under a deposit regime. create a link between recruitment and the outward-lookcourage all our employees to express their opinions indiwhich do the daily cleaning of our offices, our focus is ing activities/employer branding to highlight LETT within vidually or in groups at performance reviews, meetings on environmentally sound solutions that control the conReuse university environments. with the management and specified staff groups and at sumption of energy, water and chemicals used in the As regards electronic appliances, LETT has a broker argeneral section and office meetings and, in writing, at cleaning process. rangement that implies that used laptops, printers, mointernal climate analyses. bile and fixed-line telephones are sold to an enterprise Changing our air-condition system which makes the appliances ready for resale or reuses Together with the owner of our premises, we have in 2014 the spare parts. replaced parts of our air-condition system, which meant Our goals and activities 2015 Retaining women lawyers Our goals and activities 2015 Goal of 20% women in LETT's Executive Committee within a five-year period and of 40% women in the Committee within a ten-year period. Implementing Microsoft LYNC As a supplement to our video conference equipment, we expect in 2015 to implement Microsoft LYNC on all Recruitment committee employee laptops. We expect that this will have an impact on the need for face-to-face meetings across our two The elected members of the Recruitment Committee continue their work together with our HR department and offices resulting in timely, environmental and safety gains to the effect that the transportation between our ofensure a consistent professional approach to the assessment of new lawyers, junior lawyers and law students. fices will be reduced. 6 7 Anti-corruption Our CSR-strategy LETT is subject to the Code of Conduct for the Danish Bar and Law Society, and, on a regular basis, superLETT is proud to be part of Global Compact, however, our community engagement extends further than vision is made to ensure that the Code is being observed. Our firm is subject to Danish authority regulation that. We wish to contribute and enhance where we can make a difference. As a law firm, we believe that concerning anti-money laundering including for the purpose of terrorism and an internal set of rules has we can make the greatest difference through efforts rooted in our specialist competency the law. Our CSR been prepared and a procedure established to ensure that this anti-money-laundering regulation is being strategy focuses on four areas legal assistance, legal research and knowledge sharing, employee investobserved. ment and environmental focus. Ethics and pre-conflict committee Instruction programme Legal assistance LETT has an ethics and pre-conflict committee, whose set All new employees in LETT take part in an introduction The legal CSR efforts of LETT are wide-ranging. We enInvolvement in the university law of terms of reference include complaints, matters conprogramme which ensures that new employees get an courage our lawyers to take part in established legal-aid programme cerning conduct, conflicts of interests relating to the Code initial introduction to relevant working tools, business schemes, and some of our lawyers are counsels appointEvery year, nearly 300 universities participate in the of Conduct as well as business-related conflicts of interprocedures, etc. In 2014, our introduction programme for ed by the Danish Supreme Court, which implies that, folworld's largest international moot, Vis Moot. The ests. new lawyers and junior lawyers was adjusted to the effect lowing public appointment, they take on cases before the competition puts international law on the sale and that now, compared to previous years, they get in-house Court. Furthermore, a number of the partners in LETT are purchase of goods and arbitration on the agenda, Ethics partner training in rules on money laundering and conflicts of inactively involved in cultural forums within sports as well and through a number of years, LETT has been the Martin Lavesen has been LETT's ethics partner since 2013. terests from day one. as the arts. sponsor and supervisor for the team of the UniversiThe ethics partner gets involved in the event of doubtful ty of Aarhus. LETT's involvement in Vis Moot enables issues in the Ethics and Pre-Conflict Committee concernCourse in client identification and anti-money launResearch and knowledge sharing us to contribute to shaping promising law students ing basic ethical issues. He is a good sparring partner to dering We have huge focus on sharing our legal knowledge behaving an interest in litigation. The sponsorship also both the Committee and to LETT in general. In 2014, LETT held an internal course for all our secrecause we wish to ensure and put our fingerprints on the provides an opportunity to make relations to some of taries where the rules on client identification and antiongoing development within legal professionalism. We the top-level law students in Denmark. money laundering were presented. write books and professional newsletters and hold a number of different seminars and courses. We are lecturers During the recent three years, LETT has been the at external events and lecture at relevant institutions of main sponsor of the moot trial of Juridisk Diskushigher education. We take on positions of trust and are sionsklub (the Copenhagen University debating sopart of working committees in the fora within our profesciety for law students) at the University of Copension. hagen. The moot trial, which aims at law students having the courage to test their skills within litigation, reaches its peak at the finals before the Danish Supreme Court, where a winning team and the Litigator of the Year are named. All the participants are offered personal feedback from LETT on the basis of their performance. 8 9 LETT Law Firm Copenhagen • Aarhus • lett.dk
