SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 VOLUME 3 www.transnet.net SUSTAINABILITY REPORT CONTENTS SUSTAINABILITY AT TRANSNET Sustainability at Transnet 1 Transnet’s reporting for 2015 consists Transnet SOC Ltd (Transnet or the Company) is controls, data systems, targets, reporting and of three reports a State-owned Company (SOC) holding itself assurance to embed sustainability into Board statement and approval 4 accountable not only to the South African infrastructure planning, project management, Volume 1 Executive statement 4 Government as sole Shareholder, but to society operations, supply chain management and risk The Integrated Report 2015 INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 Reporting approach 5 is the Company’s primary at large for the long-term sustainable value it management. As these systems mature , we are Reporting boundary 5 report to all stakeholders. creates for the economy, society and the enhancing our Sustainability Framework to Assurance 5 environment through its day-to-day business enable measurement and reporting on Transnet’s Reporting frameworks activities. ‘Promoting Sustainable Developmental inputs, activities, outputs and outcomes. VOLUME 1 www.transnet.net INTEGRATED REPORT Suite and interaction between reports 5 Outcomes’ is one of Transnet’s focus areas in the In consultation with the Department of Public Volume 2 Minister of Public Enterprises’ Statement of About Transnet 6 The Annual Financial Enterprises (DPE) during 2014, Transnet adopted Strategic Intent (SSI). This requires the Company ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2015 Who we are 6 Statements 2015 include nine Sustainable Developmental Outcome to embed sustainability criteria into all material Where we operate and what we do 8 reports of the independent (SDO) themes1 in the Shareholder’s Compact decision-making and to target, measure and > IR Our services 10 auditors and directors. from 2015. These are being incorporated into Our support services 10 report on its sustainability performance. the Market Demand Strategy (MDS). VOLUME 2 www.transnet.net ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Our strategy 10 In 2012, Transnet adopted a Sustainability Conditions under which we operate 11 Volume 3 The nine SDO themes are: Employment, Skills Framework to report on the Company’s delivery The Sustainability Report Development, Industrial Capability Building, Material issues 12 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 of economic, social and environmental dividends. 2015 documents Transnet’s Investment Leveraged, Regional Integration, Material issues determination 12 sustainability performance. Over the past three years, we have introduced Transformation, Health and Safety, Community policies, measurement methods, process Enablers of sustainability 18 Development and Environmental Stewardship. Governance 18 VOLUME 3 www.transnet.net SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Ethics 19 Stakeholder engagement 21 s So Sustainability performance review 22 ion un elat dG Employment 24 Throughout the reports, readers are referred to places R ov er Employment Skills development 28 where they can find more detail on particular topics, using en tal ics Cons these pointers nm ip De Skill 32 Eth Industrial capability building ro rdsh truc i ve nv wa lop s 36 > tive nd m Investment leveraged te e E ea Refer to Volume 1 S IR St Regional integration 40 nt  more information nc for ak ust Ca Transformation 44 e ing nc na eh an reation Ind Build AFS > Health and safety 48 Operational Exc er ol Developm y C nance ility Capab Commun 52 d ent cit Community development Refer to Volume 2 ity te pa Main rial ell  more information for Environmental stewardship 56 d e Financial Sustainability SR > Appendices 66 Refer to Volume 3 Appendix A 66  more information for nd th a Inv Appendix B 70 H eal ety M ark t e Le stme Saf et Seg m en ver nt Appendix C 71 Co m p e t i t i ve n e s s ag e d ess Appendix D 72 Forward-looking information Str es sa ategic Im perativ Appendix E 76 All references to forward-looking information and targets tio Re t io n na in the 2015 reports are extracted from the 2016 Transnet Hu ma lR Appendix F 80 m Int g io n e gr a l s f or ea Corporate Plan approved by the Board of Directors. an Ca atio Tran di n n Abbreviations and acronyms 84 pi Su es ni ta ga sta l com Or inab le Dev Out el opmental Corporate information IBC Transnet ’s Integrated Report 2015, Annual Financial Business Enablers Statements 2015 and Sustainability Report 2015 are available in PDF on www.transnet.net and via this QR code on mobile devices. Graphic representation of the Market Demand Strategy incorporating Sustainable Developmental Outcomes Feedback on the reports is encouraged. 1. R  efer Appendix B for transition between the economic, social and environmental dividends reported by Transnet (2012 – 2014) and the nine Sustainable Developmental Outcomes reported from 2015. | 1 Sustainability at Transnet 1 Employment. Transnet activities that create measurable direct, indirect or induced employment. IMPACT Stakeholder Engagement What we aim to change 2 Skills development. Transnet activities that enhance or improve human capabilities and build the productive capacity of people, both within and outside the Company. OUTCOMES 3 Industrial capability building. Transnet activities that facilitate the What we achieve country’s industrial development and improve competitiveness. OUTPUTS 4 Investment leveraged. Transnet activities that facilitate private sector investment in the country’s freight logistics system. What we produce or deliver 5 Regional integration. Transnet activities that result in improved freight logistics connectivity on the continent. ACTIVITIES What we do Ethics 6 Transformation. Transnet activities that result in employment equity within the Company and black economic empowerment within the entities that supply Transnet. INPUTS What we use to do the work 7 Health and safety. Transnet activities that improve the physical and mental health, well-being and safety of its employees and the communities within Outcomes-based approach2 which it operates. Governance The following definitions are used in Transnet to • Outcomes – changes to a set of beneficiaries 8 Community development. Transnet activities that measurably improve the economic, social, cultural and environmental well-being of communities embed the nine SDOs in the Company: • Inputs – resources invested in an activity resulting from the activity (for example, skills enhanced, industry growth, efficient within which it operates. operations, lower costs of waste). (typically, assets, time and money). • Activities – the actions which utilise inputs to • Impact – the actual difference made to society, being outcomes less an estimate of what would 9 Environmental stewardship. Transnet activities that enhance the natural environment’s capacity to meet the resource needs of future generations. produce outputs and outcomes (for example, training courses, supplier development initiatives, have transpired regardless of the inputs (baseline construction works, materials recycling). changes to macro-indicators such as education levels, competitiveness, availability of economic • Outputs – the direct and tangible products infrastructure and environmental quality). Sustainable Developmental Outcomes and Enablers from the activity (for example, people trained, goods produced, quay walls built, tons of waste avoided). The SDOs provide the structure for our report back on sustainability performance for the year under review. Three key business enablers: Governance, Ethics and Stakeholder Engagement, directly affect our ability to deliver SDOs and are reported specifically in the Sustainability Report (SR) 2015. For ease of navigation, readers are directed by icons to where they can obtain relevant information in the SR 2015 and Integrated Report (IR) 2015. 2. A  dapted from: “Guide to the Outcomes Approach”, Department of Performance Monitoring and Evaluation, 2010. www.thepresidency.gov.za/dpme/docs/guideline.pdf. 2 | Transnet Sustainability Report 2015 | 3 Board statement Executive statement REPORTING APPROACH and approval Reporting boundary Reporting frameworks The SR 2015 provides our stakeholders with a view Transnet’s sustainability reporting for 2015 is of Transnet’s sustainability performance for the based on Transnet-specific reporting criteria financial year 1 April 2014 to 31 March 2015. The (refer Appendix C). It has been informed by the SR 2015 builds on the Sustainability Report of Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4 Guidelines’ 31 March 2014 but has been restructured to reflect General Standard Disclosures (refer Appendix D). the nine SDOs as agreed with the Shareholder. With respect to the Specific Standard Disclosures of GRI’s G4 Guidelines, we have provided Sustainability performance is measured in our five disclosures on management approach for all Operating Divisions: Transnet Freight Rail (Freight our material issues. Rail), Transnet Engineering (Engineering), Transnet The Remuneration, Social and Ethics Committee Transnet’s Market Demand Strategy is in its third National Ports Authority (National Ports Authority), Our sustainability reporting has further been of the Board reviewed the SR 2015 and the year of delivery. We are seeing tangible sustainable Transnet Port Terminals (Port Terminals) and informed by the United Nations Global Compact external auditor’s assurance statement as a outcomes from the investments the Company is Transnet Pipelines (Pipelines); as well as the (UNGC) principles (refer Appendix E) to which reflection of Transnet’s sustainability making in freight equipment, infrastructure and Transnet Corporate Centre and three Specialist Transnet has been a signatory for the past three performance and initiatives. The Board has duly human capital across our business. Units: Transnet Foundation, Transnet Capital years; the Greenhouse Gas Protocol-Corporate approved this report for publication. Projects and Transnet Property. Accounting and Reporting Standard prescribed Our trains are increasingly efficient – both in by the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP); and the The Board is charged with oversight of the reliability and energy use, and we are attracting The boundary of this report is the Transnet legal AccountAbility 1000 Stakeholder Engagement Company’s moral obligations and impact. We are freight off road and onto rail. Our workforce entity. There have been no significant changes in Standard. confident that management is cognisant of the continues to grow in numbers, equity, skills and scope or aspect boundaries during the reporting complex context within which we work and safety. Our procurement strategies are supporting period save for progress made in execution of Transnet’s Africa strategy during the year under Suite and interaction between reports proactively strives to create value for the South local industry and new local suppliers. Our review. Where any restatements or changes in Transnet undertakes its annual reporting across African economy, society and natural environment. engineering capability is enabling innovation and measurement methods have taken place, these are three reports: the IR, the AFS and the SR. The IR is regional integration. Resources we allocate to This report reflects Transnet’s performance described in the relevant report section. the Company’s primary report to all its vulnerable communities are improving their lives on the nine Sustainable Developmental Outcome stakeholders; the AFS includes reports of the and prospects, and we are becoming stewards of independent auditors and directors’ report; and the themes which were agreed with the Shareholder Assurance the environment. SR complements the IR by providing more detail on during 2014 for measurement in the 2015 marks the second year that Transnet has Shareholder’s Compact. The report further Transnet’s leadership is deeply mindful of our Transnet’s sustainability performance for the year obtained an external assurance statement for the demonstrates our continued commitment to responsibility to help address South Africa’s under review. Certain topics, such as the approach Sustainability Report. SizweNtsalubaGobodo (SNG) upholding the United Nations Global Compact’s challenges of inequality, unemployment and and outcomes from stakeholder engagement; the was appointed in 2012 as Transnet’s independent governance arrangements for sustainability; and 10 universal principles on human rights, labour, poverty and of the global and domestic risks external assurance provider. The assurance Transnet’s approach to ethics and integrity are the environment and anti-corruption. to which the Company is exposed. Our focus is statement provides reasonable assurance over disclosed in more detail in the SR. Throughout the therefore on being a catalyst for economic specific key performance indicators (refer Policies, process controls and data systems suite of reports, we provide reference to where growth by using opportunities to invest in Appendix A). Financial information included in the continue to be embedded throughout Transnet further detail can be found. logistics infrastructure and skills, even when SR 2015 has been extracted from the Annual to ensure accountability for the outcomes of all times are tough. Financial Statements (AFS) audited by SNG, which The GRI G4 Guidelines and the International business activities and to integrate sustainability includes an unmodified audit opinion. Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC) Integrated into enterprise risk management, stakeholder ‘Sustainability in all we do’ is not just a line in our Reporting Framework v1.0 both use the principle of engagement, long-term infrastructure planning, vision statement but an undertaking to use our ‘materiality’ to inform the report content and capital investments, project management, financial, manufactured, human, intellectual, Transnet has applied this principle in the SR and the operations and the supply chain. relational and natural resource capitals to create IR 2015. lasting value. The SR 2015 shows that strides are We trust that this report gives our stakeholders The IR, AFS and SR 2015 are available on being made in our sustainability initiatives and in insight into Transnet’s leadership in sustainable www.transnet.net quantifying the outcomes of the Market Demand business. Strategy. Vusi Matthew Nkonyane Chairperson: Remuneration, Social and Ethics Brian Molefe Committee Group Chief Executive 4 | Transnet Sustainability Report 2015 | 5 ABOUT TRANSNET Who we are Transnet is the custodian of the country’s freight railway, ports and pipelines. Transnet’s primary business is freight transport and logistics services. In line with Government’s National Development Plan (NDP)3 , Transnet is required to contribute to the Government’s Medium-term Strategic Framework outcomes. By balancing these outcomes with building a commercially viable business, Transnet aims to provide an efficient, competitive and responsive economic infrastructure network; create decent employment; build a skilled and capable workforce to support an inclusive growth path; contribute to protected and enhanced environmental assets and natural resources; and provide a better South Africa contributing to a better Africa and a better world. Mandate Vision Mission To assist in lowering the cost To meet customer demand To enable the competitiveness, of doing business in South for reliable freight transport growth and development of Africa, enabling economic and handling through: the South African economy growth and ensuring security by delivering reliable freight • Fully integrating and of supply through providing transport and handling maximising the use of its appropriate port, rail and services that satisfy unique set of assets; pipeline infrastructure in a customer demand. cost-effective and efficient • Continuously driving cost manner, within acceptable efficiency; and benchmarks. • Demonstrating a concern for sustainability in all we do. Shunting activity at Sentrarand Revenue > 226,6 MT increased by 8,0% IR Total rail volumes to R61,2 billion > EBITDA 4,6 TEUs AFS increased by 8,2% Total container volumes to R25,6 billion Capital investment 17,2 BL increased by 5,7% Total petroleum volumes to R33,6 billion 66 665 Total employees (55 506 permanent employees) Results Highlights 2015 3. “National Development Plan”, National Planning Commission, 2012. www.gov.za/issues/national-development-plan-2030. 6 | Transnet Sustainability Report 2015 | 7 About Transnet Where we operate and what we do Freight Rail, the largest of the five Operating Transnet has a coordinating Corporate Centre located in Johannesburg, South Africa and five Operating Divisions, operates 20 500km of rail network Divisions with operations across South Africa. Transnet plans to expand its operations further into across South Africa which transports bulk, the African continent. Currently, Transnet has three satellite offices in Namibia, Swaziland and Lesotho; break‑bulk and containerised freight. The Freight and three Joint Operating Centres (JOC) in Mozambique, Botswana and Zimbabwe. Rail network and rail services provide strategic links between mines, production hubs, distribution centres and ports, and connects with the cross-border railways of the region. Shifting BEIT BRIDGE rail-friendly freight off roads and onto rail reduces logistics costs, impacts positively on the road network, and has many indirect benefits for LIMPOPO the country including a reduction in transport sector carbon emissions. Engineering provides manufacturing, maintenance MAPUTO and refurbishment services of rolling stock and NORTH WEST GAUTENG MPUMALANGA specialised equipment to Freight Rail, National Ports Authority and Port Terminals and is integral to Transnet achieving optimal use of equipment SISHEN in conducting its core business. Engineering also FREE STATE KWAZULUhouses the Company’s Research and NATAL RICHARDS BAY Development (R&D) unit to capture opportunities for technology innovation. DURBAN NORTHERN CAPE National Ports Authority provides port EASTERN CAPE infrastructure and marine services at the eight commercial seaports in South Africa. The division’s core functions include the planning, provision, maintenance and improvement of port SALDANHA EAST LONDON infrastructure; as well as the provision of WESTERN CAPE NGQURA marine‑related services, port services and CAPE TOWN MOSSEL BAY PORT ELIZABETH navigation aids to assist the navigation of vessels within port limits and along the coast. Port Terminals operates all of South Africa’s port container and automotive terminals and some Transnet Corporate Centre (Johannesburg) bulk and break-bulk terminals. Rail Ports and Terminals Pipelines transports fuel from coastal refineries and crude oil imports to the inland market, as Pipelines well as gas from Secunda to industrial users in Engineering Durban and Richards Bay. Transnet has installed (Koedoespoort, Germiston, Bloemfontein, Durban, a New Multi-Product Pipeline (NMPP) enabling an Uitenhage, Salt River) increase in liquid fuels volume throughput to meet forecast demand. Geographic location of the Transnet Corporate Centre and Operating Divisions 8 | Transnet Sustainability Report 2015 | 9 About Transnet Our services Conditions under which we operate Transnet’s customers are primarily large mining, Transnet’s Specialist Units have the following Transnet’s infrastructure and services are Tariffs charged by the National Ports Authority shipping, manufacturing, agricultural, industrial, supporting roles: intended to benefit South Africa as a whole, and Pipelines are determined by independent retail and energy contributors to the South facilitating economic activity. Transnet’s regulators respectively, the Ports Regulator and • Transnet Capital Projects executes large African economy. Transnet’s services are both mandate to balance commercial and the National Energy Regulator of South Africa. infrastructure capacity expansion projects outbound (South African businesses moving developmental outcomes requires a sustainable on behalf of, and with input from, the External challenges to the execution of MDS products to markets) and inbound (bringing financial business model, particularly in volatile Operating Divisions. include: electricity supply constraints; regulatory products to South African markets). Sectors that global and local economic conditions. • Transnet Foundation implements the Company’s uncertainty particularly with respect to Transnet provides services to include: mining; corporate social investment (CSI) projects. While the Company is State-owned, we receive regulated tariffs; sluggish global and domestic iron and steel; cement; agriculture; automotive; • Transnet Property manages Transnet’s no financial transfers from the Government and economic growth which impacts freight volumes industrial and agri-chemicals; wood and wood non-core property portfolio comprising raise debt on the capital markets without and revenues; volatile commodity markets; and products; petrochemicals; shipping; retail; and commercial and residential properties Government guarantees. Transnet pays corporate skills constraints. intermediaries. Commodities transported in the (approximately 13% of the total Transnet tax under the same laws applicable to private most significant volumes are: mining exports, Internal challenges in the execution of MDS property portfolio). and listed companies in South Africa. general freight4 and petroleum products5. include: operational efficiencies and customer This year saw no significant changes in the way satisfaction; efficiency of capital execution; and Our support services Our strategy Transnet is owned, structured or functions. information systems enablement. Transnet’s core business of freight logistics Transnet’s MDS is in its third year of services (provided by Freight Rail, National Ports implementation, involving more than R300 billion Authority, Port Terminals and Pipelines) is supported investment in South Africa’s freight railway, by Engineering, Transnet Corporate Centre, and ports and pipelines and to improve the Specialist Units: Transnet Capital Projects, operational efficiency of the freight logistics Transnet Foundation and Transnet Property. system. Logistics productivity and reliability are critical determining factors in shaping the Transnet Corporate Centre provides the country’s ability to compete in global trade. It is following support services: therefore imperative for Transnet to invest • Office of the Group Chief Executive counter-cyclically through the peaks and troughs • Treasury, financial management and control of volatile economic cycles – in order to both • Strategy, planning and sustainability stimulate and support periods of increased growth in market demand. • Commercial, economic regulation and private sector participation Durban The MDS involves focused initiatives in capacity Container • Risk management creation and maintenance, operational excellence Terminal • Legal and compliance and market segment competitiveness. It is • Results monitoring underpinned by financial sustainability and gives • Human resources rise to sustainable developmental outcomes. The • Enterprise information management business enablers of the MDS are governance, • Security ethics, human capital, organisational readiness • Internal audit and stakeholder engagement. 4. G eneral freight includes: containerised cargo, local manganese, minerals, local coal, local iron ore, chrome and ferrochrome, agricultural products, iron and steel, fertilisers, cement, fast-moving consumer goods, bulk liquids, wood and wood products, industrial chemicals, intermediate products and automotive products. 5. Petroleum products include: crude oil, refined petroleum products, aviation turbine fuel and methane-rich gas products. 10 | Transnet Sustainability Report 2015 | 11 MATERIAL ISSUES Material issues determination Transnet defines materiality with respect to sustainability as: ‘issues6 that substantively > Transnet’s top 10 strategic risks > Business context > Stakeholder engagement Transnet’s top 10 strategic risks are generated Slow rates of global and local economic growth, Stakeholder engagement forms an integral part impact on Transnet’s ability to create and sustain from the Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) volatile commodity markets, widening social of Transnet’s value creation. Transnet’s most value over the short, medium and long term’. Frame­­work based on ISO31000: 2009. During inequality, structural unemployment, technology material stakeholders are: Transnet’s material issues were determined 2015 Transnet identified the following top 10 advances, skills shortages, energy risks, climate • Shareholder (Ministry of Public Enterprises) through a structured process of identifying strategic risks impacting its ability to implement change and the demand for natural resources • Customers relevant issues and prioritising those that are the MDS and sustain value over the short, provide the global and national business context material, using the following sources: • Employees medium and long term: within which Transnet operates. These factors have > TofhePublic SSI issued to Transnet by the Minister Enterprises; 1. Security of energy supply – uncertainty a direct impact on Transnet’s customers, funders, • • Investors Suppliers employees and suppliers. The freight system’s > Transnet signs regarding the supply of energy by Eskom; T  he annual Shareholder’s Compact that ability to effectively respond to these trends is • Organised labour 2. Capital projects – are delayed or become with the Minister; • Communities > TTransnet’s non‑viable as a result of global economic integral to Transnet’s business sustainability. The top 10 strategic risks; • Regulators > within slowdown; MDS recognises this, positioning the Company to he global and domestic business context meet demand for freight logistics services, pursue • National Government 3. Pricing – pricing/tariff guidelines, which Transnet operates; and > through stakeholder methodologies and models not supportive of sustainable developmental outcomes, and build a • Provincial Government  T ransnet’s stakeholder issues identified volume growth; sustainable organisation. • Local Government engagement. 4. Inadequate ICT infrastructure and technology South Africa’s NDP, adopted by Government in • Non-Governmental Organisations (NGO) The material issues were reviewed by the to enable business; 2012, aims to eliminate poverty and reduce • Media Sustainability Forum, recommended to the Group 5. Productivity inefficiencies; inequality by 2030. The NDP’s focus areas • Parliament Executive Committee, and approved by the 6. Misalignment between operational readiness and rolling stock acquisition; include: the economy and employment; economic • Pensioners Remuneration, Social and Ethics Committee (REMSEC). 7. Changes in the regulatory environment infrastructure; transition to a low carbon • Academia and Scientific Institutions (economic, technical and compliance) – economy; South Africa’s position in the region; Our stakeholders’ key material issues are > SShareholder’s tatement of Strategic Intent and Compact spending on capex based on assumptions that may be negatively impacted by subsequent education; training and innovation; healthcare; safe communities; a capable state; fighting summarised on pages 14 and 15. Appendix F changes in regulation; corruption and enhancing accountability; and describes the way in which we engage with each The SSI issued by the Shareholder, represented 8. Inability to attract and sustain additional transforming society. These focus areas material stakeholder group, their material issues by the Minister of Public Enterprises, includes volumes as new capacity is created; constitute Government’s policy framework and (identified through the Operating Divisions and “promoting sustainable development outcomes” 9. Ineffective people management – talent priorities; and are relevant to Transnet’s mandate Corporate Centre functions’ day-to-day as one of Transnet’s strategic focus areas. The attraction and skills development to operate highlighting the complex socio-economic engagements with stakeholders); and our annual Compact that Transnet signs with the the newly acquired assets; and challenges within which the Company operates. response to these issues. Shareholder sets out specific annual targets to 10. Project completion – completion of NMPP achieve the SDOs and targets are set every year within revised budget in accordance with to inform Transnet’s annual Corporate Plan. revised timelines. Nine SDOs are specified in the Shareholder’s It is important to note that the ‘Security of energy Compact: Employment, Skills Development, supply – uncertainty regarding the supply of Industrial Capability Building, Investment energy by Eskom’ moved from being the number Leveraged, Regional Integration, Transformation, six risk in 2014 to the number one risk in 2015. Health and Safety, Community Development and Environmental Stewardship. Given the A Sustainability Risk and Opportunity Assessment methodology has been developed into the ERM Pipelines – importance of these outcomes as strategic focus Durban areas in the Shareholder’s SSI, Transnet views system. In due course, this will enable strategic the SDOs as “material outcomes” for the risk assessment to also reflect on global systemic Company. Within each of the nine outcomes, the risks that affect Transnet’s business, value chain SR 2015 focuses on specific material “issues” and value network. that impact on these outcomes being achieved. 6. Transnet uses the word “issue” to refer to sustainability matters, aspects, and topics that are material to its business. 12 | Transnet Sustainability Report 2015 | 13 Material issues Transnet Stakeholders’ Material Issues for 2015 SHAREHOLDER SUPPLIERS NATIONAL GOVERNMENT NON-GOVERNMENTAL ORGANISATIONS • Positive social impact • Transparency of procurement • Transparency of procurement • Meet performance targets processes processes • Impact on the environment and the • Deliver on National Infrastructure • Information about tendering and • Alignment between Government community Plan contracting infrastructure plans and Transnet’s • Regulatory uncertainties • Information about enterprise and planning • Deliver on capital investment plan supplier development programmes • Details on Transnet’s programmes • Operational inefficiencies within such as Africa Strategy supply chain management • Rail investment procurement and payment MEDIA • Environmental compliance turnaround times • Transparency of information CUSTOMERS availability • Operational efficiency and productivity PROVINCIAL GOVERNMENT • Sharing of long-term plans • Competitive pricing ORGANISED LABOUR • Collaboration in planning of freight PARLIAMENT • Development of SMMEs management • Compliance with employment • Alignment with provincial • Security of goods and services • Alignment with Government equity programmes and objectives objectives and achievement of • Increase in wages aligned to • Community development, jobs targets inflation and supplier development • Problem of unrecognised labour • Environmental compliance unions EMPLOYEES • Gender representivity • Changes in terms and conditions of PENSIONERS service • Standardisation of processes and • Improve health and welfare LOCAL GOVERNMENT conditions of pensioners operating procedures COMMUNITIES • Health and safety of employees • Servitude agreements • Socio-economic impact on • Community development • Involvement in community communities upliftment projects • Crime in and around Transnet • Relationships with community properties representatives ACADEMIA AND SCIENTIFIC • Utilisation of unused Transnet • Cable theft, level crossing safety property INSTITUTIONS and criminal activities • Environmental and local compliance • Collaboration on research, INVESTORS technology and community • Municipal rail siding infrastructure • Capital project execution development • Access to Transnet land, assets • Volumes and efficiencies and facilities • Impact on the community REGULATORS • Policy and regulatory uncertainties • Company performance and pricing • Electricity supply strategy • Security of supply of goods and services • Regulatory uncertainty • Impact on the economy • Payment of permit fees 14 | Transnet Sustainability Report 2015 | 15 Material issues Transnet’s Material Sustainability Issues for 2015 SSI Shareholder’s Compact SDOs Top 10 Strategic Risks related to the SDOs Business Context Stakeholders who want these SDOs Material Sustainability Issues • Capital projects • Structural • Shareholder • Regulators • Transnet’s ability to create and sustain jobs over the • Inability to attract and sustain volumes unemployment • Customers • Parliament period of the MDS Employment • Productivity inefficiencies • Low levels of • Communities • Ineffective people management economic growth • Capital projects • Skills shortages • Shareholder • Communities • Having the right skills at the right time to implement • Productivity inefficiencies • Employees • Regulators the MDS Skills  • Inadequate ICT infrastructure and technology • Suppliers • Academia and Scientific development Institutions • Ineffective people management • Organised labour • Parliament • Pricing • Technology • Shareholder • Leveraging procurement spend for localisation • Capital projects advances • Customers of supply • Inability to attract and sustain volumes • Innovation • Investors • Investing in new and emerging technologies to Industrial • Productivity inefficiencies opportunities • National Government increase South Africa’s competitiveness capability • Misalignment between operational readiness and • Parliament building rolling stock acquisition • Inadequate ICT infrastructure and technology • Ineffective people management Promoting Sustainable Developmental Outcomes • Project completion • Capital projects • Need for economic • Shareholder • Expediting Transnet’s private sector participation • Inability to attract and sustain volumes infrastructure • Investors programme Investment leveraged • Productivity inefficiencies • National Government • Ineffective people management • Provincial Government • Project completion • Capital projects • South Africa’s • Shareholder • Improving port, rail and pipeline connectivity in Africa • Inability to attract and sustain volumes opportunities in • Provincial Government to unlock economies of scale and investment Regional • Productivity inefficiencies the region integration • Inadequate ICT infrastructure and technology • Need for economic • Ineffective people management infrastructure • Changes in the regulatory environment • Transforming • Shareholder • Regulators • Increasing representation of black employees, female • Ineffective people management society • Employees • Provincial Government employees and People with Disabilities Transformation • Suppliers • Local Government • Enhancing black economic empowerment in Transnet’s • Organised labour • Parliament supply chain • Communities • Changes in the regulatory environment • Safe communities • Shareholder • Provincial Government • Public safety at level crossings • Productivity inefficiencies • Employees • Local Government • Adherence to standard operating procedures Health and • Ineffective people management • Organised labour • Pensioners • Theft of assets  safety • Regulators • Absenteeism • Capital projects • Social inequality • Shareholder • Local Government • Measurably improving the quality of life of the • Ineffective people management • Healthcare • Employees • NGOs communities within which we operate Community • Safe communities • Investors • Academia development • Communities • Parliament • Regulators • Pensioners • Provincial Government • Security of energy supply • Electricity supply • Shareholder • National Government • Electricity supply and use • Changes in the regulatory environment problem • Investors • Provincial Government • Modal shift from road-to-rail Environmental • Inability to attract and sustain additional volumes • Climate change • Suppliers • Local Government stewardship • Misalignment between operational readiness and • Transition to a low • Communities • NGOs rolling stock acquisition carbon economy • Regulators • Media • Inadequate ICT infrastructure and technology • Demand for natural • Ineffective people management resources 16 | Transnet Sustainability Report 2015 | 17 ENABLERS OF SUSTAINABILITY The SDOs are underpinned by Transnet Governance, Ethics and Stakeholder Engagement. Maturity levels of these three enablers within the Company directly affect our ability to deliver the nine SDOs. BOARD OF DIRECTORS IR > Governance Governance informs Transnet’s day-to-day Other committees within the Transnet Remuneration, Social and Ethics Audit Committee Risk Committee Corporate Governance and Nominations Acquisitions and Disposals business activities and is a requirement for the governance system whose responsibilities Committee Committee Committee successful delivery of the MDS. Governance impact on SDOs include: provides our stakeholders with the assurance that the Company is well managed and functioning with The Audit Committee is charged with reviewing GROUP EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE integrity and accountability. To this end, Transnet and assessing the integrity and effectiveness of ascribes to the King Code of Corporate the accounting, financial, compliance and other Sustainability Forum Governance for South Africa, 2009 (King III). control systems. The Audit Committee reviews financial information to ensure that it provides a Transnet’s Board has delegated the balanced view and engages with external Operating Divisions’ Executive Committees leadership, oversight and accountability for assurance providers to provide assurance on the sustainability-related matters at Transnet to information, including sustainability information. REMSEC which advises the Board on issues The committee also reviews the expertise, Sustainability Committees pertaining to responsible corporate citizenship resources and experience of the Company’s finance function and discloses the results in the IR. Sustainability governance and sustainability. REMSEC is charged with, among other matters, oversight of the Company’s It recommends the Company’s Fraud Risk legal and moral obligations to its economic, Management Plan (FRMP) to the Board for social and natural environment. Its functions approval after consultation with the Risk Ethics include assessing, measuring and reviewing the Committee. Transnet’s investment in ethics management is comprehensive annual FRMP to the Minister of Company’s activities related to human rights, not only driven by a need to comply with Public Enterprises. Transnet’s FRMP was first The Risk Committee is responsible for reviewing equality, corruption, health, public safety, legislation and codes7 but by the commitment to prepared in 2006, and it aims to decrease the all risks related to the Company’s business. It consumer and labour relations including instil a culture of ethics throughout the Company negative impact of fraud and corruption within reviews the adequacy and effectiveness of the empowerment – reflecting the principles of the and to proactively identify and address any fraud the organisation and in companies and suppliers Company’s risk function, considers the ERM UNGC. REMSEC further assesses the Company’s and corruption risks that may impact on the with which it interacts. The following comprises Framework and ensures that market, operational, promotion of equality, prevention of unfair MDS. In alignment with the UNGC, Transnet is Transnet’s FRMP. environmental, health and safety risks are formally discrimination and reduction of corruption. committed to working against all forms of reviewed on an annual basis. It recommends the Company’s Risk Appetite Statement to the corruption. The purpose of Transnet’s ethic Code of Ethics A Company-wide Sustainability Forum was Board. management programme is thus two-fold: Transnet’s Code of Ethics (the Code) enables a established in 2012, comprising representatives from the Corporate Centre functions, Operating • To develop the moral responsiveness of culture of entrenched values, principles, standards The Corporate Governance and Nominations employees and stakeholders; and Divisions and Specialist Units. The Sustainability and norms that guides the behaviour of Transnet Committee ensures that all committees of the Forum meets quarterly and is tasked with • To create and maintain a conducive employees. The Code aims to instil a culture of Board are properly resourced to enable them to developing Key Performance Indicators for the environment for ethical behaviour within the honesty, respect, integrity and overall ethical fulfil their mandates. Corporate Plan; analysing sustainability organisation. behaviour in employees in their engagements with performance; structuring inputs to the SR; The Acquisitions and Disposals Committee ensures both internal and external stakeholders. The Code reviewing the draft SR before submitting to the In 2014, Transnet’s Anti-Fraud Policy was that procurement and provisioning policies are commits the executive directors and employees Group Executive: Planning and Sustainability who amended to include elements of Anti-Corruption. fair, equitable, transparent and cost-effective. to the highest standards of ethical behaviour and in turn, recommends to the Group Executive The committee approves tenders and contracts The new Anti-Fraud and Anti-Corruption Policy is all Transnet employment contracts make reference Committee for REMSEC review and approval; up to the maximum of the investment decision. currently in the process of being approved. to the Code. Transnet’s service providers, facilitating sustainability learning and training; It monitors trends in supplier development spend Section 29.1.1 of Treasury Regulations prescribed suppliers and trade partners are all subject to and driving Company-wide sustainability and progress on plans including support of the under the Public Finance Management Act, 1999 the Code. Group Human Resources is responsible initiatives. Sustainability Committees in the Government’s economic policies, Competitive (Act No. 1 of 1999) requires all SOCs to submit a for the development, bi-annual review and Operating Divisions add impetus to sustainability Supplier Development Programme (CSDP), local initiatives. supplier development, preferential procurement and enterprise development. 7. T  he Public Finance Management Act, 1999; the Companies Act, 2008; King III, 2009; the Public Sector Integrity Management Framework, 2013. 18 | Transnet Sustainability Report 2015 | 19 Enablers of sustainability implementation of the Code. The Code was and compliance checks that are conducted Fraud and Corruption Awareness Education stakeholders. Stakeholder engagement is largely reviewed in 2013 to extend the scope to annually at the Transnet Corporate Centre, in all and Training decentralised but the Board has overall non-executive directors and is due for review in Operating Divisions and in the Specialist Units. Fraud and corruption awareness education in the responsibility for stakeholder engagement. The 2015. Relevant aspects of the Code are included These assessments assist in identifying Board delegates authority to the Group Chief form of formal training is conducted on an annual in fraud and awareness training, and the Code is potentially high risk areas of fraud and Executive who reports to the Board on all basis with all employees including both bargaining accessible to all Transnet employees on the corruption. The top three risk categories for material stakeholder issues, and takes and non-bargaining council employees. Initiatives Company’s intranet. 2015 were identified as: responsibility for incorporating these into our include: industrial theatre shows providing • Procurement; strategy and risk management. employees with an understanding of what fraud Integrity Pacts • Human Capital; and and corruption is; hotline and fraud awareness Over the past year, Transnet has made strides in Transnet concludes Integrity Pacts with its • Misuse of Resources. e-mails; posters; screen savers; Fraud Talk maturing its approach to stakeholder engagement. bidders and suppliers. The Integrity Pact is an articles; wristbands; and z-cards. Mitigating controls and action plans are identified A Stakeholder Engagement Policy and Process agreement to avoid any unethical or collusive and implemented to address these risks. Tip-Offs Anonymous Hotline Control Framework was approved by the Board in behaviour between the contracting parties and to 725 November 2014. The objective is to embed a follow procedures that are fair, transparent and There is a Tip-Offs Anonymous Hotline for 494 free from undue influence during the Fraud and Corruption Investigations systematic approach to the management of 231 reporting concerns about unethical behaviour. procurement process. stakeholder engagement practices across the Transnet’s investigation methodology actively The hotline is managed by Transnet Internal Audit addresses fraud and corruption by responding to Company in order to maximise value for both ■ Total allegations and all reported cases are investigated through Total unfounded stakeholders and the Company, and minimise any ■ Total founded Fraud and Corruption Risk Assessments allegations of fraud and corruption timeously. A an established forensics investigation process. ■ and Compliance Checks number of outcomes result from these negative impact from the Company’s activities and Tip-offs Cases reported are managed through an anonymous investigations namely disciplinary, criminal and/ operations. Underpinning the Policy is a shift from Transnet adopts a ‘zero tolerance’ approach to automated case management system and hotline or civil action. Subsequent to an investigation, all engaging with stakeholders only on a transactional statistics 2014 fraud and corruption. Transnet’s fraud and allocated to the relevant Operating Division for corruption preventative methodology enables internal control weaknesses or breakdowns in basis to engagements aimed at creating lasting investigation. Operating Divisions’ fraud working Transnet to discover and reduce the occurrence processes are rectified to prevent future relationships for common value based on ethical groups are mandated to monitor the of fraud and corruption through risk assessments repetition of the irregularity. behaviour. investigation of allegations reported. The hotline is available 24 hours a day, seven days a week The Stakeholder Engagement Policy and Process and the call centre agents are able to converse in Control Framework entail: Confirmed Incidents of Irregularities 2015* all 11 official South African languages. Details of • Identifying material stakeholder groups; Disciplinary Disciplinary the hotline are communicated to all employees actions actions • Appointing Stakeholder Relationship Owners through various awareness and education in each material stakeholder group; Transnet SOC Ltd (Completed) (In progress) Total mechanisms. Employees are protected from • Developing an annual Stakeholder Engagement Corporate Centre 0 0 0 victimisation by the Transnet Whistle Blowing Plan for each material stakeholder group; Freight Rail 10 37 47 Policy insofar as reporting is undertaken in line 476 • Recording salient issues from engagements; 136 with the Protected Disclosures Act, 2000 81 Engineering 13 8 21 • Reporting on material issues arising; and (Act No. 26 of 2000). National Ports Authority 0 1 1 • Measuring the quality of relationships. ■ Total allegations Total unfounded Transnet is rolling out a three-year Anti‑Corruption ■ Total founded Port Terminals 2 3 5 ■ Compliance Programme in 2015 covering Assessments of stakeholder engagements will Tip-offs Pipelines 7 1 8 awareness for Transnet employees, business be conducted to compile an annual Transnet anonymous hotline partners and governance bodies around Stakeholder Index scorecard. Transnet Capital Projects 7 0 7 statistics 2015 anti‑corruption policies and procedures. Transnet Property 15 4 19 A stakeholder engagement module is being included in the sustainability data system. Total 54 54 108 Stakeholder engagement Assessments will be conducted periodically on * Categories include: Fraud, Corruption, Human Capital, Misuse of Resources, Non-Compliance to Policy and Legislation, Procurement, Transnet identifies, prioritises and maps its the level of maturity of Transnet’s stakeholder Theft. material stakeholders based on the effect each engagement practices. stakeholder has on the Company’s ability to successfully implement its strategy and achieve its objectives, and the effect Transnet’s activities, products and services has on 20 | Transnet Sustainability Report 2015 | 21 SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE REVIEW Our sustainability performance review for 2015 highlights the importance of each SDO to Transnet and our management approach to achieving these outcomes; identifies the material issues that impact (positively or negatively) on Transnet’s ability to achieve each outcome; and summarises our sustainability performance for the year under review. The report back on performance provides information on inputs, activities and outputs and includes some outcome indicators where these are measured. We are currently developing systems to improve our ability to report on the outcomes that arise from Transnet activities. In due course, this will enable more outcomes-based reporting to provide stakeholders with a greater understanding of Transnet’s impact on the economy, society and the environment over time. 3 101 R45,2bn Direct jobs created B-BBEE spend Employment Skills development Industrial capability building R644,1m Level 2 Page 24 Page 28 Page 32 Total spend on skills development B-BBEE rating 53 591 0,69 Employees trained DIFR R50bn R224,8m Contracts signed for 1 064 Total CSI spend locomotives 60% 1,0% Local content in electric Electricity consumption reduced locomotives 55% 2,4% Investment Regional Transformation Local content in diesel locomotives Fuel consumption reduced leveraged integration Page 36 Page 40 Page 44 85 8,6% New electric locomotives Energy efficiency improvement completed 80% 7,5% Carbon emissions intensity Black employees reduction 50% 479 648tCO2e Transport sector carbon emissions Females top management avoided 2% People with Disabilities Sustainability Performance Highlights 2015 Health and safety Community Environmental development stewardship Page 48 Page 52 Page 56 22 | Transnet Sustainability Report 2015 | 23 Sustainability Performance Review 3 000 EMPLOYMENT 2 500 Transnet activities that create measurable direct, indirect or induced employment 2 000 1 500 1 000 500 0 17 19 21 23 25 27 29 31 33 35 37 39 41 43 45 47 49 51 53 55 57 59 61 63 65 66+ ■ African ■ Coloured ■ Indian ■ White Workforce profile 2015 Our management approach Matrix which is an economy-wide database Transnet’s Human Capital strategy focuses on job containing information about the flow of creation within the framework of strategic resources between various agents within the workforce planning to ensure the recruitment economy (for example, business enterprises, and retention of the top quality employees in all households, Government) over a period of time. employment groups. Transnet’s talent Value-add is defined by Transnet as the financial management and development programme aims value created by the activities of the business to retain this talent and ensure robust succession and its employees. plans for priority and critical positions. Leadership programmes target specific Our performance management levels, while coaching and Transnet’s total headcount increased from mentoring programmes are also provided. 63 564 in 2014 to 66 665 in 2015. This With respect to job creation, Transnet’s comprised 55 506 permanent employees and Macro-economic Impact Model calculates the 11 159 fixed-term contract employees. number of direct, indirect and induced jobs10 that Transnet’s Macro-economic Impact Model, 2015 Transnet creates annually. This is an input-output Why employment is important to Transnet calculates that Transnet created 3 101 direct model that measures the impact of Transnet’s The developmental imperative to create and sustain jobs in South Africa is well known. Unemployment jobs, 9 339 indirect jobs, and 12 165 induced activities on the South African economy. It is is both a global and a national crisis. The World Economic Forum ranks unemployment as the fifth jobs in 2015. based on the South African Social Accounting highest global risk8. South Africa’s unemployment rate is currently 25%, the eighth highest in the world according to the International Labour Organisation9. As articulated in the NDP, a coordinated effort by Government, labour and the private sector is required on multiple fronts to address unemployment. The large capital investment and high operational intensity of Transnet’s MDS offer both significant opportunities and challenges for job creation. Transnet must grow its workforce at a pace that the business can sustain, and with an age and skills profile that meet the needs of the Company both for the short and long term. If this can be achieved, Transnet’s MDS will indeed stimulate South Africa’s opportunities for economic growth, giving rise to job creation in the many sectors which the freight 8. “Global Risks 2015”, World Economic Forum, 2015. www.weforum.org/reports/global-risks-report-2015. logistics system supports. 9. “ World Employment and Social Outlook Trends”, International Labour Organisation, 2015. The average age of a Transnet employee is 40 years. 28,9% of employees are between the ages of www.ilo.org/global/research/global-reports/weso/2015. 48 to 60. 44,9% of employees are younger than 36 years of age. 10. D irect employment refers to the direct impact emanating from the transport sector on itself; indirect employment refers to the impact that a particular sector will have on all other industries that supply inputs for the operations taking place in the sector; Transnet’s most material issue with respect to employment is: induced employment refers to the economic impact that will result out of salaries and wages to people who are employed in a particular sector, as well as the salaries and wages paid by businesses operating in the sectors indirectly linked to this sector due to • Transnet’s ability to create and sustain jobs over the period of the MDS. the supply of inputs. 24 | Transnet Sustainability Report 2015 | 25 Sustainability Performance Review Transnet’s gross value-add amounts to R44,3 billion for 2015. Macro-economic Impact Model results 2015 Direct Indirect Induced Total VALUE ADDED 2014 VALUE ADDED 2015 impact impact impact impact Impact on GDP (R million) 59 572 26 201 54 876 140 649 Impact on capital formation (R million) 48 091 56 199 110 260 214 550 Impact on employment (number of job opportunities) 99 836 115 206 234 834 449 876 R40,9 R44,3 –S  killed 17 938 24 021 46 550 88 509 billion billion – Semi-skilled 64 189 60 480 109 527 234 196 – Unskilled 17 709 30 705 78 757 127 171 Impact on households (R million) 92 063 – Low income 18 036 – Medium income 21 284 ■ Employees 42% ■ Employees 42% – High income 52 743 ■ Capital Providers 14% ■ Capital Providers 14% ■ Reinvested 44% ■ Reinvested 44% Fiscal impact (R million) 39 647 – National Government 38 525 Gross value-add resulting from Transnet capital and operating expenditure 2015 – Provincial Government 269,8 – Local Government 852,2 Impact on the balance of payments (R million) 31 693 Transnet’s activities for 2015 resulted in: • Additional GDP of R140,6 billion in constant 2015 prices, of which just over 57,7% was generated indirectly in sectors supplying inputs to Transnet; and induced in sectors affected by the payment of salaries and wages by Transnet and its suppliers. This highlights the important role that Transnet plays as a supplier of essential logistics infrastructure to the South African economy. • An additional R214,5 billion in new capital formation throughout the economy, of which R33,6 billion was invested directly by Transnet. • A total of 9 876 work opportunities, of which just over 127 170 are unskilled workers, thereby contributing significantly to Government’s job creation targets. • Approximately R92,0 billion in additional household income, of which almost R18,0 billion will accrue to low income households thereby contributing significantly to Government’s target of Transnet employee poverty alleviation. at Port of • Additional Government revenue of just over R39,6 billion for all three levels of government. The main Durban sources of this Government revenue will be derived from direct and indirect taxes, where direct tax consists mainly of personal income tax and company tax. 26 | Transnet Sustainability Report 2015 | 27 Sustainability Performance Review Our management approach Transnet’s training plans are responsive to the SKILLS DEVELOPMENT Transnet’s Human Capital strategy includes the critical skills requirements of the wider economy. Transnet activities that enhance or improve human capabilities, and build the productive following initiatives to address skills challenges: Annual training plans are consulted with capacity of people both within and outside the Company recognised trade unions at Operating Divisions Strategic workforce planning is undertaken to and Corporate Centre structures in line with the continually analyse business needs, skills requirements of the Skills Development Act, requirements and skills gaps. To ensure accurate 1998 (Act No. 97 of 1998). These are submitted identification of the right skills to be developed, to the Transport Education Training Authority a stringent engagement process is embarked (TETA) for approval and monitoring in order to upon involving line managers. This is enhanced by process the training grants. collating information from employee development plans. Strategic workforce planning involves: The Transnet Academy comprises six schools of excellence: School of Rail, School of • Skills clustering – to establish groupings of Engineering, Maritime School of Excellence, similar skills and experience, and determine School of Pipelines, School of Security and the time it will take for an employee to move School of Leadership. Training offered at these from one skill level to another. schools includes: • Demand simulation – to project future human resource needs in response to fluctuations in The School of Rail focuses on sector-specific operating models. training including train driving, yard operations, • Supply simulation – to project skills needs train control operations and track operations. within varying workforce for retirement age, During the year under review, 624 people were normal attrition rate and early retirement. trained against a target of 735. Refresher and • Gap analysis – to identify skills gaps and risk relicencing training takes place regularly to profiles. ensure compliance with current regulatory requirements and a total of 1 698 employees • Initiatives – action plans for correcting completed this training in 2015. shortages or surpluses. • Anchoring – to embed ongoing workforce The School of Engineering delivers analysis within annual corporate planning and apprenticeship programmes in 27 trades with Why skills development is important to Transnet budgeting. 376 apprentices entering the programme during 2015. Sector-specific training is also delivered in South Africa needs a skilled and capable workforce to support an inclusive growth path. Transnet Feeder training pipelines have been established examiner repairer, maintenance assist and air requires skilled human resources to deliver the critical logistics infrastructure and operational for critical skills categories including: artisans, brake systems. 64 employees participated in efficiency that South Africa’s freight system needs to support economic growth. The MDS entails technicians, engineers, sector-specific, and refresher training for air brake systems and high extensive investment in targeted skills development for our workforce and the transport sector. The protection officers. The Youth Development voltage as per regulatory requirements in 2015. challenge lies in Transnet’s ability to meet and sustain the required scale, timing and cost of strategy is aligned to the feeder pipelines. The addressing its skills needs within its own resources whilst implementing MDS. feeder pipelines also provide the focus areas for: The Maritime School of Excellence focuses on sector-specific training in the ports and Transnet’s key skills challenges are: • Student financial assistance, marine disciplines such as pilot, tug master, • 43% of the workforce is semi-skilled with low skills density levels and limited literacy abilities. • Internships, marine engineering, dredge masters, skippers, • Managerial competency levels in first line management have an impact on operational efficiencies • Learnerships, and master operations. 49 employees and delivery. • Apprenticeships, participated in the priority programmes against • There are significant skills shortages for project management, engineering (sector-specific) and • Sponsorships, a target of 46. Training focuses on sectortechnical skills in operational requirements. • Career guidance, specific skills in planning, bulk handling • The age profile of Transnet employees reflects a high percentage of ageing skills and experience • Coaching, and equipment operations, cargo coordination, and a rapidly growing percentage of young staff with generally limited experience. articulated vehicles and operating lifting • Mentorships. equipment with 1 064 individuals trained Transnet’s most material issue with respect to skills development is: against a target of 460 in 2015. • Having the right skills at the right time to implement the MDS. 28 | Transnet Sustainability Report 2015 | 29 Sustainability Performance Review The School of Pipelines trains artisans in the participated in training initiatives against the In 2016, Transnet will: pipeline environment. 59 artisans completed the target of 38 763. • Coordinate the effective pipeline of skills to ensure availability of skills when required by the programme against a target of 98 in 2015. business; 2015 saw Transnet achieve targets for the The School of Security delivered the protection Engineering Bursary Programme with 255 • Integrate the feeder pipelines within Transnet Foundation, Supplier Development and Enterprise officer skills programme to 988 unemployed bursars against a target of 220. A total of 534 Development; youth against a target of 968 in 2015. Further bursars are currently supported by Transnet. 563 • Increase the postgraduate throughput to build capacity for R&D; and training was delivered to 81 employees. engineering technicians participated in the Work • Deliver training programmes for partners in other African countries where Transnet is doing business. Integrated Learning Experience Programme The School of Leadership focuses on against a target of 363, with 362 engineering supervisory, managerial and leadership training in Transnet inaugurates Maritime School graduates technicians in the system. the Operating Divisions, spanning from entry to On 9 April 2014, Transnet’s Maritime School of Excellence inaugurated its first intake of 83 executive levels. 6 586 employees participated Transnet achieved targets for the Apprenticeship trainees in various maritime disciplines. This is the first time Transnet has taken charge of training against a target of 2 249 in 2015. Programme with 613 apprentices entering the and employing its own aviation pilots. The helicopter pilots achieved both private and commercial programme against a target of 605. A total of licences to fly marine pilots to vessels, who in turn pilot vessels into the ports. This is a service Our performance 3 145 apprentices are currently in the system. provided by the National Ports Authority in Durban and Richards Bay. R644,1m Transnet invested 2,8% of the wage bill Transnet also trained 930 apprentices through Total spend (R644,1 million) in skills development in 2015 in the National Skills Fund. Of the 83 graduates, 38 qualified as Cargo Operators, 17 as Helicopter Pilots, 20 as Marine on skills Pilots, and seven as Engineers. The majority of the graduates have been absorbed into Transnet development comparison to 3,0% (R621 million) in 2014. Total Sector-specific skills development will continue 11 training spend for the year was affected by operations. to focus on marine, port, rail and cargo handling cost-cutting measures as the business with 3 320 learners participating in the The Maritime School of Excellence is the first of its kind in South Africa with campuses in the responded to the lagging growth in volumes programmes against a target of 2 178 in 2015. port cities of Cape Town, Port Elizabeth, Durban and Richards Bay. and revenue. A total of 53 591 employees 53 591 Training participants 2015 Employees Actual Target Actual Projection trained 2014 2015 2015 2016 Apprentices 1 552 605 613 665 Technicians 339 363 563 200 Engineers 138 220 255 155 Sector-specific 1569 2 178 3 320 2 000 Transnet Protection officers 46 968 988 1 065 helicopter % training spend 3,0% 4,4% 2,8% 3,4% pilots Leadership development 3 862 2 249 6 666 1 247 All training 40 435 38 763 53 591 40 074 Transnet continues to provide opportunities for workplace experience through its Young Professionals in Training (YPT) programme. During 2015, 201 new YPTs were recruited against a target of 200. YPTs are contracted for two years and on average, 60% are placed permanently within Transnet per annum. There are currently 301 YPTs in the system. Transnet supports its feeder pipeline graduates through its Engineer-in-Training (EIT) and Technician‑in‑Training (TIT) programmes. In 2015, 365 EITs and 488 TITs participated in the 24-month structured programme that includes mentoring and coaching. Workplace exposure for unemployed artisans at Engineering Engineering initiated a workplace skills exposure programme for qualified but unemployed artisans during 2015. R2,7 million was granted by TETA to cover the stipend of 186 artisan trainees for a period of five months, commencing in November 2014. Since inception, 86 artisans have enrolled. Transnet-related trades are given priority, while those artisans who have been 11. S ector-specific skills refer to non-generic skills only applied in a certain sector within Transnet. Transnet is responsible for training unemployed for a lengthy period of time are given preference. and/or issuing of sector-specific qualifications for example, train driver, cargo coordinator, tug master, planner, quality officer. 30 | Transnet Sustainability Report 2015 | 31 Sustainability Performance Review Our management approach Engineering continues to strengthen its R&D INDUSTRIAL CAPABILITY BUILDING In 2010, Transnet developed a comprehensive activities to provide technologies for world-class products and services for African markets. Transnet activities that facilitate the country’s industrial development and improve Supplier Development Plan, guided by the competitiveness Government’s CSDP to increase the Initiatives include: competitiveness, capacity and capability of the • A control system for diesel and electric local supply base, where there are advantages of locomotives; local supply. Transnet’s contracts with Original • A new diesel locomotive; Equipment Manufacturers (OEMs) include • A traction motor for rugged conditions; binding local SD plans and transformation • Fuel cell technology applications in targets. Transnet’s Procurement Policy requires locomotives, mobile and stationary equipment; SD to be incorporated into procurement. A • A bogie to maximise payload on low axle-load monitoring and evaluation unit established in rail lines; and 2014 monitors the progress of SD obligations in • A tri-axle bogie with a technical partner. the contracts and detects any irregularities. All SD contracts include penalties for default and Our performance fraud. Since the inception of Transnet’s SD programme in 2012, total contract value has been Transnet established ED hubs in De Aar (Northern R46,2 billion with SD obligations concluded with Cape) and Saldanha Bay (Western Cape) during suppliers of R17,1 billion or 37,1% of contract 2015, to complement the first hub established in value. To date, R10,2 billion or 60,1% Johannesburg in 2014. Each hub provides a (2014: R5,9 billion or 54,3%) of these SD one-stop shop for potential suppliers to Transnet obligations have been met, with the remainder offering the following services: business in progress. development and registration, procurement advisory services, tax registration and compliance, R&D expenditure for 2015 was R93 million financial support, and guidance on black economic with an anticipated R&D spend of R150 million empowerment. Additional hubs are planned for for 2016. Limpopo and Eastern Cape. R50bn Largest ever locomotive supply Engineering’s fuel cell study Contracts contracts in South Africa’s history Engineering’s study on the use of fuels cells signed for 1 064 Transnet’s R50 billion contracts for the in locomotives was completed in October locomotives Why industrial capability building is important to Transnet building of 1 064 locomotives were signed 2014 and specifications for stationary and Targeting local suppliers through Transnet’s procurement expenditure is an effective tool for Transnet with four international OEMs in 2014 with mobile applications are in development. This to support the growth and transformation of South African industry. Transnet’s Supplier Development stringent local content, skills development and includes listing international standards on (SD) is aimed at skills development, job creation, intellectual property transfer, the localisation of training commitments. To date, the suppliers fuel cell, hydrogen and other relevant supply, and industrialisation through contractually obligated SD plans. Transnet’s Enterprise have complied with and exceeded the systems and combining them in 60% Development (ED) is aimed at supporting small-, mediumand micro-enterprises in the transport sector, minimum local content criteria of 60% for specification requirements. Nine stationary Local content and specifically amongst young people. electric locomotives and 55% for diesel application fuel cell specifications have in electric locomotives. Engineering will share been customised for nine port sites to locomotives Innovation and technology play important roles in the growth and competitiveness of industry. approximately 16% of the total build provide base load power and reduce crane Transnet therefore aims to lead R&D with the adoption of new and emerging technologies and to programme, and approximately one-third of power leaks. The fuel cell shunting use technology as an enabler for the business. which will be outsourced to local emerging locomotive specifications are stringent due Transnet’s most material issues with respect to industrial capability building are: engineering and manufacturing firms. The to the mobile nature of the application and 55% • Leveraging procurement spend for localisation of supply; and localisation of the 1064 locomotive further investigations for mobile port Local content procurement is expected to contribute over applications are underway. in diesel • Investing in new and emerging technologies to increase South Africa’s competitiveness. locomotives R90,0 billion to the economy. 32 | Transnet Sustainability Report 2015 | 33 Sustainability Performance Review 85 95th electric locomotive rolled off at Engineering Investing in R&D to improve competitiveness New electric locomotives On 19 March 2015, President Jacob Zuma celebrated the successful completion of the first Transnet established the Transnet Engineering Innovation Centre in Pretoria, in 2013. The centre completed electric locomotives produced at Transnet’s manufacturing and engineering facility at Koedoespoort, has recruited top-performing students from major universities; established partnerships with Pretoria. 85 of the locomotives passed inspection by Transnet engineers, while the remaining 10 are leading international research institutions; signed co-development and technology transfer deals currently being inspected. 85 of the locomotives were built by Transnet and 10 by China South with international manufacturers; and invested over R172 million in facilities and projects. Rail’s manufacturing facilities in China. Localisation and skills development were primary Young graduates are placed on advanced engineering programmes which comprise professional considerations in the award of the contract. This included skills transfer during manufacturing at development as stipulated by the Engineering Council of South Africa; personal mastery and Engineering while a portion of the work was outsourced to local engineering firms. 190 Engineering leadership development; discipline-specific training; and Transnet-specific development. The employees were trained in China and 260 people were employed in the assembly of the Centre encourages graduates to extend their degrees to Masters or PhD levels through the locomotives. Company’s network of research partnerships. The Centre has partnered with the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research in collaborative research projects to the value of R60 million over the past three years, to expand R&D in port, rail and pipeline operations. Engineering disciplines include: mechanical, metallurgical, industrial, computer, electronic and electrical. Four strategic components comprise electrical systems, skills and processes, At the sustainable energy and mechanical systems. launch event: President Jacob Zuma R&D related to electricity use improvements Electric locomotive 34 | Transnet Sustainability Report 2015 | 35 Sustainability Performance Review Our management approach INVESTMENT LEVERAGED The Board approved the PSP Policy in 2013 • Raising efficiency along the corridor; Transnet activities that facilitate private sector investment in the country’s freight establishing objectives, benefits, project life • Integrating the currently disconnected logistics system cycles, and governance. Delivery of R2,5 billion industrial and logistics activities as well as in PSP funding is targeted. The policy outlines marginalised rural production centers the following objectives: surrounding the corridor; • Leveraging private sector capital, skills, • Establishing an aerotropolis around OR Tambo technology and innovation; International Airport; and • Identifying PSP opportunities to support the • Aligning stakeholders behind a common vision MDS and strategic objectives; and implementation plan. • Maintaining good governance; and Most SIP 2 projects are still in pre-feasibility • Supporting SDOs. stage but Transnet is proceeding with: The functional focus areas for PSP are: • Building a container terminal at City Deep in • Bulk commodities (coal, iron ore and Johannesburg; manganese); • Upgrading Pier 2 at the Port of Durban; and • Intermodal (containers); • Procuring rolling stock for the railway line • General rail (general freight services); which services the corridor. • General port (multi-purpose terminal developments); Our performance • Operation Phakisa port projects (ship repair, Transnet has committed to accelerating PSP oil and gas facilities); roll-out in 2016. During 2015 the following • Regional integration; and milestones were achieved: • Non-core but complementary to the MDS. • Business case approved for the East London As part of the initiatives under the PSP grain elevator; programme, Transnet is focusing on facilitating • Business case approved for the Durban investment in South Africa’s high density agri-port; Durban-Free State-Gauteng Logistics and • Transaction preparation for Tambo Springs Industrial Corridor. The corridor is Government’s inland terminal; Strategic Integrated Programme 2 (SIP2)12. • Business case for Durban Dig Out Port; Why investment leveraged is important to Transnet SIP 2 aims to unlock the industrial and • Technical study for the Manganese common Large-scale investment is needed in South Africa’s freight logistics system, beyond the levels already agricultural development, and export capability user facility; and committed by the MDS. Multiple sources of funding and multiple locations of risk management need to be encouraged to both stimulate economic growth and meet future demand. Transnet is well positioned of the corridor by: • Requests for Proposals for the maintenance and through the MDS to facilitate and encourage complementary investment by private companies. • Strengthening the logistics and transport corridor operation of the Douglas-Belmont branch line. Private Sector Participation (PSP) enables Transnet to: between South Africa’s main industrial hubs; Other PSP initiatives during 2015 scoped • Broaden the available finance pool and expedite infrastructure development and capacity creation; • Improving access to Durban’s export and options for: • Encourage intermodal efficiencies and road-to-rail modal shift; import facilities including the development of • Investment property portfolio; • Leverage private sector skills and expertise in the provision of infrastructure and operations; a new port; • Energy supply; and • Encourage foreign direct investment in South African and regional infrastructure and industry; and • Integrating the Free State’s industrial strategy into the corridor; • Operation Phakisa projects in ship repair and • Mitigate risk for large infrastructure projects and freight systems connectivity. related port services. Transnet’s most material issue with respect to investment leveraged is: 12. The South African Government adopted a National Infrastructure Plan in 2012. 18 Strategic Integrated Projects were identified to • Expediting Transnet’s PSP programme. fast-track economic development and growth. These projects cover social and economic infrastructure across all nine provinces. www.gov.za 36 | Transnet Sustainability Report 2015 | 37 Sustainability Performance Review The Douglas-Belmont branch line PSP concession LIMPOPO The Douglas-Belmont branch line is located in Kimberley, Northern Cape. It consists of a single rail line from Douglas to Belmont over 85km. Belmont is on the main line between Kimberley and De Aar. Southern African Region Transnet upgraded the line to a consistent standard during 2014 to increase its capacity, remove MOZAMBIQUE MPUMALANGA inefficiencies and prepare it for concessioning. GAUTENG Grain products have been the dominant commodity transported on the line with wheat and maize Johannesburg NORTH WEST Sentra rand SWAZILAND accounting for about 90% of the annual market share and barley 10%. Volumes are expected to City Deep increase above 300 000 tons per annum and contribute to modal shift. A Request for Proposals was issued on 16 February 2015 with a closing date of 27 May 2015. It invites potential concessionaires to provide rail transport services on the Douglas–Belmont branch KWAZULU-NATAL line and: FREE STATE Harrismith • Maintain and where necessary, design, construct or refurbish rail infrastructure; Ladysmith • Provide funding for operational expenditure, capital investment and renewals; and Richards Bay Dube • Undertake socio-economic and enterprise development initiatives to help revitalise local Pietermaritzburg Tradeport economies along the Douglas–Belmont branch line. King Shaka Airport LESOTHO Cato Ridge Durban The objectives are to: Durban Natcor Rail International • Increase traffic on the branch line network; Airport Site N3 Freeway • Promote the modal shift of freight from road-to-rail; EASTERN CAPE International Trade NMPP • Lower the social and commercial costs of freight transportation; Inland Rail • Leverage private capital for investment in rail revitalisation and rural development; Gauteng Terminals Corridor Back-of-Port Ports Pipelines Freeways Freight Ring • Encourage entrepreneurship; • Apportion risk to where it can be best managed, • Stimulate employment and other economic opportunities in rural areas; and • Advance the participation of black people in freight logistics. Upgrades to Increased Local area plans Sequence of NMPP Capacity Phased rail City Deep, capacity on for logistics expansions in From Port upgrades to N3 freight ring Pretcon and KwaZulu-Natal activities Port of Durban of Durban to freeway linking port Vaalcon corridor Congestion New dig-out port Waltloo, Improved corridors terminals Possible new mitigation plans on old Durban Gauteng Gauteng and Avoids Kamfersdans Potential alignments Rationalised International Planned Durban metrorail mega-terminal New back-of-port lands uses Airport site incremental approaches congestion Kimberley at Sentrarand rail infrastructure Future Bayhead capacity Intermodal Links inland Beaconsfield Future use of dig-out increases facilities at major terminals North Coast Capacity provided nodes Provides Spysfontein line and Richcor for container, connectivity to vehicle, and bulk cross-border cargoes corridors Broadwaters NORTHERN CAPE 2050 Vision of SIP 2 Douglas Modderfontein Infrastructure depot Exchange yard Heuningneskloof FREE STATE Salt Lake Access point Core network Graspan Branch line Provincial boundary Belmont Witput The Douglas-Belmont branch line 38 | Transnet Sustainability Report 2015 | 39 Sustainability Performance Review Our management approach REGIONAL INTEGRATION Transnet’s Africa strategy was adopted by the Board in March 2014 and outlines Transnet’s intention to extend business beyond the borders of South Africa and into the region to become the leading logistics Transnet activities that result in improved freight logistics connectivity on the continent service provider in sub-Saharan Africa14. South Africa is viewed as the gateway to the region, and Transnet, through its port, railway and pipeline infrastructure, has opportunities to enhance regional integration. Transnet Africa 2014 Footprint Transnet Africa 2030 Vision TOGO NIGERIA TOGO NIGERIA GHANA ETHIOPIA ETHIOPIA CAMEROON GHANA CAMEROON EQUATORIAL GUINEA EQUATORIAL GUINEA KENYA GABON GABON DRC DRC KENYA TANZANIA TANZANIA ANGOLA MOZAMBIQUE ANGOLA MOZAMBIQUE ZAMBIA ZAMBIA MAURITIUS NAMIBIA NAMIBIA MAURITIUS BOTSWANA MADAGASCAR BOTSWANA MADAGASCAR Satelite offices Rail corridor Shipping feeder network Hub Transnet Africa 2030 Vision The hubs, rail corridors and shipping feeder networks depicted in the 2030 vision map represent the areas where Transnet will either have an operational presence and/or an ability to participate in the logistics chain and growth of cargo corridors. Transnet has positioned the ports of Durban and Ngqura as transshipment hubs servicing East and West Why regional integration is important to Transnet Africa. Transshipment containers account for 22% of total container throughput in Transnet’s South African terminals and 61% of this transshipment volume is destined for or shipped from East and West Enhanced connectivity of the regional freight system is a strategic priority for Transnet and has the African ports. The container transshipment business opens options for Transnet to play a role in potential to boost investment on the continent. South Africa is ranked 34 out of a total of 160 connecting Angola, Namibia, Mozambique, Mauritius, Tanzania and Kenya ports which are or could be countries13 in logistics performance, suggesting that it is well positioned to build logistics density and served by a South African hub that can also link to cross-border rail corridors. help facilitate improved trade between neighbouring states. While economic growth forecasts for South Africa are muted, other countries in the region are on a strong growth path with significant need Freight Rail’s international business unit has satellite offices in Namibia, Swaziland and Lesotho. The and opportunity for improved infrastructure connectivity. primary aim is to grow cross-border volumes and enable regional rail integration focusing on the Maputo, East-West and North-South corridors. JOCs have been established in Mozambique, Botswana Transnet’s most material issue with respect to regional integration is: and Zimbabwe to promote a unified rail operating system between the rail companies that own and • Improving port, rail and pipeline connectivity on the continent to unlock economies of scale and investment. 13. “ Connecting to Compete: Trade Logistics in the Global Economy,” World Bank, 2014. 14. I n terms of port and rail volume throughput, installed infrastructure and operating assets, Transnet is the leading rail company, the www.worldbank.org/content/dam/worldbank/document/trade/LPI2014.pdf. largest port authority, and the second largest port terminal operator in Africa. 40 | Transnet Sustainability Report 2015 | 41 Sustainability Performance Review operate the corridors. African Union delegation visits Engineering With the discovery of new oil and gas reserves, there is an increasing demand for port services, On 13 December 2014, an African Union (AU) delegation led by the AU Chairperson, Dr Nkosasana refinery, storage and pipeline infrastructure in the region, with possible new build opportunities. Dlamini-Zuma, visited Engineering’s Koedoespoort facility, Pretoria to gain an understanding of Investigations are underway to identify options. the day-to-day operations of Engineering, its achievements and challenges. Past Engineering Transnet has identified four key revenue drivers that arise from regional integration initiatives: engagements with the continent include Ivory Coast, Ghana and Cameroon and the supply of wagons, coaches and locomotives to the Democratic Republic of Congo, Zambia and Namibia. This • Cross-border rail volumes on the Maputo, East-West and North-South corridors; is in support of the AU’s interest in railways for exports and regional integration. • Extension of transshipment hub services to East and West Africa; The AU Heads of State have agreed that South Africa will champion the manufacturing of rolling • Export sales of rolling stock, and associated maintenance services; and stock for the continent. This encourages Engineering to pursue its objective of becoming an OEM. • Geographic expansion of port, railway and pipeline operations through concession agreements or management contracts. AU Chairperson, Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma, Group Chief Transshipment hub Go Executive, ills ve sk r Brian Molefe nd ent sy na st and Tra pm eand in de ing nc s Engineering ve a em lo Chief Executive, Transnet Richard Cross border Vallihu Geographic Africa Strategy Transnet is recognised expansion volumes as the leading logistics services provider in sub-Saharan Africa ti n g gi di an Re g o ng d ra n a l ke ar an int e tio n M br E x p o r t s ale s South Africa, Swaziland, Mozambique collaborate for improved cargo flows On 23 September 2014, Transnet and the port and rail operators in Swaziland and Mozambique launched the Maputo Corridor JOC to provide seamless cargo services for customers between the countries. The freight corridor runs from Mpumalanga, South Africa through Swaziland, to the Ports of Richards Bay and Maputo. The JOC has established common operating and maintenance philosophies, focusing on the integration of planning and operations, and managing all cross‑border operations and stakeholder engagements. The rail and port operators have aligned their investment Our performance plans, maintenance standards, safety standards, standard operating procedures and skills Revenue from crossborder activities has grown from R1,5 billion in 2014 to R2,55 billion in 2015. development across the corridor. An integrated cross-border train plan is now in place for coal, As a percentage of revenue, the contribution of cross-border activities has grown from 2,6% in 2014 magnetite, containers and fuel, facilitating scheduled train movements across the corridor’s rail to 4,2% in 2015. Transnet’s Africa Strategy is being implemented from 2016. and port facilities. Freight Rail’s volumes to Mozambique grew from 2,6mtpa in 2014 to 4,5mtpa in 2015. Magnetite exports through Maputo increased from an average of 10 trains per week, to 18 trains per week. Turnaround time for Maputo magnetite was reduced by 47% from 118 hours to 62 hours, which is faster than the service design time. 42 | Transnet Sustainability Report 2015 | 43 Sustainability Performance Review Our management approach performance monitoring against the plan. TRANSFORMATION Transnet’s Employment Equity (EE) Policy is Transnet aims to increase representation of the Transnet activities that result in employment equity within the Company and black economic aligned to the Employment Equity Act, 1998 following designated groups: African (as per the empowerment within the entities that supply Transnet (Act No. 55 of 1998) and confirms the Company’s Department of Trade and Industry (DTI) Codes of commitment to the elimination of unfair Good Practice definition), females and People discrimination and implementation of affirmative with Disabilities through targeted initiatives: action measures to achieve a workforce that • Targets for females at top management is reflects the nationally economically active 50% and for all other levels 37%. population of South Africa across all occupational • Policies, procedures and systems that support levels. Transnet adheres to the Promotion of the EE strategy and plan. Equality and Prevention of Unfair Discrimination Act, 2000 (Act No. 4 of 2000); the Labour • Specialised recruitment agencies and Relations Act, 1995 (Act No. 65 of 1995); and the internships for qualifying People with Skills Development Act, 1998 (Act No. 97 of 1998). Disabilities, exposure to work and permanent There is ongoing revision of the EE Policy to include placement when positions are available. ‘preference for designated groups’. In addition, • Positions that do not pose a high safety risk Transnet has a Broad-based Black Economic are targeted for People with Disabilities. Empowerment (B-BBEE) Policy and strategy to • Improvement of working conditions for ensure that a uniform message is understood females and People with Disabilities. throughout the Company and consistency in how B-BBEE is managed and implemented. The policy Campaigns and training programmes are used to is aligned to the B-BBEE Act, 2003 (Act No. 5 of educate employees and create a positive work 2003). Under the policy, preferential procurement environment for females and employees with is advocated whereby bids (tenders) are not only disabilities, and B-BBEE awareness: awarded on technical specifications and price • The Dignity and Respect programme; Why transformation is important to Transnet but also on a prescribed point system where • Zero Tolerance Campaign on Sexual Harassment; South Africa’s Bill of Rights , 1996 is a cornerstone of our democracy, enshrining human rights and 15 preference is given to historically disadvantaged • People with Disabilities Ambassador Network affirming the democratic values of human dignity, equality and freedom. Section nine of the Bill of individuals. assists with engagement, sensitisation and Rights provides for the redress of inequalities experienced by the majority of South Africans under In line with the requirements of the EE Act, disclosure; and Apartheid. As one of South Africa’s largest single employers and one of the country’s largest Transnet prepares and submits to the • B-BBEE training on the scorecard, regulatory infrastructure investors and network operators, Transnet is committed to social value creation Department of Labour a three-year EE plan on requirements and control measures. involving employment equity in the Company and black economic empowerment in the entities that targets to be achieved per occupational level supply Transnet. We uphold the principles of the UNGC on equity and anti-discrimination and seek to together with key initiatives aimed at addressing Our performance create an organisation that reflects the diversity of South African society. barriers to affirmative action in the workplace. Transnet has increased the number of black Transnet provides employment for all demographics and empowers designated groups who may otherwise The targets are informed by the demographics of employees (both male and female) in most be marginalised. the National Economically Active Population occupational level categories. Overall (NEAP) statistics. There are extensive representation has increased for both male and With respect to entities supplying Transnet, the scale and scope of our procurement expenditure has engagements with employees and recognised female employees. Representation is below that the opportunity to create and empower local black business in a multitude of sectors. Transformation trade unions on the plans. These plans are signed of the NEAP with black employees representing and development of the Company’s supplier base remains a priority, and is also reported under off annually at the Group Executive Committee 83,0% of the workforce compared to the NEAP Industrial Capability Building. prior to submission to the Department of Labour, target of 88,7%. There is however, a significant Transnet’s most material issues with respect to transformation are: fostering management ownership and over-representation of black male employees at • Increasing representation of black employees, female employees and People with Disabilities; and semi-skilled and unskilled levels in operations. • Enhancing black economic empowerment in Transnet’s supply chain. 15. The Constitution of the Republic of South Africa, 1996. 44 | Transnet Sustainability Report 2015 | 45 Sustainability Performance Review Black employees 2015 Transnet has progressed significantly in transforming its supplier base towards a B-BBEE supplier base R45,2bn 2014 2015 2014 2015 with actual B-BBEE spend for 2015 amounting to R45,2 billion or 105,1% of total measurable B-BBEE spend Occupational level (Male) (Male) (Female) (Female) procurement spend (TMPS) of R43,1 billion. In terms of the DTI Codes of Good Practice, Transnet’s ■ African Coloured 69% 10% B-BBEE spend in 201517 is as follows: Top management16 57 61 43 45 ■ Indian 4% • Black-owned enterprises – R9,4 billion (2014: R8,1 billion); ■ White 17% Senior management 404 444 192 236 ■ Race profile Professional 2 171 2 527 1 307 1 558 • Black women-owned enterprises – R4,1 billion (2014: R1,5 billion); 2015 Skilled 11 027 10 082 5 555 5 569 • Exempted micro-enterprises – R3,0 billion (2014: R1,9 billion); Semi-skilled 14 639 15 832 4 180 5 064 • Qualifying small enterprises – R2,0 billion (2014: R3,6 billion); Unskilled 4 260 3 777 701 884 • Black youth-owned – R671,9 million (1,56% of TMPS); and Total black employees 32 558 32 723 11 978 13 356 • People with Disabilities – R77,5 million (0,18% of TMPS). Female employees represent 26,4% of the workforce compared to the NEAP target of 46,0%. Female Transnet has a B-BBEE rating of Level 2 for 2014 (up from Level 3 in 2013). employment has steadily improved at top, senior, professional and skilled technical levels but it remains a challenge to attract and retain women in operations where representation in the semi-skilled and unskilled levels is currently 24,0% and 19,0% respectively. Transnet B-BBEE Rating18 Level 2 Operating Division/ December Total December Total B-BBEE rating Female employees 2015 Specialist Unit 2013 Points 2014 Points Charter Applied 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 Transnet SOC LTD 3 84,34 2 90,29 Occupational level (Black) (Black) (Coloured) (Coloured) (Indian) (Indian) (White) (White) Generic Transport Pipelines 4 72,94 3 75,53 ■ Male 74% Public Sector ■ Female 26% Top management 33 36 3 3 7 6 6 7 Transnet Capital Projects 3 82,27 2 87,11 Gender profile Senior management 135 173 23 24 34 38 30 38 2015 Freight Rail 2 87,64 2 89,17 Professional 1026 1 250 137 155 144 153 192 196 Rail Charter Skilled 4723 4 823 630 586 202 160 912 779 Engineering 3 84,53 2 88,17 Semi-skilled 3699 4 410 409 545 72 109 208 301 Port Terminals 3 84,88 2 87,03 Unskilled 637 811 62 72 2 1 16 16 Maritime Charter National Ports Authority 4 66,01 4 71,96 Total female employees 10253 11 503 1216 1 386 461 467 1 364 1 330 Transnet Property 5 56,78 5 60,92 Property Charter In alignment with the UNGC principles, Transnet upholds the elimination of discrimination in employment and occupation. People with Disabilities is a key area of focus for Transnet’s transformation agenda. The year under review has seen an improvement from 1,6% in 2014 to 2,3% in 2015. Freight Rail champions People with Disabilities The EE plan for 2016 will continue to focus on Transnet’s commitment to EE principles namely, the Freight Rail achieved its target of employing 134 People with Disabilities (2,5% of the workforce) elimination of unfair discrimination and implementation of affirmative action measures to achieve a in 2015, resulting in a total of 796 People with Disabilities, up from 551 in 2014. work force that reflects the national economically active population of South Africa across all In partnership with the Department of Labour, Freight Rail receives assessments on its working occupational levels. environment, the types of disabilities that can be accommodated, and is provided with resumés of job seekers from their database. Certain positions have been ring-fenced to ensure the employment of People with Disabilities. Through Freight Rail’s Disability Forum, employees are 80% Black employees, females and People with Disabilities 2016 Black engaged and sensitised while voluntary declaration is increasing. Initiatives to improve access to Actual Actual Target employees Freight Rail buildings include: ramps for wheelchair access to buildings, entrance doors modified 2014 2015 2016 to open automatically once access card is swiped, restrooms customised for wheelchair access, Category (%) (%) 50% and parking bays. Females top Black 81,5 80,0 80,0 management Females at Group Exco 50,0 50,0 50,0 Female General Managers 40,0 50,0 50,0 2% Females below General Managers 24,4 35,0 37,0 People with People with Disabilities 1,6 2,0 2,5 Disabilities 17. 2015 denotes the first year of measuring black youth-owned and People with Disabilities as a % of TMPS. 16. Top management comprises Group Executives and General Managers. 18. Denotes B-BBEE rating for calendar year ended December 2014. 46 | Transnet Sustainability Report 2015 | 47 Sustainability Performance Review Our management approach Environmental Management systems The Seven Golden Safety HEALTH AND SAFETY Transnet’s Safety, Health, Environment and (ISO 14001), Integrated Occupational Health and Actions Transnet activities that improve the physical and mental health, well-being and safety of Quality (SHEQ) Policy, guides our approach to Safety Management systems (OHSAS 18001) its employees and the communities within which it operates safety management. The policy outlines our and the National Occupational Safety Association. These programmes are intended to I will not perform philosophy that safety is everyone’s responsibility unsafe work and put myself and and defines the strategic intent and principles continuously improve safety performance. others in danger that provide a framework for action. Group Risk Safety audits are conducted annually to evaluate Management is responsible for the development, the effectiveness of our policies, systems, I take responsibility implementation and review of the policy. Other procedures and guidelines. of myself and my team. I don’t management approaches include: entrenching a blame others culture of safety and engaging with our An independent board of enquiry is constituted stakeholders to understand their safety concerns. in terms of the incidents investigation process to If I don’t understand investigate all safety incidents deemed and if I have a Transnet’s recognition agreements with its trade significant, resulting in formal findings and problem, I speak up and say so unions are supported by policies, standards, recommendations. procedures and rules that seek to ensure a safe working environment. Working hours, conducting Health and Safety Committees, as prescribed by No matter what my level, risk assessments, lock outs, substance abuse the Occupational Health and Safety Act, 1993 I contribute to improving safety Why health and safety is important to Transnet testing, exposures (both health and safety), (Act No. 85 of 1993), provide employees with a Transnet has a legal and moral responsibility to ensure the health and safety of employees and those platform for continuous engagement on health training, and personal protective equipment are affected by operations is put into practise through strict standard operating procedures and continuous and safety. Approximately 247 formal joint discussed at structures involving trade unions. I always prepare, check and report programmes to instil a safety mindset of ‘zero harm’ to self, colleagues, communities and the management-worker Health and Safety unsafe acts and conditions environment. Various policies are implemented to improve Committees are established, with 1 611 health safety across the business. These include: and safety representatives (3% of the total Safety of our assets (infrastructure) is also critical to efficient business operations. Theft of copper, • Transnet Occupational Health Management workforce). I rest well and overhead cables and goods in transit, as well as vandalism of the tracks impact our ability to deliver work safely Policy – to promote the physical, mental and freight reliably and pose safety risks. Delayed trains, and late or non-delivery of goods means increased The Operating Divisions’ Chief Executives are social wellbeing of employees; costs for Transnet, poor customer service, poor reputation and constraints to growth. accountable for their SHEQ performance and • Integrated Emergency Management Service – I know the standard Staff wellness is an important aspect of Transnet’s human resources management to mitigate ultimate accountability for safety performance operating all Operating Divisions share this service at procedures and behavioural, psycho-social and health risks and ensures that employees are productive, engaged in their lies with the Group Chief Executive. safety rules, common locations; follow them and don’t take jobs and present at work. If not managed, these risks affect efficiency and performance, safety and the • Integrated Security Management Strategy Safety training is conducted through the shortcuts cost of absenteeism. – to protect Transnet’s customers, employees, Transnet Academy Schools of Rail, Maritime, Significant health and safety challenges exist across the Company: assets, income and infrastructure; Pipelines and Security and built into all • Employee Assistance Programme – provides functional and technical training. It is also • New employees are unfamiliar with standard operating procedures and are not fully integrated into psycho-social counselling services, education conducted through service providers for specific the safety culture of Transnet; and awareness; safety training (first aid, incident management, • Motor vehicle accidents caused by third parties affect Transnet drivers; risk management). The Safety Culture • Substance Abuse Policy – pronounces on • Vandalism and theft of tracks, signalling equipment and copper cable theft leads to derailments Programme commits every employee to Seven Transnet’s zero tolerance approach with and injuries; Golden Safety Actions. procedures for testing and wellness support; • Level crossings pose the greatest risk to public safety in our operations; and and • Absenteeism amongst employees affects productivity. With respect to staff wellness, training is • HIV/Aids Management Policy –to manage conducted on stress management, diversity Transnet’s most material issues with respect to health and safety are: HIV/Aids in the workplace. management, personal finance and health. Staff • Public safety at level crossings; In the interest of continuous improvement, wellness days are held regularly. The Marine • Adherence to standard operating procedures; Transnet implements internationally recognised Cadet Life Skills project equips individuals to be • Theft of assets; and safety management systems including the away from home for extended periods. The Railway Safety Management system (ISO 3000), ‘Leave a Legacy’ project helps first-time job • Absenteeism. Quality Management systems (ISO 9001), seekers adjust to the world of work. 48 | Transnet Sustainability Report 2015 | 49 Sustainability Performance Review Our performance 2015. Transnet technology deployed for railway level crossing safety 0,69 Safety performance is measured against Running line derailments decreased by DIFR On 7 November 2014, Engineering launched its ground-breaking level crossing system, which will industry recognised indicators including the 38% from 116 in 2014 to 72 in 2015. provide a much needed solution to railway level crossing fatalities and incidents. The technology disabling injury frequency rate (DIFR), fatalities, Shunting derailments decreased by 4% makes it impossible for a vehicle to cross a railway line by providing physical barriers, preventing loss producing incidents and derailments. year-on-year from 242 to 232. vehicles from entering a level crossing when a train is approaching. It works through hydraulically Transnet has maintained a DIFR of 0,69 in 2014 Theft of assets (including cables, goods in operated road blockers, which lift out of the road surface. These steel blockers are capable of and 2015 respectively. On average, the DIFR transit, copper products, motor vehicles, withstanding the impact of a 10t vehicle travelling at 80km/h. Using railway signalling to detect ratio has been below the target of 0,75 for the sleepers, taupaulins, batteries and pendrol approaching trains, the mechanism triggers a series of actions – the traffic lights change to past five years. springs) increased by 4% from 2014 to amber, then red, followed by booms closing on both sides of the road. After the booms close, 3 495 in 2015, amounting to a loss of the blockers lift. Tragically, the Company reported four employee fatalities in 2015. This compares to seven R2 billion. In the past three years, 228 level crossing incidents have been recorded. An incident on the fatalities in 2014. Two of the employee fatalities The unplanned absenteeism rate declined Impala-Hectorspruit level crossing in Mpumalanga in 2012 resulted in the death of 25 farm were as a result of non-adherence to standard from 2,7% in 2014 to 2,5% in 2015. The workers and 19 injuries when a train collided with the truck they were travelling in. This prompted operating procedures while the other two were sick absenteeism rate declined from 2,2% Transnet’s quest to find a long-term solution. as a result of motor vehicle accidents during in 2014 to 2,1% in 2015. Transnet is currently introducing the technology at two sites in the Western Cape: Muldersvlei Transnet operations. The cost of absenteeism increased in 2015. (Stellenbosch) and Chavonnes (Worcester). Following successful completion of these pilot Public fatalities are lower than 2014 with 96 Unplanned leave costs increased by 5,3% projects, the technology will be rolled out to other priority railway crossings in South Africa. public fatalities reported for 2015 compared to to R351 951 466 compared to 106 reported in 2014. This is primarily due to a R333 077 023 in 2014. The sick leave costs reduction in level crossing fatalities. increased by 7,7% to R288 056 391 In collaboration with local municipalities, schools, compared to R265 864 438 in 2014. The the South African Police Service and other cost increase (despite the drop in rates) is relevant stakeholders, Freight Rail extended its due to higher salary bands being affected. Level Crossing Awareness Campaign in 2015 New governance structures are being educating communities, the public and children introduced to manage absenteeism. about the dangers of living next to railway lines. Trespassers into the rail reserve account for We regret the loss of lives and 85% of public fatalities a challenge that Freight remember Rail has with the encroachment of informal Mr Paul Hoffman, 21 July 2014 settlements in the railway reserve. Other Mr Melusi Gwamanda, 29 August 2014 challenges include fencing and access control. In New Mr Kwazikwenkosi Mabuza, 9 September technology conjunction with Engineering, Freight Rail deployed 2014 introduced engineering solutions and Mr Aphilile Mpisane, 2 November 2014 technologies of automation at high-risk level crossings. These interventions have reduced level crossing incidents from 82 in 2014 to 72 in 50 | Transnet Sustainability Report 2015 | 51 Sustainability Performance Review Our management approach • Education COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT Transnet’s revised CSI Policy was approved by By focusing on basic education teacher Transnet activities that measurably improve the economic, social, cultural and environmental the Board in November 2014. Transnet’s CSI development and learner support, Transnet aims well-being of communities within which it operates programmes focus on rural communities to improve the performance of teacher interns in situated along the rail network, and projects Mathematics and Science and increase quality with a strong community impact near ports. The education among vulnerable youth. Transnet Foundation’s programmes are primarily The Student Teacher Interns programme is in primary health, socio-economic infrastructure, managed by the Independent Schools Association and education. of Southern Africa (ISASA) on behalf of Transnet. • Primary healthcare services ISASA recruits students who want to further their Transnet’s flagship Phelophepa I and II healthcare studies in teaching. They are registered with the trains increase access to comprehensive, quality, University of South Africa on a part-time basis primary healthcare services for impoverished and receive practical learning from ISASA schools. rural communities situated along the rail network. To date, Transnet has funded 10 students, four of The award-winning services include: general whom have completed their studies and six are in health, dental, optometry, psychology, and progress. The programme has achieved a 100% provision of medication. These trains create pass rate. temporary employment opportunities for local The Orphaned Youth programme aims to increase communities along the route, and offer final‑year quality education among orphaned youth by medical students experiential learning in the nurturing youth with extraordinary leadership health and humanities disciplines. Transnet’s qualities. Transnet selects orphaned youth with partner sponsors for Phelophepa are Roche and academic potential and places these learners in Colgate-Palmolive South Africa. Since its top performing schools. Comprehensive academic inception in 1994, the programme has reached and psychosocial support is provided through life approximately 5,5 million people. skill camps. On completion of Grade 12 in 2015, • Socio-economic infrastructure Transnet will pay for their university tuition and assist them in finding employment. The programme This programme involves Engineering converting currently has 40 learners. The 30 learners enrolled old freight containers into community centres, in 2014 achieved a 100% pass rate. police stations and school clinics, enabling recipient communities to gain access to social Transnet’s Rural and Farm Schools Sport services that would otherwise not be available. Development programme increases access to Since the programme’s inception in 2001, Transnet sports and develops potential talent in rural and Why community development is important to Transnet has fostered relationships and trust with farm schools. The programme builds Transnet’s activities take place in many South African communities and the Company is continuously communities and stakeholders along Transnet’s infrastructure and focuses on: development identifying opportunities to improve their wellbeing. Initiatives take various forms, including localised operations. This has resulted in a reduction and leagues, regional tournaments and camps, national procurement and localised employment where feasible, enterprise development interventions, prevention of theft and vandalism of Transnet’s tournaments, life skills camps and teacher collaboration on safety and the environment, and targeted investment in social services. property with communities becoming custodians training. There is improved class attendance and a Transnet’s commitment to community-level development finds substantive expression through the in safeguarding Transnet’s assets. It has reduced reduction in learner absenteeism in areas where Transnet Foundation whose programmes empower those that are most vulnerable in areas of greatest public safety incidents through rail safety the programme is implemented. need. South Africa’s rural communities are the focus of the Transnet Foundation’s programmes. awareness campaigns conducted through the community centres. It has strengthened Transnet’s The Transnet/SAFA School of Excellence provides A comprehensive exercise is currently underway to develop quantitative indicators to measure and track relationships with local authorities and police and academic and soccer development to 117 learners the outcomes achieved through Transnet’s corporate social investment. This will enable improved facilitated local education and training. on full scholarships. In the year under review, the reporting on Transnet’s contribution to community development, aligned to the Company’s nine SDOs. matric pass rate was 93% while the rest of the grades’ pass rate ranged between 90% to 100%. Transnet’s most material issue with respect to community development is: • Measurably improving the quality of life of the communities within which we operate. 52 | Transnet Sustainability Report 2015 | 53 Sustainability Performance Review Governance underpins Transnet Foundation’s activities and social investment decisions, and is essential for successful execution. The CSI Forum, a representative body comprising CSI practitioners across De Aar wagon refurbishment factory Transnet, is responsible for decision-making on company-wide community investment priorities. De Aar once had a busy railway station on the corridor between Gauteng and the Western Cape. Leadership, oversight and accountability for CSI matters rest with REMSEC. Due to changed patterns of cargo demand and railway operations, this is no longer the case. De Aar has high levels of unemployment and social problems. On 28 July 2014, Transnet opened a new wagon Our performance refurbishment factory in De Aar with a production capacity of 250 wagons per annum. R224,8m Transnet’s total spend on CSI for 2015 was R224,8 million representing 4,2% of net profit after tax Local workers were recruited from the surrounding communities and contracts are being pursued Total CSI (NPAT). In comparison to many South African companies, this figure is high, with annual CSI contributions spend typically averaging 1,4% of NPAT19. CSI spend contributed to Transnet’s achievement of an overall B-BBEE with small and medium enterprises in the Northern Cape to support the factory operations. score of Level 2. R184,3 million was spent on programmes and the remainder on donations, grants, To date, the De Aar factory has created 47 jobs with 22 employees recruited from the local area. communications and administration. Those employees lacking the requisite skills are being trained at the Transnet School of Engineering. Transnet Foundation’s programmes and expenditure 2015 Programme 2015 Activities Expenditure De Aar youth precinct Primary healthcare • The Transnet Phelophepa I and II visited communities in the R95,9m On 28 July 2014, Minister of Public Enterprises, Ms Lynne Brown launched the De Aar Youth Precinct services Northern Cape, Western Cape, Eastern Cape, Free State, which was initiated in 2013 by Transnet Employee Volunteers. The precinct was founded by KwaZulu-Natal, Limpopo, Mpumalanga and the North West rehabilitating three abandoned Transnet properties located in the historic town of De Aar. Province. • The teenage health programme reached 8 500 recipients. De Aar is a small town with an estimated population of 40 000 people. Due to the secluded nature of Teacher development • Improved the performance of teacher interns in Maths and R1,0m this community, the youth living in De Aar have few economic opportunities. The precinct was set up Science. Spend included: teacher classroom support, master to provide a multi-cultural educational, recreational and entertainment space for the youth. teacher support. The precinct also provides shelter to 20 homeless boys. Youth education • Provided access to quality education to 40 vulnerable youth. R11,0m development programme • Spend included: tuition, boarding, transport, sport, school uniforms, textbooks, medical expenses, educational camps/ tours. Socio-economic • Operational costs for Khuma, Springs, Thokoza, Ireagh and R10,4m infrastructure Empangeni community centres, and Mambuka and North development West police stations. Construction of Ntamonde and Tafalashe police stations commenced. Youth in the Rural and farm schools • 290 schools are supported in the following municipalities: R11,5m educational development programme Gert Sibanda (Mpumalanga), Sekhukhune (Limpopo), Thabo centre Mofutsanyane (Free State), Johan Taola Gaotswe (Northern Cape), Richards Bay (KwaZulu-Natal), Lady Frere (Eastern Cape). Approximately 6 000 learners participate in the programme at district level. Transnet/SAFA School of • Currently sponsoring 117 learners from Grade 8-12. Spend R20,8m Excellence included: school renovations, running of the school, operating expenses, salaries. Employee volunteer • Employees volunteered in community projects in Durban, Port R27,1m programme Elizabeth, Gauteng, De Aar, Cape Town and Saldanha Bay. Spend included: Mandela Day, Group Chief Executive Awards. Port Terminals harvesting for a feeding scheme Heritage preservation • Transported locomotives of historic value from various R6,6m locations to a safe storage warehouse in Bloemfontein. In reaching out to communities, Port Terminals headquarters in Durban transformed their second and Rebranded George Museum. third floor balconies into organic vegetable and herb gardens during 2014. The first crop was harvested on 10 November 2014. The Wentworth Aids Action Group, a non-profit organisation that Total (R million) R184,3m operates a feeding scheme for families affected by HIV/Aids and tuberculosis, were the first beneficiaries of the harvest. The gardens have been entered for the National Landscaping Awards. 19. Tshikululu Social Investments, 2014. 54 | Transnet Sustainability Report 2015 | 55 Sustainability Performance Review Electricity supply and use Modal shift from road to rail ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP Transnet’s primary energy sources are electricity Accelerating modal shift from road-to-rail is Transnet activities that enhance the natural environment’s capacity to meet the resource (62%) and diesel fuel (31%) with the remainder included in the Minister of Public Enterprises’ SSI. needs of future generations constituting distillate fuel oil, petrol and other Government’s National Climate Change Response sources. Freight Rail uses more than 70% of White Paper, 2011 identifies a modal shift from Transnet’s total electricity and fuel consumption. road-to-rail as a flagship carbon mitigation In 2015, energy constituted 18% of Transnet’s total programme for South Africa. As the owner and operating costs. operator of the country’s rail freight network, Transnet has committed to increasing rail market The Company is fully reliant on Eskom for the share to 35% by 2019, and to demonstrate the provision of base-load electricity to power carbon emissions saving achieved annually operations, and on municipal distribution through its growing market share. systems in many areas. Load shedding is being implemented across the country to prevent grid Rail transport is three to four times more failure and is likely to continue for at least the efficient than road transport. Rail offers cleaner, next three years until new power plants and safer, cheaper and more reliable freight mobility independent power producers have been through improved road safety, reduced road commissioned. Electricity prices are rising congestion and pollution, and a lower cost of steeply above inflation, and this trend will doing business. continue in the medium to long term as both new capacity and carbon tax are introduced. Our management approach In 2014, security of electricity supply was ranked Transnet adopted an Energy Policy in November Transnet’s number one strategic risk. This risk 2014, outlining the Company’s commitments comprises a number of elements: that: Why environmental stewardship is important to Transnet • Energy consumption is proactively managed; Transnet’s environmental stewardship commitment goes beyond affirming the Company’s compliance • Risk to operations and revenue where load • Energy efficiency improves; with environmental law. It is our undertaking to become a corporate leader in enabling the planet’s shedding or sub-station failures affect critical freight corridors; • Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions decline; natural resources to support the wellbeing of future generations. To this end, we analysed that energy use is our most significant environmental impact and also the area in which we can make the most • Risk to customers’ production and investments • Energy costs are reduced; and significant contribution to the environment. Transnet has thus made energy its primary focus for which result in operational interruptions and • Energy security improves. environmental stewardship initiatives. Climate change adaptation is underway, while water, waste and subdued demand for logistics services and low Natural gas has been identified as a viable biodiversity are receiving increasing attention as our systems improve for innovation and proactive levels of economic growth; alternative energy source for base-load care for natural resources. • Risk to Transnet capital projects costs arising electricity, both for the country and potentially from Eskom being unable to fund upgrades to Transnet adopted an Energy and Carbon Mitigation Strategy in 2013 and lodged a Climate Change Plan for Transnet. During 2015, Transnet established some of its transmission sub-stations; with the DPE the same year, confirming: a Gas Planning Steering Committee to assess: • Risk to Transnet’s capacity upgrade timelines • The significant risks associated with security of energy supply, energy costs and carbon emissions; • The impact of natural gas on Transnet’s arising from the limits on available power • The scale and scope of Transnet’s short(2018), medium(2025), and long-term (2040) energy needs; long‑term infrastructure planning; constraining freight volume growth and • The options available to meet forecast energy demand, including costs and emissions; effectively deferring returns on invested capital; • Opportunities for the development of gas • Energy management and efficiency opportunities; and infrastructure; • Risk to volume and revenue growth on existing • Transnet’s leading role in enabling modal shift from road-to-rail in South Africa, which will lower the routes due to the absolute constraints on the • Opportunities for alternative electricity supply carbon emissions of the transport sector. availability of grid electricity and transmission from gas; constraints; and • Options for handling gas imports at the ports; Currently, Transnet’s most material issues with respect to environmental stewardship are: • Scenarios for the development of gas • Electricity pricing risk with double-digit annual • Electricity supply and use; and increases and Eskom’s carbon tax being passed pipelines; and • Modal shift from road-to-rail. on to customers from 2016. • Technology applications for gas in Transnet’s equipment, buildings and operations. Other areas of environmental stewardship in the Company are climate change adaptation, water, waste and biodiversity. 56 | Transnet Sustainability Report 2015 | 57 Sustainability Performance Review In June 2014, Transnet issued a Request for Freight Rail’s energy management initiatives Our performance Information for independent electricity producers include: locomotive driver training to reduce Transnet’s total electricity consumption for 2015 was 3 513 511MWh, down 1,0% from 3 548 522MWh in -1,0% to advise on their capability and potential solutions energy consumption and improve energy 2014. Since 2012 (baseline for reporting when energy efficiency measures were instituted in Transnet) Electricity for the generation and sale of electricity to efficiency; optimisation in the configuration of consumption total electricity consumption has decreased by 7,0% from 3 798 908MWh, while transported volumes Transnet. Natural gas propositions emerged as trains; and reducing locomotive idling. Freight have increased. the most viable base-load solution but economies Rail has an Energy Efficiency Forum which -2,4% Fuel of scale and regulatory constraints were found to monitors its electricity and fuel energy Transnet’s total fuel consumption for 2015 was 249,7 mega litres, down 2,4% from 255,9 mega consumption be limiting factors. Transnet is however, facilitating performance and oversees improvements in litres in 2014. port preparations with the Department of Energy energy management systems. Transnet recorded an overall 8,6% improvement in energy efficiency from 2014, due to a 6,9% 8,6% Energy to expedite the gas Independent Power Producer increase in volumes and a 1,6% reduction in energy consumption in 2015. Transnet’s most significant energy efficiency gains efficiency procurement for electricity supply to the national improvement are made in Freight Rail as the new locomotive grid. Solar photovoltaics and fuel cells are being technology is introduced into operations, pursued for stationary applications in Transnet specifically from regenerative braking capability. -1,0% -2,4% where these are feasible. The deployment of the new class 19E and 15E For business continuity management under locomotives on the coal and iron ore export lines 3 548 522 3 513 511 load-shedding conditions, Engineering, National has resulted in large energy efficiency gains. Ports Authority, Pipelines and some properties Freight Rail’s regenerated electricity is used in the 255,9 249,7 have standby generators for localised locomotives and where possible, excess electricity interruptions. is transmitted back into the Eskom grid. The following initiatives are underway: Transnet reports the Company’s Scope 1, 2 and • The ISO50001 energy management system is 3 carbon emissions annually in the global CDP, being implemented in all Operating Divisions using international standards for disclosure. 2014 2015 2014 2015 and Transnet Property. The CDP is published on-line. • Guidelines have been established for energy Total electricity consumption 2015 (MWh) Total fuel consumption 2015 (Litres) specifications in Transnet procurement Transnet’s carbon calculator (especially for locomotives and port application 75,0% of electricity in 2015 was used for Of the total fuel consumption, 73,0% was used Transnet’s ‘Every equipment) and capital projects lifecycle Transnet developed a carbon calculator Freight Rail traction , and the remainder in for Freight Rail diesel traction, 11,0% on road Watt Counts’ management. application in 2014 to assist customers to Transnet’s properties, ports, pipelines and vehicles, 12,0% on home-based fuel, and 4,0% • Energy efficiency initiatives are implemented calculate the carbon emissions benefit of engineering operations. on marine diesel. across the Company. moving specific tonnages of cargo in South • The R&D unit in Engineering is investigating Africa by rail instead of road. The calculator alternative energy technologies, including applies the relevant rail tractive power second generation biofuels for diesel (electric or diesel) of each route to calculate locomotives and port equipment; natural gas the carbon footprint of tonnage. The carbon for locomotives and other equipment; fuel cells calculator methodology has been validated on locomotives; and harnessing wasted energy and tested by Transnet’s external auditors. from exhaust systems. The application is available to download on Android and Apple devices for smartphone and tablets, and also in Windows Store for smartphones. ■ Freight Rail Traction 75% ■ Freight Rail Traction 73% ■ Freight Rail Real Estate 6% ■ Homebase 11% ■ Transnet Property 2% ■ On Road 12% ■ Engineering 4% ■ Marine Diesel 4% ■ National Ports Authority 1% ■ Jet Fuel 0% ■ Pipelines 6% ■ Port Terminals 6% Electricity distribution 2015 (%) Fuel distribution 2015 (%) 58 | Transnet Sustainability Report 2015 | 59 Sustainability Performance Review Significant energy efficiency gains have been Transnet recorded a decrease of 1,2% in carbon 7,5% 8,6% emissions in 2015 from 4,25mtCO2e in 2014 to 7,5% made across the business, with annual targets Carbon being exceeded in most cases. Energy efficiency 4,20mtCO2e. This can be attributed to Scope 1 emissions intensity improved by 8,6% in 2015 compared to 2014, emissions decreasing by 1,6% to 682 022tCO2e 15,96 17,33 reduction measured as tons/GJ. (from 693 422tCO2e in 2014) due to improved efficiencies in diesel locomotives. Freight Rail is 255,9 249,7 12,0 11,1 A total of 165 753MWh of electricity responsible for 82,4% of Scope 1 emissions. regeneration was recorded in Freight Rail in 2015. Class 19E locomotives working on the coal Scope 2 emissions decreased by 1,0% to 3 494 993tCO2e (from 3 531 548tCO2e in 2014) line regenerated 65 608MWh of energy on a due to improved electricity efficiency throughout round trip between Ermelo and Richards Bay 2014 2015 the business. Freight Rail accounts for 80,8% of while Class 15E locomotives working on the iron Scope 2 emissions. 2014 2015 Energy efficiency 2015 (ton/GJ) ore line regenerated 100 145MWh of energy on a round trip between Sishen and Saldanha20. Scope 3 emissions decreased by 4,8% to Carbon emission intensity 2015 20 323tCO2e (from 21 353tCO2e in 2014) due to (kgCO2e/ton) reduced business travel. Electricity efficiency performance 2015 Transnet recorded an overall 7,5% reduction in 4,7% Energy carbon emissions intensity, from 2014, due to a Traction Actual Actual efficiency energy 6,9% increase in volumes and a 1,6% reduction in Operating division Measurement 2014 2015 gain on PY efficiency energy consumption in 2015. improvement Freight Rail Traction gtk/kWh 66,1 69.2 4.7% Freight Rail Real Estate kWh 225 762 069 212 632 860 6% Transnet Property kWh 71 783 658 71 240 517 1% Freight Rail is making a meaningful contribution to the reduction in carbon emissions in the South African Pipelines Mlkm/MWh 36,0 37,9 6% transport sector. In 2015 Freight Rail gained market share in a number of commodity groups where there Port Terminals ton/kWh 0,6 0,7 8% is strong competition with road hauliers. This rail tonnage gain amounts to ‘volumes off road’. The carbon National Ports Authority Employee/MWh 1,3 1,4 8% emissions savings in the top 10 road-to-rail volume gains in 2015 amount to 479 648tCO2e. Engineering man-hour/MWh 205,8 206.3 0% Top 10 road-to-rail volume gains for 2015 Emissions Fuel efficiency performance 2015 Volume gains avoided Commodities (tons) (tCO2e) Energy Actual Actual efficiency Manganese (Export Port Elizabeth) 289 688 50 216 Operating division Measurement 2014 2015 gain on PY Manganese (Export via ore line) 1 015 192 243 365 Freight Rail Traction gtk/litre 177,3 189,1 7% Coal (Eskom) 1 310 327 24 540 Port Terminals ton/litre 5,3 5,9 10% Engineering man-hour/litre 9,5 11,9 25% Chrome and ferrochrome 230 716 21 568 Manganese (Domestic) 271 757 38 858 Mineral mining 2 314 250 77 295 Wood and wood products 159 173 1 140 Fertilizer 44 358 10 212 Industrial chemicals 39 827 8 207 479 648tCO2e Transport Automotive 63 395 4 247 sector carbon Total 5 738 683 479 648 emissions avoided 20. The 2014 figures reported were calculated whereas the 2015 figures were actual metered figures. 60 | Transnet Sustainability Report 2015 | 61 Sustainability Performance Review Road-to-Rail alliances Water audits initiated at Freight Rail Freight Rail’s Memorandum of Understanding with Barloworld Logistics to shift rail-friendly cargo Freight Rail commenced with a water use management audit in October 2014. Ten high consuming from road-to-rail gained impetus in the year under review. Key projects were identified including depots were identified, of which six (Kaserne, City Deep, Welgedacht, Thabazimbi, Witbank, investigations into establishing freight consolidation hubs at Musina and Nelspruit; increasing rail Komatipoort) have been concluded. Preliminary reports for Bayhead, Nelspruit, Bloemfontein and volumes from Distell; transporting fuel to and from Luiperdsvlei; and identifying underutilised rail Kimberley are complete. The project will be completed in 2015. legs and wagons to be offered to Barloworld. Freight Rail consumed a total of 6 624 364Kl of water in 2015. Freight Rail is working on a proposal with Sephaku Cement which has the potential to move approximately one million tons of clinker and coal from road to rail. Options include building a new siding at Delmas and developing a container handling facility at Lichtenburg. The conceptual design Water in Port Terminals provides for clinker movement by road in open top containers from Aganang mine to Lichtenburg, The Port of Saldanha requires water to reduce the environmental impact of dust from the iron ore rail transport to Delmas, and coal on the return leg to Lichtenburg from Leeupan. The feasibility terminal. The terminal is licenced to export 60mtpa of iron ore, to which an estimated 20 000kl of study is complete and will be presented to Sephaku Cement in the new financial year. water is added per month to reduce the effects of dust on the environment. However, Saldanha is a water scarce area. Port Terminals therefore constructed a reverse osmosis plant to limit the demand Climate change adaptation A number of Transnet’s operations are located in on municipal water by desalinating sea water for use in the terminal. On average, 36 000 kl of Climate change is expected to impact South water-stressed catchments. The resultant risks water per month is saved via the plant and used to wet iron ore entering the terminal and to use Africa in different ways, from increased include water supply shortages, operational elsewhere in the port. frequency and severity of extreme weather stoppages, cost escalations, revenue losses and During 2015, the Richards Bay Delkor wastewater treatment plant recycled 3 149 273kl of water events to changes in rainfall patterns and growing legislative complexities. We continue to utilised by its operations. increased temperatures. Transnet is assessing ensure that water use licences are obtained where, how and to what degree climate change timeously and are appropriate to the scale and will impact our operations, and what measures nature of water use. We are committed to can be taken to limit vulnerability. The adaptation conserving the quality and quantity of water at all Left: Operating Divisions and to this end are Saldanha plan will include: Bay Reverse introducing water use monitoring, measuring • An assessment of risks, impacts and Osmosis Plant quality changes and identifying inefficiencies in vulnerabilities to current and planned reticulation systems. operations, property and infrastructure; • An assessment of risks to upstream and Water audits commenced in the Operating Right: Richards downstream markets to identify possible Divisions in 2015 and will continue into 2016. Bay Delkor supply chain and customer impacts; and Findings are being addressed and integrated into Wastewater • Adaptation measures to ensure resilience and the Transnet Water Stewardship Strategy Treatment currently being developed. Plant provide for incremental transitions. Water efficiency initiatives include: Water • Installation of remote electronic meters for Water scarcity has been identified as one of the consumption, reading and quick leak detection; top 10 risks in terms of impact21 according to the • Improvement in turnaround time to repair leaks; World Economic Forum, 2015. South Africa is a • Use of low flow fixtures; water scarce country. Transnet recognises that • Installation of low flow shower heads; water scarcity has the potential to impact on our • Pressure reticulation in major areas; and business and is committed to ensuring water stewardship in all our operations. • Installation of water mixers for ablution facilities. 21. “Global Risks 2015 Report,” World Economic Forum, 2015. www.weforum.org/reports/global-risks-report-2015. 62 | Transnet Sustainability Report 2015 | 63 Sustainability Performance Review Waste • Placement of absorbent mats to prevent Freight Rail’s asbestos clean-up project Transnet’s operations generate a variety of waste recurrence of hydrocarbon pollution and minimise contamination; Historical waste from Freight Rail’s operations and activities pose risks to human health and materials as by-products and we strive to implement • Erection of signage at asbestos high risk areas; environmental degradation. Freight Rail’s Waste Management Policy commits to waste the principles of waste management: avoidance, and management that ensures a safe, healthy and sustainable environment. ‘Legacy asbestos’ is reduction, recovery, re-use, recycling and disposal, prioritised due to the significance of contamination caused by historic spillages during the if no other use can be found. In the recovery, • Asbestos air quality assessments. transportation of asbestos from mines. re-use and recycling stages, Transnet is pursuing ways to create value from waste generated. Transnet further commits to: In 2015, Freight Rail completed an Environmental Impact Assessment to convert the De Aar quarry • Continuation of clean-up programmes and into an asbestos waste landfill site. The Environmental Impact Report was submitted to the Transnet has in accordance with the requirements initiatives for the contaminated sites; Department of Environmental Affairs in December 2014 and a decision is awaited. In order to of Section 36 of the National Environmental • Further investigations of remediation methods manage the potential asbestos exposure, an ad hoc clean-up process is underway to manage Management: Waste Act, 2008 (Act No. 59 of and waste treatment options; and resurfacing of buried asbestos fibres to prevent or minimise staff and public exposure to the fibres. 2008) identified contaminated areas throughout our operations. These sites have been identified • To manage asbestos risk exposure by via scientific methods and visual assessment prioritising the contamination that interferes based on the knowledge of activity undertaken at with rail maintenance, operations staff and the Biodiversity the site or historic information available. public while permanent disposal options are Transnet’s operations have the potential to significantly impact on biodiversity. Transnet’s capital Management plans have been developed for the investigated. infrastructure programme addresses biodiversity concerns at an early stage and continues throughout the asbestos and hydrocarbon contaminated areas Pipeline spills continue to present a challenge operational phases of each project. Strategic Environmental Assessments (SEA) based on the Long-term and the relevant authorities have been notified. with five spills occuring in 2015. Education Planning Framework are done, enabling Transnet to understand and plan ahead for the environments within The following actions are in progress: campaigns are ongoing with property owners which capital expansions are to be located. The outcome of SEAs provide a framework for planning in order • Soil vapour surveys; and contractors. to prioritise development in those areas with the least environmental sensitivity. This informs Biodiversity • Soil and groundwater sampling and analysis; Impact Assessments (BIA) for those areas identified for development on a project by project basis. Management plans are developed to address potential impacts identified though the BIAs. Transnet continues to map biodiversity hotspots against existing and future operations to ensure Pipeline spills 2015 ecological sustainability of our infrastructure. Date Location Product Volume (l) Cause Remediation 28 May 2014 Ladysmith DJP leak 90 000 Operational Re-vegetation of site is – Bester Farm (pick damage) complete. Request for site closure sent to authorities. 11 June 2014 Alrode Petrol 64 950 Third party Rehabilitation is ongoing. – Eden Park (theft) Potential risk to residents via indoor air exposure pathway. 29 July 2014 Ladysmith – PS 5 Diesel 3 000 Operational Excavated contaminated soil (spill) is being treated on biopads. 9 October 2014 Sasolburg Petrol 209 363 Third party Remediation of – Beginsel Farm (pipe damaged contaminated soil and by farmer) groundwater monitoring is ongoing. 23 December 2014 Hillcrest Diesel 191 000 Operational Rehabilitation ongoing, – Greenvale (pipeline failure backfilling of soil has Estate spill) commenced in some areas. 64 | Transnet Sustainability Report 2015 | 65 APPENDIX A: EXTERNAL ASSURANCE STATEMENT Sustainability Assurance Statement Subject matter and assurance Industrial capability building Limited assurance Independent assurance provider’s report to the The subject matter of our engagement and the • Transnet locomotive contract compliance with The following selected sustainability information Directors of Transnet on selected key related levels of assurance that we are required local content criteria on the Supplier in the Report was selected for an expression of performance indicators disclosed in the to provide are as follows: Development program(Page 33); limited assurance: Sustainability Report prepared in accordance • Total amount of locomotives built by Transnet • Stakeholder Engagement Policy and Process with the Transnet Reporting Criteria. Reasonable assurance and total number of locomotives built by China Control Framework (Page 21). The following selected sustainability information South Rail rolled off at Engineering (Page 34); Introduction and We refer to this information as the “selected in the Report was selected for an expression of • Total amount invested in Transnet Engineering sustainability information for reasonable We have been engaged to perform an independent reasonable assurance: innovation centre for Research and assurance” and “selected sustainability assurance engagement for Transnet SOC Ltd Development (Page 35). information for limited assurance” respectively, (“Transnet”) on selected sustainability information Employment and collectively as the “selected sustainability reported in Transnet’s Sustainability Report (“the • Transnet total headcount of employees for information”. Report”) set out on pages 1 to 65 for the year 2014/2015 year end (Page 25); and Transformation ended 31 March 2015. The King Code advocates • Gross Value Add from capital and operating • Employment equity black employees, women We have not conducted any work outside of the that sustainability reporting and disclosure should expenditure (Page 26). and People with Disabilities as a percentage of agreed scope and therefore restrict our opinion be independently assured. We provided limited the workforce for 2015 (Page 46); to the selected sustainability information. and reasonable assurance on selected Ethics • Employment equity black employees per sustainability key performance indicators outlined Directors’ responsibilities occupational level and female employees in section 3 of this report and this report is • Tip –offs anonymous hotline statistics (total per occupational level actuals 2014/2015 The directors are responsible for the selection, produced in accordance with the terms of allegations, total unfounded, total founded) (Page 46); preparation and presentation of the sustainability engagement with Transnet. (Page 21); and • B-BBEE rating (Page 47); information accordance with the criteria set out • Fraud and corruption incidents disciplinary • B-BBEE spend (Page 47); and on page 71 of the Report, collectively referred to Independence, expertise and actions completed and in progress for 2015 as the “Transnet Reporting Criteria”. This quality control (Page 20). • B-BBEE statistics (Page 47). responsibility includes the identification and We have complied with the Code of Ethics for stakeholder requirements, for determination of Professional Accountants issued by the Skills development Community development material issues, for commitments with respect to International Federation of Accountants (IFAC), • Total spend on skills development (Page 30); • Total CSI spend per program (Page 54); and sustainability performance and for the design, which includes comprehensive independence and • Actual number of bursars on the Transnet • CSI spend per program (Page 54). implementation and maintenance of internal other requirements founded on fundamental training and engineering bursary program(Page control systems from which the reported principles of integrity, objectivity, professional 30); information is derived, to ensure that the Environmental stewardship competence and due care, confidentiality and • Actual number of training achievements per preparation of the report is free from material • Total electricity consumption for the misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. professional behaviour. Our engagement was category for 2014/2015 (Page 30); and 2014/2015 year (Page 59); conducted by a multi-disciplinary team of health, • Actual number of Maritime School graduates • Electricity distribution (Page 59); safety, social, environmental and assurance Our responsibility for 2014/2015 (Page 29). specialists with extensive experience in • Total fuel consumption(Page 59); Our responsibility is to form an independent sustainability reporting. • Fuel distribution (Page 59); Health and safety conclusion, based on our reasonable assurance • Energy efficiencies (Page 60); procedures, on whether the selected We maintain a comprehensive system of quality • Safety statistics DIFR rate (Page 50); • Scope 1 and 2 emissions (Page 61); and control including documented policies and sustainability information for reasonable procedures regarding compliance with ethical • Percentage change in unplanned absenteeism • Carbon emissions intensity for 2015 (Page 61). assurance has been prepared, in all material requirements, professional standards and (Page 50); and respects, in accordance with the Transnet applicable legal and regulatory requirements. • Actual cost of absenteeism for 2014/2015 Reporting Criteria. Regional integration (Page 50). • Total cross border revenue for 2014/2015 We further have a responsibility to form an (Page 42). independent conclusion, based on our limited 66 | Transnet Sustainability Report 2015 | 67 Appendix A: External Assurance Statement assurance procedures, on whether anything has Given the circumstances of the engagement, in assurance engagement and, therefore, less 31 March 2015 has been prepared, in all material come to our attention to indicate that the performing the procedures listed above we: assurance is obtained with a limited assurance respects, in accordance with the reporting criteria. selected sustainability information for limited • Interviewed management and senior engagement than in respect of a reasonable assurance has not been prepared, in all material executives to obtain an understanding of the assurance engagement. Limited assurance respects, in accordance with the Transnet internal control environment, risk assessment Based on the results of our limited assurance The procedures selected depend on our judgment, Reporting Criteria. process and information systems relevant to procedures, nothing has come to our attention including the assessment of the risk of material We conducted our reasonable and limited the sustainability reporting process; misstatement of the selected sustainability that causes us to believe that the selected assurance engagement in accordance with • Inspected documentation to corroborate the information, whether due to fraud or error. In sustainability information for the year ended 31 International Standard on Assurance statements obtained from management and making those risk assessments; we consider March 2015, has not been prepared, in all Engagements: Assurance Engagements other than senior executives in our interviews; internal control relevant to the Company’s material respects, in accordance with the Audits and Reviews of Historical Financial • Reviewed the process that Transnet has in preparation of the selected sustainability reporting criteria. Information (ISAE 3000) and in respect of place for determining material selected key information in order to design procedures that are greenhouse gas emissions, International Standard performance indicators to be included in the appropriate in the circumstances. Other matters on Assurance Engagements 3410: Assurance report; Our report does not extend to any disclosures or We believe that the evidence we have obtained is Engagements on Greenhouse Gas Statements • Applied the assurance criteria in evaluating assertions relating to future performance plans sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for (ISAE3410), issued by the International Auditing the data generation and reporting processes; and/or strategies disclosed in the report. our conclusions. and Assurance Standards Board. These standards • Tested the processes and systems to generate, require that we comply with ethical requirements The maintenance and integrity of the Transnet’s collate, aggregate, monitor and report on the and that we plan and perform the assurance Inherent limitations website is the responsibility of Transnet’s selected key performance indicators; engagement to obtain either reasonable or limited Non-financial performance information is subject management. Our procedures did not involve • Performed a controls walkthrough; assurance on the selected sustainability to more inherent limitations than financial consideration of these matters and accordingly • Inspected supporting documentation on a we accept no responsibility for any changes to information as per the terms of our engagement. information, given the characteristics of the subject sample basis and performed analytical either the information in the Report or our matter and the method used for determining, procedures to evaluate the data generation independent assurance report that may have Summary of work performed calculating, sampling and estimating such and reporting processes against the reporting occurred since the initial date of presentation on information. The absence of a significant body Our work included examination, on a test basis, of criteria; the Transnet website. of established practice on which to draw allows evidence relevant to the selected sustainability • Evaluated the reasonableness and for the selection of certain different but information. It also included an assessment of the appropriateness of significant estimates and acceptable measurement techniques which can Restriction of liability significant estimates and judgments made by the judgments made by management in the result in materially different measurements and Our work has been undertaken to enable us to directors in the preparation of the selected preparation of the key performance indicators; can impact comparability. Qualitative express the conclusions on the selected sustainability information. We planned and • Apart from Head Office, we undertook visits to interpretations of relevance, materiality and the sustainability information to the Directors of performed our work so as to obtain all the Transnet Freight Rail, Transnet Engineering, accuracy of data are subject to individual Transnet in accordance with the terms of our information and explanations that we considered Transnet Pipelines, Transnet Port Terminals; assumptions and judgments. The precision thereof engagement and for no other purpose. To the necessary in order to provide us with sufficient and may change over time. It is important to read the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept evidence on which to base our conclusion in • Evaluated whether the selected key report in the context of the reporting criteria. or assume liability to any party other than respect of the selected sustainability information. performance indicators presented in the Transnet, for our work, for this report, or for the In particular, where the information relies on the Our procedures included the understanding of risk Report is consistent with our overall conclusion we have reached, save where terms factors derived by independent third parties, our assessment procedures, internal control, and the knowledge and experience of sustainability are expressly agreed and with our prior consent assurance work has not included examination of procedures performed in response to the management and performance at Transnet. in writing. the derivation of those factors and other third assessed risks. The procedures we performed A limited assurance engagement is substantially party information. were based on our professional judgment and included inquiries, observation of processes less in scope than a reasonable assurance performed, inspection of documents, analytical engagement under ISAE 3000. Consequently, the Conclusions Collins Mashishi CA (SA) procedures, evaluating the appropriateness of nature, timing and extent of procedures for Reasonable assurance Director quantification methods and reporting policies, and gathering sufficient appropriate evidence are Registered Auditor Based on the results of our reasonable assurance agreeing or reconciling with underlying records. deliberately limited relative to a reasonable SizweNtsalubaGobodo Inc. procedures, in our opinion the selected sustainability information for the year ended 3 June 2015 68 | Transnet Sustainability Report 2015 | 69 APPENDIX B: APPENDIX C: REPORTING TRANSITION FROM ECONOMIC, SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL TRANSNET REPORTING CRITERIA DIVIDENDS TO SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENTAL OUTCOMES Since 2012, Transnet’s sustainability performance has been reported in the annual Sustainability Transnet’s sustainability reporting for 2015 is based on Transnet-specific reporting criteria. Report in terms of Economic, Social and Environmental dividends. Over the past three years, Transnet has introduced policies, measurement methods, process controls, data systems, targets, reporting and Sustainable Developmental Outcomes Reporting criteria assurance to embed sustainability into business practise. As these mature, the Company is increasingly able to measure inputs, activities, outputs and outcomes. In consultation with the DPE during 2014, Employment Transnet measures actual job creation by the year-on-year change in total headcount (comprised of permanent and fixed term contract employees). Transnet’s nine SDO themes were included in the Shareholder’s Compact from 2015. The SDOs are therefore used Macro‑economic Impact Model calculates the number of direct, indirect and induced for sustainability reporting from 2015. The SR2015 and IR 2015 continue to provide information on jobs that Transnet creates annually in the economy. Value-add is calculated as the financial value created by the activities of the business and its employees. each of the economic, social and environmental dividends previously reported, but the sustainability information has now been re-aligned to the nine SDO themes and three sustainability enablers, as Skills Development Training spend is calculated as a percentage of the wage bill spent on training, and the Rand value thereof. Training is listed by the intake number of apprentices, illustrated in the figure below. technicians, engineers, sector-specific trainees, protection officers and leadership candidates. ECONOMIC SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL Industrial Capability Building Supplier development is determined by the value of supplier development obligations in the Rand value of a contract and as a percentage of total contract DIVIDENDS DIVIDENDS DIVIDENDS value. R&D is reported by total expenditure on R&D activities. Investment Leveraged Reporting on private sector participation lists targeted opportunities and initiatives. Regional Integration Cross-border revenue is reported from Freight Rail and Engineering contracts involving services supplied in the region. Transformation Employment equity is calculated as employee headcount by race, gender and disability as a percentage of the total workforce and by category of employment. B-BBEE spend is measured as part of total measurable procurement spend on black-owned enterprises, black women-owned enterprises, exempted micro-enterprises, qualifying small enterprises, black youth-owned and People with Disabilities. Transnet’s annual B-BBEE score is measured and verified according to the DTI’s Codes of Good Practice. The following Charters apply to Transnet: Generic Transport Public Sector, Rail, Maritime and Property. Health and Safety Safety performance is measured by the Disabling Injury Frequency Rate, fatalities, loss producing incidents, running line derailments and shunting derailments. Asset loss is reported in Rand value for theft of cables, goods in transit, copper products, motor vehicles, sleepers, taupaulins, batteries and pendrol springs. Absenteeism refers to family responsibility leave, special sick leave, sick leave paid and unpaid, hospitalisation, absence without leave and determines the calculated cost of absenteeism. 1 Employment Community Development Transnet Foundation activities are reported on the number and geographic location Stakeholder of beneficiaries and total expenditure per programme. Engagement 2 Skills development Environmental Stewardship Transnet measures its electricity consumption, fuel consumption, energy efficiency and electricity regeneration. Transnet’s carbon emissions and carbon emissions intensity are reported in accordance with the GHG Protocol (a Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard); the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change guidelines 3 Industrial capability building for National GHG Inventories, 2006. Carbon emissions savings for the South African transport sector are reported on the top 10 road-to-rail volume gains, using GHG Protocol measures for the relevant emission factors. Pipelines spills are recorded 4 Investment leveraged per litre, per incident. Records on initial water audits are reported. Ethics Enablers of Sustainability Reporting criteria 5 Regional integration Governance Reporting on governance reflects Transnet’s adherence to the King Code of Corporate Governance for South Africa, 2009; the Companies Act, 2008 6 Transformation (Act No. 71 of 2008); and the Public Finance Management Act, 1999 (Act No. 1 of 1999), supported by relevant internal policies. Ethics Reporting on ethics reflects Transnet’s Fraud Risk Management Plan, supported by 7 Health and safety relevant internal policies. The total confirmed incidents of crime comprise the total Governance disciplinary actions completed and in progress. 8 Community development Stakeholder Engagement Reporting on stakeholder engagement reflects the internal records of Transnet’s engagements with its stakeholders and an analysis of the material issues arising. Transnet’s Stakeholder Engagement Policy is informed by the AccountAbility 1 000 9 Environmental stewardship Stakeholder Engagement Standard. 70 | Transnet Sustainability Report 2015 | 71 APPENDIX D: GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE TABLE General Standard Disclosures Reference Page General Standard Disclosures Reference Page Strategy and analysis G4-16 UNGC (represented on the UNGC’s List memberships of associations and national or Local Network Advisory Committee); G4-1 Sustainability at Transnet – Board 4 international advocacy organisations in which the National Business Initiative; IIRC Provide a statement from the most senior decision-maker of statement and approval, and organisation: Business Network; Energy Intensive the organisation about the relevance of sustainability to the Executive statement • Holds a position on governance body Users Group; Energy Efficiency organisation and the organisation’s strategy for addressing Leadership Network; Industry Task • Participates in projects or committees sustainability. Team on Climate Change; Network • Provides substantive funding beyond routine membership Organisational profile dues for Business Sustainability South • Views memberships as strategic. Africa; and the National Biodiversity G4-3 Sustainability at Transnet 1 and Business Network. Report the name of the organisation. Identified material aspects and boundaries G4-4 About Transnet – Who we are, 6-10 Report the primary brands, products and services. What we do, Our services G4-17 Transnet SOC Ltd denotes the five 12-17 (a) List all entities included in the organisation’s consolidated Operating Divisions and three G4-5 About TransnetWhere we operate 8 financial statements or equivalent documents. Specialist Units. For a list of all Report the location of the organisation’s headquarters. (b) Report whether any entity included in the organisation’s entities included in the organisation’s consolidated financial statements or equivalent financial statements refer to the G4-6 About Transnet – Where we operate 8 document is not covered by the report. AFS for the year ending 31 March Report the number of countries where the organisation 2015. operates, and names of countries where either the organisation has significant operations or that are G4-18 Material Issues – Material issues 12-17 specifically relevant to the sustainability topics covered in (a) Explain the process for defining the report content and determination the report. the aspect boundaries. Material Issues – Material issues (b) Explain how the organisation has implemented the determination G4-7 About Transnet – Who we are 6 reporting principles for defining report content. Report the nature of ownership and legal form. G4-19 Material Issues – Material issues 12-17 G4-8 About Transnet – Our services 10 List all the material aspects identified in the process for determination Report the markets served (including geographic breakdown, defining report content. sectors served, and types of customers and beneficiaries). G4-20 Material Issues – Material issues 12-17 G4-9 About Transnet – Who we are, What 6-10 For each material aspect, report the boundary within the determination Report the scale of organisation, including: we do, Our services organisation as follows: • Total number of employees • Report whether the aspect is material within the • Total number of operations organisation • Net revenues (for public sector organisations) • Quantity of products or services provided. G4-22 Reporting Approach – Reporting 5 Report the effect of any restatements of information boundary G4-13 Reporting Approach – Reporting 5 provided in the previous reports, and the reasons for such Report any significant changes during the reporting period boundary statements. regarding the organisation’s size, structure, ownership or its supply chain. G4-23 Reporting Approach – Reporting 5 Report significant changes from previous reporting periods in boundary G4-14 Transnet supports the precautionary 56-65 the scope and aspect boundaries. Report whether and how the precautionary approach or approach to environmental principle is addressed by the organisation. challenges, as espoused in Stakeholder engagement Principle 15 of the Rio Declaration, G4-24 Material IssuesStakeholder 13 1992 – Environmental Stewardship. Provide a list of stakeholder groups engaged by the engagement G4-15 Reporting Approach – Reporting 5 organisation. List externally developed economic, environmental and social frameworks charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the organisation subscribes or which it endorses. 72 | Transnet Sustainability Report 2015 | 73 Appendix D: Global Reporting Initiatives Table General Standard Disclosures Reference Page General Standard Disclosures Reference Page G4-25 Enablers of Sustainability – 20 Governance Report the basis for identification and selection of Stakeholder engagement stakeholders with whom to engage. G4-34 Enablers of Sustainability – 18-19 Report the governance structure of the organisation, Governance G4-26 Enablers of Sustainability – 20 including committees of the highest governance body. Report the organisation’s approach to stakeholder Stakeholder engagement Identify any committees responsible for decision-making on engagement including frequency of engagement by type and economic, environmental and social impacts. by stakeholder group, and indication of whether any of the engagement was undertaken specifically as part of the report Ethics and integrity preparation process. G4-56 Enablers of Sustainability – Ethics 19-21 G4-27 Material Issues – Stakeholder 13-15 Describe the organisation’s values, principles, standards and Report key topics and concerns that have been raised through engagement norms of behaviour such as codes of conduct and codes of stakeholder engagement, and how the organisation has ethics. responded to those key topics and concerns, including Appendix F – Stakeholder 80-83 G4-58 Enablers of Sustainability – Ethics 19-21 through its reporting. Report the stakeholder groups that engagement Report the internal and external mechanisms for reporting raised each of the key topics and concerns. concerns about unethical or unlawful behaviour, and matters Report profile related to organisational integrity, such as escalation through line management, whistleblowing mechanisms or hotlines. G4-28 Reporting Approach – Reporting 5 Reporting period (such as fiscal or calendar year) of boundary information provided. G4-29 Reporting Approach – Reporting 5 Date of most recent, previous report. boundary G4-30 Reporting Approach – Reporting 5 Reporting cycle (such as annual, biannual). boundary G4-31 General Manager: Public Policy & 5 Provide the contact point for questions regarding the report Sustainability, or its contents. Sue.Lund@transnet.net G4-32 Reporting Approach – Assurance and 5 (a) Report the ‘in accordance’ option the organisation has reporting frameworks chosen. (b) Report the GRI Content Index for the chosen option. (c) R  eport the reference to the External Assurance Report. G4-33 Reporting Approach – Assurance 5 (a) Report the organisation’s policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report. Appendix A: External Assurance 66-69 (b) If not included in the assurance report accompanying the Statement sustainability report, report the scope and basis of any external assurance provided. (c) R  eport the relationship between the organisation and assurance providers. (d) Report whether the highest governance body or senior executives are involved in seeking assurance for the organisation’s sustainability report. 74 | Transnet Sustainability Report 2015 | 75 APPENDIX E: UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT TABLE Transnet became a signatory to the UNGC on 6 July 2012 committing the Company to the 10 universal Relevant Transnet principles of the UNGC and reflecting the importance that the Transnet Board and Executive place on UNGC Principle Transnet’s support of UNGC’s Principles Policies good corporate citizenship. Transnet is committed to upholding fundamental human rights, ensuring fair Labour Transnet practices freedom of association and recognises • Employment Equity labour practices, working against corruption in all its forms, and protecting the natural environment the right to collective bargaining as prescribed in the Policy within which it operates. Principle 3 Constitution of the Republic of South Africa and set out • B-BBEE Policy Businesses should specifically in the South African Labour Relations Act, 1995 • Recruitment and Leadership, oversight and accountability for upholding the principles of the UNGC rests with REMSEC (Act No. 66 of 1995). Transnet employees’ rights to uphold the freedom of Selection Policy which advises the Board of Directors on issues pertaining to responsible corporate citizenship. REMSEC’s association and the collective bargaining are regulated by the Transnet • Occupational Health functions include assessing, measuring and reviewing the Company’s activities related to human rights, effective recognition of Recognition Agreement which defines, among other issues, Management Policy equality, corruption, health, public safety, the environment, consumer and labour relations, and the right to collective union rights; thresholds for union recognition; dispute • Employee Assistance bargaining; resolution; shop steward representation, roles and rights; empowerment – reflecting the principles of the UNGC. REMSEC further assesses the Company’s Programme Policy and consultative structures. Transnet has well-established promotion of equality, prevention of unfair discrimination and reduction of corruption. Principle 4 practices of collective bargaining in the Transnet Bargaining • HIV/Aids Management Policy Council which has its own constitution defining the Relevant Transnet The elimination of all • Stakeholder procedures to be followed for collective bargaining. UNGC Principle Transnet’s support of UNGC’s Principles Policies forms of forced and Engagement Policy compulsory labour; South Africa is a signatory to the International Labour Human Rights Transnet supports the Universal Declaration of Human • Employment Equity Organisation convention, as applicable to fair labour Rights. Human Rights constitute the cornerstone of South Policy Principle 5 practices, and South Africa has a plethora of labour Principle 1 Africa’s democracy. Transnet is bound by the Constitution of • Disability Policy legislation that reflects these standards. Transnet human The effective abolition of Businesses should the Republic of South Africa which contains the Bill of • Racism Policy resources policies and practices reflect these legislative child labour; and support and respect the Rights providing for the redress of inequalities experienced • B-BBEE Policy provisions. South African law prohibits forced, compulsory protection of by the majority of South Africans under Apartheid. We Principle 6 and child labour. • Code of Ethics Policy internationally uphold the principles of equity and anti-discrimination and • Culture Charter The right to fair labour practice is articulated in various seek to create and organisation that reflects the diversity The elimination of proclaimed human rights; human rights policies, guidelines and workplace practices of South African society. • CSI Policy discrimination in respect and that clearly define and articulate the various aspects that • Stakeholder of employment and Transnet is committed to employment equity in the enable and create a fair workplace environment. Human Principle 2 Engagement Policy occupation. Company by providing employment for all demographics, resources policies, the primary management tool, are Make sure that they are not just for the sake of diversity, but to better empower regularly reviewed and expanded to ensure that employee not complicit in human designated groups. Transnet is committed to improved rights in the workplace are fairly and objectively managed. rights abuses. employment equity particularly for women and People with Management and the unions engage on all draft policies, Disabilities where the latter has shown a significant amendment to policies and the identification of areas improvement from 1,6% in 2014 to 2,3% in 2015. where employee rights are not clearly defined or effectively Transnet is further committed to transforming its supplier protected. Various mechanisms for the identification of base through its procurement spend with 105,1% of total potential violation of employee rights are in place. measurable procurement spend on B-BBEE for 2015. Transnet is committed to employment equity principles Through Transnet’s Code of Ethics, respect for human rights namely, the elimination of unfair discrimination and is upheld both internally and externally with stakeholders. implementation of affirmative action measures to achieve All employees are bound by the Code and are guided in the a workforce that reflects the national economically active honesty, respect and integrity of their behaviour. Transnet’s population of South Africa across all occupational levels. service providers, suppliers and trade partners are also Transnet adheres to The Promotion of Equality and bound by the Code. Prevention of Unfair Discrimination Act, 2000 (Act No. 4 of 2000), and the Skills Development Act, 1998 (Act No. 97 of Transnet’s Culture Charter further entrenches human rights 1998). Transnet has both a B-BBEE Policy and Strategy. in the Company through its focus on dignity and respect. Overall representation has increased for black employees Through its CSI programme, more specifically the (both male and female) with black employees representing Phelophepa I and II health trains, Transnet is assisting South 80,0% of the workforce. Female representation is growing Africa achieve the Millennium Development Goals of steadily with top, senior, professional and skilled technical reducing child mortality, improving maternal health, and representation at 26,4%. combating HIV/Aids, malaria and other diseases. In Through its staff wellness programme, Transnet assists addition, the Orphaned Youth Programme is aimed at giving employees with health risk assessments and HIV screening; equal access to education to orphaned youth. psycho-social counselling services; education and awareness; and safety risk assessments. For medically uninsured employees who test positive for HIV, anti-retroviral treatment is funded by Transnet. 76 | Transnet Sustainability Report 2015 | 77 Appendix E: United Nations Global Compact Table Relevant Transnet Relevant Transnet UNGC Principle Transnet’s support of UNGC’s Principles Policies UNGC Principle Transnet’s support of UNGC’s Principles Policies Environment Transnet supports the precautionary approach to • Energy Policy Anti-Corruption Transnet supports the United Nations Convention against • Anti-Fraud and environmental challenges, as espoused in Principle 15 of the • SHEQ Policy Corruption and is committed to the highest standards of Anti-Corruption Policy Principle 7 Rio Declaration, 1992. Transnet complies with all Principle 10 corporate governance. Section 29.1.1 of Treasury • Stakeholder • Code of Ethics Policy Businesses should environmental regulations prescribed in terms of the Engagement Policy Businesses should work Regulations prescribed under the Public Finance • Integrity Pact support a precautionary National Environmental Management Act, 1998 (Act No. against corruption in all Management Act, 1999 (Act No. 1 of 1999) requires all SOCs • Whistle Blowing Policy approach to 107 of 1998), including the diligent execution of its forms, including to submit a comprehensive annual FRMP to the Minister of • Declaration of Interest environmental environmental impact assessments in all capital projects, extortion and bribery. Public Enterprises. Transnet’s FRMP was first prepared in & Related Party challenges; air quality control, pollution control, waste management and 2006, and it aims is to decrease the negative impact of Disclosure Policy coastal environmental management. fraud and corruption within the organisation and in • Declaration of Interest Principle 8 During 2014, Transnet adopted an Energy Policy outlining companies and suppliers with which it interacts. The & Related Party the Company’s commitments that: energy consumption is following comprises Transnet’s FRMP. Undertake initiatives to Disclosure Policy for promote greater proactively managed; energy efficiency improves; GHG Transnet’s Code of Ethics aims to instil a culture of honesty Directors environmental emissions decline; energy costs are reduced; and energy and ethical behaviour in Company representatives engaging • Gifts and Hospitality responsibility; and security improves. Various initiatives are underway with external parties. Transnet’s service providers, suppliers Policy including: the ISO50001 energy management system is and trade partners are all subject to the Code. Principle 9 • Stakeholder being implemented in all Operating Divisions and Transnet Integrity Pacts are concluded with bidders and suppliers to Engagement Policy Property; guidelines have been established for energy avoid any unethical or collusive behaviour between the Encourage the specifications in Transnet procurement; and energy contracting parties and to follow procedures that are fair, development of diffusion efficiency initiatives are implemented across the Company. transparent and free from undue influence during the of environmentally friendly technologies. Focus on modal shift from road-to-rail delivered carbon procurement process. emissions savings of 479 648t CO2e in the top 10 Fraud and corruption risk assessments, compliance checks road-to-rail volume gains in 2015. A carbon calculator was and investigations support Transnet’s ‘zero tolerance’ developed to measure the carbon emissions benefit of approach to fraud and corruption. moving specific tonnages of cargo from specific origins to destinations in South Africa by rail instead of road. Transnet’s Tip-Offs Anonymous Hotline forms an integral part of Transnet’s anti-fraud and anti-corruption efforts. The Since 2012 (baseline year indicating when energy efficiency hotline is managed by Internal Audit and all reported cases measures were instituted) total electricity consumption has are investigated through an established forensics decreased by 7% from 3 798 908KWh to 3 513 511 KWh in investigation process. Transnet employees are protected 2015. Significant energy efficiency gains were achieved in from victimisation by the Transnet Whistle Blowing Policy. 2015 through regenerative braking in new locomotives. In 2014, Transnet’s Anti-Fraud Policy was amended to The R&D unit in Engineering is investigating alternative include elements of Anti-Corruption. The new Anti-Fraud energy technologies, including second generation biofuels and Anti-Corruption Policy is currently in the process of for diesel locomotives and port equipment; natural gas for being approved. locomotives and other equipment; fuel cells on locomotives; and harnessing wasted energy from exhaust systems. The Declaration of Interests and Related Party Disclosure Policy for employees and the Board requires the disclosure of personal financial interests, direct or indirect personal or private business interests on an annual basis. All employees sign confidentiality and ‘declaration of interest’ forms when adjudicating on procurement panels. 78 | Transnet Sustainability Report 2015 | 79 APPENDIX F: STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT This appendix provides an account of how Transnet seminars, conferences and industry networks. Our investors’ key material issues are: Transnet’s Organised labour engages with its material stakeholder groups, their ability to execute capital projects; increasing Transnet engages with organised labour through Our customers’ key material issues are: material issues and Transnet’s response. revenue needed to meet financial commitments; recognition agreements which provide for monthly efficiency and productivity; development of impact on communities; electricity supply; and and/or quarterly meetings. Collective bargaining SMMEs; continuity in obtaining goods and Shareholder (Ministry of Public regulatory uncertainty posed by the Integrated takes place regularly through the bargaining council. services; need for integrated planning within the Enterprises) Coastal Management Act, National Ports Act, public sector; and price competitiveness. Organised labour’s key material issues are: impending rail reforms and the economic Scheduled engagements take place regularly Transnet’s response to these issues includes: regulators’ tariff approval processes. compliance with and achieving EE targets; better between the Minister and the Board Chairman; monitoring and evaluating efficiency targets working conditions; and gender parity/ quarterly bilateral and issue-specific meetings Transnet’s response to these issues includes: through service level agreements with customers; representivity. are held between the DPE and Transnet’s regularly sharing plans and performance with regular reviews of the MDS and Long term Planning Transnet’s response to these issues includes: Executive management; detailed quarterly investors; actively disseminating information; Framework that include continuity plans to address achieving EE targets and sharing these through reports are submitted to the DPE on the ensuring that funding plans are approved timeously security of goods and services; sharing long-term quarterly reviews and tracking of targets; using Company’s performance against targets; DPE is by the relevant authorities (Shareholder and plans with customers and the three spheres of the Workplace Skills Plan Forum to inform trade involved in Transnet’s annual infrastructure National Treasury); sharing sustainability and CSI Government to pursue alignment of investment unions about targets and progress on capacity planning; and strategic engagements plans and data; and reporting on engagements plans; and transparency in sharing business model transformation; ongoing engagements on between DPE and Transnet management inform with policy makers and economic regulators. and pricing strategies, wherever feasible. specific issues concerning employees; the development of the annual Corporate Plan. Suppliers consultation with unions on internal policies prior Our Shareholder Ministry’s key material issues for Employees to approval; engaging with unions in accordance Transnet are: making a positive impact on society Transnet engages with its suppliers through Transnet management engages with employees with legislative requirements; and embarking on through the implementation of MDS; meeting monthly and quarterly meetings, and scheduled through regular staff meetings, roadshows, programmes to achieve gender representivity performance targets; improving the execution of supplier summits. newsletters, communiques, team building and across the Company. the capital investment plan; aligning to and strategic planning sessions. Our supplier’s key material issues are: delivering on government priorities; accelerating transparency of procurement processes; Communities private sector participation; and managing the Our employees’ key material issues are: terms information on tendering and contracting; Transnet engages with communities within which impact of new policy initiatives on operations. and conditions of service; workplace issues ensuring that goods and services supplied meet it operates through regular meetings, workshops, namely, skills development, training, work Transnet’s response to these issues includes: a B-BBEE and environmental standards; communication and engagement campaigns, promotions and performance management; revised Shareholder’s Compact structure outlining information on enterprise and supplier roadshows, career expos and through standardisation of processes and operating nine SDOs and the introduction of systems to development programmes; and inefficiencies implementation of CSI projects. procedures; health and safety of employees; and measure and account for Transnet’s impact on within supply chain management, particularly for involvement in the Company’s CSI projects. Our communities’ key material issues are: society; continuous engagement and reporting to procurement processing and payment turnaround update DPE on planning and performance; the Transnet’s response to these issues includes: times. Transnet’s developmental impact on the establishment of a Capital Integration team and initiatives to address and improve culture gaps; communities’ safety, employment, skills, Transnet’s response to these issues include: environment, welfare and economic the Results Management Office to constantly enabling systems for standardisation of ensuring our procurement processes meet the opportunities; and our relationships with monitor the capital programme and operational processes and operating procedures; relevant legislative and governance processes community representatives. performance; proactive participation in performance reviews and individual development for procuring goods and services; refining Government’s SIP to align with Government’s plans to address skills and training needs; Transnet’s response to these issues includes: processes, procedures, and reporting templates infrastructure investment priorities; identification monthly health and safety meetings and site local consultation on project planning; where related to contract management in terms of the of specific private sector participation visits to enforce compliance with health and feasible, pursuing job opportunities in Procurement Procedure Manual; supplier opportunities and processes; and continuous safety standards; encouragement and support communities within which Transnet operates; workshops and roadshows to communicate with engagement in existing policy platforms to for employee participation in community skills development programmes; advertising current and potential suppliers; updating address regulatory challenges. development projects. tender and recruitment adverts in local papers; tendering documents to meet B-BBEE and environmental standards; and continuous strengthening cooperation and local projects to Customers Investors improvements in achieving short payment address crime and safety; and servitude Transnet engages continuously with its Transnet engages with its investors through turnaround times, especially for SMMEs. awareness programmes and public meetings. customers through regular operational and quarterly investor briefings, road shows and commercial business meetings, roadshows, bi‑annual reporting. 80 | Transnet Sustainability Report 2015 | 81 Appendix F: Stakeholder engagement Regulators Provincial Government Non-governmental Organisations Pensioners Transnet engages with its regulators through the Transnet engages with Provincial Government Transnet engages with a range of NGOs through We engage with pensioners through regular annual applications processes, ongoing meetings, through regular meetings, joint planning sessions, various associations, Environmental Impact meetings either monthly and/or quarterly. monthly and quarterly joint planning sessions, SIP coordination structures, and when required, Assessments consultation processes and local The pensioners’ key material issue was that scheduled strategic planning sessions, and when through written comments and workshops. CSI projects. members of the Transport Pension Fund (‘the required, through written comments and workshops. Provincial Government’s key material issues are: NGOs’ key material issues are: Transnet’s impact TPF’) and the Transnet Second Defined Benefit The regulators’ key material issues are: Company collaboration in the planning of freight infrastructure on the environment and the communities where Fund (‘the TSDBF’) brought an Application in performance, pricing strategies, plans to ensure and management; alignment with provincial Transnet operations are located. court against Transnet to be permitted to security of supply of goods and services, regulatory programmes and objectives; community represent all members of their respective Funds Transnet’s response to these issues include: uncertainty, compliance, and the Company’s impact development and upliftment; and ensuring and to institute a class action against Transnet in collaborative approaches to planning; early and on the economy. environmental compliance. the amount of R79 billion. The class action was ongoing consultations on Environmental Impact certified against the TSDBF and TPF. Transnet’s response to these issues includes: Transnet’s response to these issues includes: Assessments and servitude conditions; policy information sharing on the Company’s strategy, investments that align with Provincial engagements on climate change mitigation and Transnet’s response was to oppose the performance, pricing strategies, compliance and Government plans and SIP priorities; adaptation and carbon pricing; joint projects to applications on the basis that the two pension plans to ensure security of supply in the tariff engagements on long-term planning; agreement reduce substance abuse in communities and funds are well capitalised to discharge their application processes. Continuous engagement with the National Housing Agency for the create safety awareness; and collaboration on obligations and in addition, Transnet pays ex takes place on regulated permit fees to seek that transfer of certain properties for housing; and CSI projects. gratia bonuses to members of the two pension they are competitive and reflective of the providing environmental reports to relevant funds. Transnet awaits summons of the pending developmental outcomes mandated by the departments as required. Media class action. Shareholder. We engage with media through regular media Local Government briefings and press releases, communication and Academia and scientific institutions National Government Transnet engages with Local Government engagement campaigns, roadshows, and when Transnet engages with academia and scientific Transnet engages with National Government through meetings with a variety of local required through written comments. institutions. departments through joint planning sessions and structures; joint planning sessions; strategic The media’s key material issue is: perceived lack Academia and scientific institutions’ key material issue-specific meetings/workshops and when planning sessions; and when required, through of transparency in terms of information availability. issues are: collaboration on engineering and required, through written comments on draft written comments and workshops. technology, innovation, leadership and policies and legislation. Transnet’s response to this issue includes Local Government’s key material issues are: community development. establishing more media platforms to engage National Government’s key material issues are: servitude agreements; community development with the media. Transnet has collaboration agreements with the alignment between Government infrastructure and upliftment; crime in and around Transnet Council for Scientific and Industrial Research, plans and Transnet’s planning; more information properties; utilisation of unused Transnet Parliament Wits University and the Gordon Institute of on Transnet’s Africa Strategy for alignment property, and environmental compliance. Business Science. purposes; environmental compliance; and Transnet engages with Parliament through Transnet’s response to these issues include: collaboration on climate change initiatives. Parliament’s Portfolio Committees and key partnering with local government and local material issues raised are alignment with Transnet’s response to these issues include: forums to conduct servitude awareness campaigns government objectives and achieving active participation in SIP 2; engagements on the in the communities; engaging with local suppliers performance targets. Africa Strategy with the Economic and regarding procurements and governance processes; Infrastructure Clusters; engagement with the agreement with the National Housing Agency for Transnets provides regular feedback to the Department of Environmental Affairs on the the transfer of properties for housing; relevant Parliamentary Portfolio Committees, Integrated Coastal Amendment Act and on conducting career expos at schools; and including an annual presentation to the climate change mitigation and adaptation plans; providing various reports to the relevant Parliamentary Portfolio Committee on Public and providing reports and policy comments to municipalities. Enterprises on Transnet’s results and the relevant departments. Shareholder’s Compact performance. 82 | Transnet Sustainability Report 2015 | 83 ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS CORPORATE INFORMATION Transnet SOC Ltd AFS Annual Financial Statements NEAP National Economically Active Population 47th Floor, Carlton Centre AU African Union 150 Commissioner Street NGO Non-Governmental Organisation B-BBEE Broad-based Black Economic Johannesburg Empowerment NMPP New Multi-Product Pipeline 2001 CDP Carbon Disclosure Project NPAT Net Profit After Tax Incorporated in the Republic of South Africa. CSDP Competitive Supplier Development OEM Original Equipment Manufacturer Registration number 1990/000900/30. Programme PSP Private Sector Participation CSI Corporate Social Investment Executive directors REMSEC Remuneration, Social and Ethics B Molefe (Group Chief Executive). DIFR Disabling Injury Frequency Rate Committee A Singh (Group Chief Financial Officer). DPE Department of Public Enterprises R&D Research and Development Independent non-executive directors DTI Department of Trade and Industry SD Supplier Development LC Mabaso* (Chairperson), Y Forbes, GJ Mahlalela*, PEB Mathekga*, N Moola, ED Enterprise Development SDO Sustainable Developmental ZA Nagdee*, VM Nkonyane*, MR Seleke*, SD Shane*, BG Stagman*, PG Williams* Outcomes EE Employment Equity * Appointments effective 11 December 2014. SHEQ Safety, Health, Environment and EIT Engineer-in-Training Quality Group Company Secretary ERM Enterprise Risk Management SIP Strategic Infrastructure Project Ms ANC Ceba FRMP Fraud Risk Management Plan SNG SizweNtsalubaGobodo 47th Floor, Carlton Centre, GDP Gross Domestic Product 150 Commissioner Street, Johannesburg, 2001. SOC State-owned Company GHG Greenhouse Gas PO Box 72501, Parkview, 2122, South Africa. SR Sustainability Report GRI Global Reporting Initiative SSI Statement of Strategic Intent Auditors IIRC International Integrated Reporting TETA Transport Education Training SizweNtsalubaGobodo Inc., 20 Morris Street East, Woodmead, Johannesburg, 2191. Council Authority IR Integrated Report The internal audit function has been outsourced to SekelaXabiso (Pty) Ltd, TIT Technician-in-Training Nkonki Inc and KPMG Services (Pty) Ltd. ISASA Independent Schools Association TMPS Total Measurable Procurement SekelaXabiso (Pty) Ltd of Southern Africa Spend 1st Floor Building 22B JOC Joint Operating Centres UNGC United Nations Global Compact The Woodlands Office Park MDS Market Demand Strategy 20 Woodlands Drive YPT Young Professionals in Training NDP National Development Plan Woodmead Johannesburg Nkonki Inc 3 Simba Road Sunninghill Johannesburg KPMG Services (Pty) Ltd 85 Empire Road Parktown Johannesburg 84 | Transnet Sustainability Report 2015
