GENPACT United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress Report 2015 Table of Contents CEO Statement and Commitment Ownership & Financial Performance Locations of Genpact Corporate Governance Risk Assessment Framework Code of Conduct Human Rights Practices Operating Ethically Robust Governance Complete Accountability Ethical Supply Chain Sustainability & Materiality Community Impact Celebrating Diversity Environmental Performance Awards and Accolades Note of Thanks Genpact would like to acknowledge the team who helped to put this report together. Susmita Malik – Global Leader for Corporate Social Responsibility for her valuable insights, Sona Saptarshi – EHS Leader who worked tirelessly in bringing various teams together seamlessly; Amit Agarwal – SVP Training & Talent Development, CSR & Diversity/Inclusion and Vidya Srinivasan – SVP, Infrastructure and IT for their inimitable support. Diana Lurie Boersma – Head of Compliance; Neha Chopra and Tithi Sarkar – Corporate Communication, under whose guidance this report was structured and formatted to its present shape. Lastly, a special thanks to Sanjay Bhatia – Senior Manager & Radhakrishna Patel – Assistant Manager, CSR – who helped bring together all the required content into a cohesive whole. CEO Statement and Commitment I am delighted and proud in equal parts to present Genpact’ s fourth public sustainability report based on the Global Reporting Initiative GRI G3.1 guidelines. This report is an extension of our commitment to transparently disclose our performance to all our stakeholders. Through this report, we wish to showcase what sustainability means for Genpact and how committed we are to achieving our vision. Our approach has allowed us to contextually define what sustainability is and how it relates to our day-to-day business. This report focusses on our sustainability performance and achievements between January and December 2014. We are a young and dynamic organization. The enthusiasm and precision with which we approach our business also colors our zeal for championing sustainability. The senior leadership at Genpact has long stood by our sustainability endeavors. This is because we understand the impact we can generate and the long-term value we can create for our stakeholders through sustainability. We have not only taken inspiration from global frameworks such as the United Nations Global Compact but have also tried to mirror our internal business prowess in areas such as Six Sigma and Lean while drawing out our sustainability endeavors. This is one of the reasons why we feel that over a period of time, we have integrated sustainability to an extent into our business and thinking, as our approach has partially evolved organically through our business expertise and skills. Sustainability transcends several dimensions as does our approach. Every day we generate impact for our clients, for our employees, for our business partners, for the environment and for the communities we work for. Generating business impact We have been able to create a unique space for ourselves in the crowded and competitive outsourcing market through our unwavering focus on quality and ability to offer a palpably differentiable experience to our clients. We serve more than 800 clients around the world, more than 100 of which are Fortune 500 companies. We create a tangible and lasting impact for them through our host of services and have generated an estimated 22 billion USD worth of cumulative impact since 2006. In today’s world, there are heightened expectations from companies when it comes to ethics and transparency. We have always upheld these principles across our business practices around the world, no matter how strong or lax the regulations are in areas where we operate. We encourage this through all our engagements with our clients, suppliers and employees as well. Information security and data privacy have emerged among the most challenging issues facing our sector in recent times. This poses great risk to us as we deal day in and day out with sensitive client information. Our robust internal management systems, policies and protocols ensure that we remain immune from such threats and deliver our work with utmost business integrity. Generating people impact Talent is what drives our business especially in current times when the kind of work we do is undergoing a significant amount of transformation. As our pipeline features increasingly complex and transformational work, our talent strategy has been adequately calibrated to steer this trend. Hiring, training and retaining – all three imperatives are taken care of through our focused approach when it comes to managing our talent. Diversity has also emerged as a key priority area with significant work being done to improve our diversity record across the organization. Forty per cent of Genpact’s workforce comprises women. Generating green impact The list of achievements and interventions undertaken at Genpact to check our environmental footprint is endless. Our culture of Six Sigma, Lean and innovation has been adequately leveraged to deliver exceptional outcomes for the company. It is difficult for a rapidly growing organization such as ours to curb its environmental footprint but through our determination and hard work we have been able to drive down our energy, water, carbon and waste related impacts. Our innovative ideas have not only reduced our environmental footprint but have also brought in tangible annual cost savings to the tune of almost 0.5 million USD. Generating community impact Our CSR efforts are distinctly characterized by the unparalleled enthusiasm displayed by our volunteers. Fifteen thousand Genpacters across the globe selflessly work towards making a difference to the world. We are simply a conduit to channel their intentions and goodwill towards generating enduring social capital. Our volunteer program is the hallmark of our entire CSR program. The changing regulations around CSR in India have actually reinvigorated the organizational spirit into doing way more than what the law requires us to do. Sustainability: What next? Sustainability is not a destination but an endless journey that presents ample opportunities to capitalize on and create one’s own competitive edge. There will always be room to innovate more, save more, do more and make more difference to the world around us. For us, sustainability is now a natural extension of our business and we have embodied it in our mantra of Generating Impact. As we look ahead, we commit to exploring newer areas, expanding our existing efforts and continuing to deepen our engagement with all our stakeholders on sustainability and taking them forward along with us. NV ‘Tiger’ Tyagarajan President and CEO, Genpact Ownership & Financial Performance Genpact Limited is a Bermuda company whose shares are publicly traded on the New York Stock Exchange (ticker: G). Genpact Limited is a global enterprise. Please see the Company's 10-K filed with the SEC on February 27, 2015. http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1398659/000119312515068826/d833545d10k.htm http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1398659/000119312515068826/d833545dex211.htm For significant changes during the reporting period regarding ownership, please see the beneficial ownership table on page 7 of the Company's Proxy Statement filed with the SEC on April 13, 2015. http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1398659/000119312515127690/d793815ddef14a.htm The address of the organization’s headquarters is as below. Canon's Court 22 Victoria Street Hamilton HM 12 Bermuda The table below presents our selected historical financial and certain operating data. The Company prepares its consolidated financial statements in accordance with U.S. GAAP. The financial table set forth above is taken from our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2014. Locations Corporate Governance We believe that good corporate governance is critical to our success. We adhere to the highest levels of ethical business practices, as embodied in our Code of Ethical Business Conduct, which sets out the guidelines for ethical conduct by our directors, officers and employees. For more details, follow this link: http://media.corporate-ir.net/media_files/irol/20/209334/Corporate%20Governance%20Guidelines.pdf The Genpact Board Our corporate governance practices begin with our independent Board of Directors. All our directors possess rich multi-industry experience and are recognized for their contribution in their chosen professions. They bring to our Board varied perspectives and insights. Our Board has established an Audit Committee, a Compensation Committee and a Nominating and Governance Committee to assist in fulfilling its duties and responsibilities. Risk Assessment Framework We have an independent audit function that reports directly to our Audit Committee. Our Chief Internal Auditor interacts directly with our senior management, including our CEO, and our independent auditor. Our board has adopted a formal charter to govern the audit committee. The internal audit team reviews and reports on internal controls within the organization. Process, financial, and compliance risks identified through risk assessments annually are reviewed by the management. This is followed by the adoption of an adequate audit plan, with the approval of the Audit Committee, to address potential risks. Members of the internal audit team are rotated every 18-24 months to ensure independence. External auditors are invited to conduct audits involving complex areas. Annually Genpact gets an independent audit firm (a Big 4) to conduct a Type II International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3402 audit as developed under the IAASB’s International Framework for Assurance Engagements for General Environmental Controls (e.g., IT and Information Security, Physical Security and Logistics, Hiring and Onboarding, Training controls) of Genpact’s Service Delivery Locations used for provision of Services to the Clients. A copy of the report is provided to the Clients to help them comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Code of Conduct We have adopted a Code of Ethical Business Conduct that applies to all employees. Every employee is responsible for his or her own actions, and proper business conduct and ethical behavior are fundamental conditions of employment. Any employee, regardless of job or title, who observes or becomes aware of unethical or unlawful activity, is obligated to report such activity immediately. Employees are also urged to discuss any concerns regarding improper conduct with the appropriate individuals. We believe that our actions should always be guided by our core values of honesty, trustworthiness, integrity, dependability, respect, and citizenship. Our clients choose to work with us because we provide them with services that drive business value in an ethical, honest and transparent manner, supported by a strong governance framework. Our rigorous internal controls, business values and focus on controllership help us create enduring client trust. Human Rights Practices As a responsible corporate citizen, we recognize and acknowledge that it is imperative to protect, promote and uphold the human rights of all our stakeholders across the organization and beyond. We are cognizant of the role businesses can play in enforcing the above and have instituted policies and mechanisms for them. Our code of conduct and Integrity@Genpact policies embody globally recognized human rights principles. We are thoroughly committed to providing our employees a workplace that is safe, congenial and free from harassment of any kind. Such a workplace fosters creativity, openness and innovation, all of which are essentials when it comes to building an effective workplace and delivering uncompromising quality to our clients. A snapshot of our practices related to fair employment, child labor and forced labor, right to freedom of association, investment screening, privacy and discrimination and harassment is provided here. Fair Employment: Child Labor and Forced Labor: Investment Screening: Zero tolerance for nepotism or adverse bias Genpact strictly prohibits employment of all Though diligence process before taking a Merit qualifications (for example, education, forms of forced, compulsory, and child labor decision to acquire stake in a company experience, or skill sets) and other job related either directly or through contractors Checks are conducted for compliance with criteria are the sole basis for all employment For vendor employees, date of birth proofs statutory obligations, employee benefits, related decisions effecting employees and taken and audited in areas of high risk. human resource compensation and benefits, applicants Regular audits are conducted to mitigate any leave policy, bonus policy, policy related to No allowance are given to any discriminatory instance of child/forced labor salary increase etc. practices regardless of what cultural practices may persist in the wider society Genpact’s goal is to maintain a congenial and productive working environment conductive for all Freedom of Association: Discrimination and Harassment: Privacy: Genpact does not prevent any employee from Genpact prohibits basing any employment Genpact respects employee privacy with exercising the right to freedom of association decisions on race, color, religion, sex, caste, respect to personal information or or collective bargaining. sexual orientation, national or regional origin, communication stored on official systems with We adhere to all necessary regulations or any other characteristic protected by law the provision that Genpact may access such related to collective bargaining and freedom of Where harassment occurs as a result of an any files/information for business reasons. For association in regions where we operate. act or omission by any third party or outsider, example in the course of performing In Brazil and the Czech Republic, 100% of the Genpact will take all steps that are reasonable maintenance, security/compliance issues or employees are trade union association and appropriate to prevent the harassment for a legal request etc members. In Romania, we have employee from continuing Genpact gives its employees notice that it representatives instead of a trade union and may monitor, investigate, copy, and inspect 100% of our employees are covered. files/information (personal or otherwise) in All local laws are observed with respect to instances mentioned above providing a minimum notice period regarding specific operating changes Operating ethically Our uncompromising integrity is why our customers entrust their business to us. An essential channel of projecting our principles and integrity directly in our work is through our employees, who are the true ambassadors of our values and unyielding integrity. Our code of conduct serves as an emblem of ethical practices and expectations to all our employees, officers, directors and agents. Round the year, we conduct programs to embed these values into our employee’s regular work routine. These include training sessions and direct communication from the leadership. It is always conveyed to all our people that our business vision is to be achieved without compromising our ethical values and integrity. Besides our code of conduct, our Integrity@Genpact handbook also serves as a guiding map for employees when it comes to ethical conduct. The handbook is a reflection of how we have upheld integrity in our business conduct over the years and how we intend to continue doing so in the coming years. The Integrity@Genpact framework consists of five principles and nine policies grouped under four themes. The nine policies directly flow from the principles and serve as the means to achieve the goals rooted in these principles. A dedicated training course on Integrity@Genpact is mandatory for all Genpact recruits. An ongoing training module is also run for all employees. In 2014, as of the date of finalizing this publication, 93% of our workforce including senior management had undergone this training within the previous year; this understates the number of people who have taken the training, as it does not include anyone who is even a single day late in completion of the annual requirement. Genpact has also supplemented its ethical framework with a transparent and effective grievance redressal mechanism. Employees can access several modes to report any instances of violation of Genpact policies. Employees can report the same to their immediate supervisors, management representative, human resource personnel, local compliance contact, and member of the legal department or local/global ombudsperson. In addition, most of our major facilities have an ‘Ombuds box’ which can be used to report violations. Not all locations still have the Ombuds boxes, as more and more Genpacters are becoming more familiar with electronic means of communication (email), they are choosing to report via email, where they can receive a response usually within a day. Employees are permitted to report anonymously; when an employee wishes to do so electronically, the employee creates a new email address via one of the free email providers. Employees can also directly write to ombudsperson@genpact.com. All employees raising concerns are free to report anonymously and are protected under our No Retaliation Policy. By reporting non-compliant behavior, employees play a key role in preserving the integrity of the workplace. Those concerns which have an established response may be handled directly; those that do not are submitted for final decision to a regional Policy Compliance Review Board (PCRB), which then decides the relevant appropriate mitigation measures. All communications and decisions are subject to review by our Global Compliance Review Board, which is composed of the CEO, CFO, Human Resources head, and General Counsel. The Audit Committee of the Board also reviews all violations on a quarterly basis. A total of 510 cases were reported globally in 2013 as compared to 448 in 2012 through the Ombuds program. A part of the increase in cases reported may be attributed to the significant expansion of our compliance communication program which strives to create more awareness about the Ombuds program. In 2012, we instituted a compliance communication program and have been leveraging it to effectively deliver the message to our employees straight from the leadership that integrity and business success goes hand in hand. Under this program, a member of the leadership across regional offices is assigned with the task of communicating each and every month to employees about the Ombuds program, our no-retaliation policy and another substantive compliance policy. A compliance calendar is prepared with a compliance theme for every month (October 2014 was ‘Fair Employment Practices’; in 2013, ‘gifting policies’ were chosen for December) and relevant materials are provided by the global compliance leader at the start of each month to respective regional leaders. The primary communication mode is meant to be personal and not just email messages. Leadership engages with employees on respective themes through townhalls, executive meetings, floor walks or huddles. These are then supplemented with detailed written communications. We also share actual instances where our employees or business partners have fallen short of Genpact’s ethical expectations. Recent events and news items are also brought into the picture to portray real-world examples and enable better understanding for our employees. Robust governance Business excellence and long-term value optimization go hand in hand with ethical business conduct. The principles of transparency, accountability and equity set the tone for our business relationships and underlying practices. Our robust corporate governance framework ensures complete accountability, fair treatment towards all stakeholders, transparency and ethical conduct and at the same time, creates an enabling environment for sustainability to thrive in. This is imperative for the success and sustainability of our operations. Regular and stringent review processes along with methodical auditing practices ensure the percolation of our core business principles and standards across the organization. Our proactive approach is evident in our extensive risk management systems. Risk factors are identified, measured and managed continuously and responsibly via our governance framework at the entity level, business segment level and business process level. This ensures compliance with not only applicable statutory guidelines but also with our internal policies and process compliance parameters. The overall monitoring of risk levels is the responsibility of our diverse board of directors accompanied by the management team which is responsible for implementing recommended mitigation measures. As we chart our ambitious growth plans over the coming years, our operations and processes will invariably become increasingly complex and preserving our stakeholders’ trust will become even more critical. Our complex global operations subject us to regulation1 in many jurisdictions around the world that also undergo change over the years. Our robust and agile systems are by design meant to withstand this change and dynamically adapt to meet these new and challenging requirements. We have always looked beyond what the law requires of us when it comes to our best-in-class governance practices. Complete accountability The World Economic Forum Partnering Against Corruption Initiative (PACI) In April 2013, as members of the World Economic Forum Partnering against Corruption Initiative (PACI), we participated in the Anti-Corruption Workshop on India. Forty four companies from eleven countries took part in the workshop with Genpact being one of the four signatories from India. Mr. Pramod Bhasin, our Vice Chairman, played the role of a discussion leader in one of the plenary sessions on the link between corruption and competitiveness, the challenges of engaging small and medium-sized enterprises in anticorruption programs, the role of collective action and current government initiatives. The World Economic Forum Partnering against Corruption Initiative (PACI) is a global, multi-industry, multi-stakeholder anti-corruption initiative set up to raise business standards and to contribute to a competitive, transparent, accountable and ethical business society. http://www.weforum.org/issues/partnering-against-corruption-initiative Genpact’s diverse board of directors embodies skill and experience of the utmost caliber, making them well suited to provide oversight and strategic direction for realizing our long-term vision. The board is composed of 10 directors, 9 of whom are independent2. All material aspects of the company such as significant financial strategies and transactions, risk management, performance evaluation and compensation of executive management, leadership succession planning, compliance, internal controls and disclosures (among others) are reviewed by the board. The board abides by our corporate governance guidelines intended to guide it in maintaining effective practices for the long-term benefit of our shareholders. These guidelines are periodically reviewed by the board in line with developments in applicable legal requirements and corporate governance standards. Our Code of Ethical Business Conduct and Integrity@Genpact Guide also apply to all directors of the board to the extent they are representing or acting on behalf of Genpact. Directors are expected to report any actual or potential conflict of interest to the chairman of the board’s Audit Committee and the General Counsel. The board structure consists of several committees established by it: an Audit Committee, a Compensation Committee and a Nominating and Governance Committee with composition in line with applicable independence requirements of the NYSE and any other applicable legal requirements. Additional committees may be established by the board if deemed necessary or appropriate. Note: 1 For a discussion on our compliance system and the regulations to which we are subject, please refer to our 10K filings available at: http://investors.genpact.com/phoenix.zhtml?c=209334&p=irol-reportsother 2 For more information on our board of directors, please visit: http://www.genpact.com/home/aboutus/leadership/board-of-directors Information on our corporate governance guidelines, our code of ethics and the charters of each of the board committees are available at: http://investors.genpact.com/phoenix.zhtml?c=209334&p=irol-govhighlights Ethical Supply Chain We work closely with our existing and new vendors to ensure strict compliance with Genpact’s environment, health and safety (EHS) standards, all applicable regulations such as labor laws and any other statutory requirement. This is done through site audits and screening processes such as verification, background checks, etc. All vendors operating out of our facilities are contractually required to follow Genpact’s EHS practices and policies. Specific criteria are also followed based on the nature of the vendor, e.g. our food vendor has to comply with specific health-related requirements and our vendor for chairs has to comply with specific ergonomic requirements. Violations by vendors are treated with suspension or dismissal. Vendors are also encouraged to raise any concern (ethical, business practice related, etc.) directly to the Vice-President Sourcing /or Vice President Legal and Compliance. Our sourcing team is also actively involved with procuring green products for Genpact facilities. The sourcing team collaborates with infrastructure and logistics, EHS and IT teams in order to procure products that help save energy and conserve resources. When procuring a product, we prefer the product that is greener, given all required technical specifications are met. Our Integrity@Genpact policy has been adapted for our suppliers (Supplier Integrity Policy) as well and is applicable to all third parties acting for or on our behalf including consultants, agents, contractors, etc. The Supplier Integrity Policy embodies all principles captured in the Integrity@Genpact framework such as respecting confidentiality, obeying laws and regulation, safeguarding Genpact assets, avoiding the appearance of impropriety and prohibiting community, gender or race based discrimination. Suppliers are mandated to adhere to conflict of interest policy. Suppliers should not give or receive anything of value in cash or kind to/from any Genpact employee or government official or party in order to obtain any advantage in selling goods or services, conducting financial transactions in connection with the services provided to Genpact. Our Global Safe Work Environment Policy is committed to achieving Safe Work environment excellence and is actively promoted across all employees, stakeholders and contractors of Genpact to build awareness with special focus on behavioral compliance. We undertook an extensive exercise with assistance from an external third party to map our vendors with respect to the extent of supply chain risk and also revise our vendor pre-qualification process and policy related to supply chain sustainability. The risk classification was done keeping in mind factors such as resource efficiency, subcontracting norms, health and safety, social vulnerability, business criticality and Information Security. This allowed us to create customized pre-qualification requirements for vendors falling into different categories based on the risk posed. We also provide assistance to all our vendors for adopting the new policy and practices during the implementation phase. We are also a global general member of the WEConnect International network, a global non-profit which works towards increasing opportunities for women-owned businesses. It maintains a directory of women's business enterprises that are at least 51% owned, managed or controlled by one or more women. They identify, educate, register and certify such enterprises. Our membership provides us access to this directory which is used by our sourcing team as and when a suitable match is available in the database for the requirement at hand. As responsible corporate citizens, we at Genpact consider the sustainable development puzzle to be a key component of our responsible business agenda. It has always been our endeavor to transparently communicate our sustainability approach to our stakeholders and share our performance on key sustainability factors. Accordingly, we have been releasing annual sustainability communications since 2008. While the earlier communications were based on the 10 principles of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC), we started reporting on sustainability performance using the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI 3.1) framework since 2011. Sustainability What does it mean for Genpact? At Genpact, we focus on long-term Generating Generating business Generating green business viability and have a forwardimpact looking growth strategy. As we slowly impact impact mature on our sustainability journey, we are increasingly moving towards completely integrating sustainability into our business strategy and making it an essential component of our day-to-day decision making. By integrating responsible Generating Generating economic growth with social progress and people community environmental stewardship, Genpact aims impact impact to improve the quality of life of all its stakeholders, both internal and external. We routinely adopt practices that reduce our environmental footprint, by using our naturally ‘lean’ approach to operations. Additionally, we approach relationships with our stakeholders, be they employees, clients or suppliers, with unrelenting integrity. Genpact’s management and senior leadership are completely committed to allocating requisite resources for providing strategic direction to Genpact’s sustainability vision and to meeting underlying goals. Generating impact is our business motto and this has been adapted to articulate our sustainability approach. As we deliver best-in-class services to our clients with utmost integrity, create a culture that upholds human rights, develop our people and reward them for their firm commitment, conserve resources and minimize our environmental impact, create lasting value for communities we engage with, we generate impact: business impact, people impact, green impact and community impact. This is what sustainability means to us. In the process, we endeavor to positively impact our stakeholders and strive to live up to each and every commitment we make to these very stakeholders. Our stakeholders: Engage and impact Engaging with stakeholders and Employees Government understanding as well as addressing their • Employee satisfaction • Engagement through survey (annual) memberships of industry concerns lie at the heart of the concepts of • Performance appraisal bodies like NASSCOM, CII, sustainability and sustainable development. (biannual) • Corporate social Business Processing Association of the Without stakeholder involvement, these responsibility initiatives/ Philippines (BPAP), volunteering (ongoing) Association of the Business ideas lose meaning. At Genpact, those • Regular formal/informal Services Leaders (Poland discussions with managers and Romania) etc. (ongoing) impacted by our operations and activities as • Training and development programmes (ongoing) well as those who impact our operations are • Grievance cell (ongoing) considered our stakeholders. Our key Customers Vendors/suppliers stakeholder groups and the respective • Vendor prequalification engagement mechanisms we deploy to form • Ongoing governance process (ongoing) a two-way communication channel between Our meetings at account level between different levels of • Ongoing vendor analysis and rating process us and them are represented in the figure. stakeholders the organisation (ongoing) • Net promoter score based • Engagement with vendor Our key stakeholder groups include our on process owner employees during sessions questionnaire (semi-annual) on promoting health and employees, our customers, our investors, our • CXO questionnaire (annual) safety related practices vendors, the communities we interact with (ongoing) and the government. Using the listed engagement methods as well as others, we Investors Community/NGOs interact with all our stakeholders on an • Annual/10K report (annual) • Community ongoing basis to understand and address • Annual general meeting • Online information request/ interventions/employee volunteering activities their concerns. contact us form around the world (ongoing) • Email alerts for SEC-related • Planning exercise with information, reports, NGOs (ongoing) webcasts and presentations, • Limited engagement with scheduled events and NGOs on strengthening Such regular and structured engagement company news (ongoing) their processes (ongoing) allows us to create enduring and mutually • Ongoing quarterly calls with investors and shareholders beneficial relationships with our stakeholders. They are provided adequate avenues to voice their concerns with respect to their engagement with Genpact and we make it a point to fairly and objectively address these issues. Our engagement with our stakeholders also gives us critical insights and business intelligence for zeroing in on critical issues for each stakeholder group and then putting together an action plan to address them. This is essential for making our engagement more meaningful and generating the impact we set out to. Going forward, we would also like to deepen our engagement on sustainability with our stakeholders and make it more regular. Materiality Issues that matter Quality of services This year, we re-evaluated our earlier Corporate social Data privacy and responsibility information security materiality assessment of 2011 to assess if we need to shift the lens and refocus our HighEmployee volunteering Talent development Transparent disclosures Diversity & inclusion sustainability efforts. We also wanted to Business integrity engage more deeply with our stakeholders on sustainability for a renewed perspective Carbon management on their concerns. We started with our Transformational Green buildings earlier assessment and juxtaposed it with solutions for Impact on society sustainability Green IT current sustainability issues faced by us, Employee engagement Medium Water management Social/environmental some of our global and local peers, the assessment of suppliers Waste management IT/ITeS industry as a whole as well as Occupational health & global issues being raised by the safety international community (businesses, NGOs, development agencies, leading Biodiversity international organizations, etc.) In light of Responsible policy these, we undertook internal discussions advocacy to revise the list of sustainability issues to Low Engaging/influencing be taken to internal and external suppliers stakeholders for conducting the materiality assessment based on our assessment of Low Medium High what is relevant for Genpact. Twenty such Impact on business sustainability issues were shortlisted. This was followed by discussions with internal stakeholders to get an idea of the extent of impact of these issues on Genpact’s business in the near future. We also conducted in-depth discussions with the representatives of our key external stakeholder groups such as suppliers, customers, NGOs, etc. to get an assessment of their level of concern with respect to these issues. Both these inputs were combined to arrive at Genpact’s materiality map, shown here. Issues placed at the top-right corner represent those that bear the highest impact on our business as well as on our stakeholders. This report is an endeavor to communicate our performance as well as our approach on all material issues identified. Community Impact Generating community impact Generating community impact by leveraging earnest efforts of our workforce to make a difference in the world beyond their desks, running structured programs within our limited capacity to address relevant social and environmental issues, making a contribution towards solving the bigger sustainable development puzzle as a responsible corporate citizen and ensuring the growth of the community along with ours by virtue of our overall business impact. Our CSR Philosophy Corporate citizenship has a critical role to play in shaping our company’s success. As we grow, we will harness the energy and talent of our employees and leverage our distinctive strengths to contribute to the economic, social and environmental betterment of the communities where we live and work with special focus on development through education and employability. At Genpact, giving is a way of life. We have institutionalized a culture of giving among our employees through a number of global platforms, programs, projects and social initiatives. We believe that the core of a sustainable and socially viable company is a strong and motivated volunteer base. We are proud to have our network of over 16,000 volunteers worldwide who support our various projects and initiatives. In India, Genpact has been a clear leader in the Give India Payroll Giving Program and the first company in India to have over 14,000 people donating from payroll through this platform. Objectives: Genpact is committed to giving back to the community with a focus on three key pillars in line with our strengths and core expertise as well as causes that our employees are passionate about: • Education and Employability • Environment and Sustainability • Inclusion Under each pillar, we run projects either directly or in partnership with institutional / NGO partner organizations. The primary focus of our CSR strategy is Education and Employability, especially skill-building for employability, which we believe can bring about transformational change in the country and the community. The three vertical pillars of the foundation of our CSR program are supported by the following five horizontal beams:  Volunteering  Payroll and donations  Client and institutional partnerships  Process excellence  Communication Our CSR Approach Each of our major sites conducts a CSR program based on an adaptation of the above framework taking the local context into consideration. Education and Employability as a focus area is ardently supported by our CSR program. The intent is to generate sustainable and lasting livelihood opportunities. The activities under this pillar entail supporting the education ecosystem in ways that lead to generation of employable professionals as they exit the graduation programs. Caring for the environment we live and work in is the mantra for our work and involves activities like tree plantation drives, cleanliness drives, environment walks and raising awareness of environmental concerns. For us, inclusion implies a practice of ensuring that people feel a sense of belonging to their social ecosystem which could be their organization, community or society in general. Our work in this area includes working with underprivileged children, promoting girl child rights, working with habitat for humanity, disaster relief drives, etc. All these interventions are driven either by Genpact volunteers or in collaboration with credible NGOs. Each location or region with a CSR program, depending on the need and scale of the program, has a CSR leader who in turn has a team of CSR champs corresponding to each focus area. Based on the requirements of a particular location, there can be more than one CSR champ taking care of a particular focus area. CSR champs at each location are further supported by a team of single point of contacts (SPOCs) and a communications team. The global CSR leader is responsible for supervision and oversight of the overall CSR program. Management, execution and governance of our CSR endeavors are also taken care of through the above structure. Our CSR program engages employees across the organization, including our senior leadership, which is key for the success of our CSR efforts. The involvement of leaders provides a sense of organizational ownership of its CSR vision and also acts as a great motivation tool for employees. The unflinching commitment of our volunteers in turn motivates the leadership. Genpact’s leadership is committed towards investing in the CSR program, which is evident from the program’s expansion over the years. For 2013, the spend on CSR programs amounted to 316,000 USD1. 354,516 USD Community investments in 2014 Note: 1 This includes the amount of money spent under our focus areas, sponsorships, awards, disaster relief and miscellaneous expenditure. Effective communication, more participation 26 25.5 Penetration Percentage 25 24.5 24 23.5 Volunteer Program 23 Payroll Giving Program 22.5 22 21.5 2012 2013 2014 Year Penetration figures for our volunteer program and payroll program stood at 26% and 25% respectively in 2014. We intend to drive our global volunteer penetration to 30% and global payroll penetration to 28% in 2015. One of the ways we encourage more and more of our people to become part of our CSR programs is through targeted and effective communication. Impactful and consistent communication permeates the culture of giving within the organization which we do by implementing an effective communication plan laid out at the start of every year. Our efforts include building a powerful internal communication engine through standard branding, newsletters and intranet articles and updates highlighting experiences of volunteers and the impact of our CSR activities. We ensure adequate exposure of CSR activities and recognition for our ace volunteers in townhalls as well as regular updates from the Genpact leadership. The communication is not just meant to inform employees about how and where they can make their contribution but to provide that extra nudge and motivation to become part of such activities more actively and consistently. The CSR teams at each location have dedicated communication personnel for executing the communication plan designed for that year. Effort is also made to connect CSR teams across the globe to share best practices. This is done through monthly calls and an annual CSR global meet. We always encourage our people to look beyond their desks and make a difference to the world. We also feel that participation in such activities inculcates values and leadership skills that we look for in our future leaders. Leading change, driving social impact: Genpact’s partnership with NASSCOM Honors in India In India, Genpact has been a lead partner with NASSCOM Social Innovation Honors since its inception in 2008. This platform encourages and recognizes innovation that creatively leverages information and communication technology to create solutions that address social issues. It identifies these showcases and awards such innovation projects by NGOs, corporates, social enterprises, government bodies, public sector enterprises, students and individuals. Genpact is proud of its association with a platform that encourages IT innovation for addressing social development. In the past, members of our senior leadership have personally been involved with this platform and have led discussions on inspiration and vision behind such innovation. Involving our clients At Genpact, we do not treat the relationship we share with our clients as purely transactional. We believe in fostering a collaborative bond that strengthens as we move forward. We encourage our clients to visit our facilities, engage with our people and participate in the Genpact experience. During client visits to our facilities, we expose our clients to the CSR programs of that particular site. Such visits allow us to explore participation opportunities for clients in our CSR programs. We have received strong positive feedback from clients and feel that this allows us to forge an informal bond that extends beyond the workspace and allows our clients to get a first-hand experience of Genpact’s values and culture. Over the years, numerous clients have pitched in and made a contribution to our CSR programs. Clients’ contributions have included sponsoring salaries of school teachers teaching underprivileged kids, sponsoring infrastructure at schools and providing volunteers for teaching. We extend this CSR engagement to clients by regularly updating them not only on business issues but also on Genpact’s CSR initiatives, strategies and opportunities. Leveraging our expertise Genpact is a global leader in transforming and running complex business processes and operations. We use six sigma and re-engineering expertise to improve efficiency and effectiveness of our client’s operations and processes. We want to leverage the same for enhancing effectiveness of our CSR program. Since 2014, we have been narrowing down our engagement with institutional partners (NGOs) to the ones with whom we can have a long-term relationship and develop scalable projects. In addition, we endeavor to use our business expertise for improving the efficiency and effectiveness of their operations and processes, which in turn will lead to improving the delivery of our joint projects with these NGOs and enable the intended long-term relationship and the community impact they deliver. This intervention is based on the need expressed by our NGO partners to assist them in strengthening their internal systems and processes, which may be suited for the current scale but may require tweaking as the projects are scaled up. In 2013, with this longer-term vision in mind, we started working with one of our partner NGOs in identifying areas for improvement based on the challenges being faced by them. A team of Genpact volunteers undertook this task and treated this like any other client engagement. A diagnostic was run to identify high-priority areas of intervention based on joint priorities of both the NGO and Genpact. A detailed roadmap was laid down with timelines and requirements which included work in areas like knowledge management and repository, database management system, human resource management, volunteer retention program, audit framework, training and reduction in project cycle time. The next steps were laid down towards the end of this diagnostic. Implementing this plan will be one of our key focus areas in 2015. Based on this experience, we will expand our engagement on similar lines with other high-potential partners. Payroll Giving  25% people globally are on payroll giving  >14000 employees are giving monthly to various causes  India crossed a major milestone, becoming the first company in India to have >11K employees on GiveIndia’s Program. For the fifth year in a row, Genpact won the India Giving campaign  Genpact is the highest contributing company among all participating organizations, in terms of both overall and fresh funds. Helping victims of natural disasters around the world Victims of natural disasters struggle to rebuild their lives. Their immediate priority is food, shelter, clothing, medical assistance and security. Genpact has contributed to its capacity in order to aid this recovery process and extend all the necessary support and resources to the victims. In 2014, our employees contributed towards relief efforts for victims of the earthquake in Nepal by donating money, food packets, blankets, clothes, medicines, etc. The efforts were undertaken by teams across the globe. Empowering girls through education Genpact works with Udayan Care for the Udayan Shalini Project. We are supporting the higher education of 150 underprivileged girls for a period of five years from Class XII to graduation across NCR, Kolkata and Jaipur, to enable them for future life and careers. Apart from funding their education, we also support active volunteering for the project by our employees – who take out time to train the girls with the objective of helping them gain employment either at Genpact or elsewhere in the industry. Spearheaded by our senior management, the Udayan Shalini program is being staunchly supported and workshops are being conducted at all Genpact offices in these three locations on areas like computer skills, personality development and English communication. We have pledged to handhold them till the time they are employable. Education and Employability Environment and Sustainability Inclusion Genpact China: 393 students were In Gurgaon, with the help of our CLUJ-NAPOCA: 21 volunteers with deployed by Dec ’14, at a deployment partner NGO, our employees have Habitat for Humanity helped build rate of 93% planted close to 15k trees over a houses for 15 families period of 4 years. In 2014, 1000 of our employees planted 5k trees in a single day Approximately 1500 53 Volunteers in Mexico joined hands USA Jawood and Genpact Irvine had unemployed/underemployed youth in with United Way and the State Govt. events supporting Domestic Abuse India are being trained as part of of Chihuahua for a ‘Clean up the victims and US Marine Corps. WilkesGenpact’s Reach Higher program in World’ campaign – activities to clean, Barre participated in the ‘Making partnership with NASSCOM beautify and maintain the parks within Strides Against Breast Cancer Walk’ Foundation & NASSCOM Sector a zone in that region Skills Council 200+ youth are already undergoing 208 volunteers cleaned a tourist spot Bangalore Pritech Park collected a training under this program as part of a Clean City campaign at month’s food supply for 100+ HIV Jaipur affected orphans & abandoned Women through a Wish Tree campaign Genpact India launched a project with Genpact Bangalore involved the 3000+ units of blood donated across Udayan Care NGO to support the community in their lake rejuvenation the globe Higher Education (Class XI to efforts to join our volunteers in Graduation) of 150 underprivileged cleaning, beautifying and maintaining girls across NCR, Kolkata & Jaipur our adopted Lake in an effort to reclaim the dying lakes of the Garden City Corporate citizenship data Community investment (in USD '000) CSR areas 2013 2014 Spend on activities related to CSR focus areas 294 1344 Sponsorship, awards and disaster relief 10 40 Miscellaneous (communication, branding etc.) 3 6 Others 8 10 Total 316 1400 Volunteering and payroll giving penetration 2014 Volunteering Payroll Site No of volunteers penetration (%) penetration (%) National capital region 5,472 25 29 Jaipur 1,212 27 18 Hyderabad 2,545 19 26 Bangalore 1,500 31 29 Kolkata 318 13 37 Mumbai 0 0 China 1,121 28 NA Philippines 1,535 47 NA Romania 791 30 26 Czech Republic 363 250 NA Krakow, Poland 294 37 NA Wormer, Netherlands 163 68 NA London 15 7 NA South Africa 32 22 NA UAE, Dubai 0 0 NA Mexico 499 45 51 Guatemala 495 52 42 WB-US 0 0 NA Irvine, US 0 0 NA Danville, US 105 21 NA Detroit 43 10 NA Overall 16,503 26 25 Celebrating diversity of our people Genpact values the unique attributes that make each person who they are. We believe that the collective strength of a diverse and passionate talent pool is and will continue to be a crucial competitive advantage that helps us generate the desired impact for our clients. As a responsible corporate citizen, Genpact works towards creation of a balanced workplace that respects, celebrates and advocates diverse perspectives and provides equal opportunity to all based on merit, without discriminating on grounds of race, nationality, religion, gender, sexual orientation or any other form of differentiation. Our mission is to be a company whose employee demographics reflect those of the countries in which we operate and the clients that we serve. We target our efforts towards fostering an inclusive culture where every individual has an equal opportunity to contribute, develop and grow. We ensure no discrimination in compensation on grounds of gender. The male and female pay scales comply with the 1:1 ratio. Genpact is also committed to nurturing persons with disability in our workforce who are employed across the organization in different operations and functions ranging from accounting, insurance, customer care, human resources and shared services. We also engage in ventures like targeted hiring drives and job fairs for persons with disability, special employee referral programs, engaging recruiters and consultants to identify suitable candidates, conducting sensitizing sessions, ensuring that infrastructure at our facilities is friendly to the needs of our differently-abled employees and ensuring fair and equal treatment within the organization. It has always been our endeavor to promote gender diversity across the organization. In 2015, overall representation of women in our workforce is 37 percent. Of this total representation, 22 percent are at the mid-management level and 17 percent are in the top management. Amongst our 10 Board of Directors, we have one woman. We also have two women in our Global Leadership Council, which consists of 23 key executives from across our global operations including the CEO. 37% 17% 22% of our total workforce of our top management of our middle management Representation of women in our workforce Our strategy on gender diversity is focused on four pillars – recruiting, developing, advancing and retaining women in our workforce. These four pillars are supported by regional as well as a business-level strategy and dedicated plans around governance, communication and partnerships. At the time of recruitment, we make a conscious effort to hire women who aspire to grow and take on leadership positions at Genpact. During recruitment, we also convey our brand identity as a company that focuses on a balanced workforce and leadership. Further, as part of our endeavor to develop internal female talent and advance them to the next level, we run a sponsorship program for women, and encourage female participation in leadership development programs. The Sponsorship Program aims at increasing the percentage of women in leadership roles by building a sponsor-protégé relationship that helps high-potential women navigate life events that may act as career path de-railers, as well as enables them to access career-making opportunities at the workplace. Efforts are being made to increase participation of women in leadership training programs, such as GOLD, LEAP, etc. Finally, we attempt to retain our female talent by providing them support through global networking forums, daycare centers, and flexible work arrangements. The global networking forum for women gives our female colleagues an opportunity to engage with and learn from experiences of our successful women leaders. The forums are anchored around themes such as visibility, career progression, work-life balance and executive presence. Our policies on daycare centers focus on women’s safety and flexible work arrangements go a long way in retaining our female colleagues. We understand the benefits of fostering a diverse workforce and have made internal commitments to improve our gender diversity record across levels. Environmental Performance Environmental Conservation Genpact strives to provide a safe and healthy workplace for all our employees and stakeholders, which benefits communities we live and work in globally. By integrating economic and social progress with environmental conservation and sustainability, we aim to improve the quality of life of all our employees and stakeholders. A key highlight for 2012-13 was to move towards a sustainable journey. Genpact upgraded its existing Safe Work Environment policy to Global “Environment Health Safety & Sustainability policy” (EHS&S) signed by our CEO ‘Tiger’ Tyagarajan This is displayed and communicated across every locations. In 2012, we released our first ever Sustainability Report as per G3.1 (Global Reporting initiative) guidelines eliciting our economic, social and environmental performance. This was audited by an independent third party assurance as per ISAE 3000 by Ernst and Young. The report complies with GRI G3.1 guidelines with an application level of A+. To further validate our journey towards eco transformation, Ernst and Young, an independent third party assurance firm validated and assured our 2011 carbon footprint data. This was poised to be 115613 tons of CO2 (for its major operating locations across India, China, Philippines and Europe). In 2012, we added many of our global locations in our footprint including some of the acquired sites. In 2014, the carbon footprint reduced to 1244883 tons of CO2. However, the carbon emission per employee reduced from 2.39 tCO2e to 2.35 tCO2e. Environmental Management: A Strategic Approach In the current business environment, making the most of the available resources and economizing on opportunities can provide that extra legroom for traversing smoothly and emerging as even more resilient for tackling such challenging times. In light of the limited opportunities left for economizing, managing environmental parameters like energy can be one of the key levers with short to medium-term implications for gaining that much-needed competitive edge in today’s competitive market. Over the years, we have implemented a number of technological as well as process related measures to minimize our environmental footprint. These programs have resulted in both cost savings as well as environmental benefits in terms of reduction in carbon emissions. Major technological interventions include projects like installing modular UPSs, replacing CRT monitors with TFT monitors, adopting cloud-based solutions, installing LED lighting and occupancy sensors, using solar-based water heaters, etc. Process improvements include data center consolidation and virtualization, energy saving drive, computer hibernation, consolidated seating arrangement during weekend, etc. Sustainability is increasingly being used as a differentiator by companies in several sectors but the jury is still out on the validity and success of this argument for the IT and ITeS industry. According to a cross-industry survey by MIT Sloan Management Review and The Boston Consulting Group, over 70% respondents rated environmental issues (like energy efficiency) as significant or very significant (talkers) but only 50% of the respondents (walkers) reported to be largely or fully addressing these issues. Clearly not all companies have looked at these issues strategically or embedded these into their organizational sustainability programs and there is enough room to capitalize on this differential or arbitrage of sorts between the ‘walkers’ and ‘talkers’. As pointed before, investing in sustainability programs, if done right, can also assist in fostering innovation in the organization across functions and at the same time engaging employees with possible second-tier impact on customer experience as well. On the whole, looking at energy costs strategically through the sustainability lens can entail potential impacts not only on the bottom-line of an IT and ITeS enterprise but possibly also on the top-line indirectly through some of the channels mentioned above. We have started looking at these issues through a strategic lens and are continuously linking these with our business issues like asset (seat or space) utilization, operational pattern and associated energy consumption that are specific to an IT/ITeS facility. For Genpact, it may be too early to ascertain the final combined impact of all the measures undertaken but monetary savings accruing to Genpact are already expected to be close to 400,000 USD on an annual basis (in the coming year) along with the environmental benefit of avoiding emitting several thousand tons of carbon emissions. These projects are also assisting in engaging employees, driving innovation and partly in defining what sustainability means for Genpact. The second-tier impact on the overall business is difficult to articulate and measure but is nevertheless fairly palpable in the day-to-day running of the organization. Engaging our employees on environmental issues is one of our prime focus areas. Throughout the year, we plan events for celebrating awareness generating initiatives such as Earth Hour and World Environment Day. We leave no opportunity to further deepen the engagement with our people. We have always abided by environmental regulations and see these as minimum requirements that we must exceed. We ensure compliance to all applicable standards for air pollution (ozone depleting substances, NO2, SO2 emissions, primary source of air pollution from our operations: diesel used in generator sets), noise pollution, effluent quality, etc. We have been compliant with all surveillance audits and we have recorded no instances of exceeding limits so far in all our facilities. We monitor our indoor air quality performance thrice a year, in line with necessary standards and maintain good indoor air quality standards. Genpact Global EHS&S Policy Mission Statement Genpact strives to provide a safe and healthy workplace for all our employees and stakeholders, which benefits communities we live and work in globally. By integrating economic and social progress with environmental conservation and sustainability, we aim to improve the quality of life of all our employees and stakeholders. Our management is committed, and provides considerable resources to meet our Environment, Health, Safety & Sustainability (EHS&S) goals which are to:  Meet and whenever possible exceed applicable environmental, health and safety (EHS) legal requirements  Adopt best practices that support conservation, sustenance and rejuvenation of the environment and natural resources  Minimize our carbon footprint and become carbon neutral in our operations  Drive active participation of all our stakeholders to promote environmental, occupational health and safety procedures through training and behavioral compliance  Provide a safe and healthy work environment by proactively assessing and reducing risk Energy Management Cost effectiveness and agility are two of the most critical enablers for an IT/ITeS enterprise that can allow it to confidently steer through the current and foreseen headwinds in the IT space. Efficiently utilizing resources (both human and non-human capital based) can enhance a company’s cost-effectiveness and agility by freeing up necessary resources to focus more effectively on imperatives like improving ‘customer experience’, embedding innovation in organizational culture, enhancing ability to deliver larger transformational deals, managing changing economics of the sales cycle and dealing with the recent trend of industrialization being witnessed in the sector. Given the fact that energy costs can sometimes make up as much as half of the nonhuman capital related expense for an IT/ITeS facility and the limited opportunities left otherwise for leveraging cost arbitrage, successfully managing energy costs can potentially play a strategic role in tackling some of the bigger trends being played out in the IT/ITeS space. Of course, future cost reduction comes at the cost of current investments and hence efficiently managing energy costs calls for a balancing act and often proves to be as complex and strategic as managing any other business variable. The other side of managing energy costs is the positive externality in the form of reduction in the environmental footprint as a result of the ensuing energy saving interventions. We have undertaken numerous measures over the years to reduce and manage our energy consumption. These include: 1) Replacement of old precision air conditioning (PAC) units with new energy efficient ones 2) Installation of smart-cool in chillers 3) Introduction of plenum in data center precision cooling, LED lighting, using R407C and R410A instead of R22 (which is a more potent ozone depleting refrigerant) for all new projects across India 4) Providing virtual office facility to our employees 5) Selecting green buildings for new facilities, solar heating, optimal sizing of equipment like chillers, Air Handling Units (AHU), generators, transformers etc., and many others. 6) A combination of these and other measures have been undertaken at our sites in India, China and Philippines. Our sourcing team is also actively involved in sourcing green products for our facilities. For some of our requirements, we have prepared green material list that contains names of preferred suppliers that meet requisite environmental standards for that material. Generating Green Impact Generating green impact by adopting resource conservation principles across our operations, going beyond the law of the land when it comes to environmental compliance and standards, deploying technological as well as process related improvements and engaging our motivated workforce in our mission to efficiently minimize our environmental footprint and the associated impact. Earth Hour Participation Since 2007, Genpact has been participating to support the WWF initiative of Earth Hour globally. Our sites in China, Europe and Mexico also had events to raise employee consciousness. In 2014, a global activity was conducted across sites on “Genpact Day of Unplugging”. Employees were asked to share what they would do while they unplug from the daily routine work and this was sent across to all Genpact employees. Also 3M films/posters/white boards etc available at central locations like cafeteria/main lobby for employees to write “I Unplug to ______.” Green IT Implementation of green IT projects has been one of the primary sources of energy savings and emission reductions while greening our operations. Typically, around 40 to 50% of the energy consumption is taken up by the air conditioning system (for data center as well as the production floors). Next is the UPS system (for workstations and data centers) which takes up close to 35% of the energy consumption. This guides the choice of green IT initiatives undertaken. Data center related interventions like data center consolidation (merging, resizing), virtualization through cloud adoption and efficient cooling technologies (plenum) make up for the heap of savings accruing from green IT interventions. Another key initiative is the installation of modular UPS systems in data centers which provides the flexibility of not installing the 100% of your planned capacity at the initial stage as the capacity of the unit is scalable. Investment in tools related to hi-definition videoconferencing and telecommunications produce significant savings in the area of business travel as well. In 2013, we rolled out audio and video features on Microsoft Lync for 1000 employees across the globe. This enabled people to connect with their peers instantly and video functionality gave the feel of face-to-face meetings and thereby impacting the need to incur travel. Jabber is another tool that was made available to enable remote users or people on the move to connect instantly through their mobile phones and make video calls. Savings from green IT initiatives have a direct positive impact on our working capital availability and cash flow situation. In 2013, more than 2.4 million units of electricity (kWh) were saved and more than 2000 tCO2e of emissions were avoided owing to our green IT investments. Some of the key initiatives undertaken in 2014 include:  T5 lights replaced with LED all across India  Optimized usage of AC by installing VRVon floor  Size of data center reduced, resulting in increased cooling efficiency  Inefficient chiller cooling tower replaced with direct saving of water and electricity  Hot and cold aisle containment in DC implemented  EOL cooling units replaced in data center  Continuing to use modular UPS instead of legacy UPS, which is yielding 97-98% efficiency  Optimizing the loading on UPS so that maximum efficiency from the UPS can be achieved  Solar lights installed for peripheral lighting in few facilities Water Management Water Consumption (KL) India 400,000 290,408 300,000 250,171 204,319 200,000 149,119 Consumption (KL) India 100,000 2011 2012 2013 2014 The water sources for our sites in India are ground water (borewell pumps), water brought by tankers and water supplied by municipal authorities. In Philippines, water is sourced from tankers and water supplied by municipal authorities. Both Europe and China rely on water supplied by municipal authorities. Our water consumption does not affect any water source significantly. Water used for drinking is either packaged or from a reverse osmosis (RO) treatment plant. In India, waste water from our operations gets treated in sewage treatment plants (STP). In our facilities in Hyderabad and Jaipur, we have started using the treated water in air conditioning cooling towers and for gardening. We can save about 270 KL of water daily from these two sites which will halve our water consumption and generate annual savings of approximately 200,000 USD. In both these sites, we have also introduced an online Caustic Treatment (CT) Water Monitoring and Chemical Dosing System, which is a microprocessor-based system for continuous monitoring of water quality in circulation before bleeding and for optimizing chemical dosing as per the water conditions. This results in 50% savings. At the Hyderabad site, we will start using the treated water for flushing purposes after running it through a softener, which will again help us save 30% water by virtue of recycling. Water from STPs is regularly analyzed and water quality reports are submitted to the Pollution Control Board. Roof top consolidation and migrations also helped to vacate few inefficient sites and save water consumption to 40,000KL. All sites owned by us have automatic water control sensors for overhead tanks and automatic shut-off for hand wash facilities. We also have signs in our washrooms advocating the need for conservation and continuous efforts are being made to ensure zero leakage in our hydrant systems and plumbing lines. Transport Waste Management A combination of reducing, reusing and recycling waste is used to manage the amount of waste we generate through our operations. For both reusing and recycling waste, we start with segregating waste into different categories such as non-hazardous waste which includes wet waste (food), dry waste (paper waste), sludge and hazardous waste (used oil, e-waste, bio-medical waste etc.). We have also started monitoring the amount of scrap we generate. All hazardous waste is disposed using authorized and accredited recyclers. We have entered into buy-back arrangements with some manufacturers and have also engaged with several third party recyclers for e-waste like computer peripherals and other electronic items. Around 46MT of e-waste was sent to these recyclers in India in 2014. Similarly for China, around 0.4 MT of e-waste was recycled in 2014. To reduce our paper consumption, we encourage practices like two-side printing, online billing, reducing font size by one unit etc. Emissions Management  In 2014, the overall carbon footprint amounted to 1244883 tCO2e.  0.9% pertains to direct emissions (Scope 1) and 99.03% is indirect emission (Scope 2 and 3).  Total emissions went down by 2% in 2014 as compared to 2013. Per employee emissions also went down by almost 2% as compared to 2013; it is 2.35 tCO2e in 2014, 2.39 tCO2e in 2013, 4.66 tCO2e in 2012 and 3.45 tCO2e in 2011. People Safety We are committed to providing a sage and congenial work environment for all our employees and we have put in place requisite policies and management systems. All our major operating sites (primarily in India, China, Mexico, EMEA and Philippines, US) are OHSAS 18001-2007 certified. This allows us to identify potential hazards in our operations and minimize any health and safety related risks. Given the nature of our industry, health risks primarily relate to ergonomic related conditions like repetitive strain syndrome, lower back pain and wrist sprains. All employees have to undertake mandatory online courses on office ergonomics and EHS (environment, health, and safety) awareness. These are supplemented with other online and classroom sessions on issues like safe driving, first aid, life-saving skills, etc., which are conducted throughout the year across our sites. We plan and execute an entire engagement plan around health and safety which includes activities like newsletters, live sessions and quizzes among others centered on relevant topics like body posture, laptop ergonomics and musculoskeletal disorders among others. Fully equipped and appropriately staffed medical centers are available at our sites. Ambulance is also available on standby in case of any emergency. For injuries and safety issues that lie outside the boundary of our offices, we engage with our employees through awareness and training sessions. These activities are managed and driven on the sites by the respective EHS single point of contacts (SPOCs). Employees can also raise any safety concerns directly to the EHS SPOC at their site or the site EHS leader or logistics leader. They can also email their concerns to a designated email address. The emergency evacuation plans in case of a natural disaster or the preparatory mock drills are taken care of by the site floor warden. We also involve our vendor staff stationed at our sites in these training and awareness sessions as they also have to comply with all the EHS requirements applicable to Genpact employees. Implementation of EH&S policy will be met by 16 EHS Framework elements, which would be reviewed once a year for its compatibility to the business environment. These Framework elements cover all procedural aspects of Environmental Health & Safety related to the business in line with policy. Scorecard audit is done basis implementation of Framework elements at sites. Ergonomics Along with Environment, maintaining a proper posture while working is also equally important. While as a part of the ongoing EHS programs, awareness on fire safety measures, emergency preparedness, food safety etc. are done on a regular basis. Special campaigns like ergonomic workshops are conducted with active participation from our employees. Future Plans for Genpact’s Sustainable Strategy 1) Genpact came out with its first ever sustainability report as per G3.1 Guidelines in 2012 2) Genpact firmly believes that Productivity runs through optimization, optimizing the utilization not only helps us conserve natural resources, it also helps improving the cost 3) Reduce energy consumption per employee and sft by 50 % to current level 4) Construct all new own buildings as LEED certified Green buildings 5) Green sourcing: In the next 4-5 years we would want to focus on infusing sustainability into our supply chain and green sourcing where possible, create a Green card rating system internally to evaluate all product and equipment buys and a sustainability selection matrix to evaluate our new upcoming buildings etc., besides buying recycled products or buying products that can be recycled 6) Genpact is also a pioneer BPO in initiatives like cloud computing, virtualization, thin client and would further deep-route its utilization to increase productivity apart from computer hibernation, printing optimization and other initiatives 7) We are also looking into options of deployment of renewable energy in operations through third party purchases and investment in wind and solar PV Awards & Accolades 2014  Gartner 2014 Magic Quadrant for Global Finance and Accounting BPO – “Leader” for fifth consecutive year  NelsonHall 2014 NEAT rankings:  “Leader” in Reference Data Management BPO  “Leader” in Global Property and Casualty Insurance BPO market  “Leader” in Global Capital Markets BPO  “Leader” in Life, Pensions and Annuity and Property and Casualty Insurance BPO  HfS 2014 Blueprint rankings:  “Winner’s Circle” in Global Insurance BPO Services market  “High Performer” in Global Mortgage Services BPO market  “Leader” in Inventory Management and Aftermarket Services in Supply Chain BPO  “High Performer” in Marketing Operations and Customer Experience Management Services  Global Top 3 in ITO perception survey on key innovation parameters  Top 5 in Robotic Process Automation  Alsbridge Innovation Awards 2014 – Excellence and Innovation Through Outsourcing, Genpact-GSK partnership on GSK “Brand Love” program  American Society for Quality 2014 – International Excellence Award, Bronze  IDC 2014 MarketScape rankings:  “Leader” in Pharmaceutical Social Media Analytics Services  “Leader” in Worldwide Business Analytics BPO Services  IDC 2014 FinTech and FinTech Forward 100:  Ranked among top 20 global financial technology firms  Everest Group 2014 PEAK Matrix rankings:  “Leader” and “Star Performer” in Finance and Accounting BPO for 4th consecutive year  “Leader” in Banking BPO  “Star Performer” in Insurance BPO  “Leader” in Supply Chain BPO  “Major Contender” in Procurement BPO  “Major Contender” in Capital Markets AO  Shared Services Outsourcing Network (SSON) 2014:  Asia Most Successful Outsourced Partnership Award with Merck  HfS Research 2014 Capability Blueprints:  “Leader” in Inventory Management and Aftermarket Services Categories in Supply Chain BPO  “High Performer” in Marketing Operations and Customer Experience Management Services  Global Top 3 in ITO perception survey on key innovation parameters  Global Top 5 in Robotic Process Automation  Brandon Hall 2014:  Best Learning Program Results  Best Team Development Program  Best Talent Strategy and Governance
