UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS FREUDENBERG GROUP 2014 | 2015 CONTENTS I. Statement of continued support from the CEO 3 II. The Freudenberg Group 4 i. Group profile 4 ii. We all take care 5 iii. Innovation 6 iv. Risk management 7 III. Human rights and labor 8 IV. Environmental protection 18 V. Anti-corruption 22 VI. Social responsibility 24 2 I. STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT FROM THE CEO DEAR SIR OR MADAM, Corporate responsibility is not a new concept for become more international and to be flanked by regional Freudenberg – on the contrary, it runs like a golden thread Ethics Offices in the Regional Corporate Centers in North through the 166-year history of our company. We believe and South America as well as China and India. corporate responsibility is a key factor for our sustained economic success. And it is our stated goal to make our Environmental protection, occupational health and safebusiness as environmentally compatible as possible. Enty are important issues that receive strong support from vironmental protection is firmly anchored in our business Freudenberg and are put into practice throughout our comprocesses, and wherever possible we reduce the use of raw pany. Group-wide initiatives strengthen the engagement of materials. every employee, such as “We all take care” which encourages all of our employees to safeguard their and others safety One outstanding feature of our products is their high quality and health. But we still constantly strive to become even which makes them exceptionally durable. At the same time better – and expressly commit to implementing the ten many of our products make a direct contribution to protecprinciples of the UN Global Compact and to driving these ting the environment. For example, we have set new indusefforts further forward. try benchmarks in the field of surface coatings for metals by substituting non-toxic chromium(III) for chromium(VI), which is toxic and harmful to the environment. We make every effort to develop sustainable solutions – for better living conditions all over the world both now and for Dr. Mohsen Sohi future generations. Filters from Viledon® Water Solutions are CEO of the Freudenberg Group used for water treatment and desalination – thus making a vital contribution to supplying the growing world population with fresh water and thereby improving the quality of life. Together with our customers we create value for society. We also strive to be recognized as a good neighbor at all our sites. Employees at our Haijin site, for example, launched the “Freudenberg Help” initiative to reconstruct a primary school destroyed by an earthquake and to provide ongoing support. Our dealings with one another, both inside our company and with external partners, are founded on fairness and integrity. All employees are called upon to report any infringement of this principle. The present Ombuds Office is to 3 II. THE FREUDENBERG GROUP i. GROUP PROFILE coherence for the entire Group. Customer value, financial solidity, entrepreneurship, trust, respect, responsibility and Freudenberg is a global technology company supplying a long term orientation – that is what defines Freudenberg innovative products and services to customers in various worldwide. markets and sectors of industry. Freudenberg sees itself as an enterprise of entrepreneurs. The Group harnesses its outstanding technical expertise to Operational business is in the hands of independent comdeliver tailor-made solutions to customers in the passenpanies whose management conducts business under their ger car and commercial vehicle industry, mechanical and own responsibility. These individual companies in turn beplant engineering, textile and apparel, food and beverage, long to Business Groups. construction, mining and heavy industry, energy, chemical, and the oil and gas sectors. Customer groupings also incluFreudenberg has two parent companies: Freudenberg & Co. de companies in the medical technology, civil aviation, rail Kommanditgesellschaft is the Group’s strategic parent comvehicles and semiconductor sectors. pany. Under its roof, Freudenberg SE is the parent company of the various Business Groups and holds responsibility for Freudenberg develops and manufactures seals, vibration managing business operations. control technology components, filters, nonwovens, surface treatment products, release agents and specialty lubricants, The Freudenberg Group has been in family ownership since medical technology and mechatronic products. The com1849. Today, the Group is in the hands of some 320 des­ pany develops software solutions and IT services primarily cendants of the founder, Carl Johann Freudenberg. for small-and medium-sized enterprises. Consumers enjoy the benefits of Freudenberg’s state-of-the-art household products marketed under the vileda®, O-Cedar®, Wettex®, Gala®, Marigold® and SWASH® brands. Creativity, quality, diversity and innovative strength are the cornerstones of the company. Freudenberg believes in diverse teams and the excellence of its workforce of over 40,000. Around the world, employees from many different cultures work productively together. Despite their diversity, there is one thing that they all have in common – the values which have become a deeply embedded culture in the course of the company’s long history. They provide clarity for our employees, reliability for our business partners and 4 ii. WE ALL TAKE CARE Reducing waste Back in 2002, Freudenberg launched the “We all take care” Freudenberg Chemical Specialities in Qingpu, Shanghai, has initiative based on the Freudenberg Group Guiding Principimproved environmental protection at the site. One aim of les. The initiative calls on every employee to proactively enthe Business Group was to integrate employee commitment gage in improving environmental protection, occupational to environmental protection into daily business life. This health and safety. Other important issues embraced by the specific project was designed to lower resource consumpinitiative are a commitment to social responsibility and site tion, as well as to reduce or recycle waste. Today, annual risk management. In this way, every employee plays a perwater consumption has been reduced by 45 tonnes. Raw sonal role in putting the “Responsibility” Guiding Principle material yield and the proportion of recycled materials have into practice in the working environment. All employees can been increased. Conserving resources and efficiency, and enaccess the details of successful projects via the Freudenberg vironmental and economic benefits go hand in hand. This is intranet, thus accelerating improvement processes. The inan important insight to making environmental protection itiative is one of the items on the agenda of the Corporate a matter of course in the minds and actions of employees. Health, Safety, Security, Environment (HSE) Meeting, and its evolution is therefore supported at top management level and by Business Group HSE management. Every year, Freudenberg honors employees who have demonstrated particular success, progress and outstanding performance by conferring the “We all take care” Award. The winning projects in 2014 included the following: Ergonomics One of the main reasons why people fall ill and are absent from work is complaints of the musculoskeletal system, in muscles and joints. Freudenberg Sealing Technologies (FST) developed an Ergonomics Guide that defines the ergonomic standards for the entire Business Group. The implementation of the guide initiated additional “We all take care” projects and resulted in many concrete improvements. In partnership with the FST Academy, an accompanying practice-oriented training concept for employees was also developed. The two-day training courses are designed to consolidate knowledge and deepen the content of the guide. 5 II. The Freudenberg Group iii. INNOVATION In 2014, the Freudenberg Group expensed €270.3 million Awards (previous year: €246.3 million) for research and development based on the pro-rata consolidation of the joint ventuThe Freudenberg Innovation Award is the Freudenberg res. The Corporate Innovation function, in which the former Group’s highest internal award for innovations that are Freudenberg New Technologies Business Group was also already successful in the marketplace. (for examples of integrated in 2014, is responsible for innovation strategy, product developments, see Chapter IV. Environmental proinnovation marketing, public funding and collaborations/ tection) networks. The function pools research and development services to support the Business Groups. The 2014 Karl Freudenberg Prize was awarded to Dr. Michael Floßdorf of the German Cancer Research Center at Helmholtz-Gesellschaft Heidelberg for his work on “stochastic 6 II. The Freudenberg Group T cell fate decisions” from the field of bioscience. He comiv. RISK MANAGEMENT bined mathematical models and statistical analyses resulting from experimental data. The outcome is an important Freudenberg is exposed to numerous risks and opportunibasis for the development of vaccines or the treatment of ties inseparably associated with entrepreneurial action. diseases such as cancer. A risk management system is in place throughout the Freudenberg Group to help the company deal with risks. This The Freudenberg Group also sponsored the Heinz König is a decentralized system oriented to the Group‘s organizatiYoung Scholar Award 2014 of the Center for European Ecoonal structure which was developed further in 2014. The risk nomic Research (ZEW) in Mannheim. The award was premanagement system was therefore adjusted accordingly. sented to Olga Malkova of the University of Michigan, USA, for her work on the effects of parental leave benefits on Various measures to safeguard liquidity are in place which the birthrate. Her research represents a key contribution to allow Freudenberg to react swiftly to unexpected liquidithe discussion concerning the effectiveness of family policy ty-related risks. Such risks are hedged, for example, by solid measures. banking and Partners’ financing and high liquid reserves. Freudenberg has an above-average equity ratio, a stable Freudenberg Sealing Technologies received the TOP Innovalevel of Partners’ reserves through the Partners of tion Award of the F.A.Z. Institute for 2014. This award conFreudenberg & Co. KG, and comprehensive credit lines. firms once again that the continual improvement process and innovation culture at Freudenberg have found recogBinding internal guidelines for companies in the nition. Freudenberg Group clearly specify that derivative financial instruments may not be used for speculative purposes, but only for hedging risks in connection with underlying Global Innovation Forum and collaboration with scientific transactions and associated financing operations. As a gloinstitutions bally active manufacturer of functionally-relevant technical components, specialty chemicals and final user products as Freudenberg held the 5th Global Innovation Forum in May well as a service provider for industry, Freudenberg is expo2014. This time, the subject was process technologies for sed to various legal risks, including risks relating to comthe future. The internal event was attended by over 400 parpetition and antitrust law, anti-corruption regulations, and ticipants from all over the Freudenberg Group. Some 250 environmental protection. researchers and developers gathered in Weinheim for the main event. Around 160 further participants in Brazil, USA, China, India and Japan were linked via video conferencing. Freudenberg has participated in research and development projects supported by the German government and the EU for many years. These funded research and development collaborations between industrial companies and scientific institutions can address issues and problems that can only be jointly solved. In the 2014 financial year, a total of seven German companies in the Freudenberg Group received funding for a total of 16 collaborative projects (12 German, 4 EU) running until the end of 2014 or beyond. 7 III. HUMAN RIGHTS AND LABOR CORPORATE PRINCIPLES AND OMBUDS OFFICE Corporate principles The Guiding Principles of the Freudenberg Group are Value for Customers, Leadership, Responsibility, Innovation, People and Long Term Orientation. These principles serve as the basis and yardstick for all of the Group’s actions. Their implementation in day-to-day business is monitored on a regular basis. The People and Responsibility Guiding Principles are of particular relevance in the context of human rights and labor. These principles articulate the Freudenberg Group’s commitment with respect to these issues. The Management Principles are one element of the Freudenberg Group’s Business Principles (see also Chapter V. Anti-corruption). Compliance with the relevant laws and other statutory provisions and with the applicable versions of the Business Principles and Guiding Principles of the Freudenberg Group as well as compliance with the non-contradictory supplementary in-house customs (e.g. codes of conduct, employee manuals) and external local customs (together referred to as “Corporate Principles”) are indispensable requirements for the good cooperation of all Group employees and a binding basis for the relationship with third parties, in particular suppliers, customers and authorities. They therefore form the foundation of the Group’s economic success. The CorInfringements are not accepted and are corrected or pu­ porate Principles are binding on all employees and must be nished, proceeding from the Board of Management through actively practiced and implemented at all levels, starting the management bodies of the Business Groups down to with the members of the Management Board of Freudenthe respective superiors. This applies in particular to cases berg & Co. Kommanditgesellschaft and the members of the of bribery and corruption, infringements of anti-trust provi­ Board of Management of Freudenberg SE, the members of sions, breaches of relevant regulations under environmental, the management of the respective Business Groups, and by safety and labor laws (e.g. infringement of the principle of all other line superiors. equality) and violations of the personal rights of employees (e.g. personal disparagement, sexual harassment). 8 PRINCIPLE 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection PRINCIPLE 4: the elimination of all forms of forced of internationally proclaimed human rights. and compulsory labor; PRINCIPLE 2: Companies should make sure that they are not PRINCIPLE 5: the effective abolition of child labor, complicit in human rights abuses. and PRINCIPLE 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of PRINCIPLE 6: the elimination of discrimination in reassociation and the effective recognition of the spect of employment and occupation. right to collective bargaining; People As a family company, we strive for we shall not agree to any business the highest standards of personal where illegal or unethical means are As a family company, we are devoted behavior. Fairness and integrity guiutilized. to our employees’ well-being and de our conduct amongst ourselves, personal development. We reject all towards our business partners and We will not manufacture any proforms of discrimination and harassthe general public. ducts intended for harming people ment and show understanding and (e.g. weapons). respect in our dealings with each other. Management Principles A responsible attitude to the environment and the safety of our staff We promote a multi-cultural enThe Freudenberg Group has social are important corporate objectives, vironment where employees work responsibilities to all its staff, both in and must not be restricted to lettertogether in worldwide teams to Germany and abroad. No one single of-the-law compliance with the releenrich our culture and capability. standard can be applied here: what vant statutory requirements. We believe in the value of enduring is needed is a flexible response atrelationships with customers, suptuned to the laws, customs, needs pliers and industrial partners. and possibilities pertaining in each individual country. Discrimination and exploitation of the weak and Responsibility helpless have no place in our company. Our company and its family shareholders together are commitThe Group‘s business policy requires ted to protecting the environment adherence to behavioral principles and being responsible corporate ciwith which both the partners and tizens in all countries and commuthe staff feel able to identify: nities in which we do business. We take all possible care to ensure the We, too, have to hold our own safety of the workplace and of our against fierce competition. Success products. has to come from performance; 9 III. Human rights and labor The Ombuds Office EMPLOYEE REPRESENTATION Work which is produced by disregarding the Corporate PrinFreudenberg signed a Global Agreement on Social Dialog ciples or conduct which contradicts them is undesirable. To with the International Federation of Chemical, Energy, Mine that end, an Ombuds Office was set up at Freudenberg to and General Workers’ Unions (ICEM) and Industriegewerkprovide every employee with a channel of communication schaft Bergbau, Chemie, Energie (Mining, Chemical and for reporting and investigating such infringements. Energy Industrial Union IG BCE) recognizing the international standards and conventions of the International Labor The Ombuds Office records the information communicated Organization (ILO). An annual exchange on social dialog to it, checks its contents for truth and the associated infrinissues has been taking place since ICEM and other trade gements of the Corporate Principles, and works together unions merged in 2012 to form IndustriALL. with various offices in the Group to correct – insofar as still possible – the imminent infringement or one that has acThe guidelines for the Freudenberg Group are the existing tually taken place, and prevent comparable infringements international conventions of the ILO, in particular the follothrough appropriate action; where necessary, the infringewing conventions: ment identified is disciplined. yy ensuring equal opportunities and equal treatment on the The Ombuds Office draws up an annual report on its activijob in accordance with ILO Conventions 100 and 111; ties for the preceding calendar year. A total of 21 complaints from America, Asia and Europe were processed and brought yy safeguarding freedom of association and the respect for to a close in 2014. Apart from processing cases of infringebasic trade union rights in accordance with ILO Convenments against applicable labor law, the work of the Ombuds tions 87 and 98; Office focused in particular on cases of discrimination. yy prohibiting forced labor according to the definitions inIn 2014, the compliance training seminars held at regular cluded in ILO Conventions 29 and 105; intervals for Freudenberg Group Chinese companies con­ tinued to introduce the work of the Ombuds Office in that yy prohibiting child labor according to the definitions inclucountry. Approx. 200 employees attending the seminars ded in ILO Convention 138 and 182. held in English and German found out more about the Ombuds Office, its team, its jurisdiction and method of The right of Freudenberg Group employees to freely join work and were personally encouraged to use the services trade unions of their choice, to elect workers’ representatives offer­ed by the Ombuds Office in their line of duty. The preand to represent their interests in negotiations concerning sent Ombuds Office is to become more international and collective bargaining agreements is acknowledged. The basis will be flanked by regional Ethics Offices in the Regional for this is the ban on discrimination against shop-floor or Corporate Centers in North and South America as well as trade union representatives included in ILO Convention 135. China and India. 10 III. Human rights and labor Freudenberg European Works Council (FEBR) PERSONNEL DEVELOPMENT A regular informal exchange takes place with the various works council bodies at Freudenberg Group sites. In Europe Top Employer the first employee representational body was established in 1996 on the basis of a European directive and a voluntary agreement the Freudenberg Euro-Forum, where delegates from employer representations in countries throughout Europe were able to discuss international issues with the Board of Management. Once constituted, the Freudenberg European Works Council (FEBR) replaced the old Freudenberg Euro-Forum. The FEBR has more extensive information and consultation powers than the older body, as compliance is needed with both national and European legislation. Maintaining the standards achieved to date includes in particular focusing on joint resFreudenberg & Co. was named a Top Employer in Germany ponsibility, support and monitoring of compliance with the for the third year in a row in 2015, continuing the achieabove-mentioned Global Agreement on Social Dialog as well vements of 2014 and 2013. To be certified as a Top Emploas joint support and monitoring of occupational health and yer, companies must meet the high standards set by a mulsafety principles. ti-stage certification process which determines whether a company displays an above-average performance in respect of employee orientation. Based on a comprehensive survey, the Top Employers Institute assesses the performance in the fields of personnel strategy, personnel policy and practice, monitoring and communication of working conditions, and personnel development. The requirements for certification are raised each year with a view to anchoring the continuous improvement concept in the process and to encouraging companies in their quest to improve still further. The entire evaluation process and all the information submitted by the participants is audited by an independent external auditor on the basis of international standards. Companies fulfilling the requirements for certification are given individual feedback including an HR benchmark report. Once certified as a Top Employer, companies can use the official certification seal for a one-year period and also enjoy special benefits (e.g. their corporate profile is published on the Top Employer website and they are featured in a Financial Times special report). 11 III. Human rights and labor Work-life balance Fair Company Freudenberg opened an on-site day care center for children In 2014, the Freudenberg Group was once again awarded at Weinheim industrial park in Germany in November 2014, the Fair Company quality seal which it received every year thus making an important contribution to the work/life basince 2009. The Fair Company quality seal is an initiative of lance for parents. The benefit@work online service portal karriere.de, a portal run by the German business publicaoffers quality-assured services for the family and home, tions “Handelsblatt” and “Wirtschaftswoche”. Fair Company particularly when it comes to caring for children and senirepresents a voluntary undertaking on the part of the partiors or looking after the home and garden. All Freudenberg cipating companies to comply with certain rules as regards employees in the Weinheim region can use the services profair working conditions for career entrants. These rules invided by benefit@work. The service supplier is reviewing the clude the following: expansion of these services to other locations. yy Fair Companies do not substitute permanent employees The objective is to improve Freudenberg’s performance as a by interns, trainees, student assistants, long-term temfamily-friendly employer. The service portal helps employees porary workers, etc. achieve a better work-life balance. yy Fair Companies offer internships for professional orientation mainly during the training phase. yy Fair Companies pay interns adequate compensation. yy Fair Companies are transparent and communicate their participation in the initiative. 12 III. Human rights and labor “Praktikantenspiegel” Vocational training at Freudenberg The Freudenberg Group again received the “Top Praktikum In 2014, 142 young people (previous year: 170) began their 2014” award, having already won this accolade in 2013. vocational training at Freudenberg‘s German companies. The decline in the number of vocational trainees is chieThe “Praktikantenspiegel” is an employer study conducted fly due to changes at Freudenberg Sealing Technologies. In by the HR consultant CLEVIS and focuses on strategic HR previous years the Business Group trained in excess of its management issues. The two dimensional structure of the requirements at the Weinheim location and realigned the study allows for a separation of brand image and employer number of vocational trainees accordingly. quality. Only current and alumni interns take part in the survey, thus providing a representative evaluation of comIn total, 511 people were training at Freudenberg in Gerpanies based on a scientifically profound questionnaire with many as at December 31, 2014. The spectrum ranges from over 100 items. The findings are presented in a four-field a two-year commercial or technical apprenticeship to dual matrix (the four identified employer types are classified as studies at a university of cooperative education. Freuden“Star”, “Hidden Champion”, “Pretender”, “Challenger”), thus berg has acquired a reputation for the high standard of its distinguishing the study quite significantly from linear emvocational training, as is confirmed by the fact that comployer listings. panies located in the vicinity of Freudenberg operations send their young people to Freudenberg for training. FreuThe Freudenberg Group received the “Top Praktikum 2014” denberg drafted a concept for a modern, new vocational award and was also classified as a “Star” company with retraining center in Weinheim during the year under review. gard to employer quality and brand image. The center will be based on the latest educational practice and will be fitted with state-of-the-art technical equipment Furthermore, the Freudenberg Group received an award in order to safeguard excellent vocational training for the for its support of the “Engagier Dich” initiative organized future. Freudenberg invests in vocational training at several by “Campushunter”, a career magazine. The initiative honors locations as is illustrated, for example, by EagleBurgmann in particular the additional qualifications/soft skills of the Germany GmbH & Co. KG. Industrial mechanics, technical students acquired through the Group’s involvement. product designers and industrial clerks receive skilled training in Wolfratshausen. 13 III. Human rights and labor Freudenberg Leadership Development Program The Freudenberg Group offers leadership training for management talent in all regions. During the year under review, Group-wide development programs featuring standardized content were introduced for management talent as part of the Freudenberg Leadership Development Program (FLDP). The target group is young managers who have either just embarked on their first management tasks or are about to do so. FLDP alumni organizations are to be established in the regions to maintain the momentum of the network. Such organizations have already been set up in China and Europe, where several network meetings or FLDP alumni days were held during the year under review with extremely positive feedback. Talent management In addition, regional talent dialogs aimed at supporting management talent across all Business Groups were set Competition to recruit the best minds is one of the biggest up in all regions in 2014. These meetings serve to discuss challenges facing any company. Freudenberg‘s response to Group-wide development perspectives for identified rethis challenge is excellent talent management: gional management talent. Freudenberg also expanded the functional talent dialog which is designed to develop specialist talent. Group-wide development programs for top managers Freudenberg Academy is the name given to a concept launGroup-wide development programs for the top two mached in 2014 addressing the development of a corporate nagement levels below the Board of Management were university for the Freudenberg Group to support collabolaunched at Freudenberg during the year under review. ration among the academies run by individual Business Both the Strategic Leadership Program and the Business Group. Two key elements of this concept are the Learning Leadership Program are key elements of the global talent Management System, which is to be rolled out in 2015, and management process and bring together employees from the Freudenberg Training & Development Forum, which the various Business Groups. The objective is to create a took place for the first time in 2014. network for top management throughout Freudenberg in order to meet the demands of increasing internationalization and to respond to market change. What is needed are international teams who share knowledge with one another, thus developing new ideas and solutions. Both programs are being implemented in cooperation with the internationally acknowledged INSEAD Business School, Fontainebleau, France. 14 III. Human rights and labor DIVERSITY MANAGEMENT At Freudenberg, diversity has been on the agenda for a and trust make it possible to honor different cultural identilong time: The Group’s Guiding Principles state: “We proties, to live the spirit of friendship and to share knowledge mote a multi-cultural environment…” The benefits of diverwith these friends. sity in a corporation are not just obvious in top management. On many levels, different experiences, perspectives Freudenberg launched the first diversity training for maand specialist skills generate ideas that can boost creatinagement potentials in the USA. The aim is to systemativity and innovations. A company with a diverse workforce cally strengthen the participants’ entrepreneurial skills and stands a better chance of understanding different custoto make sure they encourage diversity in their future mamers. nagement positions. Cooperating with partners from different cultures and harOne key element of the talent management process is a nessing the strengths of this diversity have a long tradition diversity statement issued by each Business Group presenat Freudenberg. The Group’s first joint venture was set up in ting the composition of management with regard to gender the USA back in 1950, when Freudenberg and an American diversity, cultural diversity and generation diversity. partner established a company producing nonwovens based in Massachusetts. This was followed by many projects involving close and strong collaboration in various parts of the world. Their success is based on a kind of cooperation that also fosters diversity within a company. Mutual respect 15 III. Human rights and labor OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND Success in the field of occupational safety is representative of other areas where Freudenberg is also seeking continuous SAFETY improvement. Apart from environmental protection this applies in particular to health protection, where the company is stepping up its efforts with regard to preventive health management projects. The guideline for Health, Safety & Environment (HSE guideline) was rolled out throughout the Group in 2014. The guideline sets out the Freudenberg Group’s policy with reference to environmental protection, occupational health and safety. The guideline is an evolved version of previous principles and guidelines and in addition also incorporates preventive health care. Preventive health care The Group further expanded preventive health care management in the year under review. Freudenberg‘s health care principles have been implemented by various measures and programs throughout the Group. Internal surveys on health care infrastructure served to identify improvement potential and define corresponding measures. Health care performance indicators, such as the sickness rate, have been recorded since 2011. The transparency brought by this process has already led to a series of improvement projects such as the two outlined below: Demographic change and the associated age-related diseases are causing a rise in the sickness absence rate at several sites. In response to this situation the Freudenberg Group has, for example, developed a health program featuring health checks, sport during work breaks, and changes in the canteen menus. Freudenberg is committed to the well-being and personal development of its employees. Occupational health and In France, Freudenberg Filtration Technologies introduced a safety is encouraged and practiced at all hierarchy levels project about managing stress at the workplace. Interactive on the basis of internal guidelines. Health protection, training sessions and workshops help employees to develop occupational safety and process safety are part of the dayanti-stress mechanisms. to-day working routine. This approach has made it possible to bring down the number of accidents in the Freudenberg Group to a low level compared to industry peers. Existing measures are being intensified and promising new approaches introduced to continuously improve this accident record. 16 III. Human rights and labor NUMBER OF ACCIDENTS / ≥ 1 DAY PER 1,000 EMPLOYEES Numbers for Freudenberg SE 5 4.0 4 3.5 3.3 3.4 3 2.7 2 1 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Occupational safety previous year. In the year under review, direct investments in occupational health and safety amounted to €12.0 million Occupational safety measures focus on changing the be(previous year: €10.6 million). havior of all employees. One example of these efforts is the numerous projects implemented under the “We all take care” environmental protection and occupational health and safety initiative. Trainers and apprentices at the Freudenberg Service Training Workshop have, for instance, jointly developed a concept that enables apprentices to systematically inspect their working environment for hazards. Each of the apprentices becomes a safety observer for a one-week period. They are tasked with checking the work of the other apprentices in their group for potential risks and ensuring their safety during the week they are on safety duty. The total number of accidents resulting in at least one day‘s absence from work during the year under review was 95 (previous year: 111). From 2015, the non-financial key performance indicator used for internal reporting are being redefined. The indicator to be used from the beginning of 2015 is LDI-FR (Lost Day Incident – Frequency Rate). Unlike the LDI rate formerly used for reporting purposes, the LDIFR measures accidents at work involving at least one day‘s absence per million working hours. In the year under review, the LDI-FR was 1.4 (previous year: 1.8) based on the pro-rata consolidation method for joint ventures, and 1.5 (previous year: 1.9) based on the equity consolidation method for joint ventures. On this basis, the LDI rate in 2014 was 2.7, representing a further improvement on the previous year (3.4). At six, the number of serious accidents was on a par with the 17 IV. ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION ENERGY CONSUMPTION/SALES [KWh/€] Numbers for Freudenberg SE 0.4 0.337 0.321 0.294 0.294 0.279 0.3 0.2 0.1 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Freudenberg is committed to protecting the environment initiatives such as REACh (European Regulation on Regisand assumes responsibility for making the company’s actitration, Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction of Chevities as environmentally compatible as possible. micals), Freudenberg proactively engages in searching for alternatives or substitute substances before a statutory proThat includes using the natural resources needed for our vision comes into effect while at the same time forestalling processes, products and services as carefully and sparingly the effects on production of a possible ban on a given subsas possible. The protection of the environment is strongly tance. In addition, many product developments are subject positioned in Freudenberg’s business practices. The target to a stage gate process which among other things ensures is to continuously reduce the consumption of resources ththat new products have a better environmental performanrough optimized business processes. This principle is also ce than their predecessors. Internal and external audit profollowed in the redesign and modernization of buildings, cesses monitor the implementation of HSE or fire protection the manufacture of products and the use of Freudenberg programs by the Business Groups. One objective of these products by customers. programs is to raise awareness for fire protection and to prevent personal injury, operational interruptions and the Various raw materials and processes used by Freudenberg associated potential delivery disruptions. The findings of the in production have differing effects on the environment and audits are systematically evaluated and measures impleworkplace safety. These effects could, for example, lead to mented throughout the relevant Business Groups. personal injury or have a negative environmental impact at a site. Freudenberg manages these risks in many ways with the aim of continually reducing their impact. With regard to hazardous substances or substances which have become the subject of debate as a result of legislative 18 PRINCIPLE 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to en­ vironmental challenges; PRINCIPLE 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and PRINCIPLE 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. EXAMPLES OF PRODUCT ses, conserve resources, protect people and the environment and thus enhance the quality of life. DEVELOPMENTS This is illustrated by the following examples: Filters from Innovation is a key element of corporate philosophy at Freudenberg installed in hospitals and clean rooms arrest alFreudenberg Sealing Technologies and is pursued consismost 100 percent of all particles. FFT filters reduce fine-dust tently and systematically. Product, material and process contamination in indoor air. And in the foodstuffs industry, competence are decisive factors in a structured innovation FFT filtration systems treat water from the production proprocess. Freudenberg Sealing Technologies’ achievements in cess, returning it to the production cycle and thereby conthis field were recognized in October 2014, when the Busiserving an increasingly scarce resource. A further benefit for ness Group was presented with the TOP Innovation Award the environment and customers is that high-performance, of the F.A.Z. Institute for the first time. energy-efficient filtration solutions from FFT help to lower the energy and operating costs of filtration systems and In the quest to use less material while not comprising thus reduce CO2 emissions. on performance, Freudenberg Sealing Technologies has developed a new solution for press-in-place seals: thanks to its unique design, the Curve Gasket achieves a perfect seal, uses less material and its improved performance EXAMPLES OF PROCESSES AND allows automobile manufacturers and automotive suppliers to design smaller, lighter engine components, thus METHODS reducing the total vehicle weight. The seal is one of the products in the Low Emission Sealing Solutions (LESS) Substitution of chromium(VI) in products and processes at line which is becoming increasingly relevant for trucks and SurTec, a Freudenberg Chemical Specialities business unit: buses. To effectively protect metals against corrosion, the surface can be coated with a chromate. Chromium(VI) compounds The stringent emissions limits for engines in the automotive have been used for the preparation of these surfaces since field call for new technical solutions – covering everything the 1930s. However, hexavalent chromium is now classified from fuel injection to exhaust after-treatment. The new Bluas toxic, carcinogenic and is known to trigger asthma. In the eSeal seal ring is designed for use in high-pressure pumps. 1980s the industry started to look for an alternative for the This patented technology weighs 25 percent less than a consurface treatment of metals – and came under time pressuventional seal and requires only half as much installation re when renowned international carmakers and an EU “End space. Due to its additional metal carrier, the BlueSeal seal of life vehicle” directive prohibited or rather regulated the ring is mechanically resistant to high pressures and resists use of hexavalent chromium from 2005. aggressive substances thanks to the PTFE material. It also significantly reduces friction. The challenge for the project to substitute chromium(VI) in products and processes at SurTec was to develop a chromiIn the field of vibration control technology, a new hydraulic um(VI)-free coating which, at the same time, offers a high axle guide bearing – HALL 2.0 – was developed and showcadegree of corrosion protection. An alternative is chromised at Innotrans in Berlin in September. HALL 2.0 keeps um(III) passivation. Trivalent chromium is not considered trains on track with the help of path sensors, cameras and hazardous to health. As early as 1994, SurTec experts began GPS data, resulting in a safer ride, less wheel and rail wear, with the development of chromium III passivation for zinc less noise, and lower energy consumption. and zinc alloys. Their patent was recognized in the EU, the USA and Canada, in Brazil and Japan in 1996. As a global technology leader in air and liquid filtration, Freudenberg Filtration Technologies (FFT) develops and SurTec was able to achieve and prove a high degree of corproduces high-performance, energy-efficient filtration sorosion protection of a chromium(III) coating in a technicallutions which improve the efficiency of industrial procesly-optimized chromating process. Chromium(III)-containing 19 IV. Environmental protection passivations are not considered harmful to consumer applications. Technical polymers used as bitumen modifiers health – neither in the manufacture, nor in processing or round off the product program. use. The previous strict health controls and regulations for employees are no longer necessary. Fewer critical residues A large share of these products are manufactured from recyarise in the processing of trivalent chromium compared to cled polyester obtained in-house from post-consumer PET hexavalent chromium. This lowers the cost of disposal and bottles. Freudenberg Politex Nonwovens is the largest recyprotects the environment. The company’s customers have cler of PET bottles in Europe and converts over seven million become pioneers in the use of non-hazardous chromium(III) bottles daily into polyester fibers at production plants all passivations. Many national and international standards are over the world. This integrated production cycle not only based on the positive results of the project. recycles waste, but also significantly reduces CO2 emissions. Freudenberg Politex Nonwovens, headquartered in NovedraFurthermore, Freudenberg Politex Nonwovens also optimite, Italy, is the world leader in the production and marketing zed the supply chain, reduced raw material consumption, of polyester nonwovens, mainly used as reinforcements for simplified processes, improved energy efficiency and further bituminous roofing membranes. A broad range of products raised product quality in the year under review. is furthermore sold to the construction industry for different 20 IV. Environmental protection The Business Group became even more sustainable and efFreudenberg Group production sites operate an environficient in terms of resource management. The “Zero Landfill” mental management system pursuant to ISO 14001 or project continued at all sites. The objective is to recycle wasEMAS. Direct investments in environmental protection te and reduce landfill. Landfill at the Colmar, France, facility amounted to €1.8 million (previous year: €2.8 million). The fell by 20 percent year-on-year. share of direct investments in environmental protection, occupational health and safety in total investments in tangible assets, intangible assets and investment properties Energy management amounted to 5.1 percent (previous year: 6.9 percent). Many site projects and Business Group initiatives oriented to the Freudenberg HSE (Health, Safety & Environment) guideline focus on sustainable energy use with a view to reducing the environmental impact of business activities. Energy managers have begun their work at many Business Groups and initiated numerous improvements to existing plants such as heating systems, compressors, ventilation and steam generation units. A growing number of Freudenberg sites is introducing energy management systems, some certified to DIN EN ISO 50001, in order to achieve a sustainable reduction in energy consumption. Freudenberg Sealing Technologies, for example, has begun conducting energy audits at its German sites. Some facilities received certification during the year under review. Furthermore, in cooperation with other Business Groups, further potential was identified and joint projects to increase energy efficiency were initiated. Key data In 2014, Freudenberg consumed 1.6 million megawatt hours of energy (previous year: 1.6 million megawatt hours). The break-down by source of energy is as follows: outsourced energy supplies (power, steam and district heat generated outside Freudenberg; 0.99 million megawatt hours), natural gas (0.57 million megawatt hours), fuel oil (0.03 million megawatt hours). This energy consumption of 1.6 million megawatt hours translates into costs totaling approximately €125 million. Energy costs accounted for 2.1 percent of total sales (previous year: 2.2 percent). The introduction of management systems relating to occupational health and safety (OHSAS 18001) and environmental protection (ISO 14001 or EMAS) continued in the 2014 financial year. 86 percent of Freudenberg Group production facilities now operate an occupational health and safety management system pursuant to OHSAS 18001 and 87 percent of 21 V. ANTI-CORRUPTION Back in 1887, the company’s founder Carl Johann Codes of conduct and compliance management system Freudenberg set out his principles for conducting business when his sons entered the family enterprise. These prinSome Business Groups have issued their own codes of ciples formed the basis for the ten Business Principles laconduct based on Freudenberg’s Business Principles and ter drawn up by the Freudenberg Group; they are a guide Guiding Principles, and work on a code of conduct for the for both the company’s partners and employees. One of Group as a whole began in 2014. The codes of conduct set them states that success has to come from performance; out the behavior expected from every employee, regardless Freudenberg does not agree to any business where illegal of the function or position, when conducting business. They or unethical means are utilized. serve as a guideline for appropriate behavior when dealing with ethical and legal issues and, for this purpose, not only The Freudenberg Group’s Guiding Principles were derived contain details of anti-corruption guidelines but also inclufrom these Business Principles, and define the values for de practical examples, e.g. correct behavior in response to the company´s behavior towards its employees, business invitations. partners, stakeholders, and third parties. The Guiding Principles clearly state that Freudenberg, as a family company, The newly-established Freudenberg Compliance Managestrives for the highest standards of personal behavior, and ment Council (CMC), which complements the existing Risk that fairness and integrity guide the conduct among the Management Council, is responsible for the preparation and company, towards its business partners and towards the evolution of the new Group-wide code of conduct. The CMC general public. The Business Principles and the Guiding comprises representatives from the Business Groups, the Principles are made known to all new employees worldwiregions and selected Corporate Functions. de, and are also published on the Freudenberg website (for more information on the Guiding Principles, please refer to Chapter III. Human rights and labor). Training seminars and anti-corruption measures Compliance with laws, internal guidelines and FreudenFace-to-face seminars for the personal training of employ­ berg‘s own code of values (Guiding Principles and Business ees, e.g. by working on case studies, were again held in GerPrinciples) have high priority and are the subject of regular many and other countries in 2014. These seminars focused training. Furthermore, the Business Groups take the inition Freudenberg’s values and principles as well as national ative in sensitizing their employees’ perception of the reand international laws and legal requirements, particularly levant legal risks. In addition, the Corporate Functions and with reference to gifts and invitations. the Freudenberg Regional Corporate Centers ensure that laws and regulations as well as internal rules are observed The anti-corruption e-learning tool previously used by Freuand complied with. To that end, training events are held denberg along with other e-learning tools was redesigned at regular intervals. Modern communication tools such as for integration in a learning management system (LMS). As web-based training and e-learning tools are used to reach as a result, individual employees or groups of employees can many employees as possible. In order to ensure even more access this program as part of their learning schedule. The effective compliance with legal requirements, an improprogram features brief examples of typical situations which ved framework for a compliance management system was illustrate how employees can recognize corruption and how drawn up in 2014, marking a further step in efforts to create they should behave in such situations. Employees are asked an even more efficient compliance management system in to assess case studies and are given immediate feedback line with ISO 19600 and tailored to the structures and needs on their evaluations. A notice is sent to the LMS when an of the Freudenberg Group. employee successfully completes the final test. Anti-corruption measures and an analysis of their efficacy remain a firm feature of risk management and of the work of the Freudenberg Process Audit Corporate Function. This function was created in 2014 and is based on the Methods 22 PRINCIPLE 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery and Processes unit of Corporate Controlling and Accounting. In that year it was decided to turn this unit into a stand-alone Corporate Function with a reporting line to the CEO. This decision was implemented effective January 1, 2015. The objective of both measures is to expose corrupt actions, to review the efficacy of the measures taken and improve these measures where necessary. In this context, Freudenberg Process Audit pays particular attention to verifying payments made by a company. 23 VI. SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Social responsibility is in Freudenberg‘s DNA. The “Responsibility” Guiding Principle, part of the Group‘s corporate values, states: “Our company and its family shareholders together are committed to protecting the environment and being responsible corporate citizens in all countries and communities where we do business.” This commitment goes back to the company‘s founder Carl Johann Freudenberg and is brought to life today by the Group‘s employees all over the world. In 2014, many of the Group’s companies, sites and employees worldwide again engaged in local projects and initiatives focusing above all on environmental protection and the education of children and young people. The spectrum ranges from small actions in the direct neighborhood to complex projects. Regardless of the scale, all of these activities have one thing in common: they are tailored to suit local needs and involve the engagement of local Freudenberg employees. In addition, numerous internal assistance and support programs are available to the Group‘s own employees. Furthermore, Freudenberg largely implements the rules of the German Corporate Governance Code on a voluntary basis. The following two examples illustrate the long-term nature of the local projects: Freudenberg gives young people the opportunity to complete dual study courses to qualify as welders, plumbers, engine mechanics and machine fitters at a nonprofit training center in Nagapattinam in the Indian state of Tamil Nadu south of Chennai opened in 2009. The Nagapattinam region, with a population chiefly comprising low-income agricultural workers and fishermen, was very hard hit by the tsunami in 2004. An elementary school was rebuilt with Freudenberg’s help and opened in 2009 in Haijin, a village in Sichuan province, China, almost completely destroyed by an earthquake in May 2008. The building provides some 300 students with the right setting for a successful start to their education. Freudenberg employees visit the school each year and organize various activities such as the summer school project, extra tuition and a Christmas party. In the meantime the first children have graduated from the elementary school. “Freudenberg Help”, the association established specially for the elementary school project, is therefore continuing its assistance and supporting students in Haijin both financially and personally as their education progresses. 24 Another success story is the “Learn to Transform” educalearning for exams together and letting off steam on the tional program in Brazil, where the Diadema site of Freuwrestling mat. Freudenberg’s “Wir tun was…” initiative is denberg Sealing Technologies organizes free, six-month supporting the project for two years. The funds donated are pre-vocational training courses for young people from used among other things to finance the cost of extra tuition low-income families. and school books. TANNER, Freudenberg‘s youth exchange program, celebraFreudenberg organized the third volunteering network meeted its 15th anniversary in 2014. Freudenberg offers its emting during the year under review. 90 participants from 30 ployees‘ children worldwide the opportunity to encounter regional volunteering initiatives and associations met to different cultures, to broaden their horizons and to learn share their experiences, meet like-minded people and defor life. Over the past 15 years almost 1,000 young people velop ideas for new projects. The network meetings initiated have traveled the globe with TANNER. In the process, the by Freudenberg are held once a year during the week dediyoung participants, their parents and their host families cated to active citizenship. have gained a stronger sense of belonging to the global Freudenberg community. Enactus, the world‘s largest student organization, focuses on social and ecological projects. The Freudenberg Group Since 1984, Freudenberg Stiftung has been promoting longhas been a committed Enactus partner for over ten years. In term structural change and contributing to more inclusion, 2014, the team from the University of Mannheim became education and democracy with its programs. As a nonprofit the Enactus National Champion in Germany. The winning limited company, the foundation is a shareholder of Freuteam from the “city of squares” is mentored by Cornelius denberg & Co. KG albeit with no voting rights. All projects Bossers from Freudenberg Home and Cleaning Solutions. In focus primarily on children and young people and their so2014, Freudenberg organized the first Service Day in North cial, language, educational and vocational integration. America. On September 26, employees in more than 50 locations in Canada, the USA and Mexico donated food, organiFreudenberg provides support for projects specifically dedized blood drives, visited local senior centers and supported cated to tolerance, neighborliness and the community with schools or educational programs – thus practicing social reits “Wir tun was…” initiative. Donations are allocated to spesponsibility in their neighborhoods in many different ways. cific projects. The maximum sum available for any project is €5,000. One of the projects supported by the initiative in 2014 is called “Wrestling and Learning” organized by the KSV 07 Hemsbach sports club. The project gives children and teenagers the opportunity to combine sporting achievements with success in school: doing homework together, 25 Legal notice Freudenberg & Co. KG Höhnerweg 2–4 69469 Weinheim, Germany Published by Corporate Communications A service for Corporate Health, Safety, Security, Environment Questions concerning content should be addressed to: Ismet Kutay Phone: +49 6201 805853 ismet.kutay@freudenberg.de www.freudenberg.com August 2015
