Annual and Corporate Responsibility Report 2014 Atresmedia Communications Department Av. Isla Graciosa nº 13 San Sebastián de los Reyes 28703 (Madrid) www.atresmediacorporacion.com comunicacion@atresmedia.com responsabilidad.corporativa@atresmedia.com Telephone: (+ 34) 91 623 05 00 This report was approved by the Board of Directors of Atresmedia Corporación de Medios de Comunicación, S.A. 18 March 2015. Letter from Letter from the Key figures the chairman chief executive of atresmedia p. 4 officer p. 12 p. 8 Highlights Atresmedia Atresmedia of the year p. 28 Televisión p. 14 p. 65 Atresmedia Atresmedia Atresmedia Radio Publicidad Digital p. 86 p. 97 p. 111 Atresmedia Atresmedia Human Diversificación Cine resources p. 117 p. 125 p. 130 Society Environment Annexes p. 149 p. 166 p. 178 Continuing with the trend initiated in 2009, this report combines the financial and non financial (social, environmental and Good Governance) aspects of Atresmedia. This is another example of the commitment made by the company with the complete integration of Corporate Responsibility in its business model. In addition Atresmedia produces its report according to the “comprehensive” level criteria established by the new GRI G.4 guide, which guarantees that its content covers aspects that are most relevant to its stakeholders. All relevant issues have been highlighted with the label MATERIAL ISSUE throughout the report, which has been externally verified by AENOR, the Spanish Association for Standardisation and Certification. Furthermore and based on this line of information transparency and accessibility, Atresmedia has created a specific microsite for the Annual and Corporate Responsibility Reports, hosted on the corporate website www.atresmediacorporacion.com, to consult and download all the information included in this document. This communications channel has enabled us to eliminate the printed version of the Annual and CR Reports and strengthen the commitment of the Company with an efficient use of natural resources. LETTER FROM THE Chairman José Manuel Lara’s appointment as Chairman of Antena 3 heralded the start of one of the greatest periods of success and growth in the company’s history. Today, 12 years on, Antena 3 has become Atresmedia, the largest communications group in our country. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 | LETTER FROM THE CHAIRMAN | 5 José Manuel Lara’s appointment as Chairman of Antena 3 heralded the start of one of the greatest periods of success and growth in the company’s history. Today, 12 years on, Antena 3 has become Atresmedia, the largest communications group in our country and a leading global operI take on ator in the most important business areas within the audiovisual sector: the challenge with television, radio, cinema and the digital environment. This is his legacy: a humility, aware that it bright present and a future full of opportunities. will not be easy, but He knew how to make us not only bigger, but also stronger and more effiwith the confidence cient. He turned Atresmedia into an organisation capable of dealing with and pride of knowing any obstacles and with him at the helm we have been able to overcome, that I can count on the like few others, the greatest economic crisis ever known without ever taking our eye off the need for profitability. He taught us that innovation, best possible team of the ability to adapt and non-conformity were the ways to achieve our professionals and the objectives. invaluable support of the Board of Directors. Now, the challenge for all of us who form part of this company, and the commitment that I personally adopted on 25 February when I was appointed Chairman of Atresmedia, is to carry on this great legacy. I take on the challenge with humility, aware that it will not be easy, but with the confidence and pride of knowing that I can count on the best possible team of professionals and the invaluable support of the Board of Directors. I have the responsibility of continuing with a management approach based on excellence and the energy and ambition to maintain and consolidate Atresmedia’s key role in the Spanish audiovisual sector. The results for 2014 contained in this report speak for themselves in terms of the strength of our company and this privileged position in the market to which I have just referred. Similarly, they highlight our great ability to take advantage of each and every growth opportunity that arises, even in the most adverse of circumstances and, ultimately, they confirm that the strategy established in recent years has been the right one. Our overall approach as a Group has been to commit to plurality and diversity as a differentiating value and to become an important and necessary part of a society, which we are here to serve, which is also plural and diverse. At the same time, all of our media channels and each of the business areas where we operate share attributes (commitment to quality, talent, creativity and supporting the industry) that make Atresmedia a recognisable and well-respected operator. This is the balance that has allowed us to distance ourselves from our competitors, providing us with personality, and that has earned the respect of the market, the advertisers, the audience and the audiovisual sector itself. It is undoubtedly a fundamental factor in the constant improvement in our financial results, which in 2014, as in recent years, can only be described as extraordinary. By division, our television department is celebrating its anniversary. On 25 December 1989, Antena 3 began its test broadcasts and became the first private television network in the history of our country. Twenty five years later we can proudly say that our way of understanding and making television has allowed us to combine, like no other, reputation, large audiences and profitability. The sum of these three factors, which are not easy to combine in such a competitive market, make not only Antena 3 but also its family of channels, Atresmedia TV, the favourite TV operator with audiences, the one with the best professionals according to the Spanish people, an absolute leader in genres as important as news and drama, the one showing most commitment to the development of the sector and technological progress and the one with most awards and the best image. In short, a truly leading organisation in society and the industry as a whole. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 | LETTER FROM THE CHAIRMAN | 6 Despite ending 2014 with three fewer channels than at the start of the year and two fewer than our main competitor, as a result of the wellknown judgement from the Supreme Court, Atresmedia Televisión has closed the year with a 27.7% audience share, has managed to lead in the For 2015 we evening timeslot, one the most important, with 30.4%, and has the hightrust that the legal est rate of hits in the market. By network, Antena 3 achieved its highest and administrative figures over the last five years, after three consecutive years of growth, and is the absolute leader in the commercial target. laSexta, meanwhile, uncertainties that are has closed its best ever year and the second generation networks, Neox still affecting the TV and Nova, have been the most viewed in their genre and audience, also sector will begin to breaking audience records. fade and we can finally For 2015 we trust that the legal and administrative uncertainties that are run our business in the still affecting the TV sector will begin to fade and we can finally run our stable environment business in the stable environment that is so desired and necessary. that is so desired and necessary. Atresmedia Radio has once again demonstrated the strength of its offering as a whole. Onda Cero remains the station with the best rate of profitability per listener and Europa FM does not seem to have found its limit yet and continues to gain positions in the ranking of radio formulas. Both have once again been the fastest growing in 2014. Far from being satisfied with these figures, we have been able to successfully expand our family of stations through Melodía FM, which in its launch year has managed to increase its number of listeners by more than half a million. With Atresplayer established as the absolute market leader for consuming audiovisual products across all the new media supports, Atresmedia Digital has accumulated more than 530 million playbacks across all its channels, double that in 2013, and has created Atrestube, the Atresmedia multi-channel platform on Youtube with more than 30 offers of self-produced news and entertainment. Similarly it has boosted its growth strategy with new verticals that have doubled the audience throughout the year and have placed, among other milestones, Antena 3 as the private network with the most fans on Facebook and the first national television network to exceed one million followers on this social network. Atresmedia Cine, meanwhile, has been a notable leader and driving force in what has been considered one of the best years in the history of Spanish cinema. All of the productions from our film division were among the 25 most viewed and three of them were among the five with the most viewers: Torrente 5, Exodus: dioses y reyes and La isla mínima, the latter having been hugely popular with audiences and critics alike and having won recognition as the film of the year. Atresmedia Diversificación has strengthened its expansion policy during 2014. The Atres Series channels, launched last year, ¡Hola! TV and Antena 3 Internacional together now exceed 25 million subscribed households throughout the world, turning our Group into the European private television operator with the most signals outside its borders. Similarly, the media for equity area has been strengthened and at year end we had a portfolio of seven participating companies with a high growth potential. The success of all these activities and business areas is largely possible thanks to the efficiency of Atresmedia Publicidad which has again been the largest seller of multimedia advertising on the Spanish market with a share of 23% of the total investment in conventional media. The creation of AtresmediaLab, a laboratory for innovation and technology applied to advertising, and the Advertisers’ Office, are the result of its constant desire to improve. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 | LETTER FROM THE CHAIRMAN | 7 However, Atresmedia is not a leader just because of its business success. Its position is also due to its commitment to society. For many years corporate responsibility has been a strategic and cross-cutting feature at Atresmedia and in all that time it has constantly provided us with value. For many years We are aware of the transforming ability that we have as a transmedia corporate responsibility group and the positive impact that our messages can have on society. As has been a strategic and a result, we do not hesitate to use our power to raise awareness and mobilise people to help deal with the problems that affect and concern the cross-cutting feature public. Examples include road safety, healthcare, protecting intellectual at Atresmedia and property rights, promoting medical research and the education of chilin all that time it has dren and young people. Initiatives such as Ponle Freno and the constant constantly provided us activity of Fundación Atresmedia have been helping society for almost ten years, and new initiatives like Objetivo Bienestar, Constantes y Vitales with value. and Crea Cultura were created in 2014 to follow in their footsteps. The accessibility of our content, advertising self-regulation, and a commitment to the future of the profession through training young people are also found among our strongest commitments. Being a member of the main corporate responsibility forums such as the Global Compact, the Media CSR Forum and most recently the Asociación Española para la Calidad (Spanish Association for Quality), has helped us to consolidate our global corporate responsibility strategy, which we work on with dedication and conviction and which has allowed us to differentiate ourselves in the industry, stand out among listed companies and receive several awards. José Manuel Lara ended his letter last year by looking towards the future, which he described as promising. Especially, he said, given what we had been able to achieve when the wind was blowing against us. As always, he was right. Those of us who now take up the baton from him have a wind that, although only slightly, is now blowing in our favour and we also have the benefit of the professional heritage left to us by one of the best businessmen that our country has ever seen. It will not be easy, but we have the responsibility, commitment and willingness to work to ensure that Atresmedia remains the leading Spanish communications group and I am sure that we will achieve this. José Creuheras LETTER FROM THE Chief Executive Officer José Manuel Lara had successfully held the reins of this company over the last 11 years and we are in his debt for much of the philosophy and many of the achievements of this company, which has just celebrated its first 25 years of history. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 | LETTER FROM THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER | 9 I could not start my summary of the year without expressing my admiration and affection for the late José Manuel Lara Bosch. He was an exceptional man and an extraordinary businessman, with a great capacity for dialogue, who helped to strengthen the role of free and diverse informaAtresmedia tion in Spain and to modernise the cultural sector. has overcome this advertising and Without his leadership and love of innovation, Atresmedia would not be the great communications group that it is today. José Manuel Lara had economic recession successfully held the reins of this company over the last 11 years and we thanks to its ability are in his debt for much of the philosophy and many of the achievements to adapt to a of this company, which has just celebrated its first 25 years of history. constantly changing Over this time, Antena 3, the first private television network in our counsocio-economic and try, has turned into Atresmedia, the leading audiovisual communications legislative environment, group in Spain, which creates, manages, distributes and markets content to create new business across all the communications platforms. areas, to improve its management and also 2014 has been an excellent year. The market has finally shown the first signs of recovery after seven years of crisis that saw a fall of almost 50% thanks to a huge dose in advertising investment. Atresmedia has overcome this advertising and of innovation. economic recession thanks to its ability to adapt to a constantly changing socio-economic and legislative environment, to create new business areas, to improve its management and also thanks to a huge dose of innovation. The crisis has made us stronger and more flexible, and now that the recovery is taking its first steps, we are in the best possible position to take advantage of a future full of opportunities. According to Infoadex, 2014 saw a 10% growth in advertising investment. We will probably see a continuation of this trend in 2015, which means that, although there is still a long way to go, the coming years should bring us new opportunities for growth. In 2014 we had what was called the “digital switch-over”, which forced Atresmedia Televisión to stop broadcasting xplora, Nitro and laSexta3, three leading channels among their genre and audience. Their closure broke the balance with our main competitor. Despite all this, we did not have time for regrets and have continued working to minimise the consequences and reinforce our commercial strategy. Today Atresmedia Televisión, with four leading channels in their segments, is a well-known brand, with an innovative, high quality business model, respectful of its viewers and advertisers and highly valued by the audiovisual sector, of which it is very supportive. This model has allowed our channels to increase their audiences month after month thanks to programming that is varied in genres and offers an extremely high proportion of hits. It is a television network that also stands as the favourite of society and the most appealing from an advertising point of view. Antena 3 has grown 0.2 points compared to 2013 and is the new absolute leader in the commercial target (13.8%), the audience of most interest to the advertisers. In 2014, Atresmedia won various awards, including six Ondas Awards, 17 awards from the Academy of Television, and four MIM awards, which made us the audio-visual group with the most awards. The merger with laSexta was a great business and editorial success and has brought us diversity and richness. Since this channel was added to the Group, its audience has not stopped growing, to the point that it has so far seen 30 months of uninterrupted growth. With an increase of 1.2 ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 | LETTER FROM THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER | 10 points compared to last year, it is a solid media channel that has more than enough ability to become the third largest channel in the country. As a media group, we are very well aware of our important role within the Today system of checks and balances in a democratic society and we know very Atresmedia Televisión, well that diverse and free information is essential to ensure that the public with four leading is well-informed. We strive to achieve the largest audience possible, but there are limits because we are committed to a society that we hope will channels in their develop and become more open and tolerant. segments, is a wellknown brand, with Our thematic offering is also popular with audiences. Both Neox and Nova an innovative, high have improved their results. Neox has grown by 0.3 points and has become the second thematic channel in the market; and Nova has achieved quality business model, its best ever result with a new annual record: a 2.5% audience share, 0.4 respectful of its viewers points more than in 2013. and advertisers and highly valued by the Atresmedia Radio, the second largest radio group in Spain with five milaudiovisual sector, lion listeners, has also achieved very good results thanks to excellent figures for Onda Cero and Europa FM, and also due to the successful reof which it is very launch of Melodía FM, which released new programming in 2014. supportive. We feel proud to be a leader at the forefront of technology and to be present where the audience is, whether on television, radio or the new digital supports. In 2014, Atresmedia Digital managed to move the group up to thirteenth place, from 28th, in the multi-platform ranking by comScore. In addition, in its first year, Atresplayer achieved a monthly average of 4.4 million users, exceeding the traffic for its predecessor, Modo Salón, by 21%. 2014 was the year that saw Spanish cinema take off. A year which saw the highest ever box office takings and during which Atresmedia Cine contributed eight feature films. Television is currently the main driving force behind the film industry, not only because of the quality of the films produced, but also because of its great promotional work. The highlight among our releases was La isla mínima which became the film of the year for both critics and audiences alike and won ten Goyas out of the eleven awarded to Atresmedia Cine. Over recent years, Atresmedia has developed an active diversification strategy in order to provide the company with growth options that do not rely on advertising revenue. As a result of this initiative we created a new division, Atresmedia Diversificación, which brings together all of our activity in this area into five main categories, among which we can highlight the International area which this year has launched Atres Series, the only 100% series channel in Spanish and HD. Together with Antena 3 Internacional and ¡HOLA! TV, the three channels exceed 25 million subscriber households worldwide and make Atresmedia the European private television operator with the most signals outside of its borders. For 2015, Atresmedia Publicidad, through Atresbusiness, has organised the Management & Business Summit, designed to become the leading meeting for directors and executives. This initiative aims to strengthen professional development and to become a key date in the diary for all those seeking innovation in business and in managing teams. It will feature important speakers such as Mikhail Gorbachov, Pau Gasol and Ram Charan, among others. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 | LETTER FROM THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER | 11 Atresmedia Publicidad is one of the main reasons why the group has managed to survive the advertising crisis and the withdrawal of the licences from three of our channels. Atresmedia Publicidad has again demonstrated that it is the most efficient organisation in the market, obThe hospital taining the greatest profit across all our products and brands and, thereassistance programme fore, strong financial results. run by the Atresmedia Net revenues reached 883.2 million euros (compared to 829.8 in 2013), Foundation has now which represents a 6.4% increase. The EBITDA was 127.7 million euros reached the whole (+59.3%), achieving a sales margin of 14.5%, almost five points above the of Spain. In total, 130 margin achieved in 2013. Net profit reached 46.7 million euros, 1.6% more hospitals benefit from it than in 2013. and more than 170,000 Atresmedia as a company is committed not only to profitability and its children enjoy the shareholders, but also to society. Throughout 2014, Antena 3 has contintelevision channel for ued with its corporate campaign, Ponle Freno, and has added Crea Culhospitalised children tura, a movement to raise awareness and defend the value of intellectual called FAN3. property, which has been very well received by society and the cultural sector. Additionally, under the name Constantes y Vitales, laSexta has launched its first social responsibility campaign, in this case to enhance medical and scientific research. Its main cause has been the recent request from the Spanish Research Council. In addition, the Federación de Mujeres Directivas, Profesionales y Empresarias (Federation of Women Managers, Professionals and Entrepreneurs, FEDEPE) has given Atresmedia an award for its commitment to equality between men and women. With the aim of boosting Corporate Responsibility (CR), both internally and externally, in 2014 Atresmedia joined the Asociación Española para la Calidad (Spanish Quality Association, AEC) and is an active member of its CSR Committee. We also participate in the Corporate Responsibility Network run by RTL, in order to share knowledge and experience with other companies in the RTL group. The hospital assistance programme run by the Atresmedia Foundation has now reached the whole of Spain. In total, 130 hospitals benefit from it and more than 170,000 children enjoy the television channel for hospitalised children called FAN3. In 2014, the Foundation has continued to have education as the central focus of its activities. One of its most notable initiatives was the meeting between young people and education advisers in Congress. This allowed students to have their say and reflect on how education could be improved. In 2015, now that the worst of the crisis has passed, we will be faced with a stimulating future full of new challenges that we will address with the same spirit of hard work and innovation that José Manuel Lara, our Chairman, always demonstrated so well. We will continue to work tirelessly to make his enormous legacy even greater. Silvio González KEY figures OF ATRESMEDIA ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 | KEY FIGURES OF ATRESMEDIA | 13 The following table shows, by way of an executive summary, the main results of Atresmedia grouped into three areas: economic, social and environmental. Economic dimension 2012 2013 2014 Total net income (millions of €) 741.2 829.8 883.2 Gross operating profit (millions of €) 39.5 80.2 127.7 Net profit (millions of €) 29.5 46.1 46.7 Distributed economic value (millions of €) 618.3 585.9 635.3 Financial support received from Public Administrations (millions of €) 2.5 1.0 7.4 Ratio of advertising efficiency (adults) 1.71 1.52 1.51 Ratio of advertising efficiency (individuals) 1.72 1.49 1.55 Number of advertisers 18,105 16,877 16,077 Number of suppliers of goods and services 1,084 1,040 1,088 Number of producers 9 17 22 Average audience share of Antena 3 Televisión (%) 12.50 13.40 13.60 Average audience share of laSexta3 (%) 5.45* 6.0 7.20 Average audience share of Neox (%) 2.60 2.30 2.60 Average audience share of Nova (%) 1.60 2.10 2.49 Share of Onda Cero (%) 20.3 19.5 20.4 Share of Europa FM (%) 10.5 10.0 10.1 Share of Melodía FM (%) 0.7 1.0 1.6 Number of listeners of Onda Cero 2,615,000 2,598,000 2,650,000 Number of listeners of Europa FM 2,121,000 2,045,000 2,078,000 Number of listeners of Melodía FM 106,000 169,000 255,000 Number of unique users of Atresmedia websites (mil.) 9.1 12.0 17.0 Note: the economic figures include the results of laSexta since October 2012. * These figures have changed with respect to those published last year, when the number of listeners in the last wave of the year was included. This year, as the most relevant figure, the average number of listeners from each year has been included. Social Dimension 2012 2013 2014 Hours of children's programming broadcast 3,337 2,347 1,690 Cumulative hours of subtitling 29,940 35,881 27,537 Number of employees 1,773 1,829 1,806 % of women in the workforce 48.6 48.1 49.9 Investment in training (€) 395,700 372,487 348,661 Hours of training per employee 30 19 22 Hours of corporate volunteering donated to the community 1,360 1,429 1,772 Foundation Income contributed by Atresmedia (€) 500,000 300,000 300,000 Donations to NGOs through Atresmedia programmes 288,000 656,354 171,809 Complaints under the Self-Regulation Code 0 0 8 Opportunity cost of broadcasting advertising slots on TV, for NLEs (€) ** 8,300,820 5,542,630 3,044,000 Opportunity cost of broadcasting advertising slots on radio, for NLEs** (€) 1,652,155 4,697,455 3,494,228 * NLEs: Non lucrative Entities. Environmental dimension 2012 2013 2014 Consumption of white paper (kg) 28,136 26,908 26,844 Consumption of printer toner and cartridges (kg) 594 563 534 Consumption of fluorescent lights (units) 1,301 1,635 976 Solid urban waste (tonnes) 325 314 308 Gas consumption (m3) 12,579 12,517 15,308 Consumption of heating oil (litres) 419,643 458,148 469,696 Consumption of electricity (KWh) 29,070,214 28,276,898 27,399,791 Consumption of water (m3) 50,553 44,297 56,863 Direct GHG emissions (equivalent tonnes of CO2) 1,373 2,463 3,282 Environmental investment (thousands of €) 25,670 14,363 89,490 HIGHLIGHTS of the year Antena 3 is leader in the morning slot with Espejo Público, achieving the highest viewing figure in its history. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 | HIGHLIGHTS OF THE YEAR | 15 Atresmedia Televisión. The audience has responded positively to a diverse, high quality model Atresmedia Televisión, with four channels, two fewer than its main competitor, has closed 2014 with a 27.7% audience share. The group leads in the evening slot with 30.4%. In Prime Time, the slot with the highest viewing figures, its audience share has increased to 28.1%. The Atresmedia Televisión professionals Jordi Évole, Matías Prats, Arturo Valls, Karlos Arguiñano, Sandra Sabatés and Ana Pastor are the most popular within the Spanish public according to a study by Personality Media. This successful model has given the Atresmedia Televisión channels a strong personality, and has given them a very high percentage of successful programmes, surpassing all their competitors. Antena 3 began its test broadcasting on 25 December 1989 and in 2015 has held several commemorative events involving institutions, employees, advertisers and viewers. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 | HIGHLIGHTS OF THE YEAR | 16 In 2014, Antena 3 achieved a 13.6% audience share, its best figure in the last five years. It has grown +0.2 points compared to 2013, resulting in three consecutive years of growth. It is the leading channel in the target audience with 13.8% (+0.4 compared to the previous year), its best result since 2009. In Prime Time it achieved 12.9% (+0.5 points higher than in 2013). __ Antena 3 Noticias 1 (Mon-Fri) is the leader in its timeslot and has been the leader over the year for the first time since 2007. Antena 3 Noticias weekend is the absolute afternoon leader over the year. __ The channel leads the morning slot (14.6%) with Espejo Público, achieving the highest viewing figures in its history (482,000 and 16.8%), Karlos Arguiñano en tu cocina which, with a 14.9% share, has had its best year on Antena 3 and La ruleta de la suerte which has been the unbeatable leader in its timeslot for 50 consecutive months. It is also the afternoon slot leader with 13.1% thanks to the leadership over the year of the first edition of Antena 3 Noticias. __ Antena 3 grew by 0.5 points in prime time over the year thanks to El hormiguero 3.0, which achieved its annual record high, and a wide range of proposals that excite and entertain the viewers every night: El tiempo entre costuras, Top Chef, Tu cara me suena, Sin identidad, Velvet and El peliculón are some examples. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 | HIGHLIGHTS OF THE YEAR | 17 __ Series Atresmedia was created in January as the brand that encompasses all the production of domestic drama for the group’s television and it has become a benchmark for quality in the industry. Included among the series released in 2014 are Velvet, leader in its slot with over 4 million viewers, Sin identidad, which became the most watched première of the year with almost 5 million viewers and a 25.7% share, and the latest episodes of El tiempo entre costuras, a drama series that was a turning point in the production of this genre. __ Amar es para siempre and El secreto de Puente Viejo achieved their highest ever audience shares with 14.1% and 18.3% respectively, and contributed to the leadership of Atresmedia Televisión in the evening slot (30.4%) despite having two channels less than Mediaset España. __ It is the most followed network among young people (13.3%) and viewers in the 45 to 54 age range (14.9%). It also remains a clear favourite among the upper and upper middle classes and has once again increased its following among the middle class. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 | HIGHLIGHTS OF THE YEAR | 18 laSexta, with a 7.2% audience share, has had the best year in its history. It is the channel that has grown most this year, increasing its share by 1.2 points compared to 2013. The Atresmedia TV channel has had 27 months of consecutive growth since the merger. In prime time it recorded 8.4%, one percent higher than in 2013. The responsiveness to the news of Más vale tarde, El objetivo de Ana Pastor, La sexta noche and Salvados and the entertainment of Zapeando, Pesadilla en la cocina, En el aire and El jefe infiltrado, are the key factors. __ In 2014 laSexta Noticias achieved three annual records with its first and second editions and the first weekend edition. __ El intermedio, with growth of 1.5 points over a year, recorded its best ever result with 12.2% and 2,331,000 viewers. __ In the evening, Zapeando continues its upward trend and Más vale tarde achieved its best ever figures with 6.7% and 670,000 viewers. Al rojo vivo also achieved an annual record with 10.1%. __ Salvados has the highest viewing figures in the network in 2014. The programme is the leader in its time slot and the most watched programme on a Sunday with an average of almost 3 million viewers. __ El jefe infiltrado is the best entertainment première in the history of laSexta with 16.5% and 2,882,000 viewers. The thematic leaders in their genre and audience. Neox equaled its second best annual figure (2.6%). It is the thematic channel leader in the evening (9.9%) and in the Prime Time (8.1%) among young people. Nova had it best year ever (2.5%). It is the most viewed female themed channel, leader in the evenings, from Monday to Friday (4.4%). xplora (1.6%), laSexta3 (1.7%) and Nitro (1.7%) said goodbye as leaders in their genre and target audience. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 | HIGHLIGHTS OF THE YEAR | 19 Atresmedia Radio successfully expands its family of stations Atresmedia Radio obtained some excellent audience results across its three stations: Onda Cero, Europa FM (the ones that have grown most) and Melodía FM (relaunched in January 2014). The radio division of the group has managed to increase its number of listeners by 500,000. Onda Cero, which once again had the best profitability per listener index, closed last year with more than 2.6 million listeners and its market share was 20.2%. __ Herrera en la Onda, with more than 2 million followers, was the morning programme that attracted the most new listeners during 2014. __ In the evenings, the programme presented by Julia Otero, Julia en la Onda, despite being one hour shorter than the competing programmes, managed to gain sixty thousand new listeners and consolidate its position in second place in the ranking of evening radio shows with 542,000 listeners. __ La brújula has continued its upward trend and is the fastest growing news programme over the last year. Levántate y Cárdenas was the music programme that gained the most audience in the year. Un lugar llamado mundo, on Europa FM, won a Ondas 2014 Award for its innovative commitment to live music. The new programming on Melodía FM and the launch of the morning show Lo mejor que te puede pasar, directed and presented by Nuria Roca and Juan del Val, have managed to double the audience in their timeslot during their first year on air. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 | HIGHLIGHTS OF THE YEAR | 20 Atresmedia Publicidad, effectiveness to continue being the best Atresmedia Publicidad has consolidated its position as the largest seller of multimedia advertising in the Spanish market, with a share of 23% of the total investment in conventional media. 60% of the advertising investment for the Atresmedia TV channels has been generated from advertisers present across the group’s three formats: television, radio and internet. Atresmedia LAB has been created as the innovation and technology laboratory applied to advertising. Its objective is to optimise the new multi-screen advertising opportunities and therefore increase the effectiveness of the spots. Atresmedia Publicidad has created the Oficina del Anunciante (Advertisers’ Office) in order to deal with to and resolve any incidents or complaints from its customers. Atresmedia Publicidad has supported the creation of AUNIA, the first platform that brings together the online media content and guarantees its customers the presence of their brand in professional, high quality content and in a safe environment. Atresmedia Digital, leadership and innovation Atresmedia has once again excelled in the digital market with excellent results and new technological milestones. According to the official analytics company comScore, Atresmedia is in 13th place in the multi-platform ranking, rising fifteen positions in the table compared to the previous year. Atresmedia Digital has accumulated, with all its channels, more than 530 million reproductions, doubling the figure with which it closed the 2013 financial year. Atrestube has been created as the Atresmedia multi-channel on Youtube, with more than 30 channels for its own productions that together create a comprehensive entertainment and information offering. In the Group’s digital area, it has strengthened its diversification strategy with the vertical channels that have doubled their audience over the year and it has created, among others, the new children’s content portal neoxkidz.com which complements the Atresmedia Televisión offering for the younger audience. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 | HIGHLIGHTS OF THE YEAR | 21 Atresmedia Diversificación is expanding This year the international area has launched Atres Series, the only 100% series channel in Spanish and HD. Together with Antena 3 Internacional and ¡HOLA! TV, the three channels exceed 25 million subscriber households worldwide. Atresmedia has therefore become the European private television operator with the most subscribers outside its borders. The activity of media for equity has been consolidated in 2014 and it closes the year with a portfolio of seven investees, all characterised by their strong growth potential. The New Business area has kept up the pace of launching innovative products, highlights including the Atrapa un Millón brand that, following the completion of a deal with ONCE to develop Rasca Atrapa un Millón, has become the highest selling lottery product in its category. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 | HIGHLIGHTS OF THE YEAR | 22 Atresmedia Cine, box office and awards Atresmedia Cine has been the main player and the driving force behind one of the best years in the history of Spanish cinema. The Group’s cinematographic division produced eight feature films that, together with those released at the end of 2013 and were still shown in cinemas during 2014, recorded a revenue of 34.9 million euros. This figure represents 27% of the box office takings for all Spanish films. All the Atresmedia Cine productions released this year have been among the 25 top films and three of them are among the five most watched (Torrente 5, Exodus: dioses y reyes and La isla mínima) La isla mínima has clearly been the film of the year for both audiences and critics. The film won ten of the total of eleven “Goyas” received by Atresmedia, to which were added five Feroz Awards, two Forqué Awards, eight CEC Medals (Cinema Writers Circle) and ten Asecan awards, among others. The highest grossing Atresmedia Cine film of the year was Torrente 5, which took in more than 10 million euros in the box office. The fifth Torrente film is in third position in the ranking of Spanish films. During the weekend of its release it was seen by more than half a million spectators, bringing in more than 3,700,000 euros on its première. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 | HIGHLIGHTS OF THE YEAR | 23 Corporate Responsibility In 2014, Atresmedia has undertaken various initiatives that have contributed to strengthening its Corporate Responsibility (CR) and increasing the value contributed to its stakeholders. These are some of the highlights: The first communications group in Europe to publish an Annual and CR Report following the G.4 Global Reporting Initiative guidelines, in their most comprehensive version. Atresmedia was the first company in the communications industry in Europe to draft and verify its Annual and Corporate Responsibility Report following the new standard in the G4 Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) guidelines in their most comprehensive version. To apply these new guidelines, Atresmedia has strengthened the analysis of forecasts and relevant issues for its stakeholders, adding new studies and methodologies. Both the 2013 and 2014 reports follow this G4 standard. Atresmedia, leader in the consumption services and media sectors, according to the 2014 Informe Reporta In 2014, Atresmedia rose to 24th place in the Reporta Ranking, up from 38th in 2013, and occupies fourth place in the ranking of the top 10 nonIbex, up from 9th in 2013. For the third consecutive year Atresmedia is the best media organisation in the ranking. Informe Reporta is a study of the quality of information provided to the market by the companies who comprise the Madrid Stock Exchange general index (IGBM). Joining the Asociación Española para la Calidad (Spanish Quality Association) and RTL Corporate Responsibility Network With the aim of boosting CR, both internally and externally, Atresmedia has joined the Spanish Quality Association (AEC) and is an active member of its CSR Committee. Atresmedia has also participated in the Corporate Responsibility Network forum promoted by the European communications group RTL, in order for participating businesses to share their knowledge and experiences in matters of Corporate Responsibility. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 | HIGHLIGHTS OF THE YEAR | 24 Almost 200,000 euros donated to social causes thanks to the entertainment programmes on Atresmedia Televisión In 2014 Atresmedia donated a total of 171,809 euros to social organisations, including Fundación Pequeño Deseo, Fundación Aladina and Fundación Balia, through broadcasting special charitable programmes such as Atrapa un millón, ¡Boom!, A bailar and Tu cara me suena. Improved subtitling in the Atresplayer audio-visual content platform In 2014, improvements were made to the subtitling system for the Atresplayer platform so that all content not broadcast live and shown on television can be enjoyed with subtitles. FEDEPE rewards Atresmedia’s work on equality and work-life balance The Federación de Mujeres Directivas, Profesionales y Empresarias (Spanish Federation of Women Managers, Executives, Professionals and Entrepreneurs, FEDEPE) has rewarded Atresmedia’s work on equality between men and women, as set out in the recent Equality Plan approved by the Company, and the new work-life balance measures also included in that plan. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 | HIGHLIGHTS OF THE YEAR | 25 More than 20,000 people and 700 organisations have signed up to the Ponle Freno manifesto “2020 Cero Víctimas” (2020 Zero Victims) In order to eradicate deaths and serious injuries on the roads, in 2014 Ponle Freno launched its most ambitious initiative yet: “2020 Cero Víctimas”. The “2020 Cero Víctimas” manifesto already has the support of 700 organisations who will promote road safety measures among their employees and associates, and more than 200,000 people have committed themselves to being responsible pedestrians and drivers. New record participation and funds raised for the Ponle Freno fun-run The Ponle Freno fun-run has broken its own attendance records in its sixth year with 20,000 runners and 200,000 euros in revenue collected and allocated to the research and welfare projects into road safety being carried out by the Instituto Guttmann Foundation and the Step by Step Foundation. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 | HIGHLIGHTS OF THE YEAR | 26 “Objetivo Bienestar” and “Constantes y Vitales”: new health awareness campaigns During 2014, Antena 3 and laSexta launched new awareness campaigns that focus attention on the importance of looking after your health. Among the highlights are “Objetivo Bienestar”, which invites all members of the public to adopt healthy lifestyles, and “Constantes y Vitales”, the first CR campaign by laSexta that, together with the AXA Foundation, aims to promote high quality medical and scientific prevention and research. “Crea Cultura” is launched, a movement to defend intellectual property Atresmedia has launched Crea Cultura, a movement created to defend and recognise the value of Intellectual Property and raise awareness of the consequences of its violation. The initiative seeks to offer an opportunity to meet and debate in order to find solutions through dialogue. Crea Cultura was launched with the broadcast of the “Nada es gratis” (Nothing is free) spot on television and in cinemas, and with the organisation of the first “Crea Cultura” Forum, in which various issues around intellectual property and illegal downloading were discussed. Fundación Atresmedia: leader in the ranking for the transparency of business foundations. Fundación Atresmedia once again leads, for the third consecutive year, the transparency ranking for business foundations. This can be seen from the 5th edition of the “Construir confianza 2013. Informe de transparencia y buen gobierno en la web de las fundaciones españolas’” report (Building trust 2013. Transparency and good governance on the websites of Spanish foundations), published by the Fundación Compromiso y Transparencia (Commitment and Transparency Foundation). ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 | HIGHLIGHTS OF THE YEAR | 27 The Fundación Atresmedia Hospital Assistance Programme now covers the whole of Spain In 2014, the Hospital Assistance Programme, created in 2006 in order to make the stay of hospitalised children and their families more pleasant, has consolidated its presence across Spain with the signing of a partnership agreement with the Ministry of the Basque Country. In total, 130 hospitals have already benefited from the Programme and more than 170,000 children enjoy the benefits of its main initiative, the FAN3 Channel. Atresmedia acknowledges and is grateful for the work of the volunteers in the ‘Activa tu voluntad’ campaign In order to promote volunteering, in 2014 Atresmedia launched the Activa tu voluntad campaign to recognise the work of millions of volunteers who each day collaborate with different social organisations and to encourage voluntary participation. The campaign has seen the involvement of the Hazloposible Foundation, Asociación de Voluntariado de España (Spanish Volunteering Association), the Voluntare network and the NGO Cooperación Internacional (International Cooperation). Environmental awareness together with the WWF and Ecoembes In 2014 the first Bosque Hazte Eco (Hazte Echo Wood) was created, the result of an initiative launched jointly with the environmental NGO WWF-ADENA, through which the public have made donations to pay for the planting of 3,000 trees. In the area of awareness, we can highlight the Hazte Eco y Recicla campaign, run jointly with Ecoembes, to promote recycling, and the third edition of the forest fire prevention campaign, also launched in partnership with WWF-ADENA. Atresmedia ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 | ATRESMEDIA | 29 Mission, Vision, Values Mission: Broadcast of varied, innovative and high quality news and entertainment programmes that respond to our stakeholders in order to win their trust and thereby ensure the leadership position and sustainability of the Group. Vision: To be the leading multimedia communications group with a valuable and positive contribution to the society in which we operate. Values: __ Commitment: We strive to make a valuable contribution to society, creating social awareness campaigns that resolve problems and generate a positive change. __ Quality: We work on continuously improving our activities, developing excellent products in both form and content, aimed at meeting the needs and expectations of our audiences. __ Creativity: We encourage the creative development of employees, promoting artistic freedom and freedom of thought and respecting the democratic and cultural values of society. __ Long-term vision: We work to create a corporate project that is the leader in the audio-visual industry and endeavours to move closer to the future by creating it. __ Innovation: We promote the creation of new ideas, products, services and practices that provide value to the company and society. __ Leadership: We motivate and communicate with our collaborators to encourage their development and that of the organisation, transmitting energy and inspiring confidence and a desire to help the company achieve its business objectives. __ Teamwork: We promote a culture based on establishing relationships of trust and respect between the employees and the company. We develop their autonomy and participation in decision-making, based on the principles of delegation and responsibility. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 | ATRESMEDIA | 30 Financial results After several years of generalised decline, the advertising market has begun to grow and is doing so at a time when Atresmedia is in the best possible position: an editorial line that is on the up, creative, highly appreciated by the public and advertisers, and an efficient, professional and flexible business model, which has successfully overcome the crisis with some exceptional financial results. This is without doubt a good starting point, at a time when the organisation has just celebrated the first 25 years of its history. Advertising investment in the different media formats has experienced significant growth, especially in the media formats where Atresmedia is present: television and radio. At this turning point, the Company’s results have been exceptional. __ Its Net Revenue reached 883.2 million euros (compared to 829.8 in 2013), which represents an increase of 6.4%. __ Its EBITDA was 127.7 million euros (+59.3%), achieving a margin of 14.5% which is almost five points above the margin achieved in 2013. __ Its Net Profit reached 46.7 million euros, 1.6% more than in 2013. __ Its distributed economic value was 635.3 million euros. Atresmedia Televisión The Atresmedia television division, despite losing three channels in the month of May, has managed to notably increase its revenue, supported by a market that is on the up, but also by the Group’s ability to react and adapt to any environment by seeking new formulas. __ Its Net Revenue was 784.5 million euros, compared to 728.5 in the previous year, which is a growth of 7.7%. __ Its EBITDA amounted to 103.3 million euros, which represented a margin of 13.2%, and a growth of 98.4% compared to 2013. Atresmedia Radio Atresmedia has also obtained some magnificent results in the radio segment. This is primarily the result of attractive, balanced and diverse programming which has gained the trust of the public and advertisers, to such an extent that its revenue has grown by more than the market (+4%). __ Its Turnover was 83.9 million euros, compared to 79.7 million euros in the previous year, an increase of 5.2%. __ Its EBITDA amounted to 17.6 million euros, compared to 16.9 million in 2013. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 | ATRESMEDIA | 31 Shareholder Structure Grupo Planeta de Agostini This is the result of the strategic alliance between Grupo Planeta and De Agostini. Its objective is to strengthen its leadership in the publishing world, in new sectors of the economy and, especially, in the area of audio-visual media. Grupo Planeta: is the largest family-owned Spanish publishing and communications group providing a wide range of services in the areas of culture, training, information and audio-visual entertainment. Since the foundation of Editorial Planeta in Barcelona in 1949, the Group, chaired by José Manuel Lara until January 2015, and currently by José Creuheras, has combined a solid business background with a great capacity for innovation and a clear multinational vocation. Grupo Planeta leads the publishing market in Spain and Latin America, it is in second position in France and is among the top eight in the world. It has more than one hundred publishing companies that cover all the literary genres, and a catalogue of more than 15,000 Spanish and foreign authors, both classic and contemporary. Internationally, Grupo Planeta is present in 25 Spanish and French speaking countries, which represents a universe of more than 760 million people. Grupo De Agostini: Multinational Italian group operating in different industrial sectors (publishing, gaming, media and communications) and in the financial market. De Agostini Editore has a presence in thirty countries, largely in the collectables and mail order segments. Through IGT it operates as the leading company in the international market for gaming and lotteries, and in the market for derived services and technologies. De Agostini Communications participates in the sector for the production of content for media organisations through Zodiak Media, present in seventeen countries, mostly European, and in the broadcasting of content through Atresmedia, controlled jointly with its Spanish partner Planeta. DeA Capital is present in the alternative investments sector, both with direct and indirect private equity investments and with controlling stakes in alternative asset management platforms. The group also has a total holding of 2.43% in Assicurazioni Generali. RTL Group With 49 television channels and 29 radio stations in twelve countries, it is the European leader in the entertainment market. The Company, which has its headquarters in Luxembourg, has interests in radio and television stations in Germany, France, Belgium, Holland, Luxembourg, Spain, Hungary, Croatia and South-East Asia. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 | ATRESMEDIA | 32 It is also one of the main producers of content for television offering talent shows, game shows, dramas and soap operas. Television: RTL Group is the largest television company in Europe. Each day, millions of viewers across the continent watch something on an RTL channel, such as RTL in Germany, M6 in France, RTL 4 in Holland and RTLTVI in Belgium. The multinational company also has subsidiaries in markets such as Hungary (RTL Klub, RTL II plus six cable channels), Croatia (RTL Televizija, RTL 2 and RTL Kockica), and Spain through Atresmedia. In August 2013, RTL and CBS Studios International announced a Joint Venture, RTL CBS Asia Entertainment Network, to launch two pay TV channels in South-East Asia. Content: FremantleMedia, the content production division at RTL, is one of the largest international producers outside the United States. Each year it produces more than 8,500 hours of programming in 62 countries. It is also one of the most important managers of audio-visual rights in the world, with more than 20,000 hours sold in a total of 200 countries. Radio: RTL radio stations reach millions of people each day. The leading brands in radio are RTL in France; and it also has interests in Germany (Antenne Bayern), Belgium (Bel RTL, Radio Contact), Spain (Onda Cero, Europa FM and Melodía FM) and Luxembourg (RTL Radio Lëtzebuerg). Bertelsmann has been the majority shareholder of RTL since July 2001. RTL shares are traded on the stock markets of Frankfurt, Brussels and Luxembourg. Imagina Media Audiovisual Imagina Media Audiovisual, S.L. is the parent company of one of the most important audiovisual groups in Europe. Created in 2006 from the merger between Mediapro and Globalmedia, it is present worldwide. Imagina is a leading company in the creation and broadcasting of audiovisual products. Imagina Media Audiovisual, S.L. has been a shareholder in Atresmedia Corporación since 31 October 2012, the date of its merger with laSexta. Its participation in the shareholding of Atresmedia Corporación is 3.39%. RTL 19.17% Treasury shares 0.51% Imagina 3.39% Other 35.23% Planeta de Agostini 41.7% Shareholder structure at 31/03/2015 ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 | ATRESMEDIA | 33 Composition of the Board and its Committees Mr. José Creuheras Mr. Maurizio Carlotti Mr. José Miguel Mr. Silvio González Mr. Nicolás Abel Margenat Vice-Chairman Contreras Tejera Moreno Bellet de Tavernost Chairman Vice-Chairman Chief Executive Officer Member Mr. Josep María Mr. Mauricio Ms. Aurora Mr. Marco Drago Ms. María Benet Ferrán Casals Aldama Catá Sala Member Entrecanales Franco Member Member Member Member Mr. Elmar Heggen Mr. José Lara García Mr. Pedro Ramón y Mr. Manuel de la Viuda Ms. Margarita González Member Member Cajal Agüeras Fdez. de Heredia Martín del Río Member Secretary Vice-Secretary Board of Directors __ Chairman: Mr. José Creuheras Margenat __ Vice-Chairman: Mr. Maurizio Carlotti __ Vice-Chairman: IMAGINA MEDIA AUDIOVISUAL, S.A., represented by Mr. José Miguel Contreras Tejera __ Chief Executive Officer: Mr. Silvio González Moreno __ Members: •• Mr. Nicolás Abel Bellet de Tavernost •• Mr. Mauricio Casals Aldama •• Ms. Aurora Catá Sala •• Mr. Marco Drago •• Ms. María Entrecanales Franco •• Mr. Elmar Heggen •• Mr. José Lara García •• Mr. Pedro Ramón y Cajal Agüeras •• MEDIAPRODUCCIÓN, S.L.U., represented by Mr. Josep María Benet Ferrán __ Secretary: Mr. Manuel de la Viuda Fernández de Heredia __ Vice-Secretary: Ms. Margarita González Martín del Río ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 | ATRESMEDIA | 34 Executive Committee __ Chairman: Mr. José Creuheras Margenat __ Members: •• Mr. Nicolás Abel Bellet de Tavernost •• Mr. Maurizio Carlotti •• Mr. Marco Drago •• Mr. Silvio González Moreno •• IMAGINA MEDIA AUDIOVISUAL, S.L., represented by Mr. José Miguel Contreras Tejera __ Secretary: Mr. Manuel de la Viuda __ Vice-Secretary: Ms. Margarita González Martín del Río Audit and Control Committee __ Chairman: Ms. Aurora Catá Sala __ Vice-Chairman: Mr. Elmar Heggen __ Member: Mr. Pedro Ramón y Cajal Agüeras __ Secretary: Ms. Margarita González Martín del Río Appointments and Remuneration Committee __ Chairman: Mr. Pedro Ramón y Cajal Agüeras __ Vice-Chairman: Mr. Nicolás Abel Bellet de Tavernost __ Members: •• Mr. Mauricio Casals Aldama •• Ms. María Entrecanales Franco __ Secretary: Mr. Manuel de la Viuda ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 | ATRESMEDIA | 35 G4-17 Atresmedia companies: subsidiaries and associates Antena 3 Films, S.L.U., 100% Atlantis Global Solutions, S.L., 33.41% Antena 3 Juegos, S.A.U., 100% Antena 3 Multimedia, S.L.U., 100% Antena 3 Noticias, S.L.U., 100% Atres Advertising, S.L.U., 100% Antena 3 Eventos, S.L.U., 100% Atresmedia Foto, S.L., 90% Cordina Planet, S.L.U., 100% Atresmedia Corporación de Medios de Comunicación, S.A. Groupalia Compra Colectiva, S.L., 19.656% Guadiana Producciones, S.A.U., 100% Hola TV US, Llc., 100% Hola Televisión América, S.L., 50% Hola TV Latam, S.L., 75% I3 Televisión, S.L., 50% I-Neumáticos On Line Franquicias, S.L., 2.922% Jaice Investments, S.L., 10.04% 7.46% (1) Eshop Ventures, S.L., 10.34% El armario de la tele, S.L.U., 100% Música Aparte, S.A.U., 100% La Sexta Editorial Musical, S.L.U., 100% Antena 3 Televisión Digital Terrestre de Canarias, S.A.U., 100% Canal Media Radio, S.A.U., 100% Uniprex, S.A.U., 100% Lemac Gestión, S.L., 16.67% Wallapop Spain, S.L., 13.34% Mitjans de Cataluña, S.L., 16.666% Uniprex Televisión, S.L.U., 100% Uniprex Valencia TV. S.L.U., 100% Uniprex Televisión Digital Terrestre de Andalucía, S.L., 74% (1) Jaice Investments, S.L. owns 7.46% of Eshop Ventures, S.L. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 | ATRESMEDIA | 36 Management Structure Corporate Organisation Atresmedia Televisión of Atresmedia General Director Chief Executive Officer Mr. Javier Bardají Mr. Silvio González Corporate General Manager A3 Noticias Ms. Patricia Pérez General Manager Ms. Gloria Lomana Chief Financial Officer Mr. Antonio Manso Atresmedia Radio Legal Advice Manager Mr. Manuel de la Viuda Chairman Mr. Javier González-Ferrari Regulatory and Institutional Relationships General Manager General Manager Ms. Carmen Rodríguez Mr. Ramón Osorio Audit and Process Control Manager Atresmedia Publicidad Mr. Fernando Costi General Manager Mr. Eduardo Olano Director of Communication Mr. Ignacio Mata Atresmedia Digital Director of Strategy Mr. Arturo Larraínzar General Manager Mr. José Manuel González-Pacheco Atresmedia Diversificación General Manager Mr. Javier Nuche Atresmedia Cine Chairman Mr. Mikel Lejarza Fundación Atresmedia General Manager Ms. Carmen Bieger ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 | ATRESMEDIA | 37 Economic situation and outlook In 2014, the growth of the Spanish stock market has been more moderate than in the previous year. The Ibex 35 rose 3.7%, closing the financial year at 10,279.5 points (in 2013 it grew by 21.42%). The rest of the European markets have had a mixed performance, but without large increases or decreases: the Paris CAC 40 fell 0.54% (closing at 4,272.75 points); the German Dax reached 9,805.55, up 2.62% over the year; and the London FTSE fell 2.71%, closing on 6,566.09 points. The Eurostoxx 50 index, which includes the 50 most important companies in Europe, has remained practically unchanged, growing only 1.2% to close 2014 at 3,146.43 points. In terms of the US market, the main indexes have performed better than the European indexes in 2014. The Dow Jones has increased by 7.52%; the S&P 500 by 11.39%; while the Nasdaq has increased its value by 17.94%. In 2014 Spain experienced significant growth in its gross domestic product. The economy as a whole grew by 2.4%, compared to its 1.2% contraction in 2013. The good outlook is also maintained for the coming years. The latest panel of experts published by FUNCAS in January 2015 anticipated an acceleration in the economy during this financial year, the result, among other things, of the reduction in interest rates by the ECB and the fall in oil prices, which will increase the disposable income of households and, therefore, consumption. To this we can add the favourable effect of reducing personal income tax, which will leave more money available for the public. Therefore, this panel estimates that GDP will grow by 2.4% in 2015. In turn, household consumption, which for the aforementioned reasons increased by 2.3% in 2014, will rise by up to 3% in 2015, according to the same source. Other organisations, such as the Government and the IMF, are also optimistic and believe that 2015 will end with an over 2% increase in economic activity in Spain. The advertising market has experienced notable growth after three years of decline, both in the media as a whole and in television. Analysts, quarter by quarter, have been adjusting their estimates upwards for the whole year as positive data has been confirmed. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 | ATRESMEDIA | 38 G4-26 For 2015, analysts expect the television advertising market to reach 2,048 million, which will represent a growth of 8.4%. According to Infoadex, the total advertising market grew by 6.4% in 2014 compared to 2013, closing at € 4,532.9 million. Moreover, the TV advertising market reached € 1,890.4 million, which is 11% higher than in 2013. Atresmedia shares and its share capital Atresmedia shares closed at €11.64, 3.2% below the level seen in 2013. Television networks in Europe have had mixed results, with an average performance in 2014 of a fall of 0.32%. At 31 December 2014, the Share Capital of Atresmedia Corporación amounts to 169.3 million euros, represented by 225,732,800 shares with a nominal value of €0.75. Share details 2014 Share Capital at year end (thousands of €) 169,299.6 Number of shares at year end 225,732,800 Capitalisation at year end (millions of €) 2,627.53 Price at 31/12 (€/share) 11.64 Maximum (€/share) 14.77 Minimum (€/share) 9.55 Average Weighted Price (€/share) 11.68 Average trading volume (shares) 694,373 Average trading volume (thousands of €) 8,110,277.6 Source: Fininfo. Shareholder and investor services Both the Investor Relations Department (IR) and the Shareholders' Office are responsible for disseminating the most important news and reporting on developments in the market and the financial outlook. During 2014 the Investor Relations (IR) Department had an intense activity. It took part in more than 37 conferences and road shows in different cities around Europe and the US and directly addressed almost 560 investors and analysts. In total, around 800 contacts were established with the financial community throughout the year. To provide easy access to quick and clear information, the corporate website www.atresmediacorporacion.com has a specific section where important events, financial results and other news items of interest are published. However, the service goes much further: investors can contact the organisation by email at ir@atresmedia.com, while non-institutional investors are provided with another email address: oficinadelaccionista@atresmedia.com. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 | ATRESMEDIA | 39 Strategy and business model Atresmedia is one of the largest communications groups in Spain, a leader in the television and radio markets, with a growing presence in the digital market (internet) and in businesses that do not depend on the advertising market. All of these media channels are marketed through its sales organisation Atresmedia Publicidad. Atresmedia Televisión is the main division, the driving force of the group: it generates 88% of the Group's income. It has 4 channels that are leaders among their target audiences: Antena 3, laSexta, Neox and Nova. With an offer based on variety, Atresmedia Televisión is now an established brand that enjoys a good brand image, with differentiated, high quality, varied and diverse programming which respects the viewers and tries to offer them the best product, in both news and entertainment. The television business is subject to cyclical income, strongly linked to the performance of the advertising market. Since 2007, the market for television advertising has shrunk by around 50%. The income of the Television Division has therefore fallen over the years of recession. After the merger with laSexta in October 2012, great efforts have been made to optimise the Company's structure, trying to obtain strong synergies in order to increase income and, as a result, this grew above the market rate in 2014. With the daily effort to optimise income, the right commercial strategy and attractive programming, in 2014 Atresmedia gained a market share of television advertising close to 42%, which turned it into the leading television company in Spain. The objective of Atresmedia has been to offer the best content to its viewers. Focused on a family audience, the company schedules a very varied range of television genres, from national drama as the star content, to very specific programming such as series, soap operas and documentaries, and even sports events such as Formula 1. In 2014, the Group's audience was 27.7%. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 | ATRESMEDIA | 40 Atresmedia Radio generates 9.5% of the Group's income. With three different stations, Onda Cero, Europa FM and the new music station Melodía FM, it maintains its strategy to inform and entertain all types of audiences with the same philosophy of balance and diversity. It is the second largest radio group in Spain and is a leading organisation within a market that is becoming increasingly demanding and competitive. It is a plural, diverse, close, open and participatory radio organisation, whose success can be seen from its five million listeners and also from it having the highest profitability per listener in our country. Onda Cero, the second largest general radio station in Spain, with an audience of over two and a half million listeners each day (EGM, 3rd wave 2014), has retained its aim to report on the basis of seriousness and diversity but without forgetting that radio is also entertainment. Europa FM, meanwhile, is the group's star music radio station. In just five years it has grown from a small radio station to occupy the third position in the ranking of music channels in Spain, with over two million listeners. It is a benchmark among the younger audience who follow, for example, the morning show Levántate y Cárdenas, one of the most listened to. Completing the Group's radio offer is Melodía FM, which is also a music station but for a more mature audience. With its new programming, launched in 2014, it has been growing month after month without interruption. A few years ago Atresmedia Digital was created in order to define strategies and exploit online content. The department has the dual function of promotion and marketing for the traditional media channels and attracting new users, in both online and offline environments. Taking advantage of the new technologies, and aware that viewers are already living in a multi-screen environment, Atresmedia offers its viewers all the content broadcast on television through all the media channels. The rapid development of the social networks also allows viewers to interact with and comment on their favourite programmes. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 | ATRESMEDIA | 41 Since launching the 3.0 strategy in May 2009, Atresmedia has had a new focus, which continues today, based on generating specific products for the internet. Its success confirms, once again, that the television and radio businesses have a natural extension in this field. In fact, the digital area has grown from the three websites, three thematic vertical portals and a short-video channel on Youtube seen in 2010, to the current nine websites, 12 thematic vertical portals and 22 short-video channels. As a result, the audience has increased from approximately five million unique monthly visitors in 2010 to the current nearly 20 million, with more than 400 million video viewings per year on the Atresplayer platform, and about 50 million monthly viewings for the short-video channels on Youtube. The Atresmedia Diversificación division was created as part of Atresmedia's desire to grow. This brings together the businesses that are not directly linked to traditional advertising and allows them to create complementary revenue. It is, in short, providing the company with additional options for growth. Atresmedia Diversificación covers the areas of New Business (interactive formats with the audience), International Expansion (Antena 3 Internacional, ¡HOLA! TV and ATRES SERIES, channels that reach more than 25 million households beyond our borders), Project Incubator (Nubeox and Tualbum.es), Music Publishing (catalogue and exploitation of music rights) and Media Equity to boost involvement in the capital of emerging companies in exchange for advertising, in line with the current international trend developed by the large groups in the media sector. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 | ATRESMEDIA | 42 The Atresmedia Cine division co-produces approximately 10 films a year. Over its history it has launched more than 100 drama titles. Cinema is content that, when well selected and produced, can be interesting both for the Atresmedia business and its brand. In fact, one of the films produced by Atresmedia Cine in 2014, La isla mínima, was the biggest prize-winner of the year and obtained 10 Goya awards, including best film and best director. This was recognition of the good work with much lower budgets than are available to large foreign productions. Atresmedia has a professional and powerful sales force. Atresmedia Publicidad is the largest seller of multimedia advertising on the Spanish market, with a share of 23% of the total investment in the conventional media. The creation of this general department dates back to the time of an expanding market, one with increasing demand and where television had great bargaining power over the rates. Or in other words, it was an ideal moment to seek a unique positioning. The transition from analogue to DTT resulted in many additional channels and split the audience. Overcoming this obstacle has been an objective for the Advertising department, and this led to the creation of an innovative way of packaging advertising across all of the group's channels at the same time. With the arrival of the recession, and in an era of falling demand, Atresmedia Publicidad opted for a philosophical and structural change, based on joint marketing and continuously seeking to make each media channel as profitable as possible. On its 25th birthday, Atresmedia has grown from being a television channel to an audiovisual communications group that creates, generates, manages, distributes and markets content on all possible platforms. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 | ATRESMEDIA | 43 MATERIAL ISSUE Corporate Governance Atresmedia has a set of bodies, control mechanisms and internal regulations that comprise its Corporate Governance system. Its objective is to be transparent and efficient in directing and running the organisation, which generates value for the shareholders and other stakeholders. Organisation Regulation Regulation of the General General Shareholders’ Meeting Shareholders’ Meeting Regulation of the Board of Board of Directors Directorst Corporate By-Laws Executive Committee Code of Conduct Appointments and Remuneration Committee Internal Regulation securities market conduct Audit and Control Committee Governance of the Foundation The most senior body in this system is the Board of Directors, which is responsible for the representation, administration, management, operation and control of the company. This is the element that, along with the Chairman, CEO and its Committees, ensures that the company operates smoothly and provides cohesion among directors, senior management and shareholders. There is an annual assessment of the Board of Directors and its Committees, as well as of the Chairman and the CEO in terms of their role, activity, etc. Moreover, in terms of the management, monitoring, coordination and integration of these corporate policies and regulations, which are necessarily convergent, Atresmedia has a unique and collegiate operating structure. This is made up of the managers responsible for all the affected areas and is called the Regulatory Compliance Committee (RCC). The RCC keeps the Audit Committee informed of its activity through the Internal Audit Director. In 2014 it participated in the general supervision of the new risk control and financial information model being created by the Internal Audit Department, whose launch is forecast for 2015. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 | ATRESMEDIA | 44 G4-26 Adaptation to new legislation The reform of the In 2014 we can highlight the passing of Law 31/2004 which amends the Capital Company Capital Company Act, the result of the work of the Committee of Experts. Act has specified The Board of Directors, as the central body involved in the correct govand defined in ernance of a company, has obligations relating to leadership, defining the greater detail company's strategy, supervision of the management, etc. and is responsible the duties of the to the shareholders, investors and third parties who may be affected by its directors, who actions for compliance with these obligations and for its own management. have generic duties, which As a result of the entry into force of the reform to the Law, the Board of are to manage Directors and the General Shareholders' Meeting will have to adopt agreeon the basis of ments in 2015 to adapt the internal regulatory texts to the amendments of good business the Law. judgement the duty of In this context of reviewing and enhancing the Corporate Governance of judgementlisted companies, the Appointments and Remuneration Committee has and the duty launched some specific initiatives, for example: of loyalty, understood as __ Approval by the Board in the first quarter of each year, after a report loyalty to the from the Appointments and Remuneration Committee, of a report corporate interest assessing the Board of Directors, its Committees, the Chairman and and its defence. the CEO, in relation to the previous financial year, compiled from responses from the directors to a questionnaire created for this purpose. __ Approval by the Board of Directors, in the first quarter of each year, of a report on its activities in the previous financial year. __ Approval by each of the Board's Committees, in the first quarter of every year, of a report containing their activities in the previous financial year and communication of these to the Board of Directors. TRANSPARENCY The Annual Corporate Governance Report (ACGR) forms part of the Company's management report and is disclosed to the market as a significant event through the Comisión Nacional del Mercado de Valores (National Securities Market Commission) website (www.cnmv.es) and the company's corporate website (www.atresmediacorporacion.com). The Directors' Remuneration Report (DRR) is also available on the website. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 | ATRESMEDIA | 45 MATERIAL ISSUE Socially Responsible Management OUR VISION 1. To achieve a profitable and sustainable long-term business model. 2. To transmit the corporate policies and values to the entire value chain. 3. To listen and respond to the stakeholders. Atresmedia Corporate Responsibility Scorecard Economical sustainability 2012 2013 2014 Net income (millions of €) 741.2 829.8 883.23 Distributed economic value (millions of €) 618.3 585.9 635.3 Financial aid received from governments (millions 2.5 1.0 7.4 of €) Human Resources % Women in the workforce 48.6% 48.1% 49.9% Permanent contracts 84% 81% 81% Turnover index 2.25% 1.85% 3.16% Hours of training per employee 30 19.10 22 Investment in training (€) 395,700 372,487 348,661 Accident severity index 0.06 0.1 0.12 Company Income provided by Atresmedia to the Fundación 500,000 300,000 300,000 Atresmedia (€) Free campaigns for NGOs and non-profit 9,952,975 10,240,085 6,538,228 organisations (€) Volunteering hours 1,360 1,429 1,722 Funds contributed to NGOs through Atresmedia 288,000 656,354 171,809 programmes (€) % of programming subtitled 57% 76% 85% Environment 16,397 Kw/ 15,460 Kw/ 15,171 Kw/ Energy consumption employee employee employee 28.5 m3/ 24.2 m3/ 31.5 m3/ Water consumption employee employee employee In 2014 0.75 tCO2eq / 1.2 tCO2eq / 1.82 tCO2eq / Greenhouse gas emissions employee employee employee Atresmedia joined Environmental investment (€) 25,670 14,363 89,490 the Asociación Española para la Calidad (Spanish Quality Atresmedia is committed to a responsible and sustainable business modAssociation) and el, which in addition to the necessary profitability also generates trust beit is a member tween its stakeholders and provides value for the company and a positive of its CSR impact for society. To achieve this, Atresmedia is guided by a long-term Committee. vision and some pillars of action based on transparency in management, exercising responsible communication, satisfying audiences and advertisers, focussing on innovation and digital development, attracting and retaining talent, and protecting the environment. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 | ATRESMEDIA | 46 The CR focus This philosophy has resulted in it achieving the following commitments at Atresmedia that guide all the actions of the group in terms of corporate responsibility. is achieving a profitable and committed Produce and broadcast responsible content business model that generates a Promote high quality advertising positive impact for society, Support our employees as the Company’s main value gaining the trust of the stakeholders Contribute to the progress and development of the company and providing a differential value Minimise the environmental impact and raise awareness in society about caring for the environment for the company. Strengthen corporate governance Corporate Responsibility at Atresmedia has been evolving since its introduction into the company in 2004 when it was of a more philanthropic nature and involved social initiatives such as the “Un Puente Solidario” campaign for the Red Cross which raised more than 8 million euros for those affected by the tsunami in the Indian Ocean. It currently has a more strategic and cross-cutting role in the Organisation, and a more proactive focus that has allowed the Group to become a leader in corporate responsibility in the sector and among the largest listed companies. Evolution and milestones of the Atresmedia Corporate Responsibility strategy 2008 2014 __ First G.3 CR __ First Report Communications __ CR Assessment Group in Europe __ Stakeholder following Dialogue comprehensive __ Objectives & G4 GRI KPIs 2010 __ Incorporation of 2004 __ Incorporation __ Participation AEC __ Campaign for into the Global in the GRI __ Objetivo Bienestar the Red Cross Compact Media Sector __ Constantes about the __ PONLE FRENO Supplement y Vitales and Tsunami in the is created __ Hazte Eco is Crea Cultura are Indian Ocean created launched Reactive Philanthropic Strategy Consolidation Proactive Approach Implementation Approach 2005 2007 2009 2011 2013 __ Fundación __ Benchmark and __ CR Master Plan __ New Model __ Incorporation Antena 3 First Materiality __ Corporate __ Mission Vision CSR Media Study Policies Values Forum __ Creation of the __ PONE TV CR Committee campaign __ Incorporation __ El Estirón is into the FTSE 4 launched Good Ibex ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 | ATRESMEDIA | 47 As a member of the Monitoring Committee for the Self-Regulation Code of Television and Infant Content since its creation, I have had an ongoing relationship with Atresmedia for 10 years and I have taken part in some initiatives relating to the Foundation and its corporate activity. From this long relationship I can highlight its open attitude, keen to enter into dialogue and aware of its Corporate Responsibility, beyond the logical commercial interest in attracting the audience that defines the television business. In particular, we can see the effort of Antena 3 in offering general and family-oriented programming or, at least, programmes for all audiences . Alejandro Perales Chairman of the Asociación de Usuarios de la Comunicación (Association of Communication Users AUC) Corporate Responsibility Management System Atresmedia has established a Corporate Responsibility Management System, whose main objective is to provide value for the company, while at the same time being more able to respond to the expectations of its stakeholders. The system is structured around an Internal CR Committee that is responsible for ensuring compliance with the commitments defined in the Corporate Policies and Codes and for transmitting them to the entire organisation. The Committee also establishes the annual corporate responsibility objectives for each area and is responsible for implementing these and reporting on their monitoring. The management of Corporate Responsibility at Atresmedia is aimed at continuous improvement, taking as its foundation the analysis of stakeholder expectations and the result of the initiatives launched for each of these. Only through continuous interaction with stakeholders is it possible to implement initiatives that truly meet their needs and expectations and that produce the desired impact and results. Aware of this, Atresmedia has established several communication channels, adapted to each stakeholder, through which it collects their opinions. These include different corporate e-mail addresses, running surveys, organising face-to-face focus groups, qualitative studies and many social networking profiles. One of the main communication tools is the Corporate Responsibility Report which is published annually and contains the most relevant data and issues for Atresmedia. As the main new development, the 2014 CR Report has taken a further step in both the quality of the content and transparency, and has followed the current trends in reporting, looking in more depth at some of the content recommended by the international framework for drafting IR reports (Integrated Reporting) created by the IIRC (International Integrated Reporting Council). ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 | ATRESMEDIA | 48 G4-18, G4-24, G4-25 As a result of this objective the Group's strategic plans have been discussed in greater detail, greater importance has been placed on managing and controlling risks and there has been a particular focus on going into more depth on the development of the company, including a series of first-person accounts from representatives of the different stakeholders with which Atresmedia collaborates. Stakeholders CSR Committee Advertisers Expectations Mission, Vision, Values Audiences Corporate Policies Shareholders Code of Conduct Employees CSR Scorecard Suppliers Regulators Impacts CR Objectives Society Competitors Note: Atresmedia understands stakeholders to be all persons, organisations or institutions that affect or are affected by the Group's decisions. Study of matters relevant to the stakeholders In order to identify the economic, social and environmental matters that most interest each stakeholder, Atresmedia regularly conducts studies in which representatives of each stakeholder group take part. In 2014 it conducted a survey which was sent to 3,386 people belonging to stakeholders external to Grupo Atresmedia and it received 274 responses. The study included a general section in which the general perception of Atresmedia was analysed, and a second block where the most important issues for managing the group were prioritised. The adjectives professional and socially committed were those most used by respondents. They also highlighted attributes such as the quality of the content, responsibility and seriousness. The aspects identified as priorities in the management of Atresmedia were those relating to the broadcasting of content, social action and advertising management. Environmental management was the least important aspect for the consulted stakeholders. The matters identified were already among the areas included in the Group's Corporate Responsibility strategy, but in keeping with the results produced from the study these will be further strengthened in the coming years. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 | ATRESMEDIA | 49 G4-18, G4-19, G4-20, G4-21, G4-26, G4-27 The results from the study have been compared with the important aspects for Grupo Atresmedia itself, giving rise to the following matrix: MATERIAL ASPECTS FOR STAKEHOLDERS PRIORITY General aspect Specific aspect 1 Satisfaction of the advertisers 2 Quality of the content Broadcasting of content 3 Editorial independence 4 Freedom of expression VERY HIGH 5 Protection of minors 6 Responsible advertising Advertising management 7 Quality of the advertising services 8 Independence between advertisers and content HIGH Social action 9 Social action campaigns 10 Shareholder composition Economic management 11 Strategic areas and objectives 12 Cost management 13 Governance bodies AVERAGE 14 Control mechanisms Corporate Governance 15 Transparency 16 Regulatory compliance 17 Human capital development Internal organisation 18 Degree of fulfilment of the strategy Matrix of important aspects Very Low Low Average High Very High 18 15 1 8 6 3 2 13 11 4 14 7 5 Very High 10 17 12 16 High 9 Impact for ATRESMEDIA Average Low Very Low Importance for the Stakeholders ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 | ATRESMEDIA | 50 G4-27 Outstanding initiatives in 2014 In 2014, initiatives were implemented aimed at improving the Group's Corporate Responsibility management model and its relationship with stakeholders. Incorporation into the Asociación Española Atresmedia has joined the Spanish Quality Association and its CSR Committee, which para la Calidad works to integrate CR into the strategy of organisations. In 2014, the Group hosted one of (Spanish Quality the Committee's meetings. Association) and its CSR Committee. The communications group RTL, one of the leading international companies, has created Participation in the CR Network, a discussion forum involving Social Responsibility representatives from the RTL Group's CR different companies in the group in order to share knowledge and best practice, and work Network. to define a common strategy and implement this in the future. Atresmedia was invited to take part in this committee, which met for the first time last March. Atresmedia: leader in the consumption services and media sectors, according to the 2014 Atresmedia rises to Informe Reporta In 2014, Atresmedia rose to 24th place in the Reporta Ranking, up from 24th place in the 38th in 2013, and occupies fourth place in the ranking of the top 10 non-Ibex, up from Reporta ranking and from 9th in 2013. For the third consecutive year Atresmedia is the best media organisation 4th in the ranking of in the ranking. Informe Reporta is a study of the quality of information provided to the the top 10 non-IBEX. market by the companies who comprise the Madrid Stock Exchange general index (IGBM). Atresmedia is a media partner of Sustainable Brands® Barcelona, the largest global Media partner in conference on sustainability applied to brands which will take place in Barcelona on 27 and Spain of the largest 28 April 2015. The event is taking place in our country for the first time and its objective is global conference on to contribute to raising awareness about the problems and opportunities posed by social sustainability applied and environmental challenges, and to searching for joint solutions. to brands. Sustainable Brands® is a global community with more than 500,000 specialists from innovative companies and brands. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 | ATRESMEDIA | 51 In 2014, Atresmedia continued participating in the Media Corporate Social Responsibility Forum (Media CSR Forum), a forum specialising in Corporate Responsibility (CR) for the Active participation in media, comprised of some of the largest international communications companies such as the Media CSR Forum the BBC, The Guardian, BSkyB and RTL Group. to promote CR in the Created in 2001, the main objectives of the Media CSR Forum are to study the implications media. of CR in the media, share best practice among companies in the sector and develop specific research on CR and the media, among others. The first communications group in Europe to Atresmedia was the first company in the communications industry in Eu-rope to draft and publish an Annual and verify its Annual and Corporate Responsibility Report fol-lowing the new standard in the G4 CR Report following Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) guide-lines in their most comprehensive version. To apply the G.4 Global these new guidelines, Atresmedia has strengthened the analysis of forecasts and relevant Reporting Initiative issues for its stakeholders, adding new studies and methodologies. Both the 2013 and 2014 guidelines, in their reports follow this G4 standard. most comprehensive version. Quality management: continuous improvement Atresmedia strives to achieve the highest levels of quality, focusing its internal management processes on continuous improvement. For this reason, in 2014 the Group incorporated new improvements, among which the following are the main highlights: __ Improving the control process for systems, specifically in the re-broadcasting of programmes in order to reduce as far as possible In 2014, incidents the breaches caused by potential advertising saturation situations. were 31% lower than in the __ Improving operational procedures in studios previous year. __ Improving the “back up” systems to deal with possible problems in critical equipment __ Improving the process for the production and development of news graphics. __ Investing in equipment for all the studios and sets in HD (High Definition). During 2014 the Group's quality management system was extended to the processes for the production and publication of multimedia content. This has meant that the distribution of content through different multimedia platforms (website, atresplayer, mobility, etc.) is also subject to an internal quality system, so it can identify any incidents taking place and establish improvement plans for their reduction/elimination. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 | ATRESMEDIA | 52 Atresmedia currently applies a continuous improvement cycle as part of its Quality Management System, which follows the following organisation: Identification and control of incidents Introduction of Continuous analysis improvements to the of the causes process: lessons learned Evaluation of the efficiency Identification of corrective of the actions and improvement actions The Quality Committee is responsible for analysing the detected incidents, classifying them according to the area responsible for them, evaluating their monitoring and communicating them to the management team to try and resolve them. Thanks to the efficiency of this Quality Management System and the improvement plans implemented, the incidents recorded in the processes for the production, recording and broadcasting of content have maintained a downward trend for several years. Evolution of the average number of incidents 6 6 28 29 300 200 172 98 100 65 45 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 | ATRESMEDIA | 53 Control and Management of Risks Several years ago Atresmedia implemented a Risk and Control Management System that can identify, evaluate and mitigate any potential risks through implementing specific controls and action plans. In order to continuously improve the process, this model is revised and updated regularly depending on the evolution of the Group's businesses, the materialisation of risks, new regulations and the evolution of the organisation itself. All of the Group's businesses and activities are covered by this risk and control management model, and since it is a corporate system in the Group, management and responsibility for it falls to the Board of Directors with the support of the functions entrusted to the Audit Committee and with the participation and coordination of the Internal Audit and Process Control Department. In addition to the risks that affect the company as a whole, there are some specific risks that only affect certain units within the organisation. Objectives The main objectives of the Atresmedia Risk and Control Management System are as follows: __ Consistency and uniformity, ensuring uniformity in the definition, identification and measurement of risks in all of the Group's businesses. __ Internal control environment, through updating the existing controls and continuously measuring their degree of effectiveness. __ Assessment and continuous improvement of the model through tools and indicators that facilitate evaluation, identifying new potential risks and introducing the controls necessary for those risks. __ Policies, standards and procedures for action as a form of communication and management tool for the business areas of the Group's different divisions, assigning the instructions and guidelines on internal behaviour. __ Compliance with the rules and regulations, given that it must ensure constant compliance with all regulations and legislation applicable to all of the Group's businesses. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 | ATRESMEDIA | 54 Responsibilities The main responsibilities related to the Risk and Control Management System are summarised in the following section BUSINESS UNITS AND Responsible for the controls, evaluation and supervision. CORPORATE UNITS Compliance with regulations: external and internal (policies, standards and procedures). Responsible for most of the financial controls and the Internal Control System for Financial FINANCE Reporting (ICFR). DEPARTMENT Compliance with policies and standards related to budgets, accounts and financial statements, and financial reporting. LEGAL AFFAIRS DEPARTMENT/ Responsible for most of the compliance and corporate governance controls. BOARD SECRETARY REGULATORY The body that monitors the Group's regulatory compliance. COMPLIANCE Responsible for monitoring the Code of Conduct and Complaints Channel. COMMITTEE (RCC) Coordinates and administers the Risk and Control Management System. Designs policies and INTERNAL AUDIT procedures and identifies new controls. Tests controls and reports to the Audit Committee. The Audit and Control Committee is responsible for supervising the System's operation and reporting to the Board of Directors so the plans of action or new measures to be implemented can be approved or amended, as appropriate. Key components of the Risk and Control Management Model The Risk and Control Management System at Grupo Atresmedia has various key components: Definition of the objectives: New objectives for the Group and for each of its business units are revised and set each year, along with the acceptable level of risk given the Group's global strategy and the identified internal and external events. Internal control environment: An assessment of the model is regularly conducted in order to verify, on the one hand, how the staff in the company perceive the risks, the establishment of controls that mitigate the risks ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 | ATRESMEDIA | 55 and the development of the action plans and, on the other, the environment in which it acts. In turn, an assessment is conducted of the effectiveness and design of the controls implemented in order to implement new ones or mitigate any impact. The risks are regularly re-assessed in order to check that their control is effective. Regulatory Compliance: Atresmedia has established a regulatory compliance model that ensures compliance with all the regulations, both those specific to the sectors in which it operates and generic ones that may affect it due to being a listed company or just generally (labour, tax, environmental, etc.). There are also a series of internal policies and protocols that are equally binding on the areas and businesses affected by them. The system supervises this compliance through specific controls. Processes: In order to be able to identify the risks that impact to a greater extent on one business process or another, the existing controls and the improvement needs, a detailed process map has been developed where the Group's risks and controls are linked to each process. The main processes within the Risk and Control Management Model are as follows: __ Defining and preparing the corporate strategy. __ Acquiring content and buying rights. __ Producing content. __ Designing the schedule and defining the programming strategy. __ Purchasing goods, services and technology. __ Marketing and selling advertising. __ Attracting other income streams. __ Information technology systems. __ Managing the technical infrastructure. __ Operationally managing assets and general infrastructures. __ Human Resources and occupational health and safety. __ Legislation and regulation. __ Administration and finance. Organisation: Risks and controls have been defined that affect the whole of the Atresmedia Group; as well as risks and controls that only affect certain organisational units within the Group. Those responsible for each organisational unit monitor the risks and controls associated with their organisation. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 | ATRESMEDIA | 56 Risk map Atresmedia has designed a risk map that identifies and classifies the different types of risk into the following categories and operational areas: I. STRATEGIC II. OPERATIONAL Sale of advertising space Production of programmes Acquisition of broadcasting rights Purchases and contracting in general Other III. FINANCIAL IV. TECHNOLOGICAL V. COMPLIANCE VI. REPUTATIONAL VII. INFORMATION The system regularly assesses the level of exposure to the risks identified in this map, considering both inherent risks (in the absence of actions to modify their probability and impact) and residual ones (once the responses are adopted and implemented). Subsequently, all the risks are assessed on the basis of their impact and probability. There is an ongoing re-assessment of the existing risks and of new potential risks that may appear, for the purposes of evaluating whether it is necessary to implement new mitigation controls. Internal control tools The Atresmedia Risk Management System has various tools that improve internal control and facilitate management: __ SAP GRC System: During 2014 the Atresmedia Group implemented a new application that supports its entire risk and control management system known as SAP GRC (Governance, Risks and Compliance). It is a corporate system, developed within its transactional SAP system and allows the company to structure, order and document the monitoring of all the Group's risks, the existing controls to mitigate the identified risks and establish workflows that speed up and order the flows of information in the risk and control system. In addition, the effectiveness and design of the model can be continuously assessed within the same tool. __ Internal Control System for the preparation and issuance of Financial Reporting (ICFR): Grupo Atresmedia, in its commitment to providing reliable, comprehensive, accurate and consistent information to investors and the market, has implemented an Internal Control System relating to the process for the issuance and publication of Financial Reporting (ICFR) which ensures the reliability of the financial information issued. __ Procedures and Protocols, among which the following can be highlighted: •• Notifications management •• Criminal risk proceedings •• Use of Information and Communication Technology (ICT) resources •• Management of powers of attorney •• Hiring of managers ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 | ATRESMEDIA | 57 •• New contractual clauses •• Guide on the use of cookies •• Domain management •• Personal data objection procedure •• Flow of foreclosures •• Due diligence measures in gambling activity •• Purchases of goods and services •• Customer billing objections •• Blocking and unblocking of customers •• Insolvency risks •• Acting in emergencies •• Media-for-Equity Investments •• Other __ Internal Code of Conduct in matters relating to the Securities Market. __ Other IT control tools, among which the following can be highlighted: •• Purchase management system •• Contracting proposal management system •• Quality System __ Code of Conduct: Its objective is to establish the policies, principles, objectives and values that should guide behaviour within Atresmedia and in its relationships with third parties and society, creating a culture and structure of responsible action that is shared, accepted and respected by everyone to whom it applies. The Code of Conduct forms part of the Atresmedia Good Governance and Corporate Responsibility policies. The Board of Directors is responsible for directing and supervising all matters relating to its effective compliance, as well as the obligation to adopt and implement the measures required for the necessary coordination of the Code with the other regulatory and procedural elements of corporate governance. The Code of Conduct mainly regulates the following aspects: •• Regulatory compliance and respect for ethical values. •• Relationship with and between employees. •• Respect between people. •• Professional development, equal opportunities and non-discrimination. •• Teamwork, collaboration and dedication. •• The health and safety of people. •• Processing of information. •• Use and protection of assets. •• Corruption and bribery. •• Money laundering and irregularities in payments. •• Respecting free competition. •• Conflict of interests and loyalty to Atresmedia. •• Relationships with customers, contractors and suppliers. •• Corporate image and reputation. •• Respecting the environment. •• Social commitment. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 | ATRESMEDIA | 58 __ Complaints channel: This allows all employees to communicate, simply and confidentially, anything that constitutes inappropriate conduct or actions in light of the Code of Conduct or any other applicable regulation. __ Regulatory Compliance Committee (RCC): The body responsible for managing, monitoring, coordinating and integrating the corporate policies and actions necessary to comply with the legislation and Code of Conduct. __ Head of Criminal Compliance: The person responsible for providing the necessary advice to managers and directors of Atresmedia when making decisions that could have criminal consequences. They are also responsible for the operational coordination of the measures necessary to apply the Code of Conduct and execute the decisions adopted by the RCC. Finally, they are responsible for implementing a crime prevention programme within Atresmedia. Data security Atresmedia has a corporate security model that ensures compliance with the legislation in matters of personal data protection, both within the organisation and by all its collaborators. During 2014 The model has a Security Committee responsible for ensuring that all the there were no activities performed by the Group conform to the legal standards. disciplinary proceedings or In 2014, the control and improvement actions specified in previous years incidents relating continued to be worked on: to a breach of privacy, data loss __ Information on the websites about the use of cookies, in accordance or unavailability. with the criteria of the Agencia Española de Protección de Datos (Spanish Data Protection Agency). __ Review of the procedures applicable to the different legal risks in the IT area. __ Launch of a Communications Plan aimed at the users of computer equipment and ICT resources at Atresmedia to remind them of its usage policies. __ Disclaimer on computers that informs the user of the need to responsibly use them and comply with the applicable regulations. All the legal compliance audits conducted in 2014 obtained favourable results. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 | ATRESMEDIA | 59 Sustainability in the value chain The selection Atresmedia cares about extending its Corporate Responsibility manof suppliers agement model to its value chain, involving its suppliers in the Group's is carried out mission, vision and values, as well as its ethical principles and Corporate through a Responsibility policies. transparent and demanding This desire can be seen from the strict supplier selection process which process, which also considers economic requirements and social and environmental asguarantees the pects. The Group also applies an exhaustive and rigorous control process quality of their to commercial content and communications in order to ensure that they services and conform to the legislative requirements and self-regulation codes the products. company has signed up to. In 2014, 1,960 programmes Atresmedia Value Chain and 595 series episodes were produced. Suppliers Audiences __ Strict selection __ Selection of __ Social Responsibility programmes and Clause content __ Audience studies __ Quality Management System __ Ethical Code in content Advertisers __ Autocontrol __ Codes of Conduct __ Content controls __ Advertising committed to society With regards to the suppliers, Atresmedia strives to convey to them its sustainable management model, based on the principles of quality and commitment. Due to the nature of the sector, Atresmedia distinguishes between two types of supplier: __ Producers and distributors who supply contents of drama, news, information and entertainment. __ Other suppliers of goods and services. Producers and distributors The Content Department and Production Department at Atresmedia operate a strict content and format selection process, which ensures that they comply with the internal standards defined and contribute to the responsible and high quality television model the Group is committed to providing. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 | ATRESMEDIA | 60 Among the requirements Atresmedia has of its producers we can highlight the obligation to sign a corporate responsibility clause that includes a commitment to apply measures that promote: __ Equality and non-discrimination for employees. __ Environmental management aimed at sustainability. __ The promotion of the values included in the Atresmedia corporate policies. __ The accessibility of content. Number of producers who have Number of producers who have collaborated with Atresmedia collaborated with Atresmedia Televisión and the programmes Televisión on drama series and the produced series produced 50 47 15 43 13 13 40 12 34 10 9 30 9 8 7 22 20 17 6 9 10 3 0 0 2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 Producers Programmes produced Series produced 77.3% of the producers contracted by Atresmedia for its entertainment and drama programmes in 2014 were national The Outside Production Department, an area responsible for managing the acquisition of broadcasting rights for those products not produced exclusively for Atresmedia Televisión, generated 187 purchase proposals in 2014, of which 51% corresponded to national distributors and 49% to foreign distributors. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 | ATRESMEDIA | 61 Martingala has been an Antena 3 supplier since 1998, so for almost 17 years. Over all that time the relationship has not been interrupted and dozens of successful programmes have been signed, such as Sabor a ti , ¿Quién quiere ser millonario? and the current La ruleta de la suerte . When Martingala began to work with Antena 3, it was simply a television network; now it is a multimedia corporation which is so modern that it is on a level with the best in the world. The interests of Atresmedia are much wider and involve a very high degree of social responsibility. Atresmedia is a group that is good to work with and its social perception is positive, so this also feeds through to the companies who collaborate with it. Its concept of television for all audiences also coincides with our view of the media . Enric Lloveras General Manager of Martingala The number As a result of the closure of the channels xplora, Nitro and laSexta3, of purchase which took place on 6 May 2014, the specific content acquisition proposproposals als for the Atresmedia specialist channels have been reduced. generated in 2014 fell by 9% compared to Number of distributors who operate Number of external award proposals 2013. on Atresmedia Televisión generated at Atresmedia Televisión 60 200 176 51 49 47 45 150 126 40 33 111 31 95 96 100 91 20 50 0 0 2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 Domestic Foreign ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 | ATRESMEDIA | 62 G4-26 Other suppliers of products and services 90.8% of the Atresmedia has established a unique contracting procedure for all of the expenditure Group's companies under which the following aspects are considered: on goods and services is with __ Compliance with technical, social and environmental requirements. national suppliers. __ Compliance with the supplier's labour obligations in relation to the employees who access the Group's facilities, which much ensure their basic rights. Spending on purchases Geographic distribution of purchase (millions of Euros) expenses (percentage) 50 50 41.8 42.2 Other countries 9% Other communities 5% 40 Andalusia 5% Catalonia 11% 30 20 Autonomous Community of Madrid 70% 0 2012 2013 2014 The objective of this process is to ensure that all Group suppliers work with the same quality standards and the same social commitment as Atresmedia. Proof of this is the obligation of all suppliers before starting any activities, to sign a Corporate Responsibility clause, which commits them to comply with the CorporateResponsibility policies of Atresmedia. Supplier selection process Minimum technical quality Necessary in order to be able to value the financial criteria offer. Any purchases of more than € 50,000 are approved Valuation of the financial offer Internal audit by a Purchasing Committee. This requires suppliers to take action to minimise the environmental impact of their activities and Environmental responsibility of to select technological equipment on the basis of the suppliers green purchasing criteria. The signing of a Corporate Responsibility clause in Social Responsibility Clause all agreements. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 | ATRESMEDIA | 63 G4-26 Atresmedia runs the entire selection process in a transparent way, respecting the equality of conditions for all applicants and maintaining ongoing communication with the suppliers through the purchase management tool. Self-regulation and participation in developing the audiovisual sector Sector forums to which Atresmedia belongs UTECA Unión de Televisiones Comerciales Asociadas (Commercial Television Union) ACT (Association of Commercial Television in Europe) Consejo Asesor de Telecomunicaciones y para la Sociedad de la Información CATSI (Advisory Council on Telecommunications and the Information Society) Asociación Española de Radiodifusión Comercial (Spanish Association of AERC Commercial Broadcasting) ACR Asociación Catalana de Radio (Catalan Radio Association) When it comes to legislative developments and the debates that take place in the sector, Atresmedia maintains an open attitude and one of entering into a dialogue. The Group is present in the major forums and associations, in which it participates actively and with a positive focus on developing public policies and resolving any possible disagreements that MATERIAL may arise. ISSUE Self-regulation commitment Atresmedia Televisión is a member of Autocontrol (Asociación para la Autorregulación de la Comunicación Comercial/Self-Regulatory Association for Communications Communications), an organisation that it helped to set up and through which it collaborates to improve compliance with the advertising and competition regulations, as well as the extension of the guarantees for the advertisers, television networks and, above all, the consumers. www.autocontrol.es. It is also signed up to the Código de Conducta sobre Comunicaciones Comerciales de las Actividades de Juego (Code of Conduct on Commercial Communications for Gambling Activities), which has been created as a result of the approval of the Gambling Regulation Act in Spain in 2011, and the company is a member of its Mixed Monitoring Committee together with other television operators and social organisations. In the framework of its commitment to children, Atresmedia Televisión has signed up to the Código de Autorregulación sobre Contenidos Televisivos e Infancia (Self-Regulation Code of Television and Infant Content) which ensures that the television content is appropriate for children during the timeslots provided for this purpose. In 2014, Atresmedia collaborated in the re-modelling of the Code's website www.tvinfancia.es, in order to facilitate interaction with the viewers. It also actively collaborates in reviewing the rating criteria for television content, within the working group formed for this purpose by the Comisión Nacional de los Mercados y la Competencia (National Markets and Competition Commission). ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 | ATRESMEDIA | 64 In this same area, Atresmedia Televisión has signed up to the PAOS Code which, within the framework of the NAOS Strategy on nutrition, physical activity and the prevention of obesity, proposes guidelines for the advertising of food and drinks aimed at children under 12. Public Policies Throughout 2014, Atresmedia positioned itself and collaborated in the development of public policies in the audiovisual sector and in other relevant matters, among which the following can be highlighted: Process of releasing Atresmedia Televisión has been participating, both directly as well as spectrum for the digital through UTECA, to ensure that during the process of releasing radiodividend electric spectrum to provide greater capacity to broadband, and on its completion, the public can continue enjoying the current television offer through their DTT receivers. High Definition Atresmedia Televisión promotes the implementation and Television development of High Definition Television, offering the public the programming on its major channels in this technology. Supporting Spanish The television networks have come out against the mandatory cinema investment fee to fund the production of films. The industry argues that its own activity already strengthens the country's film industry, without needing to impose this exclusive tax for this economic activity. As a consequence, Atresmedia trusts that the Constitutional Court will quickly rule in favour of the argument put forward by the private operators, after the Supreme Court has asked for its opinion on the constitutionality of this fee. Public television Atresmedia has always understood that public television should funding obtain its credibility and strength through offering a public service and not from selling commercial space, making television for the public and not for the advertisers. Therefore, it firmly supports Law 8/2009 regarding the funding of the RTVE Corporation, which prohibits it from obtaining income from broadcasting commercial communications. Atresmedia Televisión is working, both individually and through UTECA, to achieve a true rationalisation of the public television sector as a whole. Reforms relating to the In 2014, Atresmedia actively worked, inside the Group and through collective management UTECA and AERC, on the process of modifying the Intellectual of rights Property Law, whose entry into force on 1 January 2015 results in a need for transparency for the organisations involved in the collective management of intellectual property rights, and demands objective, fair and appropriate criteria for setting and applying the prices that these organisations may charge for using the rights that they manage. Atresmedia has launched Crea Cultura, a movement with a long-term vision that was created to defend and recognise the value of intellectual property and raise awareness about the consequences associated with its violation. The campaign has an open focus and seeks to generate meeting and discussion opportunities that could help to find solutions through dialogue. Antena 3 Noticias, laSexta Noticias and Onda Cero have been the main promoters of Crea Cultura. The Group has also broadcast, through various media channels (cinema, television, internet, etc.), the awareness campaign Nada es gratis. Siempre hay alguien que lo paga . ( Nothing is free. Someone always has to pay ). Within the framework of this initiative, a working group has also been created with experts whose role is to develop audiovisual material about the importance of creativity, aimed at the world of education. In the same area, this issue was the topic of discussion in the Grandes Profes meeting organised by Fundación Atresmedia, as well as in the first Crea Cultura forum about intellectual property and illegal downloading held at the Espacio Bertelsmann. ATRESMEDIA Televisión Antena 3 has grown for the third consecutive year and achieved its best result in five years. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 | ATRESMEDIA TELEVISIÓN | 66 Quality, diversity, prestige and leadership Since Antena 3 was created 25 years ago, television in Spain has evolved very quickly. New channels have been launched, the internet has extended the television experience to a multitude of screens and the content has been evolving to satisfy both the traditional audience and the new connected public. These changes have not stopped television from continuing to be one of the central features of society, rather the opposite. One could say that 25 years is nothing , but in audiovisual communication terms it has been almost everything, although we know that, fortunately, there is still much to come. Antena 3 began its test broadcasts on 25 December 1989 and during 2015 has held various commemorative events with institutions, employees, advertisers and viewers. Antena 3, our country's largest private television network, has become Atresmedia Televisión. With four leading channels in their segments, it has become a well-known television group, with an innovative and high quality business and editorial model, respecting both viewers and advertisers. A success model that has provided all the Atresmedia Televisión channels with a strong personality, channels that continue winning audiences month after month thanks to their differentiated programming, with an extremely high success rate, and where not only drama has broken records since records have tumbled for news programmes, current affairs shows and game shows. A television network that also stands as the favourite of society and the most appealing from an advertising point of view. In 2014, the Group was absolute leader in both the full day and during prime time in terms of the total number of viewers and in the commercial target until the disappearance, in May, of three leading brands. xplora (1.6%), laSexta3 (1.7%) and Nitro (1.7%) said goodbye as leaders in their genre and target audience following a successful career that saw them become unique channels. Despite this, and the resulting disadvantage in terms of the fewer number of channels compared to its competitor Mediaset España, Atresmedia has reacted and adapted by creating new formulas for success. Antena 3 has grown for the third consecutive year, at the height of the crisis, achieving its best result in five years with an audience share of 13.6%. In 2014 it was the leading channel in the commercial target, both over the entire day (13.8%) and in prime time (14.1%). laSexta, meanwhile, is the fastest growing network (+1.2). Out of all the television networks it is the one that recorded that best annual figures in its history (7.2%) and once again beat Cuatro, this time by no less than 0.5 points. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 | ATRESMEDIA TELEVISIÓN | 67 Its thematic offer is also popular with the audience. Both Neox and Nova have improved their results from last year. Neox grew 0.3 points and was positioned as the second thematic channel on the market. Nova, meanwhile, achieved is best ever results with a new annual record: a 2.5% audience share, 0.4 points more than in 2013. As for the networks that suffered from the switch off , xplora is the one that stands out. It had been the leading network in its genre since its launch and in 2014 it closed its career with a 1.6% average and 2.4% in commercial target. Nitro, meanwhile, was the channel with the most successful television début: it launched as the thematic channel with the best result in its first month of operation (1.3% in September 2010) and in its 2014 broadcasting months it repeated the annual maximum (1.7%) that it achieved in 2013. laSexta3 managed to meet the viewers' demand for a thematic film channel. Despite the appearance of new offers, it continued growing and remained the thematic market's leader. In 2013 it averaged 1.6% before achieving its best ever year in 2014 with 1.7% and always outperformed its direct competitor, the Paramount Channel (1.6%). One of the distinguishing features of the Group's television offer is having the best professionals. The presenters at Atresmedia Televisión are the most valued according to a study conducted by Personality Media, which analyses the preferences of Spanish consumers regarding the quality, image and relevance of programming and the professionals on the national television networks. Jordi Évole, Sandra Sabatés, Arturo Valls, Matías Prats, Karlos Arguiñano, Berto Romero, Carlos Sobera and Ana Pastor are the most valued faces on the audiovisual scene and occupy the top rankings. Channels on the rise and gaining strength in prime time Antena 3 has grown 0.2 points compared to 2013 and is the new absolute leader in the commercial target (13.8%), the audience of most interest to ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 | ATRESMEDIA TELEVISIÓN | 68 laSexta achieved advertisers. It has grown in almost all of the timeslots during the day, is the best year in the most popular option in the mornings and afternoons and is the most its history and viewed network during the weekends. It is also the most followed network pulled away among young people (13.3%) and viewers aged 45 to 54 (14.9%). It remains from its main the favourite of the upper-middle and upper classes and has again expandcompetitor. ed its following among the middle classes. Since the merger there have been laSexta is the network that has grown the most compared to the previous 29 months of year (1.2 points), achieving its best year so far in terms of distance from uninterrupted its main competitor, Cuatro, which it beat by 0.5 points. Since the merger growth. it has shown growth every month compared to the same month in the previous year, therefore completing, at the end of 2014, 27 months of uninterrupted growth. It has risen in all the timeslots and audiences and ended October (8.0%) and November (8.2%) with record highs. 2014 vs. 2013 difference in share for Atresmedia Televisión channels 1.2 1.2 0.8 0.4 0.4 0.3 0.2 0 Source: Kantar Media. Spain. Total individuals Antena 3 and laSexta, the channels with the most successful releases The Atresmedia television model likes to receive and relies on the support of its viewers. Once again this year, the Group's two main channels have recorded the highest hit ratio for their releases, far ahead of their competitors. In 2014, Antena 3 consolidated its leading position in drama with new self-produced programmes such as Velvet and Sin identidad; and externally produced programmes such as Broadchurch and Transporter. It also successfully released the children's version of one of its most successful brands, Tu cara me suena mini, and refreshed its game shows with the inclusion of ¡Boom!. laSexta, meanwhile, continues to strengthen its own model of entertainment to which it has added, with positive results, local versions of various brands from US television such as El jefe infiltrado and Millonario anónimo both expanding the diversity of the network and reinforcing its personality. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 | ATRESMEDIA TELEVISIÓN | 69 Series atresmedia, a fashionable brand “El tiempo entre Antena 3's drama is synonymous with high quality and success, to the costuras” was point that it has its own brand, Series Atresmedia. The year began with the most viewed saying goodbye to El tiempo entre costuras, a real milestone in Spanish non-sports drama and the most watched non-sporting programme in 2013. It ended programme in its run with more than 5.5 million viewers. 2013 and ended with more than In February, Velvet was added to the schedule and quickly became a hit. 5.5 million It has been leader in its timeslot for all its broadcasts, ending its first seviewers. ries with 4,262,000 viewers and a 21.8% share, and retained its audience for its second series (22.1% and 4,099,000). In May Sin identidad began, a thriller that was one of the most popular Spanish series releases in recent years (4,931,000 viewers), and ended as the preferred option in its timeslot with almost 3.6 million viewers and a 20.1% share. It was also recently selected as best Spanish drama at the Luchon festival (France) in its seventeenth edition. Other important programmes during the year were El corazón del océano and Bienvenidos al Lolita. The first, an epic historic production, received more than 3.4 million viewers (17.3%) on its release. The second, a drama about a cabaret in crisis, was leader of its timeslot during its first four episodes, ending with an average of 14.0% and 2,640,000 followers. In 2014 Antena 3 also launched innovative proposals such as Cuéntame un cuento, in which every episode tells a classic story in an entirely new way. Its début received more than 2.7 million viewers with the story of 'The three little pigs', also recognised as best Spanish drama in the sixteenth edition of the Luchon Festival (France). The year also saw the ending of series such as Con el culo al aire and Vive cantando. The first ended after three successful series and the second, which became the revelation series of 2013, said goodbye after its second series. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 | ATRESMEDIA TELEVISIÓN | 70 However, without doubt one of the biggest hits for Antena 3 in drama is its tandem of Amar es para siempre which beat its annual record share with 14.1% and 1,653,000 viewers, and El secreto de Puente Viejo (18.3% and 1.9 million viewers), broadcast in the afternoons and evenings from Monday to Friday. They both improved their results from the previous year and have managed to successfully establish the network's model in the evening The most popular foreign drama The success of Atresmedia in drama is not limited to self-production. The Group continues to broadcast some of the most viewed foreign drama series on the Spanish market. In fact, of the four most viewed of the year, three are from Atresmedia Televisión. Broadchurch is the most popular series so far in the 2014-15 season, with more than 2.3 million followers on average and a 13.7% share. Also achieving very good results is Transporter, the revelation series of the summer which ended as leader in its timeslot with 14.6% and more than two million viewers. Antena 3 is also offering the new seasons of La cúpula, Arrow and Vikingos and has released one more: Rehenes. laSexta also has its own successful series, which have considerably improved their audience figures compared to the previous year. El mentalista has become the fourth most viewed foreign drama of the year, ahead of any brand offered by Cuatro, with 8.9% and 1,683,000 viewers. Bones is another standard in foreign drama: it closed its ninth season with almost 1.5 million followers and an 8.4% share, 3.2 points more than in 2013. The network also entered the world of the Italian Mafia with Gomorrah, la serie (6.2% and 1,068,000) and continues to broadcast Person of interest, The Following and Boardwalk Empire. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 | ATRESMEDIA TELEVISIÓN | 71 The leading film brands El peliculón (16.0% and 2,595,000) and Multicine (15.7% and 1,928,000) remain absolute leaders in their timeslots for another year and are two of the most viewed film brands. El peliculón, for the second consecutive year, is the film brand with the highest audience share, ahead of “La película de la semana” from La1, and El taquillazo from laSexta. It has gained positions and grown to 10% and 1,658,000 followers, compared to 8.8% and almost 1.5 million in 2013. Not surprisingly, Antena 3 is the absolute leader in terms of the year's most watched films. Six of the ten films with the largest audience were broadcast by the channel. Los juegos del hambre: en llamas is the film with the greatest following and the second most viewed of the year with 4,678,000 and a 26% share. Meanwhile, X Men Orígenes: Lobezno is the most watched film of the year on laSexta (17.6% and 3,154,000) for over three years. Atresmedia Televisión has also reinforced its film offer on its thematic channels. Neox has added Neox y acción to the classic Cinematrix; and Nova has added Noche de película to Thursday prime time with more commercial titles. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 | ATRESMEDIA TELEVISIÓN | 72 Success in entertainment 2014 was also a year of growth for the Group's entertainment offer. El hormiguero 3.0 had its best every year (13.2% and 2,532,000) and remains the leader in its timeslot among the private television networks. On 20 January it achieved the most viewed broadcast in its history (more than 3.5 million followers and a 16.4% share) with the visit of Peter Vives and Adriana Ugarte, stars of El tiempo entre costuras. Tu cara me suena, created on Antena 3 and the format sold to more than 35 countries, repeated its success and was positioned as the network's most watched entertainment programme with a 19.9% share and more than 2.8 million viewers. This year it also has a children's version. Tu cara me suena mini which premièred as the leader, watched by almost 3 million viewers, and ended with 15.3% and 2,134,000 on average. Top Chef also had positive results in its second series. It was the leader in November and December, and closed with a record of 3.3 million viewers and a 21.3% share. Another well-known programme from the network is Me resbala with 2,182,000 viewers. The good results in entertainment are not only produced in prime time. The game shows combine with the series to create a solid block during the evenings from Monday to Friday. Ahora caigo closed the year with 14.6% and 1,409,000 viewers. September saw the arrival of ¡Boom! to the schedule as a replacement for Atrapa un millón, which said goodbye with 11.9% and 1,308,000. The new game show, with Juanra Bonet, averaged 12.5% and almost 1.6 million followers, improving on the previous results in the timeslot by 0.6 points. The morning continues to be the territory of La ruleta de la suerte an unbeatable leader in its timeslot for more than 50 months with an average of 17.8% and 1,075,000 viewers in 2014. Meanwhile, Karlos Arguiñano en tu cocina continued improving its results and closed its best year with 14.9% and 581,000 followers. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 | ATRESMEDIA TELEVISIÓN | 73 laSexta expands and strengthens its entertainment laSexta also strengthened its entertainment model in 2014. Salvados returned as the network's undisputed emblem and was again positioned as the most watched on laSexta. It is undisputed leader in its timeslot with 14.3% and almost 2.9 million followers on average. A special mention should be made of Operación Palace, a mockumentary that inaugurated the genre in Spain and became the most viewed nonsports broadcast in the history of laSexta with no fewer than 5,229,000 viewers and a 23.9% share. It was also positioned among the most viewed non-sports broadcasts of 2014 across all the channels. Pesadilla en la cocina is without doubt the other great hallmark of laSexta. With Alberto Chicote at the helm, it ended its third series with 11.7% and 2,375,000 viewers. Meanwhile, El intermedio broke records both in the number of viewers (2,331,000) and in share (12.2%), growing by 1.5 points compared to 2013. In November it was positioned as the leader in its timeslot for the first time in its history with 14.0%. However, undoubtedly one of the major revelations of the year is Zapeando, which has served as a true wake-up call for afternoons and evenings on laSexta. The programme was incorporated into the programming in November 2013 and has been attracting new viewers each month. It ended the year with 6.4% and 801,000 viewers on average and achieved its best performance in November with 7.4% and 908,000. El club de la comedia is another of the main elements of the network's entertainment offer. It started its new series with a record high (12.5% and 2,120,000). In 2014 there were also new releases such as El jefe infiltrado. The two episodes at its début averaged 16.5% and 2,882,000 viewers and it was the best début of an entertainment programme in the history of laSexta. It ended its first series with 12.2% and 2,312,000 viewers. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 | ATRESMEDIA TELEVISIÓN | 74 The most diverse news offer The news offer on Antena 3 and laSexta continues achieving very positive results. The two main editions of the news on Antena 3 closed the year with 13.1% and 1,783,000 viewers on average. The Monday-Friday edition of Antena 3 Noticias 1 (14.3% and 1,879,000, M-F) was leader in its timeslot, something that has not been seen since 2007; whilst Antena 3 Noticias 2, M-F achieved 11.4% and 1.6 million viewers on average, in December achieving its second best result of the year. Moreover, the 1st weekend edition, now with Marías Prats and Mónica Carrillo, strengthened its leadership and its position as the most watched news programme on Saturdays and Sundays with 15.5% and almost 2 million viewers. Additionally, the analysis of the news on Espejo Público closed its second most watched year with 16.8% and 482,000 viewers. The news programmes on laSexta again closed the best year in their history with growth of 0.8 compared to 2013. They averaged 9.9% and 1,075,000 viewers and were boosted again by the huge difference over the offerings from Cuatro (7.3% and 780,000). Both the two Monday to Friday editions as well as the one on weekend afternoons achieved annual record highs. laSexta Noticias 14:00 achieved 12.7% and more than 1.3 million followers, whereas laSexta Noticias 20:00 obtained 9.3% and 1,036,000 viewers. Lastly, laSexta Noticias 14:00 fin de semana recorded 9.3% with almost 900,000 followers. However, the daily programmes on laSexta are not limited to just news bulletins. Al rojo vivo, with Antonio García Ferreras, and Más vale tarde, with Mamen Mendizábal, analyse the news headlines each day and have an audience that is growing constantly. Al rojo vivo again achieved the most viewed year of its history with 579,000 viewers (10.1%) and Más vale tarde also saw a maximum (6.7% and 670,000) with 2.1 more than in 2013. Friday, Saturday and Sunday nights are also nights for analysis and news. On Fridays, laSexta columna consolidates its effective tandem with Equipo de investigación and both closed beating their own records. laSexta columna received 7.9% of the audience (1,346,000 followers) and Equipo de investigación received 8.1% (1,423,000 viewers), which represents its best ever result. Moreover, laSexta noche (10.5% and 1,320,000) shines on Saturdays and is up no fewer than 3.2 points compared to 2013, its first year in the schedule. It closed the year as the leading news programme on Saturday nights. Lastly, on Sundays, El objetivo de Ana Pastor improved on its results from 2013 with 9.0% and almost 1.8 million followers. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 | ATRESMEDIA TELEVISIÓN | 75 Formula 1, the second most watched sport on television Formula 1 once again demonstrates its ability to gather huge audiences around the television, something that only large events can achieve. It was again positioned as the second most watched sport after football and the most popular motor racing competition with 29.3% and 3,073,000 viewers. La Copa del Rey (King's Cup in football) arrived at Atresmedia in October 2013 and the competition improved the average recorded over the two previous years (20.1% and 4,055,000 on average across the 7 games broadcast on Antena 3). The two semi-finals exceeded 5 million viewers, becoming the first and third most watched broadcasts from the entire 2013-14 season on Antena 3. laSexta has broadcast the 2nd division of La Liga (the Spanish football league) since September 2013. So far in this 2014-15 season, its broadcast has recorded the best figures for the 2nd division of La Liga in at least five years: 5.1% and 591,000 followers. The channel has its own sports analysis brand: Jugones. The programme, with Josep Pedrerol, closed its best year with 4.6% and around 600,000 followers, 0.7 more than in 2013. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 | ATRESMEDIA TELEVISIÓN | 76 The great offer of the thematic channels With a recognisable image and its own style, Neox (2.6%) grew by 0.3 points compared to 2013 and achieved its second best annual figure, expanding its following with its target audience, young people, which rose to 7.9% (+0.5). Neox remains the thematic leader for this type of audience on Monday to Friday evenings, thanks to its offer of American sitcoms, and during prime time, with its combination of films and series. Neox leads in the most viewed thematic broadcasts each day with Los Simpson and broadcast the year's most followed non-children's film on this type of channel: Los juegos del hambre: en llamas (922,000 viewers and a 5.9% audience share). Since September it has successfully incorporated El chiringuito de jugones into the late night schedule, a leading sports chat show with 4.2% and 239,000 viewers. It also continues to be the leading thematic network in the broadcast of sitcoms with Modern Family, Cómo conocí a vuestra madre and The Big Bang Theory. The network expanded its catalogue with the exclusive release of new seasons of The Walking Dead, Sherlock and Juego de tronos and reinforced its cinematographic offering with the new brand, Neox y acción. Nova, the group's female thematic network has still not reached its ceiling. It rose +0.4 points compared to the previous year and once again exceeded, with a huge difference, Divinity (2.1%), the direct competitor from the Mediaset group. It is the absolute thematic leader on Monday to Friday evenings (4.4%), with figures higher than those for some general channels, due to the success of its soap operas. This year it also gained in diversity and expended its target viewers with the release of the new season of Downton Abbey and the incorporation of a film brand with more commercial titles (Nova Noche de película). ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 | ATRESMEDIA TELEVISIÓN | 77 MATERIAL ISSUE High quality, friendly and accessible television OUR The vision of Atresmedia Televisión is to broadcast a diverse, inVISION novative and high quality mix of information and entertainment. The following principles are considered in both the creation and production and the broadcast of content: 1. To ensure the quality and interest of the content. 2. To respond to social concerns. 3. To protect the most vulnerable audiences, especially children. 4. To promote accessibility to audiovisual content. 5. To bring the media closer to society. Responsible television model Atresmedia runs Atresmedia assumes the responsibility, as one of the country's major its own television communications groups, to offer high quality content, accessible to all model based audiences and meeting the needs and expectations of the viewers. All on quality, the of this is done by incorporating the latest technological developments diversity of and promoting its own pioneering, innovative and committed television genres, innovation model. and commitment. Content control mechanisms To ensure the quality of its content, Atresmedia Televisión has a demanding selection and control process that ensures that all broadcasts are in keeping with the values, ethical codes and policies of the Group. “During the seven year relationship between FesTVal and Atresmedia, we have noticed a change in direction and a commitment to a new schedule, one that is more family orientated and with entertainment at its core. It is increasingly difficult to choose the series that will take part in the FesTVal due to the high quality of them all. The most notable thing about Atresmedia is the people who make up the team who share their work with us. Our relationship has changed over the years into something based on more than just work, into one of being great partners.” Joseba Fiestras Director of the Vitoria Television Festival ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 | ATRESMEDIA TELEVISIÓN | 78 This process consists of different mechanisms, both internal and external: Internal mechanisms The Committee ensures the application of the Group's values in the creation of content, Contents committee both those generated internally as well as those commissioned from external producers, over which strict control and monitoring is exercised. General description of the policies, principles, objectives and values of Atresmedia. This Atresmedia Code of Conduct code makes these values explicit and visible, and unifies and reinforces the identity, visibility and standards of conduct of the Group. The news services at Antena 3 and laSexta have professional ethical codes that ensure Ethical code of news services a rigorous and high quality news service committed to the ethical and Corporate Responsibility principles. Principles of the Professional Ethical Code for news Principles of the Professional Ethical Code for news programmes programmes __ Reference framework: Declaration of Human Rights and __ Reference framework: The constitution and the legal the Spanish Constitution. framework that emanates from it. __ Giving a voice to organisations and groups fighting for __ Respect for the dignity of people. the underprivileged and against inequality and injustice. __ Language and visual resources in the news carefully __ NGOs and new social movements as a basic pillar when treated and monitored. reporting. __ Principle of separating the activities of all the journalists __ Equality, solidarity, coexistence, peace, freedom and to avoid possible conflicts of interest. __ knowledge __ Explicit clear separation between news and advertising. __ Unambiguous differentiation between news content and that involving interpretation or critical commentary. __ Ban on accepting gifts. __ Legal principle of the presumption of innocence. __ Extreme rigour when there are minors involved. __ Participation of viewers through the social __ networks. External mechanisms In 2014, Atresmedia Televisión continued its research work in collaboration with the sector’s prestigious institutes, in order to complement the audience data supplied by Kantar Media and therefore learn about preferences. Qualitative research During 2014, 104 discussion groups were held which has resulted in the valuations of 832 people. This effort enables Atresmedia to be aware of the interests of the viewers as well as the current trends and, as a result, produce better television. In 2014, more than 29,000 phone calls were received from viewers who wanted to communicate their opinions, suggestions and queries. To mark the new Release Process for the Digital Dividend by the Government and the re-tuning of the channels, Atresmedia has set up a call centre to deal with any possible Communication with the audience queries. The commitment to the social networks has led Atresmedia Televisión to use a measurement tool, Instar Social, created by KantarMedia, which offers official data about television-related comments on twitter. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 | ATRESMEDIA TELEVISIÓN | 79 G4-26 Social Content Over 10% more Reflecting social concerns signed hours in Atresmedia Televisión takes into account in its programming those things 2014 compared that are currently of concern to society and offers a diverse and analytical to 2013. vision of the issues that concern the public to allow them to come to an informed opinion. Both Antena 3 and laSexta have programmes in their schedules that contribute to generating critical thinking in the audience. Some examples are El objetivo, with Ana Pastor; Salvados; laSexta noche; laSexta columna; Al rojo vivo; Equipo de investigación and Espejo Público. Through these current affairs programmes, as well as the news bulletins and other current affairs slots such as A fondo (Antena 3 Noticias), in 2014 issues such as job insecurity, the sustainability of pensions, the situation of the victims of the property bubble, child poverty, volunteering and the effects of global warming were addressed, among others. In 2014, Charity specials Atresmedia During 2014, various charity slots were broadcast during the different donated the programmes on Atresmedia television channels and these have involved sum of 171,809 the Corporate Responsibility campaigns of Atresmedia and its Foundaeuros to social tion, as well as the work of other NGOs and non-profit organisations for projects through which it has helped to collect funds and raise awareness of their work and entertainment certain social issues: programmes, the highlight being __ ¡Boom! broadcast a special New Year programme with the proceeds the programmes going to the Stop Ebola campaign from Médicos Sin Fronteras (MeTu cara me decins Sans Frontieres). suena and A __ El club de la comedia broadcast a New Years' Eve special in favour bailar . of Action Against Hunger to combat infant malnutrition. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 | ATRESMEDIA TELEVISIÓN | 80 __ El intermedio travelled with UNRWA Spain to the Gaza Strip in order to understand the situation of Palestinian refugees and invite the audience to contribute through a text message campaign. __ The programme Karlos Arguiñano en tu cocina supported the 'Big Collection' for the Food Bank. __ Ahora caigo collaborated with the Children's Rights campaign from Fundación Atresmedia to reinforce the right to education for 2,500 children from the Amazon rainforest in Peru, through teacher training and improving their schools. __ Ruleta de la suerte held a charity edition aimed at collecting funds for the Hospital Assistance Programme from Fundación Atresmedia and a special programme to raise awareness about caring for your heart under the slogan Objetivo Bienestar y Corazones Contentos (Objective Wellbeing and Happy Hearts). “Since 1990, the year in which our relationship with Atresmedia began, all of our complaints, congratulations and comments have been listened to and dealt with showing interest. The Group has positively evolved, especially in its more personal and friendly treatment, its greater involvement with the users, a more appropriate brand identity, a focus across all the channels on gathering the family around the television and an increased sensitivity to what the viewers have to say. Atresmedia offers creativity and dynamism in its schedule, without forgetting the responsibility of its directors to follow the policy that not everything that can be broadcast, should be broadcast”. Luis Boza General Director of the TAC Foundation (Consumers of Audiovisual Media in Catalonia/Consumidores de Medios Audiovisuales de Cataluña) According to Child protection Kantar Media, in 2014 Atresmedia Atresmedia is committed to family programming that takes into account Televisión the tastes of children, whilst exercising strict control over the classificabroadcast a total tion and broadcasting of its content and commercial communications of 1,690 hours within the children's timeslot. of programming dedicated to the younger audience. Television that is also for the little ones A highlight is To NeoxKidz, the channel filling the morning timeslot on Neox which was Neox with 1,685 created in 2013 as a commitment to high quality children's programming, hours, of which in 2014 we can add the launch of neoxkidz.com, by Atresmedia Digital, 1,663 correspond a new children's website with a wide catalogue of online exclusive series to NeoxKidz. with more than 1,500 titles to choose from, as well as educational and entertaining games. It also has a baby area, aimed at children between 0 and 4 years, which offers content suitable for these ages, such as a learning section containing educational videos, stories and songs. It is a safe environment, offering parental controls and a strict review of any content posted there. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 | ATRESMEDIA TELEVISIÓN | 81 In addition to the channels aimed at the little ones, during 2014 Tu cara me suena Mini was broadcast on Antena 3. This is the children's version of Tu cara me suena. There were also some special children's episodes of La ruleta de la suerte, ¡Boom! and Ahora caigo. “Over the more than 10 years of my relationship with Atresmedia, I have always seen a desire to improve and consider not only the audience but also the public . The notable effort made to comply with the child protection schedules and its excellent willingness to listen to the viewpoint of the users and promise to implement improvements have to be highlighted. However, the most important thing is its desire to fulfil its commitments”. Jose Luis Colás Chairman of the Association of Agrupación de Telespectadores y Radioyentes (Television Viewers and Radio Listeners, ATR) Atresmedia Control and self-regulation over content and infant contents has undertaken Since 2005, Atresmedia has adhered to the Self-regulation Code on Telemeasures vision and Infant Contents. This is a code of conduct for the sector, volunto comply tarily applied by all the companies who subscribe to it, which ensures the with the new protection of minors in television content. Atresmedia is also a member interpretation of its Mixed Monitoring Committee, responsible for ensuring the correct of the rules application of the Self-Regulation Code. arising from the assumption, by Eight complaints from viewers were accepted by the Self-Regulation the National Committee in relation to the content of broadcasts by Atresmedia during Markets and 2014. Changes to the criteria for analysing complaints implemented in Competition 2014 by the CNMC is the main cause of the increase compared to previCommission, of ous years. However, Atresmedia wants to increasingly improve and adapt the responsibility to the code. to impose penalties in this In addition, the CNMC fined Atresmedia for 5 violations of the Self-Regfield. ulation Code, corresponding to 4 open cases, and the fines represented the sum of € 360,600. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 | ATRESMEDIA TELEVISIÓN | 82 Self-Regulation Code Complaints accepted by the Committee 8 8 6 4 2 2 0 0 2012 2013 2014 In this regard, Atresmedia places special emphasis on reviewing the rating of contents before scheduling and broadcasting the different audiovisual products. This is in order to avoid access to content that is unsuitable for minors. This rating is transmitted to the audience through pictograms and symbols superimposed on the screen, which allow viewers to make informed decisions. During 2014, Atresmedia also worked with the CNMC on the new programme rating criteria, aimed at ensuring correct classification. Increasing accessibility Los Simpson Atresmedia not only complies with its obligations in terms of accessibility has for the laid down by the General Audiovisual Law, but also exceeds them and second time been works to ensure that everyone, regardless of their visual or hearing limitanamed as best tions, has access to its audiovisual content. To do this, the Group uses the audio description audio description, signing and subtitling tools for its content. in 2014 at the 2nd edition of the During 2014, Atresmedia worked on different projects aimed at increasATRAE Awards. ing and improving the accessibility of its broadcasts, among which we can highlight the following: __ Collaborating with the pay channel Nubeox and with the Atresplayer accessibility project, providing subtitles for both initiatives. __ SUBITO Project: Collaborating to develop a new system that will have a shorter delay in the broadcasting of subtitles on live programmes. __ EU Bridge Project: Collaborating with the European project to research and develop voice technology systems applied to live subtitling. __ Presence at the AMADIS Conference 2014: A meeting that discussed television accessibility services for people with a sensory impairment, the systems for monitoring and controlling the quality of subtitling and audio description in all areas of the culture. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 | ATRESMEDIA TELEVISIÓN | 83 __ Collaboration on and launch of the audio described broadcast of the series Velvet, accessible through the Audiodescmobile app, and developed by Fundación Vodafone, Fundación ONCE and Aristia. The closure of Number of hours of audio-descripted programming the Nitro, xplora and laSexta3 1,466.6 channels explains 1,500 the reduction in the number of 1,200 audio-described and subtitled programming 1,000 hours, despite 804.5 investment in 2014 increasing by 0.1% compared 500 to the previous year. 0 2012 2013 2014 Number of hours of signed Number of subtitled hours programmes 800 40,000 735.5 35,881 658.3 29,940 600 30,000 27,537.5 435.4 400 20,000 200 10,000 0 0 2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 The number of subtitled programming hours fell by 23% in 2014 as a result of the reduction in the number of channels. The subtitled programming offer was almost 100% for the major programmes in the commercial timeslot: Noticias 6.15, Espejo Público, Al rojo vivo, El intermedio, Zapeando, Más vale tarde, laSexta columna, Jugones, Sports, Weather and all the news programmes on Antena 3 and laSexta from Monday to Sunday. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 | ATRESMEDIA TELEVISIÓN | 84 Subtitled hours % of subtitling Canal 2013 2014 2013 2014 5,060.4 5,353.1 79.4 85 4,587.8 4,943.2 73.9 81.6 5,138.2 5,651 80.2 86.3 4,722.2 5,390.8 72.7 84 5,279.3 1,886.3 71.8 80.7 4,846.6 1,886.3 70 78.4 6,247.1 2,492.3 80.4 95.1 Building critical audiences Atresmedia, aware of the important role played by the media in shaping public opinion, promotes education over the way it operates and trains professionals so that they are competent and capable of offering a high quality, free, independent and diverse media. In this regard, and to continue enhancing society's knowledge about the media, Atresmedia runs the following initiatives: Fourth edition of Proyecto Mañana (Tomorrow Project) Students from the Universidad Rey Juan Carlos in Madrid were the winners of the new edition of Proyecto Mañana 2014, run by Grupo Atresmedia. The students worked throughout the year on the production of two thematic multi-channels for the internet, as a part of the Atresmedia multimedia strategy. Students from the Universidad Pompeu Fabra in Barcelona were also winners and submitted a double proposal, a multichannel video games network and another aimed at runners. All the winning students received grants for internships at Atresmedia. The Universidad de Sevilla, Universidad San Pablo CEU and the Universidad Politécnica de Valencia also participated in this edition of the initiative. Social Networks, Community Manager and Interpretation, new training courses in the framework of Proyecto PRO During 2014, Proyecto PRO, whose objective is to promote audiovisual training for people with a disability to help them join the industry, ran two new courses: Specialist in the management of social networks , with the Universidad Rey Juan Carlos (Madrid); and Postgraduate Diploma in Community Management , with the Universitat Politècnica de Catalunya (Barcelona). This year a third course, on acting, has also been organised with the Fundación Globomedia (Madrid), which allows people to work front-of-camera and increases normalisation. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 | ATRESMEDIA TELEVISIÓN | 85 Fundación Atresmedia runs radio workshops for children In 2014, Fundación Atresmedia ran, together with professionals from Onda Cero, a radio workshop for children admitted to the Vinalopó hospital in Elche. The children, in addition to helping to create the makeshift studio, interviewed one of the paediatric nurses after receiving wise advice from the Elche journalist Mayte Vilaseca. This initiative, which aims to entertain and bring radio closer to children, has already been run successfully in other hospitals in other autonomous regions. Onda Cero and the Universidad Nebrija launch their Masters in Radio Onda Cero and the Universidad Nebrija have jointly launched the Onda Cero Masters in Radio, which lasts two semesters. The training allows graduates to specialise in any of the professional roles in the world of radio: editor/presenter, programme director, producer, head of web content and broadcasting manager, among others. Almost 3,000 people learn about the day-to-day activity at Atresmedia During 2014, more than 2,800 people, split into 114 groups (schools, universities, associations and advertisers), had the chance visit the facilities and see the day-to-day activities of the Group. There was a particularly large increase in requests for visits from university and masters students. ATRESMEDIA Radio Between December 2013 and December 2014, Onda Cero, Europa FM and Melodía FM gained close to five hundred thousand new listeners. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 | ATRESMEDIA RADIO | 87 The fastest growing radio network Onda Cero, Atresmedia Radio consolidated its position in 2014 through excellent auEuropa FM and dience results for Onda Cero and Europa FM, but also through the launch Melodía FM have of its third radio station, Melodía FM, which began its new programming gained almost five on 13th January 2014. The three stations have a total number of listenhundred thousand ers of close to five million people and this makes Atresmedia Radio the new listeners. second most important radio group in Spain. The most remarkable thing is the considerable increase in audience over the last twelve months. Between December 2013 and December 2014, according to data from the Estudio General de Medios (General Media Study), Onda Cero, Europa FM and Melodía FM gained close to five hundred thousand new listeners. The growth of Atresmedia Radio is reflected in the survey conducted in early December 2014 by the EGM. Onda Cero, which in 2015 also celebrates its 25th anniversary, is the fastest growing general station with 172,000 new listeners. With a total audience of 2,632,000 listeners, it remains the second most listened to station in our country, increasing the gap between it and the third placed station, Cadena Cope, to 886,000 listeners, and exceeding the fourth placed Radio Nacional de España by almost one million four hundred thousand listeners. The market share of Onda Cero is around 20.2%, compared to 12.2% for Cadena Cope and 8.7% for Radio Nacional. In the current environment of strong competition and with the generalisation of the online media, it is not easy to achieve these results. However, Onda Cero has managed to do this by creating very recognisable programming and seeking to gain the trust of its listeners with an editorial policy that seeks to provide balance. The participation of the listeners has also been intensified through the social media and this has allowed it to strengthen another of the objectives of Onda Cero: closeness and proximity to its audience. Onda Cero has once again achieved the best profitability per listener index. This leadership has much to do with the loyalty and reliability that its content provokes. In fact, it holds the highest listener rate per person, at 154 minutes, compared to 148 for Cadena Ser, 140 for Cope and 137 for Radio Nacional. Europa fm beats it best records “Levántate y 2014 has been a record-breaking year for the music station Europa FM. Cárdenas” was With an increase of 160,000 listeners, it has managed to exceed the best the music radio figures in its entire history, securing third place in the ranking of music programme that radio stations with 2,061,000 listeners in the December EGM, exceeding gained the most Cadena 100 for the third year running and moving even closer to second audience in 2014. place, currently held by Cadena Dial. The gradual growth of Europa FM has been greatly influenced by the success of the morning show Levántate y Cárdenas, with an annual increase of 146,000 listeners. The morning programme, directed and presented by Javier Cárdenas, is the music radio show that has gained the most audience in 2014, adding 1,130,000 followers, continuing the upward trend seen since its launch four years ago. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 | ATRESMEDIA RADIO | 88 Melodía FM, a radio station to enjoy However, Onda Cero and Europa FM are not alone. Since its re-launch in mid-January 2014 their little sister, Melodía FM, has achieved 68,000 listeners more than it had the first time round. Melodía FM is experiencing a clear upwards trend with 297,000 followers. The launch of the new morning show on Melodía FM, with Nuria Roca and Juan del Val, surrounded by a large team of collaborators, has created a turning point in the history of the station. Lo mejor que te puede pasar has managed to double the audience in this timeslot during its first year on air. Siente la buena música (Feel the good music) is the main message of the new music offering from Grupo Atresmedia, in which it offers, together with the morning programme presented by Nuria Roca, a selection of the best music from the 80s and 90s, aimed at an adult and contemporary audience. Melodía FM listeners can enjoy a wide range of musical styles, including national and international pop and rock, with songs that are still big hits. Onda Cero, the open radio station Onda Cero is an open and entertaining radio station, with regional and local connections that allow it to bring the news from each community or city to the public. It is the station that dedicates most time to local information, something that is perfectly compatible with its large news and entertainment programmes for the entire country. For the more than two and a half million listeners of Onda Cero, Carlos Herrera, Julia Otero, Carlos Alsina, Héctor Fernández, Isabel Gemio, Esther Eiros, Javier Ares and Javier Ruiz Taboada are familiar voices, voices that transmit confidence and credibility. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 | ATRESMEDIA RADIO | 89 Herrera en la Onda, with more than two million listeners, was the morning programme with the most new listeners in 2014. Julia en la Onda is the second most listened to programme in its timeslot with 542,000 listeners, and La Brújula, with Carlos Alsina, has once again grown its audience, having 547,000 listeners at the end of the year. Te doy mi palabra, with Isabel Gemio, has around one million listeners every Saturday and Sunday. Not forgetting the hundreds of thousands of listeners who tune in during the early hours for the analysis of current sporting events on Al Primer Toque with Héctor Fernández; or who travel over the radiowaves, without needing to pack a suitcase, with Esther Eiros and her Gente Viajera. The morning programme with Carlos Herrera has once again exceeded the barrier of two million listeners for the third consecutive year. It has twice the audience received by the programmes broadcast every morning by Cope and Radio Nacional, and also exceeds the overall audience for these two stations. Herrera en la Onda is the second most listened to programme on Spanish radio and the strong leader in the mornings in our country. The morning show on Onda Cero, without losing its usual dose of humour and complicity with the listeners, saw the addition of some new collaborators at the start of the 2014 season, such as Julio César Iglesias, Román Cendoya, Nacho Cardero, and an international group comprised of Chencho Arias, Julián Cabrera and Ángel Gonzalo. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 | ATRESMEDIA RADIO | 90 Julia strengthens her position There have also been remarkable developments with Julia en la Onda at the start of its eighth season on Onda Cero. The evening show, with Julia Otero, saw important additions such as the journalist Raquel Martos and the writer Juan Gómez Jurado who offer a humorous take on the news with Personas Físicas; Máximo Pradera joined Territorio Comanche and Juan Adriansens launched Territorio Histórico on Tuesdays. In the Gabinete the team has been strengthened with the signing of Carmen Rigalt, Alejo Vidal-Quadras, Melchor Miralles, Fernando Iwasaki, Anna Grau and María José Tarancón. Julia en la Onda, which is one hour shorter than the competing programmes, managed to gain sixty thousand new listeners in 2014 and secure its position in second place in the ranking of radio evening shows with 542,000 listeners. The challenge of accuracy in news reporting “La Brújula” with Unravelling the key points in the news and analysing the most notable inCarlos Alsina formation from the day is the aim every evening of the news programme has continued its La Brújula, with Carlos Alsina and his team. The opening monologue by upward trend and the programme's director and presenter serves as a preamble to four is the evening hours of different radio which enables listeners to end the day well-innews programme formed from different angles and perspectives. that has grown most over the last La Brújula has continued its upward trend and is the fastest growing year. evening news programme over the last year: 85,000 new listeners, 18.4% more than in 2013. The programme, with 547,000 listeners, has become a benchmark for news radio. Noticias Mediodía, with Elena Gijón, offers the news in its purest form, explaining what is going on in the world with rigour, seeking out the latest events taking place at that time in the afternoon. With an audience of 274,000 listeners and a year-on-year increase of 31,000 listeners, it has consolidated its position as the second option in its timeslot. 2014 was full of big news stories and a fair few surprises. The team led by Julian Cabrera dealt with these news challenges with the utmost rigour and professionalism. Among these we can highlight the abdication of King Juan Carlos I in favour of his son Felipe VI, the death of the first president of the democracy, Adolfo Suárez, the European elections last spring and the emergence of the political party Podemos in Spanish political life. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 | ATRESMEDIA RADIO | 91 At the forefront of sport In the sporting arena, Onda Cero was also at the forefront with special programmes for both the World Cup in Brazil and the Basketball championship which took place in Spain. The sports broadcasts have been accompanied by summaries and interviews with the stars in the programme Al Primer Toque, with Héctor Fernández and a team of collaborators involving people of the status of Santi Segurola, Ángel Capa and Fabio Capello. The best complement to the daily sports news is Radioestadio with its Saturday and Sunday programmes and its specials when international competitions are taking place. This sports programme, run for thirteen seasons by Javier Ares and Javier Ruiz Taboada, has ended the year with its highest ever audience figure. The Saturday edition obtained 813,000 listeners, whereas the one on Sunday had 801,000 followers. Radioestadio has consolidated its role as an excellent alternative for those who demand something more than commentary on a game. The power of solidarity Te doy mi palabra, with Isabel Gemio, began its tenth season with more energy than ever and ended the year with an unforgettable 16 hour charity radiothon (27 December 2014). Isabel Gemio, with support from the station and all of the Atresmedia group, managed to raise more than two hundred thousand euros, which was donated to organisations fighting rare diseases. The programme's average audience throughout 2014 was close to one million listeners, on both Saturdays and Sundays. The voice of the public is represented each weekend in Te doy mi palabra, turning this show into a platform for testimonies and reports, with distinguished collaborators such as Fernando Sánchez Dragó, María Jesús Álava Reyes and Ramón Miravitllas. The listeners of Onda Cero can also find thematic areas in the weekend programming that cover a wide range of content and interests. Gente Viajera, on air for 25 years, is the great benchmark for travel and tourism. To celebrate its silver wedding anniversary, Esther Eiros prepared special editions inside and outside Spain. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 | ATRESMEDIA RADIO | 92 Adding audiences through the internet Onda Cero, Europa FM, and now Melodía FM, have created new opportunities for listener information and participation through their respective websites. The two largest radio stations in Grupo Atresmedia continue to gain listeners through the internet and the social networks, expanding their content with surveys or blogs by their professionals. Listeners can retrieve audio sections, participate in chats and give their opinion about the different programmes and broadcasts. Thanks to the new reenergised www.ondacero.es, to www.europafm.com and since January 2014 to www.melodía-fm.com in addition to being able to listen to the radio live, listeners can give their opinion about the content. The three stations have created applications that allow people to listen to their broadcasts through mobile devices and tablets. Good reasons to continue growing The credibility and good image of the radio stations at Grupo Atresmedia has been reflected in the many awards and recognitions received throughout 2014, starting with a Radio Academy Award for its chairman, Javier González Ferrari. In 2013 the Ondas Award for the best professional career was awarded to Julia Otero, and this year the organisation has given an award to the Europa FM programme Un lugar llamado mundo, presented by Javier Limón. The jury awarded it “best music radio programme” and highlighted in its decision its “innovative commitment to live music . Coinciding with the tenth season on air of Te doy mi palabra, Isabel Gemio has also seen her work and effort recognised with the Clara Campoamor Award, where her role as a mother who has managed to reconcile work and family life was emphasised among her merits. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 | ATRESMEDIA RADIO | 93 Moreover, Javier Ares, director and presenter of Radioestadio, was awarded the 2014 Francisco de Cossío Award for his “professional career”. The jury, comprised of journalists from Castile and León, highlighted the journalistic independence of the veteran sports reporter, as well as his broadcasting from his Community of birth. To these awards we can add those received by Esther Eiros and her Gente Viajera, and the distinctions and tributes to Carlos Herrera in different areas around Spain. The achievements of Onda Cero, Europa FM and Melodía FM are a result of the ability and commitment of those who make radio possible; radio that listens to the concerns of the Spanish people and that has managed to create new opportunities for listener participation. Committed radio All Atresmedia Radio stations are a true outlet for the public, broadcasting content that interests them and raising the issues that affect them, trying to increase awareness and propose solutions by applying a positive and respectful approach. Issues relating to social support for the most disadvantaged, research and environmental protection have a regular place in the Group's programming and news. In 2014, 1,306 free adverts for the This social commitment is put into practice through the following lines of communication action: campaigns of NGOs were __ Support for the Group's main Corporate Responsibility campaigns broadcast, valued such as Ponle Freno, Hazte Eco and El Estirón (now Objetivo Bieneat 3,494,228 star Junior) and the initiatives launched through Fundación Atreseuros. media. Some examples include the charity bags designed by Julia Otero and Gran Wyoming in collaboration with the company La Casa del Libro to raise funds; and the radio workshop held in the Child Oncology ward at Albacete Hospital. __ Collaboration with non-profit and social interest organisations, raising awareness about their work through the different radio programmes and supporting their campaigns. Highlights include promoting the initiative ‘La Poción de Héroes’ in support of children with cancer, and the charity marathon in benefit of the Isabel Gemio Foundation as part of which various stories about overcoming adversity were broadcast. __ Broadcasting of more than 1,306 free adverts in support of social initiatives run by non-profit organisations, valued at 3,494,228 euros. Supporting Atresmedia's Corporate Responsibility initiatives Collaboration with charitable Broadcast of free adverts in Programmes of social interest initiatives support of social initiatives ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 | ATRESMEDIA RADIO | 94 G4-26 The Atresmedia Key social and charitable spaces Radio marathon raised 200,000 In 2014, sections with specific content of a social and charitable nature euros that was were maintained and added to the major programmes: donated in full to __ The Change.org section in the programme Julia en la Onda, in which the Isabel Gemio controversial social issues are addressed, and Territorio Gallego, Foundation. where matters relating to ecology and respecting the environment are discussed. __ The Agenda Cine and Teatro o Cultureta sections in the Onda Cero news programmes promote culture as a key factor in creating a better society. There are also programmes on air with a clear social component: __ Gente Viajera, which shares new cultures and ways of life with the listeners. __ Como el perro y el gato, whose objective is to improve and celebrate the understanding and harmony between humans and pets. __ En buenas manos, a section dedicated to health. __ La Brújula, Levántate y cárdenas and Ponte a Prueba, programmes that address matters of a social nature. “The history of Atresmedia has run in parallel to that of PUBLIPUNTO, since we are also celebrating reaching 25. Over this time, the words that best summarise our relationship are: FRIENDLINESS, EFFECTIVENESS AND POSITIVE RESULTS! Over all these years, our companies have evolved together in terms of growth, volume and technology, always remaining one step ahead of the rest. However, the most notable fact is that Atresmedia has gone beyond the pure Customer/ Media relationship, it has gone out of its way to lend us a hand in difficult times. When the wind was against us... They were there! Thank you friends! I could go into more technical details but these words come from the bottom of my heart, as a summary of the 25 years shared together. The companies that understand social networks are those who say with their message: ‘I can see you, I am listening to you and I care about you.’ Thanks!”. Ramiro López Henares General Manager PUBLIPUNTO Connecting with listeners The listener is an essential component in the programming of all the Atresmedia radio stations. This is why various opportunities for participation have been established so that the public can express their doubts, interests and preferences on both the programmes broadcast and on other topical content or debates. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 | ATRESMEDIA RADIO | 95 Atresmedia Radio conducts regular focus groups and studies to identify the attitudes of the audience. Different programmes also contain sections that give a voice to the listeners and encourage them to participate. This is the case for Te doy mi palabra with Isabel Gemio, where anyone who wants to participate can do so both at the start of the programme and in the RED-SISTENCIA section, where the listeners themselves raise and discuss issues; and Herrera en la Onda with Carlos Herrera, which gives a voice to entrepreneurs whose words motivate the unemployed to start a new activity. Commitment to the future of the profession In 2014, the Radio Onda Cero Masters was launched in conjunction with the Universidad de Nebrija, with the collaboration of Europa FM and Melodía FM. This is a commitment to improving the training of future professionals in radio. Several journalists and other experts from Atresmedia participate as teachers. “The initial period in the Group, for those of us who were at Onda Cero, was very tough and a fundamental aspect was the mental transformation everyone went through. We went from being a radio where the stars had the power to a company where the brand is more important than the stars. Over all this time the evolution in radio has been enormous, more than people think today, with many changes being made to the programming from the very first day. For everyone, the 25 years have involved overcoming hurdles and adapting to the times in which we live. Nowadays, we are who we are thanks to the trust that the company had in us and there are two clear reasons for our success. First, we are a commercial radio station where we have to provide good radio in order to be a good advertising option. Second, it is vital to know that because of coverage reasons we are second, but we cannot think about coming second”. José María de Rato Cancer Regional Director of Onda Cero in Asturias ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 | ATRESMEDIA RADIO | 96 Work distinctions As a reward for their work and effort, the programmes and professionals at Atresmedia Radio received different awards and distinctions throughout 2014: The APEI (Spanish Professional Association of Press, Radio, Television and the Internet) has The “Ciutat of Onda awarded the programme the Micrófono de informadores , recognising its journalistic work Cero” Catalonia during this season. Onda Cero Cantabria Award granted by ONCE for its Onda Solidaria programme. Pepa Gea ‘Profesor Juan Ramón Zaragoza’ Award for best communicator. ‘Clara Campoamor’ Award for her professional career and for being a mother who manages Isabel Gemio to reconcile her professional and personal life. Awarded the 'Provincia de Valladolid' journalism award for her report “60 años de Fasa Clara Saavaedra en Valladolid”. Javier Ares ‘Francisco de Cossio’ Award for his professional career. Esther Eiros Plaque from Elche council for her journalistic work. ATRESMEDIA Publicidad innovation, efficiency and profitability continue to be the pillars on which Atresmedia Publicidad is founded so that it offers the best service to its customers. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 | ATRESMEDIA PUBLICIDAD | 98 More efficient, interactive and innovative In 2014, 25 years after the creation of Antena 3 and Onda Cero, innovation, effiAtresmedia ciency and profitability continue to be the pillars on which Atresmedia created Publicidad is founded so that it offers the best service to its customers. AtresmediaLab Innovation because advertising progresses quickly, as do new consumin order to fully er habits, and because a hyper-connected society needs communication take advantage of through the new media, whose scope and possibilities are still to be fully the new multidiscovered. For this, and because innovating also means researching, in screen advertising 2014 Atresmedia created AtresmediaLab in order to fully take advantage opportunities of the new multi-screen advertising opportunities and increase its effecand increase tiveness. efficiency. Atresmedia Publicidad has also managed to incorporate creativity into planning. It has good reasons to jointly market its television channels, radio stations, internet portals and new media whose complementarity increases their effectiveness, provided that there is reliable awareness of the effect of each media, the short and long-term performance of the different media channels and the maximum level of recognition that each can achieve. Only then is it possible to ensure the greatest profitability. Investment in advertising has returned to television, which increased its share compared to the other conventional media (+1.7 points vs. 2013) and grew by 11% compared to the levels seen in the previous year. This trend is the result of the improvement in the macroeconomy, but fundamentally also because of the effort to contain prices, a decision that has allowed Atresmedia to strongly improve its efficiency. 2014 has been characterised by the growing improvement in advertising investment in television, which in the January-September period showed an increase of 2.3 market share points compared to the other conventional media. However, it has also been a year marked by the closure of three channels, Nitro, xplora and laSexta3. To address this situation, Atresmedia has strengthened the offer of Neox and Nova, and of course of the main channels, to make them even more attractive and cater for the audience coming from the closed channels. The company's advertising offer continues to be, despite everything, a leader in coverage and affinity. As for radio, although this is a media channel characterised by stability in terms of investment, it has experienced significant growth and, in the case of the stations marketed by Atresmedia, these have grown above the average market rate thanks to an appealing and competitive offer. Additionally, Onda Cero, Europa FM and Melodía FM have again achieved great audience results, which consolidates Atresmedia Radio as the second largest radio group with more than five million listeners. In the online area it is worth noting the deceleration in the growth of the Internet media channel, which is growing more slowly than television. The creation of AUNIA has been especially important for the industry. This guarantees customers the presence of their brand in professional, high quality content and in a safe environment. Aside from the quantitative indicators, Atresmedia also has received recognition from the market. According to a recent study completed by Personality Media, Antena 3 and laSexta are the most liked television channels in Spain; in fact, seven programmes from Atresmedia Televisión are among the top ten for quality. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 | ATRESMEDIA PUBLICIDAD | 99 The advertisers' office: a new service for customers Atresmedia publicidad continues to have a vocation for providing a service. A clear example of this is the creation of the Advertisers' Office in January 2014, whose function is to deal with and resolve any customer incidents or complaints. Another example of the desire to offer the best service is the Spot de Oro, created to identify the most effective adverts. Atresmedia Publicidad broadcasts the most viewed advert free of charge on its channels, accompanied by a banner which indicates the number of television viewers it has had. A variant of the Spot de Oro is the Spot MVP, the one receiving most public votes. It is the first time in Spain that a communications group has allowed its viewers to vote for the best advert of the month. The winning spot is broadcast free on the Atresmedia Televisión channels. Innovation, the key to success Innovation requires research, and this is why in March Atresmedia Publicidad and Atresmedia Digital created AtresmediaLab, the innovation and technology laboratory applied to advertising that responds to the demands, needs and opportunities arising from the new multi-screen advertising opportunities (mobiles, online video, mobile marketing, social media and connected television). AtresmediaLab emerges, therefore, to provide new communications solutions to advertisers and at the same time strengthen participation from the other side of the screen. Its launch represents a clear commitment to more attractive, interactive and innovative advertising. There are several examples of initiatives arising from the creation of AtresmediaLab. In 2014 the Vodafone Spain Foundation, in collaboration with Fundación Atresmedia, launched Pasa la Bola (Pass the Ball), an innovative and fun charity campaign to support the Red Cross Plan de Ayuda Escolar school support plan. Atresmedia, through its main channels Antena 3 and laSexta, and its radio stations Onda Cero and Europa FM, encouraged viewers to pass the ball . A total of more than 365,000 ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 | ATRESMEDIA PUBLICIDAD | 100 people participated, the money raised exceeded 200,000 euros, more than 50,000 snacks were distributed and school support actions were organised with an estimated duration of 75,000 hours. Other initiatives were run in addition to Pasa la bola. In June, for the third consecutive summer, Barceló Viajes launched the “El verano más viajero” campaign hand-in-hand with Atresmedia. On this occasion, in order to be able to participate in the prize draw for 10 holidays to the Caribbean and 5 to the Balearic or Canary Islands, the audience had to send a whatsapp indicating which destination they liked the most, the Caribbean or the Spanish islands. The use of this messaging system, instead of the traditional text message, represented a big innovation and allowed the number of contributions to increase exponentially. With almost 700,000 messages received via WhatsApp, this new and interactive initiative from Barceló Viajes and Atresmedia could not have had a better response. The 3rd edition of the Neox Fan Awards 2014, organised by Neox and Fanta, was again a big success for branded content. The gala was followed on television via Neox by 422,000 viewers. The presentation ceremony for these awards, held on 8 October at the Compac Gran Vía theatre in Madrid, led to over 400,000 comments on Twitter and became the season's most commented on broadcast (non-sports related) on the social networks. Neox also successfully broadcast a spin off to the gala, revealing all the secrets about what took place after the ceremony at the so-called Neox Fan Party. Another success for multi-screen branded content was the initiative created by Atresmedia Publicidad and ODM for McDonald’s, naturally integrating the brand into the Top Chef competition. The winning recipe was included in the McDonald's Grand McExtrem range and sold in all of the chain's restaurants at a national level. This exclusive initiative with branded content was supported on television by a breakthrough plan that redirected to the programme and the spots. The campaign was completed with tele-promotions lead by Arturo Valls and Carlos Sobera, and accompanied by Javier Peña. It also had digital support through pre-roll and various initiatives in Atresmedia Conecta and in the social media. In September, Atresmedia and Gas Natural Fenosa reached an agreement to disseminate and transmit, in cinemas, the importance of energy efficiency in order to encourage its rational use and the protection of the environment. As a result of this alliance, Atresmedia broadcast CINERGÍA, the energy company's new project that unites the cinema and energy through the production of four short-films signed by prestigious directors, as well as other communication initiative. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 | ATRESMEDIA PUBLICIDAD | 101 AUNIA is created Atresmedia In terms of the internet area, AUNIA was created in 2014 and is the first Publicidad has platform to bring together the online content of the media organisations, joined the AUNIA including Atresmedia and Mediaset España. Aunia guarantees its customplatform, which ers the presence of their brand in professional, high quality content and in guarantees the a safe environment. In this way, Atresmedia Publicidad is present in the presence of programmatic sale with guarantees. the brands in professional, high Atresmedia signed an agreement with Twitter Amplify in March. Through quality content this tool, videos with exclusive Atresmedia content (programmes, series, and in a safe news and episode previews) were broadcast to develop the advertisenvironment. ing campaigns of its customers. The first action on Twitter Amplify took place in prime time on Antena 3 during the broadcast of an episode of Velvet, involving Hero Nanos. From the beginning, the initiative reached the 657,000 followers of @antena3com and enabled the impact to be increased and the campaign to be directed at the specific core target of the advertiser. Additionally, at the start of the year Webseries & Co was launched, a window for digital branded content, with content that is highly visible and free of advertising, with the sole requirement being that the stories have narrative continuity. Un lugar llamado mundo for San Miguel was awarded a bronze lion in the Branded Content & Entertainment category at the 2014 Cannes Lions Festival. The programme with Javier Limón was also awarded an Ondas award for the best music programme of 2014. Under the format of branded content, Un lugar llamado mundo was created as a window open to the public with high quality music content: interviews, concerts and the most unexpected mixes, moving away from labels and genres. Within the Group's Corporate Responsibility initiatives, Atresmedia Publicidad has continued to support different projects such as Ponle Freno with AXA, Hazte Eco with ECOEMBES, Constantes y Vitales with the AXA Foundation and El Movimiento Corazones Contentos with the PULEVA Institute. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 | ATRESMEDIA PUBLICIDAD | 102 New studies to increase multimedia effectiveness In order to continue researching and increasing our understanding of advertising effectiveness, Atresmedia Publicidad and Kantar World Panel joined forces to obtain better information about television consumption. Thanks to this data, brands belonging to four large sectors of the economy were able to plan their strategy based on the behaviour of the potential buyers of their products. Atresmedia Publicidad and the consultancy firm Kantar Worldpanel also conducted a crossmedia survey to measure the impact on real purchases of the multimedia campaigns on television and the internet for the brand Dinosaurus de Nutrexpa . The campaign managed to have an impact on almost the entire population, achieving 92% coverage on television and 5.3% on the internet, which demonstrated the complementary nature of the two media in achieving advertisers’ objectives. The television campaign managed to increase the capture of new buyers by 35% and reinforced the purchase of Dinosaurus among older people. The Internet was the media that most related to the core target; the spending of people between 35 to 49 years was increased and the coverage of young people was reinforced. The online media also achieved 50% of its impact among those with little exposure to television. Television, the most effective media To demonstrate that advertising on television is the most profitable when it comes to generating brand recall, Atresmedia Publicidad conducted a study with Tres14 Research. In conclusion, 60% was identified as the minimum television share to maximise the effectiveness of the investment made. This research also made it possible to measure the influence of each media in multimedia advertising, the short and long-term performance of the different media channels and the maximum level of recognition that each can achieve. Lastly, the study was able to identify the key elements in optimising advertising investment and achieving the maximum brand recall. The main result that emerges from this study is that television stands out as the most effective and profitable media when generating brand recognition. As we increase investment levels, each media achieves a maximum recognition limit, from which point on more investment no longer generates greater recall. In these circumstances, advertising on television is the one that offers the highest values and that takes longer to become saturated and reach its maximum limit. To maximise the levels of recognition, the television investment share should be above 60%. Additionally, 81% of multimedia recognition generated is due to television. At the end of the year, Atresmedia Publicidad and the consultancy firm IRI conducted a study for the beer industry in order to measure the effectiveness and profitability of different media in generating a return on investment. This research allowed for the measurement of the influence of each media channel in the sale of beer and revealed that the ROI was highest in television at 0.82. In contrast, the online media only reached 0.42. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 | ATRESMEDIA PUBLICIDAD | 103 Synergy generates greater profitability The synergies between the different media marketed by Atresmedia Publicidad are responsible for the positive evolution of the company. So much so that more than 60% of the advertising investment in the television channels is generated from three-media advertisers, or to put it another way, from customers present in all of the Group's media channels. This segment of multimedia advertisers also constitutes 84% of advertising revenue in the internet channel, as well as 56% of turnover in radio. ATRESMEDIA EVENTOS Specialists in sports and entertainment During 2014, Atresmedia Eventos confirmed the success of its firm commitment to sports and entertainment. Its activity has mainly focused on two areas: running and live music festivals. Around these two content areas, Atresmedia has managed to establish its own branded events and has also created new initiatives that are becoming major hits within the market specialising in creating and organising events. Running addicts Running is in fashion and Atresmedia Eventos, which has spent years being strongly committing to it, has increased its events portfolio for this sport. At the forefront is once again the Ponle Freno Fun Run, which for the sixth consecutive year has broken its record for the number of people taking part, with 20,000 people running for the victims of traffic accidents. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 | ATRESMEDIA PUBLICIDAD | 104 Likewise, the third edition of the Marcha del Estirón, managed to bring together 9,000 people. Once again this year, parents and children walked the 2.3 km together, with the finish line being established at the entrance to the Warner Park in Madrid where the day ended with everyone enjoying the attractions. Among the company's newest big commitments we can highlight the Rexona Street Run. It is the first 10 km running circuit to be approved by the Royal Spanish Athletics Federation, where Rexona, in accordance with its HAZ:MÁS (DO:MORE) philosophy, reinforced its commitment to running as an engine for achieving personal objectives and goals. Seville, Oviedo, Valladolid, Madrid, Mataró (Barcelona), Palma de Mallorca, Albacete and Valencia were the 8 cities to host this sporting event, in which more than 12,000 people took part. In line with this growth and in order to meet the new demand from fans, after the third edition of Bico (the most popular duathlon that this year took place in Madrid and Alicante and saw more than 2,000 people take part) the Land Warriors! experience was organised, an exceptional obstacle course for all ages held on 5 October in Majadahonda (Madrid). Sponsored by Land Rover and organised by Runin together with Atresmedia Eventos, it featured a special area with obstacles such as sandboxes, stones, mud, water and ramps. Atresmedia Eventos also organised the second edition of the Sanse Runin, a fun run that combined the best of this fashionable sport with bull running. With support from the Council of San Sebastián de los Reyes, in Madrid, and with the town's festival in full swing, this pioneering sporting event took to the streets and, of course, to the section set aside for the bull run. In 2015 the company will continue strengthening this area of business by adding new competitions of the status of the famous Seville Marathon, in which Atresmedia will form part of the organisation and promotion of the event. Halfway between sports and entertainment, Atresmedia Eventos, together with the Proactiv group, brought the only live wrestling show to Spain. The show, which formed part of the WWE Live tour, converted Madrid into the centre of action for the most spectacular wrestling show. Big festivals and live music The first edition The first edition of Neox Rocks, in San Sebastián de los Reyes, was the of Neox Rocks, in first major festival to be organised by Atresmedia Eventos. This involved San Sebastián de two stages, groups such as Marky Ramone and Izal, and an auditorium full los Reyes, was the of people waiting to watch, as headliners, one of the most popular punk first major festival bands, The Offspring. The Californian group gave a wild concert in which to be organised they played all the songs from their album 'Smash' and went through the by Atresmedia greatest hits of their career. Eventos. In July, together with Live Nation, Atresmedia Eventos brought the greatest electronic music show to Spain, under the name Barcelona Beach Festival. More than 25,000 people danced in a unique setting, the Platja de la Pau, to the sounds of Avicii, David Guetta and Steve Angello, the three most important DJ's of the moment, who shared a stage for the first time thanks to this festival. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 | ATRESMEDIA PUBLICIDAD | 105 In September, almost 8,000 people had the opportunity to enjoy the first edition of Gran Noche en las Ventas, a concert format that offers the presence on stage of established groups with a similar musical style, offering unique moments with joint performances in the unbeatable setting offered by Las Ventas . Luz Casal, Los Secretos and De Pedro shared the stage on that night, combining their voices for the first time. The 7,000 people who attended were able to enjoy more than six hours of live music in another of the major shows organised by Atresmedia Eventos: Armin Only Intense. Headlined by Armin Van Buuren, voted the world's No.1 DJ five times, the stage was completed with a multitude of singers, dancers, acrobats from Cirque du Soleil and even a rock band whose live music was mixed with that of the DJ. Within the world of entertainment, Atresmedia Eventos once again organised the fourth edition of Madrid Premiere Week. From 1 to 4 December, the Callao and Kinépolis cinemas in Madrid rolled out the red carpet to receive the best from the seventh art at this film festival. National and international releases from all genres came together at this festival which also completed its programming with the screening of independent titles and other activities centred on film. Looking beyond these examples that illustrate the company's activity, Atresmedia Eventos ends a year of good results and notable growth, which demonstrates the success of its commitment to own brand initiatives and specialisation. MATERIAL ISSUE Responsible and high quality advertising OUR 1. To promote transparency, effectiveness and innovation in VISION commercial communications. 2. To enhance the industry's self-regulation. 3. To improve the effectiveness of the quality controls. 4. To encourage social commitment from the advertisers. In figures 2013 2014 No. of legal consultations 153 139 No. of copy advices 677 772 No. of violations 16 7* Fines for TV advertising € 780,233 €0 Fines for advertising on all other media € 1,000 €0 Opportunity cost of broadcasting advertising slots on TV, € 5,542,630 € 3,044,000 for NLEs** Opportunity cost of broadcasting advertising slots on radio, € 4,697,455 € 3,494,228 for NLEs** * Pending resolution ** NLEs: Non lucrative Entities ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 | ATRESMEDIA PUBLICIDAD | 106 Atresmedia Publicidad, aware of its responsibility to society, has from the very start maintained solid ethical principles that it applies to its daily work and that result in responsible and high quality advertising. Recognised work Atresmedia Publicidad is the most highly valued brand in terms of the quality of its commercial service and programming, its implementation of agreements and it advertising effectiveness, according to the MediaScope study published by the consultancy group. According to this document, Atresmedia also has six of the ten most recognised professionals in the advertising market, and Antena 3 and laSexta are the most viewed private channels by professionals in the advertising industry. This policy, of leading through the process of improving and innovating advertising activity and television as a media, was put into practice in the following areas of action in 2014: To promote transparency, effectiveness and innovation in commercial communications For this purpose, the following initiatives have been launched: According to __ Atresmedia Publicidad and Kantar World Panel have reached an a study run by agreement to better understand the television behaviour of conAtresmedia, sumers thanks to a new tool and thus improve advertising effecadvertising on tiveness. television is the __ The Virtual Advertisers' Office (oficinadelanunciante@atresmedia. most profitable com) has been launched, whose function is to deal with and resolve and effective at customer incidents or complaints, involving all areas of the organigenerating brand sation and acting independently of the daily business management. recall. __ Atresmedia Publicidad continues its commitment to innovation by offering personalised advertising products in keeping with the needs of the advertisers. In 2014, more than 40 proposals of this type were presented to different customers. __ In collaboration with Tres14research, in 2014 Atresmedia Publicidad published the First Study on Multimedia Advertising Efficiency, which measures the effectiveness and profitability of the different media when generating advertising recognition. __ Atresmedia Publicidad and Atresmedia Digital have created AtresmediaLab, a laboratory for innovation and technology applied to advertising, which was created to respond to the demands, needs and opportunities offered by the new multi-screen advertising opportunities (mobiles, online video, mobile marketing, social media, connected television, among others). __ In 2014, work began to promote subtitling in advertising. The objective is to complete the project in 2015. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 | ATRESMEDIA PUBLICIDAD | 107 To enhance the industry's self-regulation The commitment of Atresmedia to responsible advertising goes beyond mere legislative compliance, as evidenced by the voluntary joining of different self-regulatory codes for the sector that establish guidelines and requirements for ethical commercial communication that protects the rights of individuals, especially children. Self-regulation codes signed up to by Atresmedia: __ Código de Autorregulación de Radio/Radio Self-Regulation Code (January 2013) __ Código de Conducta sobre Comunicaciones Comerciales de las Actividades del Juego/Code of Conduct over the Commercial Communications of Gambling Activities (2012) __ Código de Autorregulación de la Publicidad de Alimentos Dirigida a Menores, Prevención de la Obesidad y la Salud/Self-Regulation Code for Food Advertising Aimed at Minors, Preventing Obesity and Health (PAOS) (2010) __ Código de Autorregulación de la Publicidad Infantil de Juguetes / Self-Regulation Code for the Advertising of Children's Toys (modified in 2010) __ Código de Autorregulación Publicitaria de Cerveceros de España/ Advertising Self-Regulation Code for Brewers in Spain (2009) __ Código de Autorregulación del Vino/Wine Self-Regulation Code (2009) __ Código de Autorregulación SMS/SMS Self-Regulation Code (2009) __ Código de Autorregulación de la Federación Española de Bebidas Espirituosas /Self-Regulation Code for the Spanish Spirits Federation (FEBE) (2006) In 2014, 139 legal In 2014, the main change was the signing of an agreement between the consultations Ministry of Health, Social Services and Equality (Ministerio de Sanidad, and 772 copy Servicios Sociales e Igualdad) and the Association for Self-Care in Health advice requests (Asociación para el Autocuidado de la Salud y Autocontrol) on the adwere made to vertising of medicines for human use in order to ensure the truthfulness, Autocontrol clarity and objectivity of these commercial communications and ensure to prevent the that all conditions imposed by the legislation in this matter are fulfilled. broadcast of adverts that could Additionally, during the year there was an increase in the number of violate the selfnon-binding preliminary consultations (copy advice) to Autocontrol over regulation codes adverts or projects for adverts about medicines or advertising for chil(14% more than in dren, among other sectors, which could result in some risk in terms of 2013). compliance with the self-regulation codes. Finally, a new virtual children's space (Vertical Infantil Neox Kidz) was launched, which offers advertisers an educational multi-platform environment with different content for children between 0 and 11, in which their adverts can be inserted without the risk of exposing minors to unsuitable advertising messages. In the area of protecting children, the extended hours of enhanced protection remain on all Atresmedia channels. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 | ATRESMEDIA PUBLICIDAD | 108 Atres Cobertura schedule of enhanced protection for children Weekday From 8am to 9am and 5pm to 8pm Weekend From 9am to 12 noon Atres Afinidad schedule of enhanced protection for children Weekday From 8am to 10am and 5pm to 8pm Weekend From 9am to 12 noon Neox schedule of enhanced protection for children Weekday From 8am to 10am and 5pm to 8pm Weekend From 9am to 3pm More effective quality control All Atresmedia advertising content is subject to strict control prior to its broadcast, which ensures compliance with the law and the self-regulation codes it has signed up to. On the one hand, there is control of the content by the Broadcasting and Commercial departments and by the Autocontrol organisation, successively. Added to this triple filter are another three time controls which ensure that the legal maximums are not exceeded. Daily and weekly monitoring reports are also developed in order to reinforce these filters and ensure that the content is in keeping with the broadcast timeslot and complies with the permitted advertising times. Currently, there is work on a new commercial management system that will include a common container for advertising times and improve the controls. In the event of incidents, the Quality Control Committee is responsible for evaluating these and undertaking the actions necessary to solve them and prevent them from occurring again. The effectiveness of this control system is evidenced by the considerable reduction in cases opened in 2014 (three) and in potential violations (seven). These are also pending resolution and have not entailed a financial penalty. 2012 2013 2014 No. of cases 6 10 3 No. of violations 27 16 7 2012 2013 2014 Fines due to violations in television 222,657 780,233 0 advertising (euros) Fines due to violations in advertising 0 1,000 0 on other media (euros) TOTAL 222,657 781,233 0 ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 | ATRESMEDIA PUBLICIDAD | 109 Encouraging social commitment from the advertisers Atresmedia Publicidad encourages advertisers to exercise their social commitment by participating in the Group's different Corporate Responsibility campaigns, as well as in the initiatives from Fundación Atresmedia. In 2014, many companies were involved in these actions: __ COLGATE has participated in a school campaign to encourage El Estirón good oral hygiene habits. __ AXA and Atresmedia create the Ponle Freno Axa Study Ponle Freno Centre in order to prevent the causes of accidents. __ CONTINENTAL has joined the Ponle Freno platform in order to make drivers aware of the importance of driving with tyres in a good condition. __ PULEVA has joined the Movimiento Corazones Contentos Objetivo Bienestar campaign. __ ABBOT has participated in World Diabetes Day __ ORAL B has promoted the importance of prevention for healthy teeth __ The AXA FOUNDATION has joined the Constantes y Vitales Constantes y Vitales campaign to support and strengthen high quality medical research and health prevention. __ The VODAFONE FOUNDATION has participated in the Pasa la Juntos por la Educación Bola initiative, a charitable initiative to support the Red Cross' School Help Plan which looks after disadvantaged children. __ ECOEMBES shares the philosophy of Hazte Eco and Hazte Eco encourages recycling. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 | ATRESMEDIA PUBLICIDAD | 110 In addition, in 2014 Atresmedia made available more than 22,000 seconds of television advertising space to NGOs and non-profit organisations (valued at 3 million euros) and more than 1,300 adverts (valued at more than 3.5 million euros). “The relationship between Central Lechera Asturiana and Atresmedia goes back many years. For us it is very important to be able to get our message across through a communications group that prioritises quality in both its content and its formats and that also has values that coincide with our brand. The commitment of this communications group to CSR as a basic principle of the company is important. This is apparent in both the development of high quality and gender diverse content, and in the actions that it runs in parallel in different areas such as “Ponle Freno” and “El Estirón”. Atresmedia is a communications group that, both before its merger with laSexta and afterwards, has been able to understand society and evolve quickly in order to adapt to new changes, to the new interest groups, and this has allowed it to become the leading communications group in our country”. Jose Armando Tellado General manager of CAPSA FOOD (Central Lechera Asturiana, Larsa y Ato) ATRESMEDIA Digital The technological improvements offered by Atresplayer, such as the HD image quality and offline mode, has led it to achieve 4 million downloads in just one year, a figure that has not been achieved by any other television network in so little time. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 | ATRESMEDIA DIGITAL | 112 Growth and innovation More than 17 million unique monthly users in 2014, 41% more than in 2013, is perhaps the best figure that can be quoted from a year in which the television and radio websites achieved strong growth and in which the creation of new vertical portals has been decisive in achieving new records. It is 25 years since the creation of Antena 3 as the seed of what today is the leading communications group in Spain. Of all the changes that have occurred over this time, probably the most spectacular has been the digitisation of television and the extension of the televisual experience to new screens. As a result of the audience figures obtained during 2014, Atresmedia has Atresmedia gone from occupying 28th position in the comScore multi-platform rankhas gone from ing, the official measure, to closing 2014 in 13th position. occupying 28th position in the Antena 3 has increased its number of users by 17.7% compared to the comScore multiprevious year, exceeding 8 million monthly users. To the good perforplatform ranking, mance of the portals specialising in the network's series and programmes, the official we must add the unstoppable growth of the Antena 3 Noticias website measurement, to which has doubled its figures from 2013 and is now attracting around 3 closing 2014 in million unique monthly users. 13th position. Moreover, laSexta has achieved another 3 million unique users a month, which represents a growth of 46.7% compared to 2013. In October 2014 it obtained its best ever figures with more than 3.7 million unique users. The group's radio stations are not being left behind in terms of growth in the Atresmedia digital area. The Europa FM website ended 2014 with 1.2 million unique users a month, 45% more than in the previous year; Onda Cero recorded 10% growth and exceeded 950 thousand unique monthly users; and the addition of Melodía FM to the Group's websites has meant an average of 100,000 more unique users a month. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 | ATRESMEDIA DIGITAL | 113 Atresplayer: unstoppable In its first year, Atresplayer has achieved a monthly average of 4.4 million users, exceeding the traffic from the old Modo Salón by 21%. The technological improvements offered by Atresplayer, such as the HD image quality and offline mode, has led it to achieve 4 million downloads in just one year, a figure that has not been achieved by any other television network in so little time. According to data from comsCore, Atresplayer served more than 650 million videos in 2014 and is positioned as the leader in the platforms for the consumption of television audio and video, as well as in multi-platform users, where it has outperformed its main competitor in more than half of the months of 2014. Atresplayer was created with the idea of being accessible from all devices. In addition to being available for computers, tablets, smartphones, connected televisions and consoles, in 2014 Atresplayer for Chromecast was launched, the first audio and video platform from a private television network to adapt to this new technology. Neoxkidz.com, the new children's portal One of the One of the most important projects in 2014 was the launch of the new most important child content portal neoxkidz.com, a video and entertainment website projects in 2014 dedicated to the little ones in the house, with children's series, games, was the launch of learning sections and much more. the new children's content portal In neoxkidz.com all the content from the Neox Kidz series can be found, neoxkidz.com. but it also has more than 30 series, 1,500 exclusive episodes, as well as different sections dedicated to games and learning, and a section for children between 0 and 4. The commitment to technology is also apparent at neoxkidz.com which, in addition to being available for PC, tablet and smartphone, also has its own application available for iOS and Android. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 | ATRESMEDIA DIGITAL | 114 Thematic channels: more than 500 million reproductions The vertical The Atresmedia family of vertical portals grew notably in 2014. To the channels have three classic ones the websites had in 2013 (seestrena.com, celebrities.es doubled their and objetivotv.com), another seven were added (cienciaxplora.com, tecaudience over the noxplora.com, viajestic.es and defconplay.com, among others). Another year. three were created in 2014: Correryfitness (specialising in sport), Cocinatis (with culinary content) and Objetivobienestar (dedicated to a healthy lifestyle and habits). With these additions, Atresmedia Digital brings together a total of 13 vertical portals, whose audience in 2014 doubled compared to 2013. The Atresmedia multi-channel has also grown exponentially with the addition of 19 more portals in addition to the official ones for Antena 3 and laSexta. With a strong position in exclusive content on YouTube, for example “Top Trending Vídeo” (humorous content) and “Top Style” (dedicated to lifestyle and beauty), these already represent 15% of the total for Atresmedia, compared to 1% in the previous year. As a result, in 2014 the Atresmedia Digital channels accumulated more than 530 million reproductions, doubling the figure with which it closed 2013. This growth is due to the positive evolution of the thematic channels, which increased from 2.5 million reproductions in 2013 to 81 million in December 2014. With regards to subscribers, in 2014 the figures also doubled to achieve more than 1.2 million users subscribed to the Atresmedia channels on Youtube, of which 15% have been achieved with the Atrestube channels. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 | ATRESMEDIA DIGITAL | 115 Antena 3, the private network with the most fans on facebook A commitment to innovation has always been present at Atresmedia. In 2013, Atresmedia Conecta was launched, a second screen to expand the user experience beyond conventional television, but it was in 2014 when it experienced a great development, as in the case of the broadcast of Formula 1. With this application, in addition to receiving exclusive content, one can, for example, check the qualification times or see the features of each circuit, as well as enjoying every minute of the race. 2014 has also been a very positive year for the Atresmedia social networks. Antena 3, the private network with the most fans on Facebook, has positioned itself as the first national television channel to exceed one million fans on this social network. On Twitter it has also taken the lead by increasing its number of followers by 37% compared to 2013. The Antena 3 news programmes also occupy the top spot on social networks, since Antena 3 Noticias is the leader in terms of followers on both Facebook and Twitter. On Twitter it has grown 66% compared to its number of followers in 2013. laSexta meanwhile has strengthened its presence on the social networks and has increased its number of followers by 54% compared to the previous year. The great work carried out on the Group's social network sites has been rewarded by the TNS Fan Page Awards, granted by the users of Facebook to the best pages on this social network. In the 2014 edition, Levántate y Cárdenas received the award for the best page for a Radio/Television Programme. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 | ATRESMEDIA DIGITAL | 116 G4-26 Accessibility and quality of the multimedia services The Ponle In 2014, Atresmedia not only increased its presence in the internet and Freno, El Estirón social networks, but also undertook various measures aimed at improving and Hazte the quality of care provided to its followers and increasing the accessibilEco initiatives ity of its content. have recorded an increase in In addition to having profiles on Twitter, Facebook, Tuenti, Youtube and followers on their Google+ for its entertainment programmes, drama series and news proFacebook and grammes, Atresmedia also has profiles and websites for all its social acTwitter profiles. tion campaigns, which attract a greater number of followers each year. In In particular, addition to this multimedia presence, 2014 saw the addition of portals for the Twitter the new Corporate Responsibility campaigns Constantes y Vitales and profile for Ponle Crea Cultura, which allowed access to all of the information linked to the Freno has 34% initiative, created debate and generated interaction with society. more followers compared to 2013. PONLE FRENO EL ESTIRÓN HAZTE ECO 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 Followers on 12,093 16,300 7,641 7,904 4,967 5,156 Twitter Fans or 'Likes' on 240,651 280,623 6,288 6,782 5,381 5,932 Facebook Data from 3 February 2014 To improve the quality of the service to users of the social networks and websites, as well as the accessibility of the different portals, during last year Atresmedia launched the following measures: __ Reinforcement of the community managers’ team to improve the service provided to the community through the new services and profiles created. Their work is complemented with the tasks performed by the editorial team itself on the social networks, trained for this task. All content on __ Direct help and support service for the users of the Atresmedia Atresplayer that channels on the Youtube platform, which reach 1.2 million people. is broadcast __ Improvements to the Atresplayer subtitling system, so that currenton television ly all content that is not live and that is broadcast on television can and that is not be enjoyed with subtitles in VOD on the platform. live is subtitled thanks to the new __ The new Neox Kidz portal incorporates parental control that proimprovements tects children whilst browsing its contents, and prevents them from incorporated into ending up on unsuitable websites. the system. __ Implementation of a quality control system for managing incidents that allows for the detection and resolution of errors in the video service, as well as an improved and faster review of and response to user comments received through the social networks, website or e-mails. In 2014 a message has been included in all Atresplayer reproductions that thanks the users for watching the content legally. ATRESMEDIA Diversificación ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 | ATRESMEDIA DIVERSIFICACIÓN | 118 The value of our new business lines The international The Diversification department was created as a business unit in 2014 to area of concentrate all of Atresmedia's activity involving business models that do Atresmedia not live off advertising but that nevertheless have a high growth potential. Diversificación has reached It therefore reinforces the Group's diversification strategy by concentratmore than 25 ing all its activity outside of advertising into five large areas. These are: Inmillion subscribed ternational, which covers three channels that reach more than 25 million households households across the world; Media for Equity, to boost shareholdings worldwide. in emerging companies in exchange for advertising campaigns; the Project Incubator (Nubeox and Tualbum.es), New Businesses, which covers competitions, online gaming, exploiting early morning time slots, licences and merchandising and Music Publishing, related to the catalogue and exploitation of musical content. International area: more than 25 million households signed up around the world The launch of a third international channel, Atres Series, in 2014 has turned the Group into the European private television operator with the most channels outside of its borders. Atres Series joined the historic Antena 3 Internacional and ¡HOLA! TV, which began broadcasting in September 2013. Today the international signals of Atresmedia reach more than 25 million subscribers worldwide. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 | ATRESMEDIA DIVERSIFICACIÓN | 119 Atresmedia was created as the only 100% series channel in Spanish and HD. It began broadcasting at the end of July and in just a few months had signed agreements with large US operators such as Time Warner, Cablevision and Charter; and Mexican ones such as Grupo Televisa. In 2015 the channel will continue increasing its content offering and will release the new Atresmedia productions in Latin America and the American Hispanic market. Antena 3 On air since 1996, Antena 3 Internacional has more than 15 million subInternacional scribers in America and Europe. During this year, the channel experienced exceeds 15 million strong growth in the US market, adding more than 1.5 million households subscribers in thanks to agreements signed with Dish Latino, Cablevision and Charter. America and Europe. ¡HOLA! TV, a result of the agreement between Atresmedia and the emblematic magazine ¡HOLA!, continues growing in the Hispanic market following the incorporation of its brand in the offer of important pan-regional operators (Televisa, Claro and Movistar) and other local companies. Similarly, the channel has managed to enter the US market thanks to the signing of an agreement with DirecTV US, one of the largest pay-tv operators in the country. With little more than a year of broadcasting, ¡HOLA! TV has had one of the most successful launches ever, exceeding 8 million subscribed households. Media for equity: the successful formula for start-ups 2014 saw a strong boost to the activities of media for equity. It involves operations that allow Atresmedia to invest in companies with a high growth capacity in exchange for advertising. The media for equity strategy has a double objective. On the one hand, to obtain profitability through disinvestment when the project has grown and, on the other, from a strategic point of view, to be able to identify those projects with the potential to be incorporated into the Group and generate recurring medium and long-term income. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 | ATRESMEDIA DIVERSIFICACIÓN | 120 In the current context of the growth of electronic commerce and the mass use of smartphones, several innovative projects are starting up which are capable of generating value but that, in many cases, lack the financial capacity to invest in television advertising. The role of Atresmedia is to help these companies grow quickly whilst capturing, in turn, part of the value generated. Atresmedia has managed to be present in the major national business networks, which helps it to rapidly identify the most attractive opportunities. During 2014, the portfolio of investee companies grew and work continued on campaigns started in previous years. Currently, Atresmedia is a shareholder in important players in the digital world such as Groupalia, i-Neumáticos.es, e-Shop Ventures and Wallapop. The investment in Wallapop is a success story that shows the potential of this type of operation. This application for buying and selling second hand items, based on geo-localisation, has exceeded four million downloads and eight million items in just a few months. In short, the television campaigns conducted have served to support the company's growth and turn it into one of the country's leading start-ups. Project incubator: tualbum.es and nubeox Tualbum.es, the online portal for personalised printed photo products, has continued its integration into the activities of Atresmedia after completing its incorporation in November 2013. From the point of view of the photobook market, this year has produced significant changes in the competitive environment. Fotoprix, the second largest operator according to the Consumer Photobook Market Track Report study by Futuresource Consulting, has entered into bankruptcy proceedings and Hoffmann has been taken over by the British leader Photobox. Nubeox has gone Tualbum.es has maintained its commitment to advertising, but has also from operating as increased its ease of use, product quality and customer service. Thanks an online video to this it has managed to achieve revenue growth much higher than the club to becoming market average. a complete OTT pay television 2014 has seen a qualitative leap for Nubeox, which has gone from opplatform. erating as an online video club to being a complete OTT pay television platform. As a result, Nubeox Premium was launched in April 2014, a €10 per month subscription that gives access to a package of 12 television channels, catch up content and content through subscribing to a package which contains more than 1,000 series and films. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 | ATRESMEDIA DIVERSIFICACIÓN | 121 Today Nubeox covers the entire audio-visual pay-TV spectrum without needing a decoder, installation or a specific internet access operator. In this way, the user can rent and purchase releases, follow the best series shortly after their release in the US and enjoy an extensive catalogue of films and series. In the technical area, the launch of Nubeox Premium has been accompanied by a multitude of new applications for PC, Mac, tablets (iPad and Android) and Samsung Smart TVs, and it is anticipated that throughout 2015, televisions from LG, Sony Bravia and Philips will be added, as well as Playstation consoles. New business: interactive formats with the audience The New Business area commercially manages the brands of the network and generates interactive formats with the audience, using the communication capacity of Atresmedia as a support. During 2014, the New Business area continued with the projects for exploiting brands in a way that is innovative and appealing to the market, as is the case with La llamada millonaria. New business development includes several areas of exploitation, both offline and online. The main ones are: Draws and competitions using premium rate telephone numbers Once again, La llamada millonaria has focused the offer on SMS competitions with a simple, fun and safe operation. In using this subscription method, instead of the pull-push method, all participants have the same opportunity to win regardless of the number of messages sent. The service is offered taking greater care in all aspects relating to transparency and customer service. In addition to the competitions, other interactive proposals using premium rate numbers are run such as castings to take part as a contestant on some of the network's most symbolic programmes like La ruleta de la suerte and Ahora caigo. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 | ATRESMEDIA DIVERSIFICACIÓN | 122 Online gaming The Group's approach to this sector began with Law 13/2011, which marks the start of the industry's regulation of online gaming in Spain, and is implemented through two lines of action: the running of in-house projects and partnerships with third parties. Within the area of its own projects are Ganing Casino, the first live roulette programme to begin broadcasting in Spain, and Ganing TV, the first and only online gaming show (sports betting and poker) on national television. The existence of operators with a strong presence because they operated before the legal regulation came into effect, the creation of a 25% tax on gaming revenue, the existence of a market smaller than anticipated and the coexistence of illegal gaming websites has this year lead to the closure of both projects. However, the agreements that we have successfully developed with operators such as Pokerstars, 888 and Gamesys have continued and been strengthened. In these, Atresmedia makes contributions in the areas of production, advertising, content promotion, planning and optimisation. Early morning content This line of business is based on the opportunity provided by the absence of demand for advertising slots in the early hours, when television consumption is so low that the broadcast of conventional content is not very profitable. It is a question of developing innovative formats that, instead of creating a cost for the network, provide revenue. Currently the early morning content programming is stable and adapted to each channel, formed mainly of instrumentals, telesale programmes and online gaming. Teletext There is a single teletext service for all of the Group's channels in terms of the content and organisation of the information that, nevertheless, is independently managed commercially into the portfolio of commercial spaces on Antena 3 and Nova on the one hand, and laSexta and Neox on the other. In this way, their performance is optimised. Although analogue teletext is unidirectional and cannot reproduce images reliably, viewers continue to use it extensively which allows for direct response advertising, such as insurance or loan companies, as well as companies who provide leisure and entertainment services through the 806 lines. Thanks to the broadcasting platforms for low demand content, HbbTV, Atresmedia will offer a Digital Teletext with advanced functions and greater ease of use which will boost this media and generate new opportunities in its marketing. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 | ATRESMEDIA DIVERSIFICACIÓN | 123 Other projects Since 2013, englishhouse.tv has offered all audiences the chance to learn English through online multi-platform courses. With educational material accredited by the long-standing institution Cambridge University Press, englishouse.tv, has its own daily television programme on Nova. As a new feature, in 2014 Aula Top Chef was launched, another e-learning project that counts on the collaboration of the Universidad de Barcelona, Instituto de Formación Continua (Institute for Lifelong Learning) and Gastroactitud. This new site offers university courses in contemporary cooking, an extensive catalogue of other intensive courses and personalised diets with advice from chefs and food critics. Finally, Antena3juegos.com, brings together the PC gaming offer into a freemium model. It offers a varied portfolio with successful games from the major developers and publishers on the market. Licences and Merchandising Top Chef has become one of the most important areas in this line of business with one of its products (the hamburger created especially for McDonald's) forming part of a 360º strategy in which the Group's different areas collaborate. Moreover, the Atrapa un millón brand is once again out in the lead. Thanks to the agreement with ONCE to develop the Rasca atrapa un millón scratch card, the sales results have positioned it as the best-selling instant lottery product in its category. Several initiatives with Grupo Planeta have been reinforced and other projects such as Objetivo Bienestar have been created, which has led to the launch of a magazine of the same name and several books. The book ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 | ATRESMEDIA DIVERSIFICACIÓN | 124 En familia con Karlos Arguiñano deserves a special mention, being the best-selling book in the Christmas 2014 campaign according to official figures from Nielsen. This year, latienda.tv and Misterentradas have been established as alternative lines of business and complement the revenue in this area, accounting for almost 20%. Among other new features we can mention the theatre adaptation of El secreto de Puente Viejo, the longest running series on Antena 3, whose tour began in Valladolid in October to great public acclaim. In 2015 it will be staged in Madrid and will begin its journey through the main Spanish capitals. Music publishers The purpose of the Group's music publishing area is to produce and contract with their writers the original songs included in the programmes on Atresmedia TV, such as those used in the news, series, films and promotions. In this way, rights are generated that are paid for through the management bodies. In addition, this is the area that exploits the early morning timeslot, broadcasting music items such as video clips and self-produced concerts, whose works belong to the publisher. All of this has given rise to a catalogue of library music called IRRADIA, which is used both in the programmes and content on the channels and outside of them, allowing producers and advertisers to make use of this catalogue. IRRADIA also allows for the exploitation of rights internationally, thanks to the agreement signed with EMI. The international success of the Group's series and programmes opens a new avenue for business through royalties. For this reason, it is reaching agreements with publishers in other countries. ATRESMEDIA Cine ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 | ATRESMEDIA CINE | 126 The engine of spanish cinema 2014 was the year that saw Spanish cinema take off. A year marked by success, with the best box office takings in its history, and one in which Atresmedia contributed to the production of eight feature films. Various factors have facilitated the growing interest of the public in the national film industry. These include not only the undeniable draw of the films themselves, but also the enormous promotional work by the television channels for their productions, following in the wake of Hollywood's biggest releases. The films Atresmedia Cine has produced a total of eight feature films which toproduced by gether with the films released at the end of 2013 and still being shown Atresmedia Cine in cinemas this year have earned revenue of 34.9 million euros, which represent 27% represents 28.2% of the box office takings for Spanish cinema as a whole. of the total box They have all been among the 25 top films and three of them are among office takings for the five most seen. Spanish cinema, with 12 films released. Rk. Title Revenue 1 Ocho apellidos vascos € 55,098,554 2 El Niño € 16,001,950 (*) 3 Torrente € 10,749,310 (*) 4 Exodus: Dioses y Reyes € 7,779,387 (*) 5 La isla mínima € 6,090,818 6 Mortadelo y Filemón contra Jimmy el cachondo € 4,416,212 7 Relatos Salvajes € 4,329,738 8 Pancho, el perro millonario € 2,524,565 9 Perdona si te llamo amor € 2,153,730 10 Carmina y amén € 2,003,101 (**) 11 Tres bodas de más € 1,933,352 (**) 12 Futbolín € 1,642,840 13 Kamikaze € 1,474,382 … 18 Mindscape € 842,278 (**) 19 Ismael € 838,768 20 El club de los incomprendidos € 698,671 … 24 Open Windows € 322,810 … 89 Purgatorio € 672 (*) On screens now (**) released in 2013 The interest of Atresmedia in producing films that are profitable and capable of attracting a large audience has also resulted in clear recognition from critics and professionals in the main national and international festivals, such as Sundance (Zipi y Zape), Toronto (Open Windows), Austin (Open Windows), Sitges (Grand Piano, Mindscape), San Sebastián (La isla mínima), and the Miami Film Festival (La gran familia española). A good example is La isla mínima, which won ten out of the total of eleven “Goyas” awarded to Atresmedia Cine, to which were added five Feroz Awards, two Forqué, eight CWC Medals (Cinema Writers Circle) and ten Asecan awards, among others. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 | ATRESMEDIA CINE | 127 Ten goyas for “La isla mínima” La isla mínima” The strategy of Atresmedia Cine, to reach all audiences, lies in knowwon ten “Goyas”, ing how to manage the different genres and styles. Its productions have including best triumphed in comedy, with Torrente V and 3 bodas de más; in drama, film, five Feroz with Ismael and El club de los incomprendidos; in family and children's Awards, two cinema, with Pancho y Futbolín; and in dramatic comedy with Kamikaze. Forqué, eight Not forgetting the blockbuster Exodus, the international thrillers Open CWC Medals Windows and Mindscape, and the multi award-winning local thriller La (Cinema Writers isla mínima. Circle) and ten Asecan awards, Torrente V, the fifth instalment of the saga, was third in the ranking of among many Spanish films. Directed by and starring Santiago Segura and also featurothers. ing Alec Baldwin and Jesús Janeiro, in his film début, with more than half a million spectators and a revenue exceeding 3,700,000 euros on its release, it became the highest grossing Atresmedia film of the year. Exodus: Dioses y Reyes, the spectacular biblical blockbuster directed by Ridley Scott and starring Christian Bale, released on 5 December, occupies fourth position with a revenue exceeding seven million euros. The production recreates some of the best known passages from the biblical story of Moses in the Book of Exodus, with outdoor scenes shot in Almeria and Fuerteventura. The fifth position in the ranking is occupied by La isla mínima, directed by Alberto Rodríguez and starring Raúl Arévalo and Javier Gutiérrez. Premièred at the San Sebastián Festival, it won the coveted Silver Shell for best actor for Javier Gutiérrez, the jury award for best cinematography for Alex Catalán and the Feroz Zinemaldia Award for best film, voted for by the critics. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 | ATRESMEDIA CINE | 128 It went on to triumph at the 29th edition of the Goya Awards, winning ten awards. The film was considered by the Spanish Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences as the best film of 2014, but it also took away the awards for best director, best original screenplay, best male performance, best female newcomer, best cinematography, best artistic direction, best costume design, best original music score and best editing. Pancho: el perro millionario was also released in 2014. Directed and scripted by Tom Fernández, this is a family comedy starring the famous millionaire dog who became famous thanks to various advertisements for the Primitiva Lottery. Atresmedia Cine is committed to new talent, providing new directors with the opportunity to triumph in their early films. This is the case for Kamikaze, directed by Alex Pina, with Alex García, Eduardo Blanco, Verónica Echegui and Carmen Machi in the cast. The film was presented at the Spanish Film Festival in Malaga, where it won the SIGNIS award. Mindscape is directed by the award-winning short film-maker Jorge Dorado who was nominated for the Goya award for best new director in the 28th edition of the Goya awards. The film was presented at the Sitges Festival in 2013 with the appearance of its two stars, Mark Strong and Taissa Farmiga, and has been screened in countries such as Japan, France and America. El club de los Incomprendidos, the first film from the producer Bambú Producciones , and based on the best-selling Planeta production Buenos Días Princesa features a cast of promising young stars, among which are Alex Maruny, Ivana Baquero and Charlotte Castro. Directed by Carlos Sedes, it continued on the billboard during 2015. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 | ATRESMEDIA CINE | 129 2014 was also a year of awards and recognitions. Futbolín won the Goya for the best animated film; while La gran familia española took away two more awards: one for best supporting actor for Roberto Álamo and the other for best original song for Josh Rouse. Los últimos días triumphed at the Gaudí Awards winning 7 awards; and 3 bodas de más, one of the highest grossing films of last year, won the Feroz Award for best comedy and best poster, and the Fotogramas de plata award for its leading actress, Inma Cuesta. The major titles of 2015 Atresmedia Cine continues to be committed to the range of genres that has given it so much success. Throughout 2015, titles such as Perdiendo el Norte will be released, the latest film from Nacho García Velilla with a cast full of well-known faces including Blanca Suarez, Carmen Machi and Yon González. The international project En el corazón del mar will also be brought to fruition, based on the story that gave rise to the famous novel “Moby Dick”; along with Ahora o nunca, starring Daniel Rovira with María Valverde and directed by María Ripoll; Cómo sobrevivir a una despedida, from new directors Manuela Moreno and Dani de la Torre; and the thriller starring Luis Tosar, El desconocido. Finally, at the end of 2015, the film adaptation of the best seller published by Temas de Hoy (Editorial Planeta), Palmeras en la nieve, will be released, directed by Fernando G. Molina and starring Mario Casas and Adriana Ugarte. “The Malaga Spanish Film Festival has had a long and very positive relationship with Atresmedia that dates back to the year 2000. It has been marked by great service, by the generous understanding it has always shown for our desires and interests, by the quality of its audiovisual productions that greatly help the development of Spanish cinema and, finally, to summarise all of this, by the certainty that we are working with a large Communications Group that is sensitive to its viewers and solid in its approach to projects, such as the Malaga Festival, that inspire Spanish culture today. During this time we have been witnesses to an important evolution in Atresmedia, with a clear consolidation of its corporate dimension in recent years, together with a new television offer that is more attractive, more inspired by the real needs and demands of its viewers, and offering intelligent creativity in its audiovisual products, which currently places it in a very remarkable position in its sector”. Juan Antonio Vigar Director of the Malaga Film Festival HUMAN Resources ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 | HUMAN RESOURCES | 131 MATERIAL ISSUE Investing in people OUR 1. To ensure that the employees of Atresmedia feel proud to VISION work at the Group. 2. To promote equality, diversity and a work-life balance. 3. To train people and encourage their professional development. 4. To offer high quality employment. 5. To promote corporate volunteering. 6. To ensure the health and safety of employees. In figures 2013 2014 No. of employees 1,829 1,806 Average length of service 11.76 years 12.29 years % of permanent contracts 81% 81% Voluntary turnover 1.85% 3.16% % of workforce in the union 86% 84.5% % of women in the workforce: 48.1% 49.9% Female new joiners: 55.7% 62.4% Training/employee hours: 19 22 Investment in training: € 372,487 € 348,661 Work placements offered: 355 669 Volunteering hours: 1,429 hrs 1,772 hrs Accident frequency rate: 2.27 3.01 Accident severity rate: 0.10 0.12 The success of Atresmedia depends on its professionals. To ensure their satisfaction and well-being, as well as their professional development, the Group has a Human Resources policy that establishes the commitment of the organisation to its employees and ensures a safe and healthy working atmosphere, an environment that is open to dialogue, conciliatory and respectful of differences as well as offering competitive and motivating working conditions, which boost professional development, talent retention and a sense of pride in belonging. Safe environment Professional career Dialogue Talent retention Work-life balance Competitive Equality remuneration Freedom of association ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 | HUMAN RESOURCES | 132 2014 highlights include the approval of the Equality Plan, which establishes important measures to promote a work-life balance and avoid discrimination. There has also been work to respond to other employee demands such as defining a talent management programme and launching internal communication initiatives aimed at establishing a more effective dialogue among the team. 2014 Challenges The action plan implemented by Atresmedia in 2014 has boosted the promotion of equality and a work-life balance, as well as talent retention and improvements in internal communication. 2014 Commitment Level of compliance Comments The company's Equality Plan has been approved and launched with Definition and launch of broad social support. The Plan has the Equality Plan and other been recognised externally by the work-life measures. Federación Española de Mujeres Directivas (Spanish Federation of Women Managers). The programme has been defined, although the application of some of the points has still not been carried out. Updating the talent There has been specific training for management programme. people included in the project and its incorporation into the English programme has remained. Launch of the Masters The masters has been launched and is in Audiovisual Company being successfully run in line with the Management. intended programme. Launch of the Atresmedia The project is defined but lacks its Avanza project. effective application. The following actions have been performed: collaboration with the internal magazine and with the Continuing to make an effort programme 'Compartir el éxito/ in internal communication Share success', training in people initiatives. management and communication skills for managers and development of the new Welcome Manual for Employees. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 | HUMAN RESOURCES | 133 Youth and experience The Atresmedia workforce is comprised of 1,806 people, of which 81.23% have a permanent contract. In 2014, voluntary turnover was 3.16%, higher than the equivalent figure for 2013, and the total workforce decreased by 1.26%, mainly caused by the closure of the channels Nitro, laSexta3 and xplora. 47% of the Turnover (%) Permanent contracts (%) permanent contracts are held 3.5 3.16% by women. 100 2.25% 1.85% 3.16% 80 2.5 2.25% 1.85% 60 1.5 40 20 0 0 2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 Number of employees by company Uniprex 556 Atresmedia 413 A3 Multimedia 97 A3 Films 9 13TV 48 A3 Eventos 12 Advertising 306 Canarias Uniprex TV. 43 TDT 17 Fundación 9 A3 Noticias 201 Nubeox 5 The majority of the employees, 53.21% of the total workforce, are young, aged between 30 and 45; but they also possess a high degree of experience, with an average length of service of 12.29 years. Distribution of the workforce by age range >60: 25 20 29: 182 46 60: 638 30 45: 961 ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 | HUMAN RESOURCES | 134 Geographically, the majority of the workforce work in the Community of Madrid (68.33%), followed at some distance by Andalusia (6.09%), Catalonia (4.06%) and the Canary Islands (2.08%). However, Atresmedia is present in all Spanish communities and the organisation offers workplace transfers at the request of the employees. In 2014, Atresmedia and Adecco launched 'Plan Enfoca', a campaign to help the search for employment. The companies designed an action plan for this purpose, including the creation and broadcast of various programmes on laSexta and the broadcast of practical advice for job seeking on both laSexta and NEOX. All of these actions have benefited from advice from Adecco as one of the most well-known companies in the Human Resource sector. Details of the campaign can be found on the website: www.lasexta.com/planenfoca. Commitment to equality The commitment of Atresmedia to equality and a work-life balance was endorsed during 2014 with the approval of its Equality Plan, which establishes equal opportunities and diversity as the two basic principles of the Group's corporate culture. The Plan is the result of the work of the Work-Life Balance Committee, created in the framework of the Collective Agreement and the Equality Committee. The document establishes the following objectives: __ To ensure the equality of treatment and opportunities between men and women in the company. __ To integrate the measures aimed at establishing a work-life balance into the Plan. __ To establish a protocol to prevent sexual harassment. __ To adopt a maternity protection guide. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 | HUMAN RESOURCES | 135 These objectives translate into specific measures for employees that improve and promote aspects such as work flexibility, maternity conditions, equality and professional development: Equality Plan Measures __ Flexibility of up to 30 minutes in the timetable at the start and end of the working day. Work Flexibility __ Reduction of meal times to a minimum of 45 minutes. __ Continuous workday on Fridays. __ Feasibility study for a teleworking system. __ Extension of maternity leave beyond that established by the current regulations, up to 17 weeks. Supporting Maternity __ Expansion of 3 additional days of nursing leave if complete workdays Leave have been accumulated. __ Approval of a maternity and nursing guide. Professional __ Courses will be offered that can optimise work performance and Development update and improve the professional capability of the workers __ A protocol for preventing sexual harassment has been approved that will create a working environment that is respectful of fundamental rights and ensures their protection. Equality and Gender __ Reduction of the workday for victims of gender violence by court Violence ruling and with young children in their care of up to one hour a day, without a proportional reduction of their salary, during a two month period. __ Pay advances in cases where the employee may have financial and family needs that are special, extraordinary, justified and urgent. Solidarity __ Expansion of paid leave due to the death or serious illness of relatives who are next of kin, spouse or domestic partner registered in the official registry, of up to 3 days (5 if travel is required). Distribution of the workforce by Distribución porcentual (%) de professional category and gender plantilla por categoría profesional 2014 y sexo 2014 700 82.43 617 80 560 67.16 62.90 500 60 52.89 47.11 37.10 40 300 32.84 180 122 140 17.57 20 79 82 100 26 0 0 Administrators Management Other Technicians Administrators Management Other Technicians Men Women ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 | HUMAN RESOURCES | 136 The special attention that Atresmedia pays to equality is reflected in the composition of its workforce, which has 49.89% women and 38 people with some kind of disability. As recognition of the work of Atresmedia in favour of female leadership in the world of work, the Federación de Mujeres Directivas, Profesionales y Empresarias (Federation of Women Managers, Professionals and Entrepreneurs, FEDEPE) has granted an award to the organisation that especially highlights is Equality Plan and the work-life balance measures it has introduced. To celebrate International Women's Day on 8 March, throughout the day NOVA displayed on-screen messages recognising 'Each and every woman' through hash tags with different female names accompanied with #todasycadauna. MATERIAL ISSUE Professional development aimed at success Atresmedia promotes the development of its employees, both personally and professionally, offering high quality training and appropriate talent management within the organisation. Personalised training plans The foundation of the Atresmedia training policy is the design of annual training plans, available to all workers and personalised according to their needs and interests. In 2014, 324 courses were offered on various topics (46 of which were new), including a strong focus on languages, health and safety and editorial and content policies. Training was given both face-to-face and through e-learning. “I joined Antena 3 TV in 1989 as a trainee in editing and image, and I clearly remember the first months at Antena 3 TV as being pure madness. The launch date was fixed, so we were working against the clock and against ourselves. In short, I remember it as an exciting challenge, a moment when the need to ensure it ‘was on air’ was all that mattered. Over all these years the changes have been tremendous, the aesthetics, the technology, the way of counting things. As a means of communication, we have reflected 25 years in the development of this country. Over these years we have created a great business, a great communications group. In all aspects ‘we have grown’. Now, 25 years on, I still remember the personal and professional development. For me, they have been the most important years of my life . Jesús Lozano Corchón Director of Image and Production at Antena 3 Noticias ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 | HUMAN RESOURCES | 137 Average hours of training by professional category 80 70 60 40 36 30 19 17 17 20 15 11 11 9 7 4 0 Managers Technicians Administrators Other 2012 2013 2014 Training hours by course theme 15.000 13,817 10,077 12.000 9.000 7,423 4,248 3,882 6.000 3,583 3,502 3,022 3,358 3,252 2,174 3.000 976 544 1,480 504 515 200 512 4 240 564 995 216 0 Communication Skills Languages Technologies New Health and Editorial CR and Other policies and safety technologies content Sustainability 2012 2013 2014 Employees value In total, 30,931 training hours were given, 30% more than in 2013. As a the training result, the average training hours per employee increased by 15%, rising received very from 19.1 in 2013 to 22 in 2014. highly, giving it a score of 9.3 out In 2014, the total investment in training plans amounted to 348,611 euros, of 10. which has enabled 1,405 employees (31% more than in the previous year) to benefit. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 | HUMAN RESOURCES | 138 Promotion of own talent Throughout 2015, a specific Talent Management programme will be implemented. Its objective is to encourage internal promotion within the organisation, identifying and promoting 'breeding grounds for professionals' without the need to resort to external recruitment and selection processes. During 2014, various initial measures were implemented such as including managers in the language training programme and launching coaching training initiatives, in which 13 professionals from the organisation have participated. “I remember that, 25 years ago, Antena 3 Radio was my favourite station. I listened to it all the time and the presenters were an important part of my life and the lives of the people close to me. One day, in November 1989, I was invited to join the Antena 3 television project. I still get excited just talking about it. Despite the long hours, the weekends we had to work, the huge effort needed as a result of the small budgets and, of course, our lack of experience, nothing can cloud the excitement and the wonderful memories of those days. Over the years, in each of the stages in which I have had the luck to be involved, which have been all of them, the main feelings have been a sense of belonging and identity”. Emilio Maestro Chief Accounting Officer ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 | HUMAN RESOURCES | 139 G4-26 Investment in the industry's future professionals In 2014, In 2014, Atresmedia continued its Internship Programme, offering interAtresmedia ested students the chance to gain experience to allow them to complete offered 669 their training, facilitating their future entry into the world of work. places on its Internship During the year, 669 places were offered (341 in summer and 328 during Programme. the school term) which were taken up by students from WT (professional module of Workplace Training), Proyecto Pro (a project from Fundación Atresmedia on the employment of young people with a disability in the media industry), graduates and post-graduate students. “I remember the start of Antena 3 as a moment of working madness when a group of very young people with great excitement worked our fingers to the bone to ensure the success of this historic project. All of us helped out with any issues that arose. Now Antena 3 is a brand that has grown and evolved into the Atresmedia Group, but it has never lost its own style. It is a company that leaves its mark on everyone who works there and its main asset is the workforce, marvellous people who continue to work with the same excitement, some who have been there for 25 years and others who have joined the project at a later stage. It should also be mentioned that Antena 3 has been and still is an authentic school, where I have learned a lot and continue to learn each day”. Koké Tejera Director of Public Relations Moreover, various professionals from Atresmedia take part as teachers for the masters and post-graduate degrees for the audiovisual industry, including: __ Antena 3 Masters in Television Journalism from the Universidad Antonio de Nebrija. __ Antena 3 University Masters in Digital Journalism from the Universidad Antonio de Nebrija. __ Antena 3 Masters in Audiovisual Business Management from the Universidad Antonio de Nebrija. __ Onda Cero Masters in Radio from the Universidad Antonio de Nebrija. __ Masters in Journalism and Digital Communication from the EAE Business School and Atresmedia. __ Masters in Communications Business Management from the EAE Business School and Atresmedia. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 | HUMAN RESOURCES | 140 Atresmedia has Internal communication been recognised as the most Flowing and efficient internal communication is one of the fundamental appealing pillars of the smooth operation of Atresmedia. As a result, the Group has company to work various channels through which to report on the performance, plans and for in its sector, milestones of the organisation. Among these we can highlight the followaccording to the ing: 2014 Employer __ Corporate intranet: this is the main point of information, consulBranding report tation and access to information of interest to the employees of published by Atresmedia. Randstad, the leading __ Notifications from middle management. multinational __ MASD3 digital magazine company in the Human Resource __ Welcome Manual: this is aimed at all recent joiners and includes inmanagement formation of general interest such as the Code of Conduct, services, sector. protocols and safety regulations, etc. It was updated in 2014. __ 'Share success': an initiative based on presenting successful projects run by the Group's professionals so that they can be shared with the team. In 2014, the launch of Atresplayer and the Diversification Department were discussed. “I remember the start of Antena 3 as a project offering a lot of excitement, involving young people who had the opportunity to launch the first private television network in Spain. After 25 years of huge expansion as a communications group, what comes to mind, of course, is the professionals who have made up and continue to make up Atresmedia. I think this is the most valuable part of this group”. Olga Lerroux Soriano Programme Producer. Chair of the Company Committee ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 | HUMAN RESOURCES | 141 Another of the projects worked on in order to improve internal communication is Atresmedia Avanza. This is a campaign with various lines of action that encourage excitement and optimism and seek to consolidate the pride of belonging to the group through initiatives that encourage the participation of the workers. The project is structured into three main blocks: Organisation of working groups that analyse the work process, proposing improvements for its redesign. Focus Group Enhancement of the feeling of belonging to the group through activities that have an impact on the employees and their environment. Teambuilding Sense of belonging Activities that promote and reinforce knowledge and mutual support, creating a better and more cooperative working environment. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 | HUMAN RESOURCES | 142 Social benefits In addition to those required by law, the employees of Atresmedia have a programme of social benefits that contributes to ensuring the quality and stability of their employment and promotes a work-life balance. Benefit Content Beneficiaries All employees have a personal Life insurance All employees life insurance policy. Management staff have free Medical insurance All management staff medical insurance. In the event of an employee's Support for temporary disability, the temporary All employees company supplements the disability benefits up to 100% of the salary. Antena 3 offers a Remuneration Flexible Plan to its managers that 14 employees in 2014 remuneration plan includes a leased car and specific training. The workers at Onda Cero have Workers covered by the a salary bonus for transport, Transport bonus Onda Cero Collective caused by their change of Agreement workplace. The employees of Atresmedia also have another series of special advantages: Special Content Beneficiaries advantages Atresmedia has agreements established with different external companies, thanks to which the employees can enjoy products Special and services with special advantages: advantages special rates for services relating to health All in purchasing and well-being, special conditions in training employees products and programmes (agreement with ESIC), use of services the sports facilities (the Dehesa Boyal de San Sebastián de los Reyes municipal sports centre) and discounts on the purchases of books, travel and restaurants, among others. The employees of Atresmedia have the Special chance to bring their children to filmings, advantages in attend their favourite programmes as an All the Group's audience member and obtain tickets to employees activities previews of the productions made by the Group. The Atresmedia central office has a Company Todos los company canteen for all employees. The canteen empleados company funds 58% of the cost of the food. Employees who Todos los travel are given All employees empleados food vouchers. Parking at the The company's facilities have free parking All workplace for employees. employees ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 | HUMAN RESOURCES | 143 Boosting corporate volunteering Since 2007 Atresmedia has had a Corporate Volunteering Programme which channels the charitable interests of its employees and allows them to participate in tasks such as looking after the elderly, helping in soup kitchens and participating in environmental activities or communication skill workshops for NGOs, among others. Atresmedia also contributes to raising awareness in society about the benefits of volunteering, through specific campaigns on its media channels. “I remember the start of Antena 3 TV with real excitement, long working hours and some uncertainty, wanting everything to go well. It was a unique opportunity to start working in television from the day it was created. Today, after 25 years I can highlight the great evolution in technology, my experience, my colleagues, and everything I have learned since then, and of course the pride that comes with working in a reputable company with an excellent image”. Raquel Armada Domínguez Executive Assistant ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 | HUMAN RESOURCES | 144 One example is the broadcast of the Activa tu voluntad (Activate your willingness) spot to mark International Volunteering Day on 5 December. Through this initiative, Atresmedia, in collaboration with Plataforma del Voluntariado de España (Spanish Volunteering Programme), Fundación Hazlo Posible, Cooperación Internacional ONG (International Corporation NGO) and the Voluntare Platform, thanked and recognised the commitment of millions of volunteers who collaborate each day with different charitable organisations and encouraged the participation of those who are willing but don't know where to start. The spot was completed with the website www.atresmedia.com/voluntariado, where people could find national, international and online volunteering opportunities, as well as information about corporate, humanitarian and local volunteering and the organisations that promote them. The action was posted on the social networks, promoting participation through the hash tag #activatuvoluntad. Volunteering Activities Volunteers from Atresmedia 12 12 11 150 123 8 93 90 70 4 4 30 0 0 2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 Volunteering Hours Investment in Euros 2,000 20,000 1,772 15,408 1,429 15,000 13,744 1,500 1,360 9,657 1,000 10,000 500 5,000 0 0 2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 | HUMAN RESOURCES | 145 Among others, the Atresmedia volunteers have participated in the following projects: Supporting the Santa María Josefa With the volunteers at Desarrollo y soup kitchen Asistencia (Development and Assistance) 30 volunteers have collaborated in the In April, five Atresmedia employees, Santa María Josefa de Vallecas soup along with volunteers from Desarrollo kitchen in Madrid, preparing the food, y Asistencia , accompanied a group serving the people and participating of elderly people from the Ayuda a in cleaning tasks. Their work has Domicilio (Home Help) programme contributed to distributing food to on a day out at Madrid Río park. The more than 500 people each day. day out, financed by Atresmedia, allowed volunteers to learn more about the lives of elderly and/or dependent people. Volunteers from Atresmedia plant the Hazte Eco Forest International Volunteering in favour of the Entreculturas Foundation On 8 March, 42 volunteers from Atresmedia, together with members of the WWF, gave life to the Hazte From 19 July to 10 August, three Eco Forest with the planting of 3,000 volunteers from Atresmedia flew trees in the Cabañeros National Park to Guatemala to collaborate with in Ciudad Real, sourced from the the Entreculturas Foundation Park's native plant nursery. The action in its education programme for was possible thanks to the funds disadvantaged communities. Their raised through more than 14,000 text main task was to produce reports messages received in support. about the work carried out by the Foundation in the schools in Ciudad de Guatemala, Huehuetenango and Company Totonikapán, and run communication workshops for the Foundation's Solidarity Day professionals. 25 October saw the eighth edition of Company Solidarity Day, which 'Operation Kilo' Atresmedia helps to organise. This for the Food Bank involves more than 1,000 volunteers from different companies who Volunteers from Atresmedia helped collaborated on social projects run the Food Bank in its 2014 campaigns, by 60 non-profit organisations (40% both raising awareness among more than in 2013), directly and hypermarket customers about the indirectly benefiting more than 12,000 importance of these campaigns, people. and sorting the food donated. In December Atresmedia also organised an Operation Kilo at the Company's Charity Christmas Dinner for 700 facilities, in which the Group's people at risk of exclusion volunteers helped to collect and sort the donations from employees. The campaign managed to collect more 21 volunteers from the Group helped than 700 kilos of food. in the kitchen and as waiters in the Te invito a Cenar (I invite you to dinner) project, an initiative promoted by different social associations that support socially excluded groups. It involved inviting more than 700 disadvantaged people to a Christmas dinner. Atresmedia also sponsored one of the guest tables. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 | HUMAN RESOURCES | 146 A safe and healthy working environment Atresmedia has an active Risk Prevention and Occupational Health policy that ensures the safety and well-being of all its workers and strongly emphasises their involvement. This is why the group holds regular meetings with all Prevention representatives, in which it reports on the accident data, the training provided and the results of medical assessments and examinations, among others. In order to involve the whole team in protecting health and safety at work, several initiatives were run in 2014: __ Review and updating of the Occupational Risk Prevention Plan. __ Training activities adapted to each job: courses for truck operators (6), training in electrical risk (101), training for working at height (17), training on emergency equipment(118), basic level course on the prevention of occupational risks (27), health and safety regulations for managers and executives (202) and for office staff (1,339). __ A one-off prevention campaign on oral hygiene was launched, aimed at raising awareness among workers about the importance of oral hygiene to their general health and sharing the most effective hygiene techniques. 50 workers were also invited to have a medical examination. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 | HUMAN RESOURCES | 147 Accident rates In 2014, there was a slight increase in the number of work accidents, which has resulted in an increase in the frequency and severity rates. Two thirds of these were recorded in the workplace, while one third took place during the commute. Despite this increase there have been no serious, very serious or fatal accidents or occupational diseases. Severity Rate (SR) Frequency Rate (FR) 3.08 0.25 4.0 0.22 0.20 2.91 2.84 3.0 2.77 0.15 2.19 0.12 0.12 1.97 2.0 1,58 1.66 0.10 0.09 0.08 1.09 0.06 0.05 1.0 0.05 0.02 0.02 0 0 2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 Global Women Men Global Women Men Number of accidents 35 31 24 25 21 18 15 15 12 5 0 With leave Without leave 2012 2013 2014 ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 | HUMAN RESOURCES | 148 An increase in the rate of absenteeism due to common illness was also recorded, and a larger number of requests for sick leave were processed, due to both common and professional issues. Rate of Absenteeism due Work Absenteeism Rate to Common Illness 3.0 3.0 2.78 2.55 2.5 2.5 2.24 2.07 2.04 1.91 1.87 2.0 1.81 2.0 1.67 1.69 1.58 1.59 1.55 1.43 1.47 1.5 1.38 1.5 1.08 0.97 1.0 1.0 0.5 0.5 0 0 2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 Global Women Men Global Women Men The increase in the absenteeism rates in 2014 is mainly caused by sick leave for common illness having a longer duration than in previous years, especially for women. CHALLENGES Atresmedia has established the following objectives for the coming year 1. Implementation of the Talent Management Programme. 2. Launch of the Atresmedia Academy. 3. Preparation for the launch of the second edition of the Masters in Audiovisual Company Management. Society ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 | SOCIETY | 150 MATERIAL ISSUE Here to help society OUR 1. To use the broadcasting strength of the Atresmedia media VISION channels to help society. 2. To promote and achieve positive and tangible changes that contribute to the progress of society through long-term initiatives. 3. To ensure the well-being and education of children and young people through Fundación Atresmedia. Atresmedia actively contributes to sustainable progress and development through a social commitment policy that seeks to generate a positive contribution and significant impact on people. This policy results in a strategy with three main lines of action: use of the broadcasting strength of the Group's media channels to help society, collaboration with NGOs and supporting children and young people through the work of Fundación Atresmedia. This strategy aims to help address the needs of the most vulnerable groups and raise awareness about the most urgent social problems, seeking solutions. Social Commitment Lines of Action Policy One result of this philosophy is the commitment to its Positive Contribution Broadcasting power own long-term Corporate Responsibility campaigns helping society such as Ponle Freno, El Estirón and Hazte Eco. Transparency Atresmedia helps cover the needs of society through Collaboration with running campaigns to both raise awareness and collect NGOs and non-profit funds (Red Cross, Food Bank and SOS Children's Maximising impact organisations Villages) Through the work of Fundación Atresmedia, an Awareness and Fundación organisation created by Atresmedia that focuses its Sensitisation Atresmedia activities on children and young people. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 | SOCIETY | 151 Advertising campaigns in support of Corporate Responsibility actions in 2014 In 2014, Antena 3, laSexta, Neox and Nova dedicated more than 71 hours of advertising space to the Group's corporate responsibility campaigns. Space dedicated to corporate responsibility campaigns in 2014 SHOWINGS TOTAL TIME A3 laSexta DTT COVERAGE PROMOS PROMOS PROMOS SECONDS MINUTES HOURS % GRPs OTS Ponle Freno Hazte Eco 483 644 24,300 405 6.8 84.8 897.6 10.6 El Estirón 318 595 18,960 316 5.3 79.2 887.9 11.2 Objetivo Bienestar 1,589 1310 64,440 1,074 17.9 92.2 3,718.4 40.3 Constantes y Vitales 312 207 12,960 216 3.6 67.0 430.2 6.4 Crea Cultura 194 188 297 24,660 411 6.9 84.0 848.7 10.1 Estimated data based on the number of showings and GRP. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 | SOCIETY | 152 Ponle Freno: ‘2020 Cero Víctimas’ www.antena3.com/ponlefreno HIGHLIGHTS 1. 6th Edition of the Ponle Freno awards 2. New awareness campaigns 3. 3.0 Road Safety Conferences 4. 1st edition of the Ponle Freno fun-run in Vitoria and the 6th Edition in Madrid 5. Ponle Freno-Axa Road Safety Study on Driving habits in Spain The work of Ponle The Ponle Freno initiative was created at the beginning of 2008 as a reFreno has been sult of Atresmedia’s social commitment to combat the high accident rate recognised by the on Spanish roads and help save lives. ATR (media users in Madrid), as the In 2014, Ponle Freno took a decisive step in setting its most ambitious best corporate objective since the initiative was launched, one that is evident from the responsibility slogan chosen: ‘2020 Cero Víctimas’ (2020 Zero Victims). To create pubinitiative. licity and involve as many organisations and people in the challenge as possible, the ‘2020 cero víctimas’ manifesto was launched, which already has the support of more than 700 organisations and 20,000 people. The Group is also committed to raising awareness, through its media channels, about both the actions and companies who support its firm commitment in this area, which is to eradicate deaths and serious injuries from our roads. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 | SOCIETY | 153 The ‘2020 Cero Víctimas’ (2020 Zero Victims) objective has now been supported by more than 700 companies, which implement initiatives for their employees that promote road safety, and over 20,000 members of the public have undertaken to be responsible pedestrians and drivers. Monitoring of the 2014 Ponle Freno Challenges Challenges Level of compliance Comments Launching of a In March 2014 the '2020 cero Víctimas' campaign to achieve initiative was launched. zero fatalities in 2020 Ponle Freno, together with the Pons Promoting training in Foundation, launched the 'How much do you Road Safety know about Road Safety?' section on the campaign's website The Ponle Freno-AXA Road Safety Study New Road Safety Centre has published various studies, the Studies highlight being Driving habits in Spain . Fatalities on intercity roads 2500 2,180 2,000 2000 1,729 1,500 1500 1,304 1,128 1,131 1000 500 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Source: DGT ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 | SOCIETY | 154 2014 Ponle Freno Initiatives 6th edition of the Ponle Freno 'Good road education saves awards lives' The 6th edition of the Ponle FreAs part of Ponle Freno, various no awards once again recognised awareness campaigns have been the people, actions, organisations launched such as the usual ones for and public authorities that actively the peak traffic periods of Easter help to improve road safety in our Week and summer. These ask peocountry. The award ceremony took place in the Senate with the presple to be cautious and responsible ence of the President of the Senate, when travelling on the roads. AdPío García-Escudero and the Interiditionally, together with its strateor Minister, Jorge Fernández Díaz, gic partner Axa, Ponle Freno has among others. launched the awareness campaign Good education on the road saves lives , which consists in the broadcasting on the website and social networks of four videos recorded with a hidden camera which show absurd situations seen in everyday life but which also resemble habits that regularly take place on the roads. The campaign asked people to share the videos to help them go viral and spread the message. Winners __ AXA Award for innovation in matters of Road Safety: CIDRO. __ Ponle Freno Junior Award: Linares Council (Jaén). __ Ponle Freno Citizens Award: Bienvenido Nieto, for its dedication over more than 25 years to traffic education and road safety. __ Award for the Best Road Safety Initiative: Narón Council (A Coruña). 3.0 Road Safety Conferences In 2014, a new edition of the 3.0 Conference was held, aimed at reflecting on the key aspects of road safety. On this occasion, the meeting focused on the ‘2020 Cero Víctimas’ objective and involved experts on the issue and representamost important measures to be adopted tives from various groups such as bikers, by each of them in order to achieve the cyclists and drivers, who discussed the proposed objective. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 | SOCIETY | 155 Ponle Freno Fun-Run: 1st edition in Vitoria and 6th edition in Madrid In 2014, for the first time, Ponle Freno held a special edition of its traditional fun-run in Vitoria as part of the city's FesTVal. The Antena 3 presenter Jorge Fernández fired the starting gun for the race which also saw the athlete Martín Fiz take part. The funds raised were donated in full to the Zuzenak Foundation, which aims to achieve the social integration and normalisation of disabled people in the Basque Country. to two charity initiatives: the buildMadrid, meanwhile, hosted its sixth ing of a therapeutic swimming pool fun-run in November with a record for people with spinal cord injuries participation of more than 20,000 launched by the Step by Step Founrunners, among which were many dation, and a research project about personalities from the worlds of telecustomised neuro-driving in order to vision, politics and sport. All the funds improve road safety by the Guttmann raised, 200,000 euros, were donated Institute Foundation. More than 1,000 people took part in the first Ponle Freno fun-run in Vitoria. In Madrid, the sixth edition of the sporting event attracted more than 20,000 runners. Ponle Freno-Axa Road Safety Study Centre In 2014, the Ponle Freno-Axa Road Safety Study Centre continued its research into the prevention of accidents with the publication of several studies, among which the highlight is Driving habits in Spain. The report includes perceptions about safety, behaviour on the road and preventative measures, based on more than 3,000 breakdowns caused by a lack of vehisurveys completed by drivers, pedescle maintenance increased by 13% in trians, bikers and cyclists. 2013, and how 70% of drivers do not Another of the studies completed ofdeclare a mutual statement of facts in fers interesting conclusions on how accidents. According to the study, Driving habits in Spain, one in five drivers admit that they have driven after drinking alcohol, while 60% do not know the legal limits. CHALLENGES Ponle Freno 2015 1. Promote road awareness in schools. 2. Publish a study about awareness and training for cyclists. 3. Expand the educational road safety content on the Ponle Freno website. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 | SOCIETY | 156 El Estirón: ideas for healthy growth El Estirón, now Objetivo Bienestar Junior, is the Atresmedia campaign aimed at the younger population in order to promote healthy eating habits and physical activity to prevent obesity and its associated illnesses. HIGHLIGHTS 1. Almost 100 schools took part in the 2nd edition of the Coles Activos (Active Schools) awards. 2. More than 9,000 people attended ‘De Marcha con el Estirón’, a new record participation. 3. Atresmedia and the Ministry of Health, Social Affairs and Equality jointly launched three awareness campaigns. 4. The dance academy Muévete con El Estirón was launched at Micrópolix. 5. New initiatives received the ‘El Estirón Recomendado’ The work of (Recommended by El Estirón) seal. El Estirón was 6. El Estirón has its own programme on Nova. recognised in 2014 with the Placa de Bronce de la Real Orden del Mérito Deportivo (Bronze Plaque from the Royal Monitoring of the 2014 El Estirón Challenges Order of Sports Challenges Level of compliance Comments Merit), awarded More than 100 schools took part Launching of the second edition by the Ministry in the second edition of the Coles of the Coles Activos awards of Education, Activos awards. Culture and Sport. Broadcasting of a spot in Launching of an awareness collaboration with the Ministry of campaign about the need to Health, Social Affairs and Equality to perform one hour of physical raise awareness about the need for activity every day. exercise. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 | SOCIETY | 157 2014 Initiatives 2nd edition of the Coles Activos awards El Estirón held the second edition of the Coles Activos awards, with the intention of recognising the centres that promote original and fun initiatives among their students in order to help them grow up healthy. Almost 100 schools across Spain took part in the event. A committee of experts was responsible for selecting the winning schools. In order to make Coles Activos possible, El Estirón once again teamed up with the Padres y Colegios/Parents site scholarum.es, the leading school and Schools publication and the webcomparison and search site in Spain. Winners __ Best initiative in nutrition: Colegio Santo Domingo de Guzmán (Aranda de Duero, Burgos) __ Best initiative in physical activity: IES Ribera del Arga, de Peralta (Navarre) __ Best creative initiative: Colegio La Devesa (Carlet, Valencia) __ Best global initiative: Colegio Público San Xoan de Filgueira, Ferrol (A Coruña) New initiatives receive the as the story ¡Qué divertido es comer ‘El Estirón Recomendado’ fruta! (What fun it is to eat fruit!) by Doctor María Teresa Barahona, and the (Recommended by El Estirón) Centro de Profesionales de Nutrición y seal Actividad Física (Professional Centre of El Estirón continues its work to recogNutrition and Physical Activity, PRONnise the healthiest initiatives through its AF) for its work treating excess weight ‘El Estirón recomendado’ seal. In 2014, and obesity and the advice it offers to various projects were rewarded, such the El Estirón campaign. All the projects receiving the ‘El Estirón Recomendado’ seal can be found on www.antena3.com/ elestiron/sello/ La Asociación de Deportistas (The Athletes' Association) and El Estirón unite to promote sporting values Atresmedia has joined the 'Sports&Trops' project from the Athletes' Association with the broadcasting of various audiovisual spots and reports in which professional athletes and ex-athletes share healthy habits such as a balanced diet, and values inherent to sport such as companionship, dedication, teamwork and the desire to excel. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 | SOCIETY | 158 De Marcha con El Estirón (On Awareness campaigns run the move with El Estirón) jointly with the Ministry of For the third consecutive year, parHealth, Social Services and ents and children attended 'De MarEquality cha con El Estirón', and took part Three awareness campaigns were as a family in a non-competitive run in 2014, within the framework run that ended with a party at the of the agreement signed in 2013 beWarner Park Madrid, where they entween Atresmedia and the Ministry joyed a day out on the attractions. of Health, Social Affairs and EqualThis year there was a very special ity, through Agencia Española de guest: the dog Pancho. Consumo, Seguridad Alimentaria y Nutrición (Spanish Agency of Consumption, Food Safety and Nutrition, AECOSAN), to promote healthy habits. The messages broadcast were focused on the need to do a minimum number of hours of physical activity each day, dancing as a healthy and fun activity for children and best practice when handling New record with more than 9,000 participants food to ensure correct food safety. New dance academy at El Estirón has its own Micrópolix programme on Nova In 2014, El Estirón launched a new El Estirón has its own programme attraction in the educational leisure on the television channel Nova. The park Micrópolix in Madrid, where it space, presented by Ainhoa Arbizu, has been present since 2012. This is promotes healthy habits in children the Muévete con El Estirón dance and their families through fun reciacademy, where the little ones can pes, nutritional advice and original have a good time dancing and havrecommendations for staying in ing fun enjoying a healthy habit. shape, among other content. It is broadcast every fortnight on a Sunday. El Estirón has a website (antena3.com/ elestiron) that offers information about all the activities conducted in the campaign, as well as recommendations about healthy habits and a specific section for resolving any doubts. CHALLENGES 2015 El Estirón (Objetivo Bienestar Junior) Challenges 1. To reinforce collaboration with the government in promoting healthy habits. 2. To increase the number of schools participating in the Coles Activos Awards. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 | SOCIETY | 159 Objetivo Bienestar Under the slogan Objetivo Bienestar: Aprende a vivir mejor (Learn to live better), Antena 3 has launched its new big campaign that invites all members of the public to feel good and improve their quality of life through three main areas: Healthy diet With Objetivo Physical activity Healthy mind Bienestar, Antena 3 wants to raise awareness in society about the Objetivo Bienestar aims to help encourage healthier lifestyles through a importance of global communications plan consisting of: living a healthy life in every way. __ A daily spot with advice on one of the different areas around which the campaign is structured: nutrition, physical and mental activity, personal care, relaxation, etc. __ A weekly section every Friday on the programme Espejo Público offering interviews with specialists on the relevant issue. The content broadcast has also been included in the book Los diez hábitos de la gente saludable (The ten habits of healthy people). __ A weekly section on Tu Tiempo de Brasero which involves proposing healthy leisure plans for the weekend. __ A bi-weekly programme on the channel Nova. __ The Objetivo Bienestar publication. __ The website www.objetivobienestar.com where the contents of the entire campaign can be found in more detail. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 | SOCIETY | 160 Constantes y Vitales, the first CR campaign by laSexta laSexta, together with the AXA Foundation, has launched the first Corporate Responsibility campaign of its history: Constantes y Vitales. Its objective is to promote high quality medical research and health prevention through awareness initiatives and specific actions that boost advances in the medical and scientific fields. Hence its slogan is 'Trabajamos hoy por la salud del futuro/We are working today for the health of the future'. The journalist Mamen Mendizábal is the ambassador for the campaign, which began with a spot in which she starred along with Wyoming, Jordi Évole, Ana Pastor and Antonio García Ferreras, who lamented the brain drain. Constantes y Vitales counts on the collaboration of an expert committee with representatives from the fields of medicine and research, and allows the public to become involved through an online platform, the 3.0 Conferences and the holding of a charity event, among other proposals. More information is available at www.constantesyvitales.com CHALLENGES 2015 Constantes y Vitales Challenges 1. Creation of the Constantes y Vitales Awards for research. 2. Broadcasting prevention advice about illnesses with the greatest impact on health. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 | SOCIETY | 161 Education, the focus of Fundación Atresmedia in 2014 HIGHLIGHTS 1. The Hospital Assistance Programme consolidated its presence across the whole of Spain. 2. Proyecto PRO trained young people with a disability with the launch of three new courses and added disability training in front of camera areas. 3. Young people from Te Toca! talked to politicians about education. 4. More than 450 projects presented for the 'Iniciativas que Educan/Initiatives that Educate' awards. 5. The 'Derechos de la Infancia/Children's Rights' campaign improved schools in the Amazon rainforest. Fundación Atresmedia was created in order to channel the Group's social action and from the very start has focused its projects on children, one of the most vulnerable groups around the world. As is expressed in its mission: Spreading knowledge and providing experiences that allow children to live happier lives and be better citizens Among the organisation's primary goals is improving and enhancing the relationship between children and the television, internet and new technologies, in such a way that the three channels constitute communication tools supporting their personal and civic development. Also among its purposes is working within the issue of disability, promoting the voice and participation of young people in issues that affect them and running hospital assistance initiatives that help make a child's stay in hospital more pleasant. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 | SOCIETY | 162 Together for education In 2014, the In 2014, the Foundation chose education as the central focus of its activFoundation ities. All the initiatives in the organisation's Strategic Plan were based on organised the this issue during the year. Several activities were also launched aimed at 2nd edition of the highlighting the valuable work of professionals in education and generat'Initiatives that ing enriching debates about the sector. Educate' awards, and held a For the second consecutive year, the Foundation organised the 'Initiatives meeting between that Educate' awards, in collaboration with Santillana, aimed at recognisyoung people ing best educational practice. A meeting was also organised at the Conand education gress of Deputies between more than 70 students, education advisers advisers at the and chairmen of school boards from different autonomous communities, Congress of as well as different opinion leaders from the world of education to reflect Deputies. on the question 'How can education be improved?'. Both actions, together with other meetings involving experts, have allowed experiences to be shared, knowledge to be generated and have positively impacted on the sector, as highlighted by various professionals and teachers. Monitoring of the 2014 Fundación Atresmedia Challenges Challenges Level of compliance Comments Indicators have been created for each project, Strengthen the indicator system. considering five criteria: impact, efficiency, awareness, ability to attract funding and visibility. Hold the 2nd edition of the 'Initiatives that Continue with the educational initiatives Educate' awards; meeting at the Congress of supplementing the Strategic Plan, under the Deputies between young people and education 'Together for Education' area. advisers, among other initiatives. Continue with personalised visits to hospitals and ministries in other autonomous communities, The presence of the Hospital Assistance which help to identify the needs of each centre Programme in all autonomous communities in and improve the quality and suitability of the Spain has been achieved. Hospital Assistance Programme. 'Children's Rights' Campaign To mark the 25th anniversary of the Convention on the Rights of the Child, a communication campaign has been run consisting of 10 awareness spots with 10 different NGOs, who have each acted as ambassadors and representatives of a specific right. The 'Un maestro una vida/One teacher, one life' campaign has also managed Amazon rainforest, as well as provide to raise 50,000 euros which will be do10 schools with educational materials nated to the NGO CESAL to strengthin Spanish and their native language, en the skills of more than 20 teachers a move which will benefit more than from schools in the communities of the 2,500 children. 10 spots from 10 different NGOs, broadcast to mark the 25th anniversary of the Convention on the Rights of the Child, have led to an increase in the awareness of the Spanish population about children's rights. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 | SOCIETY | 163 Proyecto Pro: audiovisual training for people with a disability Proyecto PRO provides audiovisual training to young people with a disability to help them join the world of work. In turn, it helps companies in the sector to employ this group. During 2014, the Project launched two has also been organised with the Funnew courses: Specialist in the mandación Globomedia (Madrid), which agement of social networks , with the allows people to work front-of-camera Universidad Rey Juan Carlos (Madrid); and increases normalisation. and Postgraduate Diploma in CommuFor 2015, the Foundation hopes to be nity Management , with the Universitat able to expand the number of collabPolitècnica de Catalunya (Barcelona). orating organisations that offer internThis year a third course, on acting, ships. The insurer AXA has recognised Proyecto PRO in 2014 with the 'Premio Solidario del Seguro/Insurance Solidarity Award'. The Hospital Assistance Programme reaches the whole of Spain In 2014, the Hospital Assistance Programme, created in 2006 in order to make the stay of hospitalised children and their families more pleasant, established its presence throughout Spain with the signing of a partnership agreement with the Ministry of the Basque Country. New centres have also been hospitalised children in the media. How added in the autonomous communities to report whilst respecting their privacy) where it was already present. In total, report was also published. Created to130 hospitals have already benefited gether with the Asociación de Informafrom the programme and more than dores de Salud (Association of Health 170,000 children have enjoyed its main Reporters, ANIS), the document proinitiative, the FAN3 Channel. poses guidelines to responsibly report FAN3 is a free and advertising-free teleon the health of children and hospitalvision channel, designed for hospitalised ised children. children and young people that aims to The Programme has given continued help them get better, offering them inwith other initiatives such as celebriformation relating to the illness and its ty visits to hospitals, radio workshops treatment in a fun and informative way. and various activities to promote readIn 2014, the Fan3 Channel expanded its ing. New initiatives such as 'Poción programming to the weekends and had de Héroes/Heroes Potion' have been a total of 91 hours per week and more launched, to normalise the situation of than 400 hours per month, and new children in oncology treatment and this sections were also created. is run in the autonomous communities Within the framework of the Hospital of Madrid, Valencia, Catalonia and AndaAssistance Programme, the La imagen lusia; and the 'Transplant guide/Guía del de los niños hospitalizados en los metrasplante' application to normalise and dios de comunicación. Cómo informar explain bone marrow transplants for the respetando su intimidad. (The image of children. 130 hospitals have now benefited from the Programme and more than 170,000 children have enjoyed its main initiative, the FAN3 Channel. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 | SOCIETY | 164 2nd edition of the 'Iniciativas que Educan/Initiatives that Educate' awards More than 450 projects were presented for the second edition of the 'Initiatives that educate' awards, which recognise best educational practice by schools, teachers, families, NGOs, public authorities and companies in six categories: __• Educational success __• School environment/diversity/ integration __• The environment __• Creativity and innovation __• Values and teamwork __• Special Fundación Santillana Award This second edition has been an unprecedented success in terms of participation, with more for the best initiative implemented in than 450 projects presented. Latin America. Te Toca! continues appealing to the social commitment of young people In 2014 the Te Toca! initiative continued with its commitment to bringing young people closer to certain social realities, promoting their awareness and their responsible behaviour. The initiative is tries, which were awarded technologiaimed at young people aged between 12 cal prizes and donations of 500 euros and 17, who are encouraged to submit a as seed capital to make the submitted solution to a specific problem based on ideas a reality. their own proposals or through requests Within the framework of the initiative, a to the adult world. meeting was organised between young In 2014, 174 participants submitted their people, education advisers and chairproposals for the challenge 'How can men of school boards from different aueducation be improved?', with the overtonomous communities at the Congress all quality being higher than in previous of Deputies, in order to reflect on the years. world of education and incorporate the A jury composed of an experienced students' demands into future decisions group of experts selected the best enabout the sector. The Te Toca! micro-site reached 16,476 visits in 2014. Its presence on the social networks also increased, with more than 1,144 fans on Facebook and 3,200 followers on Twitter. Transparency in funding In 2014, Fundación Atresmedia was able to conduct its activity thanks to its funding from Atresmedia, public subsidies and the more than 600,000 euros raised through various fundraising initiatives, among which the highlights are 'Pasa la bola' from the Vodafone Foundation and the Red Cross, the marketing of 'charity bags' by La Casa del Libro and the incorporation of partners such as Santillana and Ransdstad. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 | SOCIETY | 165 In a desire for transparency, all the financial figures relating to the Foundation's management, including its audited accounts, can be found on the website http://www.antena3.com/fundacion/ Fundación Atresmedia’s Revenue 2012 2013 2014 Amount from Atresmedia € 500,000 € 300,000 € 300,000 Donations € 85,000 € 502,382 € 573,000 Subsidies € 23,121 € 30,036 € 10,000 Other revenue € 328,847 € 420,000 € 725,194 Total revenue € 936,968 € 1,252,418 € 1,198,194 CHALLENGES 2015 Fundación Atresmedia Challenges 1. Assess the impact of each of the projects launched by following the methodologies used by the third sector. 2. Development of a new Master Plan, based on the results of measuring the impact of the different projects and on the current needs of society. 3. Run at least three initiatives to boost educational improvement. Environment ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 | ENVIRONMENT | 167 OUR VISION The vision of Atresmedia is to contribute to sustainable development through measures that minimise the environmental impact of its activities and promote respect for the environment. This vision translates into the following lines of action: 1. Improving energy efficiency. 2. The responsible management of resources. 3. Reducing the generation of waste. 4. Raising awareness in society about the need to care for the environment by making use of the broadcasting power of Atresmedia. In figures 2013 2014 Energy consumption Gas 12,517 m3 15,308 m3 Electricity 28,276,898 kw 27,399,791 kw Heating oil 458,148 L 469,696 L Consumption of resources Water 44,297 m3 56,863 m3 Paper 5,425,000 uds, (26,908 kg) 5,412,000 uds (26,844 kg) Toner 703 uds (563 kg) 667 uds (534 kg) Emissions Direct scope 1 2,463.42 t 3,281.78 t Direct scope 2 6,969 t 4,383.96 t Employee transportation scope 3 757.7 t 635.19 t Non-hazardous waste Paper and cardboard 68 t 66 t Debris 66 m3 126 m3 SUW 314 t 308 t Hazardous waste Televisions 57 units 62 units Fluorescent lights 1,635 units 976 units Environmental Investment € 14,363 € 89,490 CPD Classification 60 D 58 D Contribution to sustainable development Atresmedia's sustainability commitment is not limited only to complying with environmental legislation, but instead goes much further and includes minimising the impact of its activities on the environment. To do this, it promotes initiatives on energy efficiency, saving raw materials, reducing waste, the sustainable use of resources and raising the awareATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 | ENVIRONMENT | 168 ness of society, making space for the environment in the content on the Group's media channels. Atresmedia has an Environmental Management Policy aimed at controlling the impact of its activity on the environment. __ Improving __ Increasing __ Best __ Reducing the energy recycling environmental consumption efficiency communication and practice generation of __ Efficient __ Controlling __ Buenas waste design of emissions prácticas de facilities comunicación ambiental ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT POLICY __ Reducing the emissions of __ Controlling greenhouse __ Raising the suppliers gases __ Increasing awareness of society __ Complying measures __ Use and with content based with to combat optimisation of on respect for the environmental climate resources environment regulations change Environmental challenges At the start of 2014 Atresmedia established some annual commitments for environmental improvement whose degree of compliance is shown below: Level of 2014 Commitment compliance Comments Completing the five-year plan to replace The replacement of gas in the 25 pieces of refrigerant gas in air conditioning systems, equipment that were outstanding has been replacing this in all company equipment. performed. Implementing LED lighting in a separate The replacement of all the building's lighting building of the company (Onda Cero, with LED technology has been performed (a Atresmedia Publicidad and Atres Eventos). total of 1,331 fluorescent screens). The study has been performed in keeping with the agreed plan. The economic-financial analysis Conducting a study on energy efficiency. to assess the viability of the operation remains pending. Reducing the volume of SUW by 1% compared The waste minimising policies have been to 2013. maintained. A policy for using multifunction 'paperless' Reducing toner consumption by 2% compared machines has been followed, to reduce the to 2013. printing of documents. Bins next to copying and multifunction Reducing the paper and cardboard volume machines have been used, destined for the destined for recycling by 1% compared to 2013. recycling plant. New awareness campaigns have been launched Commissioning of new environmental awareness such as the recycling initiatives with Ecoembes campaigns through Hazte Eco. and that for preventing forest fires with WWF. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 | ENVIRONMENT | 169 Resources INPUTS Energy Waste INPUTS OUTPUTS Emissions OUTPUTS Energy efficiency Atresmedia implements initiatives aimed at the better and more efficient use of energy sources, whose objective is to reduce the consumption of electricity and fuel while maintaining the quality standards of the services. Among the energy saving measures carried out by Atresmedia during 2014, the following can be highlighted: __ Preventative maintenance of boilers and controlling their hours of use, in order to reduce the consumption of fuel. __ Changing fluorescent lighting for LED technology. This measure has led to an annual saving of 300,000 kW in electricity consumption. __ Replacing aluminium windows with Climalit double glazing, adding solar filters and waterproofing and insulating roofing. Awareness of the rational use of energy Atresmedia takes advantage of its broadcasting strength to make society aware of the importance of energy efficiency. A clear example of this is the agreement reached with Gas Natural Fenosa to disseminate and transmit, in the world of cinema, the rational use of energy with the CINERGIA project. In 2014, these measures led to a 3.1% reduction in electricity consumption, reaching a value of 27,399,791 kW. However, in the case of the San Sebastián de los Reyes office, an increase was recorded due to the large number of users, as well as the increase in the use of production spaces on sets and in technical areas. For these reasons, fuel consumption increased by 2.5% and gas consumption by 22%. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 | ENVIRONMENT | 170 Electricity consumption (kW) Distribution of electricity consumption (%) 29,070,214 30000000 28,276,898 27,399,791 S.S. de los Reyes Building 68 20000000 10000000 Onda Cero Building 28 Atresmedia TV Building 4 0 2012 2013 2014 Note 1. 1kW/h = 0.0036 GJ. The energy consumption of electricity in 2014 was equivalent to 98,639.26 GJ. Heating oil consumption (L) Gas Consumption (m3) 500000 469,696 20000 458,148 419,643 15,308 15000 12,579 12,517 300000 10000 5000 100000 0 0 2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 Note 2. In 2014 the energy consumption corresponding to heating oil Note 3. The energy consumption corresponding to gas in 2014 was was equivalent to 18,004.16 GJ. equivalent to 527.61 GJ. Heating oil: tep = 1.181 litres // 1.12 tep is equal to 13,020 kW/h (Source) Data from the centre in San Sebastián de los Reyes. IDAE// 1kw/h = 0.0036 GJ. Gas: 1 m3 =10.723 kw/h (Source: Gas Natural Fenosa) // 1kW/h = 0.0036 GJ. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 | ENVIRONMENT | 171 Transportation petrol consumption (L) Transportation diesel consumption (L) 20000 60000 53,185 16,636 16,802 15,612 46,330 45,132 15000 40000 10000 20000 5000 0 0 2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 Note 4. The energy consumption corresponding to transportation Note 5. The energy consumption corresponding to transportation petrol in 2014 was equivalent to 105.72 GJ. diesel in 2014 was equivalent to 336.64 GJ Automotive petrol: tep = 1,290 litres // 1.10 tep is equal to 12,790 kW/h Automotive diesel: tep = 1,181 litres // 1.12 tep is equal to 13,020 kW/h (Source: IDAE //1kW/h = 0.0036 GJ. (Source: IDAE// 1kW/h = 0.0036 GJ. Note 6. Diesel 100% non-renewable, Petrol 100% non-renewable, Gas 100% non-renewable, Electricity 35.60% non-renewable and 64.40% renewable (latest energy mix provided by Iberdrola). Note 7. Conversion factors table A8.1 GHG inventory report published by the MAGRAMA and IDAE IDAE: Instituto para la Diversificación y Ahorro de la Energía (Institute for Energy Diversification and Savings) Controlling GHG emissions In 2014, there was Halting climate change is one of the environmental challenges of Atresa reduction in the media. To do this, together with its energy efficiency measures, specific indirect scope 2 initiatives are run that are aimed at improving the control of emissions emissions and the into the atmosphere and reducing them. Highlights in 2014: scope 3 emissions __ Greater control of the CO2, NOX, SOX and CO emissions from boilers. compared to 2013. __ Promoting the priority use of trains instead of planes for domestic journeys. __ Completing the switch from refrigerant gas to wind powered gas in air conditioning units. To do this, 254 kg of R22 has been replaced with R438A ecological gas, and 213 kg of R22 with R424 ecological gas. For the third consecutive year, Atresmedia participated in the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) report, a voluntary initiative that encourages transparency and a change towards sustainability in companies around the world. It obtained a rating of 58D. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 | ENVIRONMENT | 172 Direct emissions scope 1 GHG Emissions (t) 3500 3,282 2,463 2500 1500 1,373 500 0.518 2.103 2.736 0.546 0.592 0.56 0.432 0.122 0.162 0 CO2 NOX SOX CO 2012 2013 2014 Indirect emissions scope 2 Employee transportation emissions scope 3 t CO2 t CO2 8000 800 758 6,786 635 6000 600 4,942 459 4,384 4000 400 2000 200 0 0 2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 Note 8. The data relating to emissions have been obtained in accordance with the certification from the Entidades de Inspección y Control Reglamentario ( Inspection and Regulatory Control Organisations, ENICRE) Inspector (ATISAE. The sources used to obtain the data are the conversion factors published by GHG and IDAF). Note 9. Included within the direct CO2 emissions (3,091 T) is 1,314.30 T corresponding to the consumption of heating oil. The data on direct CO2 emissions refer to the work centre in San Sebastián de los Reyes. Note 10. Given that there is no publication for 2014 that reflects the energy mix of our supplier (Iberdrola), the data used in this report are the result of applying, to all the electricity consumed in 2014, the latest energy mix published by IBERDROLA (from 2013), therefore are subject to the certification that the CNE (National Energy Commission) publishes for 2014. Note 11. The data on NOx, SOx and CO emissions (direct emissions scope 1) refer to the work centre in San Sebastián de los Reyes. The direct emissions of NOx are equivalent to 370ppm. The direct emissions of SOx are equivalent to 155ppm. The direct emissions of CO are equivalent to 36ppm. Note 12. To obtain the data on emissions from air travel, the website www.carbon-calculator.org.uk was used. The 228.08 T of CO2 from domestic air travel corresponds to 894,446 miles The 407.11 T of CO2 from international air travel corresponds to 1,596,495 miles The increase in scope 1 direct emissions of CO2 and gas during 2014 is a result of the high user occupancy of the company's buildings, as well as increased production (Building/Studio 7) which has led to the boilers spending more time in operation. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 | ENVIRONMENT | 173 Valuing resources Aware of the importance of rationalising consumption to reduce its environmental impact, Atresmedia is committed to the responsible use of resources. In this regard, several initiatives were undertaken in 2014 to reduce the use of paper and toner. One example is the use of multifunction 'paperless' machines in the offices. Another measure was purchasing paper with a PEFC certification, which guarantees that it comes from sustainably managed forests. As a result of these initiatives it has achieved an 18% reduction in paper consumption and 36 fewer units of toner have been used. In addition to reducing raw material consumption, the Group promotes the reuse of resources such as technological and computer equipment in order to prolong their useful life. Toner consumption Paper consumption (units) (units) 800 742 6000000 5,672,500 5,425,000 5,412,000 703 667 600 4000000 400 2000000 200 0 0 2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 Note 6. The data on white paper and toner consumption in 2014 refer to the centre in San Sebastián de los Reyes. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 | ENVIRONMENT | 174 With regards to the consumption of water, which comes entirely from the public network, an increase of 28% took place in 2014 which, as in the previous cases, was due to the increase in the number of users in the centre in San Sebastián de los Reyes. Consumption taking place in the other offices has also been included this year, while no precise information was available for this in previous years. Water consumption (m3) Distribution of water consumption (%) 60000 56,863 Onda Cero Building 12 50,553 Atresmedia TV Building 1 44,297 40000 S.S. de los Reyes Building 87 20000 0 2012 2013 2014 Minimising waste Atresmedia strives to reduce the amount of waste to the minimum necessary and manage its essential waste in the most suitable way. To do this, the following actions are conducted: __ Asking suppliers to remove the packaging for the materials so that it can be reused or destined for other possible uses. __ Removal of waste generated from scrap and cabling in the facilities by authorised waste managers. __ Use of bins specifically for white paper next to copying and multifunction machines for subsequent transfer to the recycling plant. __ Maintaining the requirement to hand in used toner cartridges to obtain new ones. These measures have led to a 3% reduction in paper and cardboard destined for recycling and a 2% reduction in urban waste. The increase in building debris recorded in 2014 was a result of carrying out refurbishment work to the controls and studios. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 | ENVIRONMENT | 175 Production of non-hazardous waste 350 324 314 308 300 250 200 150 126 100 69.7 68 66 66 48 50 0 Paper and cardboard (t) Building debris (m3) Solid urban waste 2012 2013 2014 Note 13: Data on non-hazardous waste production in 2014 was taken from the centre in San Sebastián de los Reyes. Production of hazardous waste 2.000 1,635 1,301 1.500 976 1.000 500 144 0.534 0.54 82 57 62 0 Televisions Fluorescent lights Batteries Toner (t) Disposable Batteries (t) 2012 2013 2014 Note 14: Data on hazardous waste production in 2014 corresponds to the centre in San Sebastián de los Reyes. All hazardous waste generated has been recycled. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 | ENVIRONMENT | 176 Hazte Eco: Together for the environment HIGHLIGHTS 1. Atresmedia and Ecoembes unite to make 2014 'The Year of Recycling'.l 2. 3,000 trees planted in the Hazte Eco Forest in the Cabañeros National Park. 3. More than 35,000 signatures collected in support of the Save the Arctic campaign. 4. 3rd forest fire prevention campaign with WWF. Hazte Eco is the Atresmedia campaign led by the channel Neox whose objective is to raise awareness and carry out initiatives to defend and protect the environment. All of the Group's media channels are involved in the initiative and support it by broadcasting awareness messages to the public and asking them to take action to support the environment. Since its creation in 2010, Hazte Eco has launched various initiatives with specific challenges to halt climate change, improve the quality of forests and save the Arctic. In 2014, it continued working on these and other new actions. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 | ENVIRONMENT | 177 3,000 trees planted in the Hazte Eco Forest Atresmedia and Ecoembes join together Bosque in the Cabañeros National Park to make 2014 'The Year of Recycling' Hazte Eco (Ciudad Real). Through the 'Hazte Eco y Recicla' Atresmedia and WWF have given life initiative, Atresmedia and Ecoembes to the Hazte Eco Forest by planting have united to encourage recycling in 3,000 trees in the Cabañeros National our country and make society aware Park in Ciudad Real. These have come of its importance for the environment. from the Park's native plant nursery, The partnership has resulted in the ensuring their better adaptation and broadcasting of educational content survival. about recycling and environmental awareness through the Neox Hazte This reforestation was possible Eco programme, its website hazteeco. thanks to involvement of the public. es and news reports on Antena 3, During the campaign launched by laSexta, Onda Cero and Europa FM. More than 35,000 both organisations in 2012, after a signatures were year that was particularly hard-hit collected in support by fires, it received almost 14,000 of the Save the Arctic campaign Delivery of signatures to Greenpeace for SMS messages in support of nature. 'save the Arctic' The funds were donated in full to the reforestation project. In April, Hazte Eco delivered more than 35,000 signatures to Greenpeace, collected in support Preventing forest fires of the Save the Arctic campaign with WWF which was launched in 2012 with the objective of obtaining Government support for the international request from the United Nations to declare Atresmedia, through Hazte Eco, has the area a World Heritage Site. worked with the WWF since 2012 in the reforestation of forests in Spain. Coinciding with the arrival of summer, Atresmedia joins there was a campaign to prevent Earth Hour forest fires through the broadcasting of a spot. Once the high risk period had finished, Hazte Eco made an Group Atresmedia joined Earth Hour assessment of the campaign which and switched off the lights in its proved more positive than in other main entrance and at the front of the years due to the weather conditions. building on Saturday 29 March from The results have been a starting point 20:30 to 21:30 as a symbolic act in the for a new spot about the importance fight against climate change. of continuing to care for the forests during winter and working to regenerate any affected areas. CHALLENGES In 2015, Atresmedia has outlined new challenges in environmental management matters aimed at improving energy efficiency, resource and waste management and environmental awareness. OBJECTIVES 2015 1. Conduct a study to continue implementing LED 4. Reduce the volume of paper and cardboard deslighting technology in other company buildings. tined for recycling by 2% compared to 2014. 2. Reduce the volume of Solid Urban Waste by 1% 5. Reduce toner cartridge consumption by 2% compared to 2014. compared to 2014. 3. Conduct an economical-financial analysis of the 6. Through Hazte Eco, continue to raise awareness application of the conclusions from the energy about the importance of recycling by using new efficiency study. means of communication. Annexes ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 | ANNEXES | 179 G4-18, G4-22, G4-23 About the Corporate Responsibility Report This is the eighth time that Atresmedia has published its Corporate Responsibility Report as part of the Annual Report, detailing its commitments in matters of sustainability from an economic, social and environmental perspective. This year the Report has gone one step further in the quality of the content and transparency and has followed the current trends in reporting, looking in more depth at some of the content recommended by the international framework for preparing Integrated Reports (Integrated Reporting, IR) developed by the IIRC (International Integrated Reporting Council). With this objective, the Group's strategic areas have been dealt with in greater detail, greater importance has been given to the management and control of risks and there has been a particularly in-depth look at the evolution of the Company, including various first-person accounts from representatives of the different stakeholders with which Atresmedia collaborates. Coverage and scope: For the second consecutive year, the report follows the criteria established by the G4 guide from the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) in its comprehensive version, and has been verified by an external and independent organisation (Aenor). It has also taken into account the GRI Media Sector Supplement in its development. The contents included in the report refer to the period between 1 January 2014 and 31 December of the same year and cover the activities of the different companies forming Atresmedia (Atresmedia Televisión, Atresmedia Radio, Atresmedia Publicidad, Atresmedia Digital, Atresmedia Diversificación, Atresmedia Cine and Fundación Atresmedia). The information disclosed takes into account the Group's analysis of materiality and under no circumstances are there any intentional omissions of relevant content. Any variations in terms of the scope and coverage of the information are noted in the corresponding section of the report. Likewise, any changes to the formulas used for calculating the data provided are reported. Materiality: The materiality of the content of this report has been determined from Atresmedia's own analysis and the information received from its stakeholders through the different communication channels established, such as the discussions held and a survey for this purpose, along with the other channels that are explained in the 'Corporate Responsibility' section of the report. All relevant material aspects have been analysed to identify how they correspond to the specific content and indicators in the GRI G4 guide, selecting those sections that truly respond to the interests of the stakeholders and the strategy of Atresmedia. Other sections from G4 have also been voluntarily included since these, without being relevant to the organisation, contribute to increasing the transparency and understanding of the company's activity. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 | ANNEXES | 180 G4-18, G4-19, G4-20, G4-21, G4-23, G4-27 MATERIAL ASPECTS FOR STAKEHOLDERS Correspondence with G4 PRIORITY General aspect Specific aspect Aspect Section PRODUCT: Satisfaction of the Product and G4-PR5 advertisers Labelling Quality of content Broadcasting of Editorial content independence Freedom of expression Protection of VERY HIGH Minors Responsible Media M2-M5 advertising Quality of Advertising advertising services management Independence between advertisers and content SOCIETY: Local G4 S01 Communities Social Action HIGH Social action Indirect Campaigns economic G4 EC7 consequences Shareholder Profile G4-7 composition Strategy and G4-1 Financial Analysis management Strategic areas and objectives FINANCIAL: Cost Management Financial G4 EC1, EC4 M1 performance/ Media Government Government G4 34-48, 51, AVERAGE authorities, control Corporate mechanisms, clarity Ethics and Governance G4 56-58 and regulatory integrity compliance LABOUR: Human capital Training and G4 LA9-10 development Internal education organisation Degree of Strategy and fulfilment of the G4-1 analysis strategy The G4 indicators responded to are those appearing in orange in the report's GRI index. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 | ANNEXES | 181 Verification report ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 | ANNEXES | 182 GRI Index Part Reason not for External reportomisverificaPage / Answer Reported ed sion tion Strategy and Analysis Provide a statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization (such as CEO, chair, or equivalent G4-1 senior position) about the relevance of 5, 7 TOTAL Yes, 181 sustainability to the organization and the organization’s strategy for addressing sustainability. Description of key impacts, risks, and G4-2 5-7, 39, 42, 51-58 TOTAL Yes, 181 opportunities Organizational Profile G4-3 Report the name of the organization. 2, 31 TOTAL Yes, 181 Report the primary brands, products, and G4-4 31, 39-42 TOTAL Yes, 181 services. Report the location of the organization’s G4-5 2 TOTAL Yes, 181 headquarters. Report the number of countries where Atresmedia operates in the organization operates, and names of Spain. However some countries where either the organization G4-6 of its channels (Antena TOTAL Yes, 181 has significant operations or that are 3 Internacional) can be specifically relevant to the sustainability watched abroad topics covered in the report. Report the nature of ownership and legal G4-7 31, 35 TOTAL Yes, 181 form. Atresmedia operates in Spain. However some Report the markets served (including of its channels (Antena G4-8 geographic breakdown, sectors served, and TOTAL Yes, 181 3 Internacional) can be types of customers and beneficiaries). watched abroad 31,32,35 Report the scale of the organization, 13 including: 93% of Atresmedia's __ Total number of employees net income comes __ Total number of operations from advertising. The __ Net sales (for private sector organizations) remaining income G4-9 or net revenues (for public sector TOTAL Yes, 181 is split between organizations) minor activities such __ Total capitalization broken down in terms as copyright, film of debt and equity (for private sector productions and organizations) special initiatives. __ Quantity of products or services provided ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 | ANNEXES | 183 Part Reason not for External reportomisverificaPage / Answer Reported ed sion tion __ Report the total number of employees by employment contract and gender. __ Report the total number of permanent employees by employment type and gender. __ Report the total workforce by 131, 133, 135, 137 employees and supervised workers and External and selfby gender. employed employees __ Report the total workforce by region do not represent and gender. a significant part G4-10 __ Report whether a substantial portion of TOTAL Yes, 181 of the company, the organization’s work is performed by so no monitoring workers who are legally recognized as is established that self-employed, or by individuals other allows a breakdown by than employees or supervised workers, gender. including employees and supervised employees of contractors. __ Report any significant variations in employment numbers (such as seasonal variations in employment in the tourism or agricultural industries). Report the percentage of total employees G4-11 covered by collective bargaining 131 TOTAL Yes, 181 agreements. G4-12 Describe the organization’s supply chain. 59-63 TOTAL Yes, 181 Report any significant changes during the reporting period regarding the organization’s size, structure, ownership, or its supply chain, including: __ Changes in the location of, or changes in, operations, including facility openings, closings, and expansions G4-13 __ Changes in the share capital 5, 7, 178 TOTAL Yes, 181 structure and other capital formation, maintenance, and alteration operations (for private sector organizations) __ Changes in the location of suppliers, the structure of the supply chain, or in relationships with suppliers, including selection and termination . Report whether and how the G4-14 precautionary approach or principle is 53-58 TOTAL Yes, 181 addressed by the organization. List externally developed economic, environmental and social charters, G4-15 principles, or other initiatives to which 43, 46, 62, 81, 107 TOTAL Yes, 181 the organization subscribes or which it endorses. List memberships of associations (such as industry associations) and national or international advocacy organizations in which the organization: __ Holds a position on the governance G4-16 50, 63 TOTAL Yes, 181 body __ Participates in projects or committees __ Provides substantive funding beyond routine membership dues __ Views membership as strategic Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries __ List all entities included in the 35 organization’s consolidated financial All entities that statements or equivalent documents. are listed in the G4-17 __ Report whether any entity included in TOTAL Yes, 181 consolidated financial the organization’s consolidated financial statements are also statements or equivalent documents is not listed in the report. covered by the report. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 | ANNEXES | 184 Part Reason not for External reportomisverificaPage / Answer Reported ed sion tion __ Explain the process for defining the report content and the Aspect Boundaries. G4-18 __ Explain how the organization has 48, 49, 179, 180 TOTAL Yes, 181 implemented the Reporting Principles for Defining Report Content. List all the material Aspects identified in the G4-19 49, 180 TOTAL Yes, 181 process for defining report content. For each material Aspect, report the Aspect Boundary within the organization, as follows: __ Report whether the Aspect is material within the organization __ If the Aspect is not material for all entities within the organization (as described in 49, 180 G4-17), select one of the following two The material aspects approaches and report either: identified have been G4-20 TOTAL Yes, 181 • The list of entities or groups of entities considered for the included in G4-17 for which the Aspect is entire Atresmedia not material or Group. • The list of entities or groups of entities included in G4-17 for which the Aspects is material __ Report any specific limitation regarding the Aspect Boundary within the organization For each material Aspect, report the Aspect Boundary outside the organization, as follows: __ Report whether the Aspect is material 49, 180 outside of the organization The aspects identified __ If the Aspect is material outside of the as material have been G4-21 organization, identify the entities, groups TOTAL Yes, 181 considered for all of of entities or elements for which the Atresmedia's external Aspect is material. In addition, describe the stakeholders. geographical location where the Aspect is material for the entities identified __ Report any specific limitation regarding the Aspect Boundary outside the organization Report the effect of any restatements of G4-22 information provided in previous reports, and 179 TOTAL Yes, 181 the reasons for such restatements. Report significant changes from previous G4-23 reporting periods in the Scope and Aspect 179, 180 TOTAL Yes, 181 Boundaries. Stakeholder Engagement Provide a list of stakeholder groups engaged G4-24 48 TOTAL Yes, 181 by the organization. Report the basis for identification and G4-25 selection of stakeholders with whom to 48 TOTAL Yes, 181 engage. Report the organization’s approach to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder 38, 43, 48, 63, 64, 79, G4-26 TOTAL Yes, 181 group, and an indication of whether any of 95, 96, 116, 140 the engagement was undertaken specifically as part of the report preparation process. Report key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the organization has G4-27 responded to those key topics and concerns, 49, 180 TOTAL Yes, 181 including through its reporting. Report the stakeholder groups that raised each of the key topics and concerns. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 | ANNEXES | 185 Part Reason not for External reportomisverificaPage / Answer Reported ed sion tion Report Profile Reporting period (such as fiscal or calendar G4-28 179 TOTAL Yes, 181 year) for information provided. G4-29 Date of most recent previous report (if any). 179 TOTAL Yes, 181 G4-30 Reporting cycle (such as annual, biennial). 179 TOTAL Yes, 181 Provide the contact point for questions G4-31 2 TOTAL Yes, 181 regarding the report or its contents. __ Report the ‘in accordance’ option the organization has chosen. __ Report the GRI Content Index for the chosen option. __ Report the reference to the External G4-32 179 TOTAL Yes, 181 Assurance Report, if the report has been externally assured. GRI recommends the use of external assurance but it is not a requirement to be ‘in accordance’ with the Guidelines. __ Report the organization’s policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report. __ If not included in the assurance report accompanying the sustainability report, This report has been report the scope and basis of any external verified by AENOR G4-33 assurance provided. with Comprehensive TOTAL Yes, 181 __ Report the relationship between the level. organization and the assurance providers. 179, 181 __ Report whether the highest governance body or senior executives are involved in seeking assurance for the organization’s sustainability report. Governance Report the governance structure of the organization, including committees of the 33, 34, 35, 36, 43, 78 highest governance body. Identify any G4-34 IAGC: C.1. 1, C.1.2, C.1.3, TOTAL Yes, 181 committees responsible for decision-making C.2.4 on economic, environmental and social impacts. Report the process for delegating authority for economic, environmental and social topics 43-44 G4-35 TOTAL Yes, 181 from the highest governance body to senior IAGC: C.1.10 executives and other employees. Report whether the organization has appointed an executive-level position or 33, 34, 36 positions with responsibility for economic, IAGC: C.1.10 R IAGC: G4-36 TOTAL Yes, 181 environmental and social topics, and whether G.7 (Recommendation post holders report directly to the highest 7) governance body. Report processes for consultation between 43 stakeholders and the highest governance IAGC: meets body on economic, environmental and social G4-37 requirement 7 on TOTAL Yes, 181 topics. If consultation is delegated, describe corporate governance to whom and any feedback processes to the (page 30 of the IAGC). highest governance body. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 | ANNEXES | 186 Part Reason not for External reportomisverificaPage / Answer Reported ed sion tion Report the composition of the highest governance body and its committees by: __ Executive or non-executive __ Independence __ Tenure on the governance body __ Number of each individual’s other 33, 34, 36 significant positions and commitments, G4-38 IAGC: C.1.2, C.1.3, C.2.1, TOTAL Yes, 181 and the nature of the commitments C.2.2 __ Gender __ Membership of under-represented social groups __ Competences relating to economic, environmental and social impacts __ Stakeholder representation Report whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer 33, 43 G4-39 (and, if so, his or her function within the TOTAL Yes, 181 IAGC: C.1.22 organization’s management and the reasons for this arrangement). Report the nomination and selection processes for the highest governance body and its committees, and the criteria used for nominating and selecting highest governance body members, including: __ Whether and how diversity is considered 43 G4-40 __ Whether and how independence is IAGC: C.1.5, C.1.6, C.1.19, TOTAL Yes, 181 considered C.2.4, C.1.34 __ Whether and how expertise and experience relating to economic, environmental and social topics are considered __ Whether and how stakeholders (including shareholders) are involved Report processes for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided and managed. Report whether conflicts of interest are disclosed to 43-44 stakeholders, including, as a minimum: IAGC: D.6, G.8 G4-41 TOTAL Yes, 181 __ Cross-board membership (Recommendation 8, __ Cross-shareholding with suppliers and section C) other stakeholders __ Existence of controlling shareholder __ Related party disclosures Report the highest governance body’s and senior executives’ roles in the development, 43-44 approval, and updating of the organization’s IAGC: C.1.14, C.2.4 G4-42 TOTAL Yes, 181 purpose, value or mission statements, Recommendation 8 on strategies, policies, and goals related to Corporate Governance economic, environmental and social impacts. 43-44 IAGC: C.1.41 Report the measures taken to develop Standards of Good and enhance the highest governance G4-43 Governance Fundación TOTAL Yes, 181 body’s collective knowledge of economic, Atresmedia www. environmental and social topics. antena3.com/ fundación. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 | ANNEXES | 187 Part Reason not for External reportomisverificaPage / Answer Reported ed sion tion __ Report the processes for evaluation of the highest governance body’s performance with respect to governance of economic, environmental and social topics. Report whether such evaluation is independent or not, and its frequency. Report whether such evaluation is a self-assessment. 43 G4-44 TOTAL Yes, 181 __ Report actions taken in response to IAGC: C.1.20 evaluation of the highest governance body’s performance with respect to governance of economic, environmental and social topics, including, as a minimum, changes in membership and organizational practice. __ Report the highest governance body’s role in the identification and management of economic, environmental and social 43-44 impacts, risks, and opportunities. Include IAGC: C.1.14, C.2.3, the highest governance body’s role in the C.2.4, section E. G4-45 implementation of due diligence processes. TOTAL Yes, 181 Recommenda­tions on __ Report whether stakeholder consultation Corporate Governance: is used to support the highest governance 43 and 44.1 a) body’s identification and management of economic, environmental and social impacts, risks, and opportunities. 43-44 IAGC: C.1.14, C.2.3, C.2.4, section E. RecommenReport the highest governance body’s dations on Corporate role in reviewing the effectiveness of the Governance: 43 and G4-46 TOTAL Yes, 181 organization’s risk management processes for 44.1 a) economic, environmental and social topics. Standards of Good Governance Fundación Atresmedia www.antena3.com/fundación 42-43 Report the frequency of the highest IAGC: C.1.14, C.2.3, C.2.4, governance body’s review of economic, section E. RecommenG4-47 TOTAL Yes, 181 environmental and social impacts, risks, and dations on Corporate opportunities. Governance: 43 and 44.1 a) Report the highest committee or position IAGC: CC.1.14 that formally reviews and approves the G4-48 Recommendation 7 on TOTAL Yes, 181 organization’s sustainability report and Corporate Governance. ensures that all material Aspects are covered. 43-44 IAGC: C.1.14, C.2.3, C.2.4, Report the process for communicating critical section E. RecommenG4-49 TOTAL Yes, 181 concerns to the highest governance body. dations on Corporate Governance: 43 and 44.1 a) Report the nature and total number of critical concerns that were communicated 5-7, 43, 44, 48, 49 G4-50 to the highest governance body and the TOTAL Yes, 181 IAGC: E.5, E.6 mechanism(s) used to address and resolve them. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 | ANNEXES | 188 Part Reason not for External reportomisverificaPage / Answer Reported ed sion tion Report the remuneration policies for the highest governance body and senior executives for the below types of remuneration: __ Fixed pay and variable pay: • Performance-based pay • Equity-based pay • Bonuses • Deferred or vested shares IAGC: __ Sign-on bonuses or recruitment incentive Recommendation payments 36 on Corporate G4-51 __ Termination payments TOTAL Yes, 181 Governance. __ Clawbacks IRC: sections A, B __ Retirement benefits, including the and C difference between benefit schemes and contribution rates for the highest governance body, senior executives, and all other employees Report how performance criteria in the remuneration policy relate to the highest governance body’s and senior executives’ economic, environmental and social objectives. Report the process for determining remuneration. Report whether remuneration consultants are involved in determining G4-52 remuneration and whether they are IRC: A.2 TOTAL Yes, 181 independent of management. Report any other relationships which the remuneration consultants have with the organization. Report how stakeholders’ views are sought and taken into account regarding 48, 49 G4-53 remuneration, including the results of votes TOTAL Yes, 181 IRC: A.1, D.3 on remuneration policies and proposals, if applicable. Atresmedia CMC: 12.13% Advertising: 7.74% Antena 3 Noticias: 5.92% Report the ratio of the annual total Cordina Planet: 3.07% compensation for the organization’s highestFundación: 5.24% paid individual in each country of significant I3TV: 2.53% G4-54 operations to the median annual total TOTAL Yes, 181 Antena 3 TDT Canarias: compensation for all employees (excluding 5.38% the highest-paid individual) in the same Uniprex TV: 4.22% country. Antena 3 Eventos: 5.59% Antena 3 Multimendia: 6.90% Antena 3 Films: 1.64% Report the ratio of percentage increase in annual total compensation for the organization’s highest-paid individual in each country of significant operations to the In 2013 there have been G4-55 TOTAL Yes, 181 median percentage increase in annual total no pay rises (0) compensation for all employees (excluding the highest-paid individual) in the same country. Ethics and Integrity Describe the organization’s values, principles, 43, 48, 56, 57, 58, 78, G4-56 standards and norms of behavior such as TOTAL Yes, 181 107 codes of conduct and codes of ethics. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 | ANNEXES | 189 Part Reason not for External reportomisverificaPage / Answer Reported ed sion tion Report the internal and external mechanisms for seeking advice on ethical and G4-57 lawful behavior, and matters related to 43 TOTAL Yes, 181 organizational integrity, such as helplines or advice lines. Report the internal and external mechanisms for reporting concerns about unethical or unlawful behavior, and matters related to G4-58 43 TOTAL Yes, 181 organizational integrity, such as escalation through line management, whistleblowing mechanisms or hotlines. Part Reason not for External reportomisverificaDisclosures on Management Approach Page / Answer Reported ed sion tion __ Report why the Aspect is material. Report the impacts that make this Aspect material. __ Report how the organization manages the material Aspect or its impacts. __ Report the evaluation of the management approach, including: G4-DMA • The mechanisms for evaluating the 48, 49 TOTAL Yes, 181 effectiveness of the management approach • The results of the evaluation of the management approach • Any related adjustments to the management approach ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 | ANNEXES | 190 Part Reason not for External reportomisverificaIndicators Page / Answer Reported ed sion tion ECONOMIC 37, 38 Yes, 181 ASPECT: ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE 37, 38 Yes, 181 Report the direct economic value generated and distributed (EVG&D) on an accruals basis including the basic components for the organization’s global operations as listed below. If data is presented on a cash basis, report the justification for this decision and report the basic components as listed below: __ Direct economic value generated: • Revenues 13, 30 __ Economic value distributed: Report on audited • Operating costs G4-EC1 accounts (Available at TOTAL Yes, 181 • Employee wages and benefits www.atresmediacor• Payments to providers of capital poracion.com) • Payments to government (by country) • Community investments __ Economic value retained (calculated as ‘Direct economic value generated’ less ‘Economic value distributed’) To better assess local economic impacts, report EVG&D separately at country, regional, or market levels, where significant. Report the criteria used for defining significance. Report risks and opportunities posed by climate change that have the potential to generate substantive changes in operations, revenue or expenditure, including: __ A description of the risk or opportunity and its classification as either physical, regulatory, or other G4-EC2 __ A description of the impact associated 167, 168 TOTAL Yes, 181 with the risk or opportunity __ The financial implications of the risk or opportunity before action is taken __ The methods used to manage the risk or opportunity __ The costs of actions taken to manage the risk or opportunity __ Where the plan’s liabilities are met by the organization’s general resources, report the estimated value of those liabilities. __ Where a separate fund exists to pay the plan’s pension liabilities, report: • The extent to which the scheme’s liabilities are estimated to be covered by the assets that have been set aside to meet them • The basis on which that estimate has been arrived at • When that estimate was made There are no pension G4-EC3 __ Where a fund set up to pay the plan’s TOTAL Yes, 181 schemes pension liabilities is not fully covered, explain the strategy, if any, adopted by the employer to work towards full coverage, and the timescale, if any, by which the employer hopes to achieve full coverage. __ Report the percentage of salary contributed by employee or employer. __ Report the level of participation in retirement plans (such as participation in mandatory or voluntary schemes, regional or country-based schemes, or those with financial impact). ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 | ANNEXES | 191 Part Reason not for External reportomisverificaIndicators Page / Answer Reported ed sion tion __ Report the total monetary value of financial assistance received by the organization from governments during the reporting period, including, as a minimum: • Tax relief and tax credits • Subsidies • Investment grants, research and development grants, and other relevant types of grants 13 • Awards Report on audited G4-EC4 • Royalty holidays accounts (Available at TOTAL Yes, 181 • Financial assistance from Export Credit www.atresmediacorAgencies (ECAs) poracion.com) • Financial incentives • Other financial benefits received or receivable from any government for any operation __ Report the information above by country. __ Report whether, and the extent to which, the government is present in the shareholding structure. 0 euros Report on audited Significant funding and other support M1 accounts (Available at TOTAL Yes, 181 received from non-governmental sources. www.atresmediacorporacion.com). ASPECT: MARKET PRESENCE 39 Yes, 181 __ When a significant proportion of the workforce is compensated based on wages subject to minimum wage rules, report the The starting wage is ratio of the entry level wage by gender at set through a collective significant locations of operation to the agreement established minimum wage. for each of the group's __ Report whether a local minimum wage is G4-EC5 businesses with no TOTAL absent or variable at significant locations gender differences, of operation, by gender. In circumstances and it is higher than in which different minimums could be used the statutory minimum as a reference, report which minimum wage. wage is being used. __ Report the definition used for ‘significant locations of operation’. __ Report the percentage of senior 35, CV in http://www. management at significant locations of G4-EC6 atresmediacorporacion. TOTAL Yes, 181 operation that are hired from the local com/ community. ASPECT: INDIRECT ECONOMIC IMPACTS 149 Yes, 181 __ Report the extent of development of significant infrastructure investments and services supported. 7, 149-165 __ Report the current or expected impacts on Report on audited communities and local economies. Report G4-EC7 accounts (Available at TOTAL Yes, 181 positive and negative impacts where www.atresmediacorrelevant. poracion.com) __ Report whether these investments and services are commercial, in-kind, or pro bono engagements. __ Report examples of the significant identified positive and negative indirect economic impacts the organization has. __ Report the significance of the impacts in G4-EC8 79, 80, 149-165 TOTAL Yes, 181 the context of external benchmarks and stakeholder priorities, such as national and international standards, protocols, and policy agendas. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 | ANNEXES | 192 Part Reason not for External reportomisverificaIndicators Page / Answer Reported ed sion tion ASPECT: PROCUREMENT PRACTICES 59 Yes, 181 Report the percentage of the procurement budget used for significant locations of 61 G4-EC9 operation spent on suppliers local to that Proveedor Local: TOTAL Yes, 181 operation (such as percentage of products proveedor nacional and services purchased locally). CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL 166 Yes, 181 ASPECT: MATERIALS 173 Yes, 181 Report the total weight or volume of materials that are used to produce and package the organization’s primary products G4-EN1 173, 174 TOTAL Yes, 181 and services during the reporting period, by: __ Non-renewable materials used __ Renewable materials used Report the percentage of recycled G4-EN2 input materials used to manufacture the 173, 174 TOTAL Yes, 181 organization’s primary products and services. ASPECT: ENERGY 169 Yes, 181 __ Report total fuel consumption from nonrenewable sources in joules or multiples, including fuel types used. __ Report total fuel consumption from renewable fuel sources in joules or multiples, including fuel types used. __ Report in joules, watt-hours or multiples, the total: • Electricity consumption • Heating consumption • Cooling consumption • Steam consumption G4-EN3 169-171 TOTAL Yes, 181 __ Report in joules, watt-hours or multiples, the total: • Electricity sold • Heating sold • Cooling sold • Steam sold __ Report total energy consumption in joules or multiples. __ Report standards, methodologies, and assumptions used. __ Report the source of the conversion factors used. 171 Consumption Report energy consumed outside of the G4-EN4 accounted for by TOTAL Yes, 181 organization, in joules or multiples. business travel is included. Energy intensity is determined by __ Report the energy intensity ratio. dividing internal __ Report the organization-specific metric consumption by the (the ratio denominator) chosen to number of employees. calculate the ratio. Gas (m3/employee): __ Report the types of energy included in 8,48 Electricity (kw/ G4-EN5 TOTAL Yes, 181 the intensity ratio: fuel, electricity, heating, employee): 15.171.53 cooling, steam, or all. Automotive diesel __ Report whether the ratio uses energy (L./employee): consumed within the organization, outside 26,65 Heating oil (L/ of it or both. employee): 260.07, Automotive Petrol (L/ Employee): 9,30 ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 | ANNEXES | 193 Part Reason not for External reportomisverificaIndicators Page / Answer Reported ed sion tion __ Report the amount of reductions in energy consumption achieved as a direct result of conservation and efficiency initiatives, in G4-EN6 joules or multiples. 169 TOTAL Yes, 181 __ Report the types of energy included in the reductions: fuel, electricity, heating, cooling, and steam. Report the reductions in the energy requirements of sold products and services G4-EN7 62, 169, 170 TOTAL Yes, 181 achieved during the reporting period, in joules or multiples. ASPECT: WATER 174 Yes, 181 Report the total volume of water withdrawn from the following sources: __ Surface water, including water from wetlands, rivers, lakes, and oceans 174 __ Ground water All the water used G4-EN8 TOTAL Yes, 181 __ Rainwater collected directly and stored by comes from the public the organization network. __ Waste water from another organization __ Municipal water supplies or other water utilities Report the total number of water sources significantly affected by withdrawal by type: __ Size of water source __ Whether or not the source is designated as a protected area (nationally or All the water used G4-EN9 internationally) comes from the public TOTAL Yes, 181 __ Biodiversity value (such as species network. diversity and endemism, total number of protected species) __ Value or importance of water source to local communities and indigenous peoples __ Report the total volume of water recycled and reused by the organization. Atresmedia, due to __ Report the total volume of water recycled G4-EN10 its business, does not TOTAL Yes, 181 and reused as a percentage of the total recycle or re-use water. water withdrawal reported under Indicator G4-EN8. ASPECT: BIODIVERSITY 173 Yes, 181 Report the following information for each operational site owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas: __ Geographic location __ Subsurface and underground land that Atresmedia operates may be owned, leased, or managed by the in urban areas that do organization not affect natural areas, __ Position in relation to the protected area so it does not have an (in the area, adjacent to, or containing impact on biodiversity portions of the protected area) or the high biodiversity value area outside protected G4-EN11 The workplace at TOTAL Yes, 181 areas San Sebastián de __ Type of operation (office, manufacturing or los Reyes does not production, or extractive) generate a significant __ Size of operational site in km2 environmental impact, __ Biodiversity value characterized by: and nor do the rest of • The attribute of the protected area or the workplaces. high biodiversity value area outside the protected area (terrestrial, freshwater, or maritime ecosystem) • Listing of protected status (such as IUCN Protected Area Management Categories, Ramsar Convention, national legislation) ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 | ANNEXES | 194 Part Reason not for External reportomisverificaIndicators Page / Answer Reported ed sion tion __ Report the nature of significant direct and indirect impacts on biodiversity with reference to one or more of the following: • Construction or use of manufacturing plants, mines, and transport infrastructure • Pollution (introduction of substances that do not naturally occur in the habitat from point and non-point sources) • Introduction of invasive species, pests, Atresmedia operates and pathogens in urban areas that do • Reduction of species G4-EN12 not affect natural areas, TOTAL Yes, 181 • Habitat conversion so it does not have an • Changes in ecological processes outside impact on biodiversity. the natural range of variation (such as salinity or changes in groundwater level) __ Report significant direct and indirect positive and negative impacts with reference to the following: • Species affected • Extent of areas impacted • Duration of impacts • Reversibility or irreversibility of the impacts __ Report the size and location of all habitat protected areas or restored areas, and whether the success of the restoration measure was or is approved by independent external professionals. 173-176 __ Report whether partnerships exist with Atresmedia operates third parties to protect or restore habitat in urban areas that do G4-EN13 areas distinct from where the organization TOTAL Yes, 181 not affect natural areas, has overseen and implemented restoration so it does not have an or protection measures. impact on biodiversity. __ Report on the status of each area based on its condition at the close of the reporting period. __ Report standards, methodologies, and assumptions used. Report the total number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species with habitats in areas affected by the Atresmedia operates operations of the organization, by level of in urban areas that do extinction risk: G4-EN14 not affect natural areas, TOTAL Yes, 181 __ Critically endangered so it does not have an __ Endangered impact on biodiversity. __ Vulnerable __ Near threatened __ Least concern ASPECT: EMISSIONS 171 Yes, 181 __ Report gross direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions in metric tons of CO2 equivalent, independent of any GHG trades, such as purchases, sales, or transfers of offsets or allowances. 172 G4-EN15 __ Report gases included in the calculation The calculation TOTAL Yes, 181 (whether CO2, CH4, N2O, HFCs, PFCs, SF6, includes CO2 gases. NF3, or all). __ Report biogenic CO2 emissions in metric tons of CO2 equivalent separately from the gross direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions. Report gross energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions in metric tons of CO2 equivalent, 172 G4-EN16 independent of any GHG trades, such as The calculation TOTAL Yes, 181 purchases, sales, or transfers of offsets or includes CO2 gases. allowances. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 | ANNEXES | 195 Part Reason not for External reportomisverificaIndicators Page / Answer Reported ed sion tion __ Report gross other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions in metric tons of CO2 equivalent, excluding indirect emissions from the generation of purchased or acquired electricity, heating, cooling, and steam consumed by the organization (these indirect emissions are reported in Indicator G4-EN16). Exclude any GHG trades, such as purchases, sales, or transfers of offsets 172 G4-EN17 or allowances. The calculation TOTAL Yes, 181 __ Report gases included in the calculation, if includes CO2 gases. available. __ Report biogenic CO2 emissions in metric tons of CO2 equivalent separately from the gross other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions. __ Report other indirect (Scope 3) emissions categories and activities included in the calculation. The intensity __ Report the GHG emissions intensity ratio. of emissions is __ Report the organization-specific metric determined by dividing (the ratio denominator) chosen to internal consumptionby calculate the ratio. the number of G4-EN18 __ Report the types of GHG emissions Yes, 181 employees. Scope 1: included in the intensity ratio: direct 1,82 tCO2/employee , (Scope 1), energy indirect (Scope 2), other Scope 2: 2,43 tCO2/ indirect (Scope 3). employee, Scope 3: __ Report gases included in the calculation. 0,35 tCO2/employee __ Report the amount of GHG emissions reductions achieved as a direct result of initiatives to reduce emissions, in metric tons of CO2 equivalent. __ Report gases included in the calculation (whether CO2, CH4, N2O, HFCs, PFCs, SF6, NF3, or all). 171-172 G4-EN19 __ Report the chosen base year or baseline The calculation TOTAL Yes, 181 and the rationale for choosing it. includes CO2 gases. __ Report standards, methodologies, and assumptions used. __ Report whether the reductions in GHG emissions occurred in direct (Scope 1), energy indirect (Scope 2), other indirect (Scope 3) emissions. __ Report production, imports, and exports of Replacement of ODS in metric tons of CFC-11 equivalent. refrigerant gas __ Report substances included in the (R22) with 190 Kg calculation. of ecological gas G4-EN20 TOTAL Yes, 181 __ Report standards, methodologies, and (R438A); replacement assumptions used. of refrigerant gas __ Report the source of the emission factors (R22) with 104 Kg of used. ecological gas R424. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 | ANNEXES | 196 Part Reason not for External reportomisverificaIndicators Page / Answer Reported ed sion tion __ Report the amount of significant air emissions, in kilograms or multiples for each of the following: • NOX • SOX • Persistent organic pollutants (POP) • Volatile organic compounds (VOC) • Hazardous air pollutants (HAP) G4-EN21 172 TOTAL Yes, 181 • Particulate matter (PM) • Other standard categories of air emissions identified in relevant regulations __ Report standards, methodologies, and assumptions used. __ Report the source of the emission factors used. ASPECT: EFFLUENTS AND WASTE 174 Yes, 181 __ Report the total volume of planned and unplanned water discharges by: • Destination 175 • Quality of the water including treatment Atresmedia sends this G4-EN22 method Yes, 181 to the public sewage • Whether it was reused by another network. organization __ Report standards, methodologies, and assumptions used. __ Report the total weight of hazardous and non-hazardous waste, by the following disposal methods: • Reuse • Recycling • Composting • Recovery, including energy recovery • Incineration (mass burn) 175 • Deep well injection The number of units • Landfill is specified, since G4-EN23 • On-site storage given the type of TOTAL Yes, 181 • Other (to be specified by the waste generated, it is organization) impossible to calculate __ Report how the waste disposal method has the weight . been determined: • Disposed of directly by the organization or otherwise directly confirmed • Information provided by the waste disposal contractor • Organizational defaults of the waste disposal contractor ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 | ANNEXES | 197 Part Reason not for External reportomisverificaIndicators Page / Answer Reported ed sion tion __ Report the total number and total volume of recorded significant spills. __ For spills that were reported in the organization’s financial statements, report the additional following information for each such spill: • Location of spill • Volume of spill • Material of spill, categorized by: There have been no G4-EN24 TOTAL Yes, 181 • Oil spills (soil or water surfaces) discharges. • Fuel spills (soil or water surfaces) • Spills of wastes (soil or water surfaces) • Spills of chemicals (mostly soil or water surfaces) • Other (to be specified by the organization) __ Report the impacts of significant spills. __ Report the total weight for each of the following: • Hazardous waste transported • Hazardous waste imported G4-EN25 175 TOTAL Yes, 181 • Hazardous waste exported • Hazardous waste treated __ Report the percentage of hazardous waste shipped internationally. Report water bodies and related habitats that are significantly affected by water discharges based on the criteria described in the Compilation section below, adding There have been no information on: bodies of water or G4-EN26 __ Size of water body and related habitat TOTAL Yes, 181 habitats affected by __ Whether the water body and related discharges. habitat is designated as a protected area (nationally or internationally) __ Biodiversity value (such as total number of protected species) ASPECT: PRODUCTS AND SERVICES 167, 168 Yes, 181 __ Report quantitatively the extent to which environmental impacts of products and services have been mitigated during the reporting period. G4-EN27 169, 171, 173, 174 TOTAL Yes, 181 __ If use-oriented figures are employed, report the underlying assumptions regarding consumption patterns or normalization factors. __ Report the percentage of reclaimed products and their packaging materials for Atresmedia does not G4-EN28 each product category. Yes, 181 manage products. __ Report how the data for this Indicator has been collected. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 | ANNEXES | 198 Part Reason not for External reportomisverificaIndicators Page / Answer Reported ed sion tion ASPECT: COMPLIANCE 168 Yes, 181 __ Report significant fines and non-monetary sanctions in terms of: • Total monetary value of significant fines • Total number of non-monetary sanctions There have not been • Cases brought through dispute G4-EN29 any penalties of an TOTAL Yes, 181 resolution mechanisms environmental nature. __ Where organizations have not identified any non-compliance with laws or regulations, a brief statement of this fact is sufficient. ASPECT: TRANSPORT 167 Yes, 181 __ Report the significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials for the organization’s operations, and transporting members of the workforce. Where quantitative data is Atresmedia’s not provided, report the reason. business does not G4-EN30 __ Report how the environmental impacts TOTAL Yes, 181 produce significant of transporting products, members of the environmental impacts. organization’s workforce, and other goods and materials are mitigated. __ Report the criteria and methodology used to determine which environmental impacts are significant. ASPECT: OVERALL 167 Yes, 181 Report total environmental protection 167 expenditures by: Los costes de __ Waste disposal, emissions treatment, and G4-EN31 tratamiento y TOTAL remediation costs restauración no son __ Prevention and environmental significativos management costs ASPECT: SUPPLIER ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT 62 Yes, 181 Report the percentage of new suppliers that G4-EN32 100% TOTAL Yes, 181 were screened using environmental criteria. __ Report the number of suppliers subject to environmental impact assessments. __ Report the number of suppliers identified as having significant actual and potential negative environmental impacts. 60-62 __ Report the significant actual and potential Atresmedia's suppliers, negative environmental impacts identified given their business, in the supply chain. have no significant __ Report the percentage of suppliers environmental impact. G4-EN33 TOTAL Yes, 181 identified as having significant actual and However, suppliers potential negative environmental impacts are required to with which improvements were agreed comply 100% with upon as a result of assessment. environmental criteria, __ Report the percentage of suppliers when applicable. identified as having significant actual and potential negative environmental impacts with which relationships were terminated as a result of assessment, and why. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 | ANNEXES | 199 Part Reason not for External reportomisverificaIndicators Page / Answer Reported ed sion tion ASPECT: ENVIRONMENTAL GRIEVANCE MECHANISMS 168 Yes, 181 __ Report the total number of grievances about environmental impacts filed through formal grievance mechanisms during the reporting period. __ Of the identified grievances, report how There have not been many were: G4-EN34 any complaints of an Yes, 181 • Addressed during the reporting period environmental nature. • Resolved during the reporting period __ Report the total number of grievances about environmental impacts filed prior to the reporting period that were resolved during the reporting period. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 | ANNEXES | 200 Part Reason not for External reportomisverificaG4-LA Indicators of Labor Practices Page / Answer Reported ed sion tion ASPECT: EMPLOYMENT 130-131 Yes, 181 __ Report the total number and rate of new 131, 133, 135 employee hires during the reporting No significant period, by age group, gender and region. differences exist in the G4-LA1 PARTIAL Yes, 181 __ Report the total number and rate of turnover rate, in its employee turnover during the reporting breakdown by age and period, by age group, gender and region. gender. __ Report the benefits which are standard for full-time employees of the organization but are not provided to temporary or parttime employees, by significant locations of operation. These include, as a minimum: • Life insurance • Health care G4-LA2 142 TOTAL Yes, 181 • Disability and invalidity coverage • Parental leave • Retirement provision • Stock ownership • Others __ Report the definition used for ‘significant locations of operation’. __ Report the total number of employees that were entitled to parental leave, by gender. __ Report the total number of employees that took parental leave, by gender. No. of employees on __ Report the total number of employees maternity leave: 6 who returned to work after parental leave No. of employees on ended, by gender. paternity leave: 4 G4-LA3 __ Report the total number of employees TOTAL Yes, 181 The number of who returned to work after parental leave returning staff and staff ended who were still employed twelve retaining their jobs is months after their return to work, by 100%. gender. __ Report the return to work and retention rates of employees who took parental leave, by gender. ASPECT: LABOR/MANAGEMENT RELATIONS 130-131 Yes, 181 __ Report the minimum number of weeks’ notice typically provided to employees and their elected representatives prior to the Notice periods are implementation of significant operational established in the changes that could substantially affect collective agreement G4-LA4 them. The existing collective TOTAL Yes, 181 __ For organizations with collective agreements include bargaining agreements, report whether the consultation and the notice period and provisions for negotiation conditions. consultation and negotiation are specified in collective agreements. ASPECT: OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY 146 Yes, 181 __ Report the level at which each formal joint management-worker health and safety committee typically operates within the organization. 146 G4-LA5 TOTAL __ Report the percentage of the total 100% workforce represented in formal joint management-worker health and safety committees. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 | ANNEXES | 201 Part Reason not for External reportomisverificaG4-LA Indicators of Labor Practices Page / Answer Reported ed sion tion __ Report types of injury, injury rate (IR), occupational diseases rate (ODR), lost day rate (LDR), absentee rate (AR) and workrelated fatalities, for the total workforce (that is, total employees plus supervised workers), by: • Region • Gender 147, 148 __ Report types of injury, injury rate (IR), Law 31/1995 on G4-LA6 occupational diseases rate (ODR), lost TOTAL Yes, 181 the Prevention of day rate (LDR), absentee rate (AR) and Occupational Risks. work-related fatalities for independent contractors working on-site to whom the organization is liable for the general safety of the working environment, by: • Region • Gender __ Report the system of rules applied in recording and reporting accident statistics. Report whether there are workers who are involved in occupational activities who have There is no risk of G4-LA7 TOTAL Yes, 181 a high incidence or high risk of specific occupational illnesses. diseases. __ Report whether formal agreements (either local or global) with trade unions cover health and safety. G4-LA8 100% TOTAL Yes, 181 __ If yes, report the extent, as a percentage, to which various health and safety topics are covered by these agreements. ASPECT: TRAINING AND EDUCATION 136 Yes, 181 Report the average hours of training that the 137 organization’s employees have undertaken Attendance on training G4-LA9 during the reporting period, by: courses shows no TOTAL Yes, 181 __ Gender significant differences __ Employee category by gender. __ Report on the type and scope of programs implemented and assistance provided to upgrade employee skills. __ Report on the transition assistance G4-LA10 136-137 TOTAL Yes, 181 programs provided to facilitate continued employability and the management of career endings resulting from retirement or termination of employment. Report the percentage of total employees by gender and by employee category who Performance G4-LA11 received a regular performance and career evaluations are not TOTAL Yes, 181 development review during the reporting periodically performed. period. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 | ANNEXES | 202 Part Reason not for External reportomisverificaG4-LA Indicators of Labor Practices Page / Answer Reported ed sion tion ASPECT: DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY 134 Yes, 181 __ Report the percentage of individuals within the organization’s governance bodies in each of the following diversity categories: • Gender • Age group: under 30 years old, 30-50 years old, over 50 years old • Minority groups 131, 135, 136 • Other indicators of diversity where The CV's of the relevant members of the board G4-LA12 TOTAL Yes, 181 __ Report the percentage of employees per of directors are on the employee category in each of the following corporate website at diversity categories: www.atresmedia.es • Gender • Age group: under 30 years old, 30-50 years old, over 50 years old • Minority groups • Other indicators of diversity where relevant ASPECT: EQUAL REMUNERATION FOR WOMEN AND MEN 135 Yes, 181 __ Report the ratio of the basic salary and remuneration of women to men for each employee category, by significant locations G4-LA13 TOTAL Yes, 181 of operation. __ Report the definition used for ‘significant locations of operation’. ASPECT: SUPPLIER ASSESSMENT FOR LABOR PRACTICES 62 Yes, 181 Report the percentage of new suppliers that G4-LA14 100% TOTAL Yes, 181 were screened using labor practices criteria. __ Report the number of suppliers subject to impact assessments for labor practices. __ Report the number of suppliers identified as having significant actual and potential negative impacts for labor practices. __ Report the significant actual and potential negative impacts for labor practices Atresmedia's suppliers, identified in the supply chain. taking into account __ Report the percentage of suppliers their business, have no G4-LA 15 identified as having significant actual existing or potential TOTAL Yes, 181 and potential negative impacts for labor significant negative practices with which improvements were impact on work agreed upon as a result of assessment. practices. __ Report the percentage of suppliers identified as having significant actual and potential negative impacts for labor practices with which relationships were terminated as a result of assessment, and why. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 | ANNEXES | 203 Part Reason not for External reportomisverificaG4-LA Indicators of Labor Practices Page / Answer Reported ed sion tion ASPECT: LABOR PRACTICES GRIEVANCE MECHANISMS 43 Yes, 181 __ Report the total number of grievances about labor practices filed through formal grievance mechanisms during the reporting period. __ Of the identified grievances, report how There have been no many were: G4-LA16 complaints regarding Yes, 181 • Addressed during the reporting period work practices. • Resolved during the reporting period __ Report the total number of grievances about labor practices filed prior to the reporting period that were resolved during the reporting period. Reason Part for External Reportnot reomisverificaG4-HR Indicators of Human Rights Page / Answer ed ported sion tion ASPECT: INVESTMENT 5, 6, 62 Yes, 181 __ Report the total number and percentage of significant investment agreements and contracts that include human rights There have been no clauses or that underwent human rights investment agreements G4-HR1 TOTAL Yes, 181 screening. requiring clauses on __ Report the definition of ‘significant human rights. investment agreements’ used by the organization. __ Report the total number of hours in the reporting period devoted to training on human rights policies or procedures concerning aspects of human rights that No requirements for are relevant to operations. training have been G4-HR2 TOTAL Yes, 181 __ Report the percentage of employees in detected in terms of the reporting period trained in human human rights. rights policies or procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations. ASPECT: NON-DISCRIMINATION 134 Yes, 181 __ Report the total number of incidents of discrimination during the reporting period. __ Report the status of the incidents and the actions taken with reference to the following: • Incident reviewed by the organization There have been no G4-HR3 TOTAL Yes, 181 • Remediation plans being implemented discrimination cases. • Remediation plans have been implemented and results reviewed through routine internal management review processes • Incident no longer subject to action ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 | ANNEXES | 204 Reason Part for External Reportnot reomisverificaG4-HR Indicators of Human Rights Page / Answer ed ported sion tion ASPECT: FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AND COLLECTIVE 131 Yes, 181 BARGAINING __ Report operations and suppliers in which employee rights to exercise freedom of association or collective bargaining may 59-62 be violated or at significant risk either in Atresmedia and its terms of: suppliers, taking into • Type of operation (such as account their business, manufacturing plant) and supplier have no risk that the G4-HR4 TOTAL Yes, 181 • Countries or geographical areas with employees’ freedom of operations and suppliers considered at association or right to risk collective bargaining __ Report measures taken by the organization may be infringed or in the reporting period intended to support threatened. rights to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining. ASPECT: CHILD LABOR 80 Yes, 181 Report operations and suppliers considered to have significant risk for incidents of: Child labor 80, 161 Young workers exposed to hazardous work Atresmedia and its Report operations and suppliers considered suppliers, taking to have significant risk for incidents of child into account their labor either in terms of: business areas, have G4-HR5 TOTAL Yes, 181 Type of operation (such as manufacturing no significant risk of plant) and supplier cases of child labour Countries or geographical areas with and young employees operations and suppliers considered at risk exposed to dangerous Report measures taken by the organization in jobs. the reporting period intended to contribute to the effective abolition of child labor. ASPECT: FORCED OR COMPULSORY LABOR 131 Yes, 181 Report operations and suppliers considered to have significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor either in terms of: Type of operation (such as manufacturing Atresmedia and its plant) and supplier suppliers, taking into G4-HR6 Countries or geographical areas with account their business TOTAL operations and suppliers considered at risk areas, have no risk of Report measures taken by the organization in forced labour. the reporting period intended to contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor. ASPECT: SECURITY PRACTICES 62 Yes, 181 62 Report the percentage of security personnel Atresmedia do who have received formal training in the not have security organization’s human rights policies or personnel on the specific procedures and their application to payroll. Subcontracted G4-HR7 TOTAL Yes, 181 security. personnel must Report whether training requirements also comply with the apply to third party organizations providing same Corporate security personnel. Responsibility clauses as other suppliers. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 | ANNEXES | 205 Reason Part for External Reportnot reomisverificaG4-HR Indicators of Human Rights Page / Answer ed ported sion tion ASPECT: INDIGENOUS RIGHTS 149 Yes, 181 __ Report the total number of identified incidents of violations involving the rights of indigenous peoples during the reporting period. __ Report the status of the incidents and Atresmedia operates actions taken with reference to: in Spain and the G4-HR8 • Incident reviewed by the organization TOTAL Yes, 181 indigenous population • Remediation plans being implemented are not at risk. • Remediation plans have been implemented and results reviewed through routine internal management review processes • Incident no longer subject to action ASPECT: ASSESSMENT 53 Yes, 181 Atresmedia operates Report the total number and percentage in Spain and does not of operations that have been subject to consider compliance G4-HR9 TOTAL Yes, 181 human rights reviews or human rights impact with human rights as a assessments, by country. risk, so no evaluations are made. ASPECT: SUPPLIER HUMAN RIGHTS ASSESSMENT 62 Yes, 181 Atresmedia does not consider its Report the percentage of new suppliers that suppliers to be a risk G4-HR10 TOTAL Yes, 181 were screened using human rights criteria. for compliance with human rights, so no evaluations are made. Report the number of suppliers subject to human rights impact assessments. Report the number of suppliers identified as having significant actual and potential negative human rights impacts. Report the significant actual and potential negative human rights impacts identified in Atresmedia does the supply chain. not consider its Report the percentage of suppliers identified suppliers to be a risk G4-HR11 TOTAL Yes, 181 as having significant actual and potential for compliance with negative human rights impacts with which human rights, so no improvements were agreed upon as a result evaluations are made. of assessment. Report the percentage of suppliers identified as having significant actual and potential negative human rights impacts with which relationships were terminated as a result of assessment, and why. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 | ANNEXES | 206 Reason Part for External Reportnot reomisverificaG4-HR Indicators of Human Rights Page / Answer ed ported sion tion ASPECT: HUMAN RIGHTS GRIEVANCE MECHANISMS 43 Yes, 181 Report the total number of grievances about human rights impacts filed through formal grievance mechanisms during the reporting period. Of the identified grievances, report how many There have been no were: G4-HR12 complaints in terms of TOTAL Yes, 181 Addressed during the reporting period human rights. Resolved during the reporting period Report the total number of grievances about human rights impacts filed prior to the reporting period that were resolved during the reporting period. Reason Part for External Reportnot reomisverificaG4-SO Indicatros of Society Page / Answer ed ported sion tion ASPECT: LOCAL COMMUNITIES 149 Yes, 181 Report the percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, impact assessments, and development programs, including the use of: __ Social impact assessments, including gender impact assessments, based on participatory processes __ Environmental impact assessments and ongoing monitoring __ Public disclosure of results of 149-166 environmental and social impact Actions benefiting assessments G4-SO1 the community are a TOTAL Yes, 181 __ Local community development programs MATERIAL aspect for based on local communities’ needs stakeholders __ Stakeholder engagement plans based on stakeholder mapping __ Broad based local community consultation committees and processes that include vulnerable groups __ Works councils, occupational health and safety committees and other employee representation bodies to deal with impacts __ Formal local community grievance processes Report operations with significant actual There are no operation and potential negative impacts on local centres that have or communities, including: G4-SO2 could have a significant TOTAL Yes, 181 __ The location of the operations negative impact on __ The significant actual and potential local communities. negative impacts of operations ASPECT: ANTI-CORRUPTION 43 Yes, 181 __ Report the total number and percentage of operations assessed for risks related to corruption. G4-SO3 53, 56, 57 TOTAL Yes, 181 __ Report the significant risks related to corruption identified through the risk assessment. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 | ANNEXES | 207 Reason Part for External Reportnot reomisverificaG4-SO Indicatros of Society Page / Answer ed ported sion tion __ Report the total number and percentage of governance body members that the organization’s anti-corruption policies and procedures have been communicated to, broken down by region. __ Report the total number and percentage of employees that the organization’s anticorruption policies and procedures have been communicated to, broken down by employee category and region. __ Report the total number and percentage 43 G4-SO4 of business partners that the organization’s 100% TOTAL Yes, 181 anti-corruption policies and procedures have been communicated to, broken down by type of business partner and region. __ Report the total number and percentage of governance body members that have received training on anti-corruption, broken down by region. __ Report the total number and percentage of employees that have received training on anti-corruption, broken down by employee category and region. Report the total number and nature of confirmed incidents of corruption. Report the total number of confirmed incidents in which employees were dismissed or disciplined for corruption. Report the total number of confirmed There have been no G4-SO5 incidents when contracts with business cases of corruption or TOTAL Yes, 181 partners were terminated or not renewed due lawsuits. to violations related to corruption. Report public legal cases regarding corruption brought against the organization or its employees during the reporting period and the outcomes of such cases. ASPECT: PUBLIC POLICY 63 Yes, 181 __ Report the total monetary value of financial and in-kind political contributions made directly and indirectly by the Atresmedia does not G4-SO6 organization by country and recipient/ make contributions of TOTAL Yes, 181 beneficiary. this type. __ Report how the monetary value of in-kind contributions was estimated, if applicable. ASPECT: ANTI-COMPETITIVE BEHAVIOR 43, 44, 46, 63 Yes, 181 __ Report the total number of legal actions pending or completed during the reporting period regarding anti-competitive behavior Atresmedia has not and violations of anti-trust and monopoly received complaints G4-SO7 legislation in which the organization has related to antiTOTAL Yes, 181 been identified as a participant. competitive behaviour __ Report the main outcomes of completed or similar. legal actions, including any decisions or judgments. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 | ANNEXES | 208 Reason Part for External Reportnot reomisverificaG4-SO Indicatros of Society Page / Answer ed ported sion tion ASPECT: COMPLIANCE 43 Yes, 181 __ Report significant fines and non-monetary sanctions in terms of: • Total monetary value of significant fines • Total number of non-monetary sanctions • Cases brought through dispute resolution mechanisms G4-SO8 82, 105 TOTAL Yes, 181 __ If the organization has not identified any non-compliance with laws or regulations, a brief statement of this fact is sufficient. __ Report the context against which significant fines and non-monetary sanctions were incurred. ASPECT: SUPPLIER ASSESSMENT FOR IMPACTS ON 59, 62 Yes, 181 SOCIETY Atresmedia does not consider that its Report the percentage of new suppliers that suppliers are a risk in G4-SO9 were screened using criteria for impacts on TOTAL Yes, 181 relation to negative society. social impacts, so no evaluations are made. Atresmedia does not consider that its suppliers are a risk in G4-SO10 Yes, 181 TOTAL Yes, 181 relation to negative social impacts, so no evaluations are made. ASPECT: GRIEVANCE MECHANISMS FOR IMPACTS ON 43 Yes, 181 SOCIETY __ Report the total number of grievances about impacts on society filed through formal grievance mechanisms during the reporting period. __ Of the identified grievances, report how There have been no many were: G4-SO11 complaints about TOTAL Yes, 181 • Addressed during the reporting period social impacts. • Resolved during the reporting period __ Report the total number of grievances about impacts on society filed prior to the reporting period that were resolved during the reporting period. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 | ANNEXES | 209 Reason Part for External Reportnot reomisverificaG4-PR Indicators of Product Responsibility Page / Answer ed ported sion tion ASPECT: CREATING CONTENT 46, 59 Yes, 181 Methodology for assessing and monitoring M2 48, 49, 51, 52, 77, 78 TOTAL Yes, 181 adherence to content creation values. Actions taken to improve adherence to M3 77, 78, 105-110 TOTAL Yes, 181 content creation values, and results obtained. ASPECT: CONTENT DISSEMINATION 46, 47, 62 Si, 178 Actions taken to improve performance in relation to content dissemination issues M4 (accessibility and protection of vulnerable 77-86, 105-107 TOTAL Yes, 181 audiences and informed decision making) and results obtained. Number and nature of responses (feedback/ complaints) related to content dissemination, 77, 78, 79, 80, 81, 82, including protection of vulnerable audiences M5 83, 84, 94, 95, 105, 107, TOTAL Yes, 181 and informed decision making and 108, 116 accessibility, and processes for addressing these responses. ASPECT: AUDIENCE INTERACTION 78, 94, 116 Yes, 181 Methods to interact with audiences and M6 78, 94, 116 TOTAL Yes, 181 results. ASPECT: CUSTOMER HEALTH AND SAFETY 46 Yes, 181 Report the percentage of significant product Atresmedia's products G4-PR1 and service categories for which health and have no risks to health TOTAL Yes, 181 safety impacts are assessed for improvement. or safety. __ Report the total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning the health and safety impacts of products and services There have been no within the reporting period, by: incidents deriving • Incidents of non-compliance with from the breaching regulations resulting in a fine or penalty of the regulations or G4-PR2 • Incidents of non-compliance with TOTAL Yes, 181 voluntary codes related regulations resulting in a warning to the health and • Incidents of non-compliance with safety of products and voluntary codes services. __ If the organization has not identified any non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes, a brief statement of this fact is sufficient. ASPECT: PRODUCT AND SERVICE LABELING 77, 105 Yes, 181 __ Report whether the following product and service information is required by the organization’s procedures for product and service information and labeling: • The sourcing of components of the product or service • Content, particularly with regard to substances that might produce an G4-PR3 environmental or social impact 80-82, 105-109 TOTAL Yes, 181 • Safe use of the product or service • Disposal of the product and environmental/social impacts • Other (explain) __ Report the percentage of significant product or service categories covered by and assessed for compliance with such procedures. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 | ANNEXES | 210 Reason Part for External Reportnot reomisverificaG4-PR Indicators of Product Responsibility Page / Answer ed ported sion tion __ Report the total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and service information and labeling, by: • Incidents of non-compliance with regulations resulting in a fine or penalty • Incidents of non-compliance with G4-PR4 82, 108 TOTAL Yes, 181 regulations resulting in a warning • Incidents of non-compliance with voluntary codes __ If the organization has not identified any non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes, a brief statement of this fact is sufficient. Report the results or key conclusions of customer satisfaction surveys (based on statistically relevant sample sizes) conducted in the reporting period relating to information G4-PR5 66-76, 83, 84, 102 TOTAL Yes, 181 about: __ The organization as a whole __ A major product or service category __ Significant locations of operation __ Report whether the organization sells products that are: 105, 106 • Banned in certain markets Atresmedia does • The subject of stakeholder questions or not market products G4-PR6 TOTAL Yes, 181 public debate that are banned or __ Report how the organization has questioned by the responded to questions or concerns stakeholders. regarding these products. __ Report the total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship, by: G4-PR7 • Incidents of non-compliance with 108 TOTAL Yes, 181 regulations resulting in a fine or penalty • Incidents of non-compliance with regulations resulting in a warning • Incidents of non-compliance with voluntary codes. ASPECT: MEDIA LITERACY 84 Yes, 181 Actions taken to empower audiences through M7 media literacy skills development and results 84, 85 TOTAL Yes, 181 obtained. ASPECT: CUSTOMER PRIVACY 58 Yes, 181 __ Report the total number of substantiated complaints received concerning breaches of customer privacy, categorized by: • Complaints received from outside parties and substantiated by the There have been no organization complaints about a G4-PR8 TOTAL Yes, 181 • Complaints from regulatory bodies violation of privacy and __ Report the total number of identified leaks, loss of customer data. thefts, or losses of customer data. __ If the organization has not identified any substantiated complaints, a brief statement of this fact is sufficient. ASPECT: COMPLIANCE 43-44 Yes, 181 __ Report the total monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning the G4-PR9 provision and use of products and services. 82, 108 Yes, 181 __ If the organization has not identified any non-compliance with laws or regulations, a brief statement of this fact is sufficient. Atresmedia Communications Department Av. Isla Graciosa nº 13 San Sebastián de los Reyes 28703 (Madrid) www.atresmediacorporacion.com comunicacion@atresmedia.com responsabilidad.corporativa@atresmedia.com Telephone: (+ 34) 91 623 05 00
