LANCO INFRATECH LIMITED | Sustainability Report 2014 – 2015 UN Global Compact Communication on Progress UN Global Compact Principle Human Rights Principles Lanco’s Position Action Taken Principle 1: Businesses should • At Lanco we recognise the impact that can have on the • All the employees have access to support and respect the realisation of fundamental human rights. the policies through employee protection of internationally • Through our business operations and our citizenship efforts we Standard Operating Policies proclaimed human rights. seek to help more people and organization realise their full (SOPs) & Internal Portal Principle 2: Businesses should human potential. • Lanco also developed Value make sure that they are not • Lanco has the following policies in place in support of the Human statements to be adhered by complicit in human rights Rights. every employee. abuses. 1. Policy on HIV / AIDS – The purpose of AIDS policy is to • We are committed to reassure employees that AIDS is not spread through casual maintaining a healthy work contact during normal work practices and to reduce environment by protecting the unrealistic fears about contracting an AIDS virus related physical and emotional health condition. This policy also protects the legal right to work of and well-being of all employees employees who are diagnosed with an AIDS virus – related in the work place. This AIDS condition and provides guidelines for situation where policy is a direct outgrowth of infection with the AIDS virus is suspected. Our policy is to those commitments. It provides encourage sensitivity to and understanding for employees guidelines for situations when a affected with a condition on the AIDS virus. question as to an aids virus2. Recruitment policy and procedures related condition arises. There are two major points: 3. Equal opportunity employer policy 1. Employees who are diagnosed with an AIDS virusrelated condition may continue to work if they are deemed medically able to LANCO Infratech Limited – Sustainability Report 2014-2015 work and can meet acceptable performance standards. We will provide reasonable performance standards and accommodate them reasonably if necessary to enable these employees to continue working. 2. We provide AIDS education through lectures, training sessions etc. for all employees to help them understand how the AIDS virus is spread and to reduce unrealistic fears of contracting as AIDS virus – related condition. Outcomes Plans for the Upcoming Year • Posters against sexual exploitation of women at workplace • Arranging awareness sessions and prepared and displayed in public places within Lanco health camps. • Displaying posters. • Posters against discrimination of persons with disability prepared and displayed in public places within Lanco Labour Principles Lanco’s Position Action Taken Principles 3: Businesses should • We respect the Declaration on Fundamental Principles and • Posters against employment of uphold the freedom of Rights at Work of the International Labour Organization (ILO). child labour prepared and association and the effective • Lanco does not encourage any forced labour, including child displayed in public places within recognition of the right to labour. As a policy Lanco does not recruit child labour, below Lanco. collective bargaining. the age of 14. LANCO Infratech Limited – Sustainability Report 2014-2015 Principle 4: businesses should • Lanco is an equal opportunity employer and no discrimination is • Lanco Foundation CSR posters support the elimination of all shown with regard to the religion, region, caste, disability and displayed across all the forms of forced and compulsory sex. locations/plants & headquarters labour. across the group on. Principle 5: businesses should Providing Safe Drinking support the effective abolition Water of child labour. Developing the Community Principle 6: Businesses should Empowering the Disabled support the elimination of Promoting health. discrimination in respect of We encourage more than just employment and occupation. good results. Saying no to Child labour HIV/AIDS discrimination Sexual harassment Saying yes to Equal opportunity to all Transparency in our process Outcomes Plans for the Upcoming Year • Lanco Foundation has been doing Primary Health check-up • Though Lanco is following nonthrough LMHS (Lanco Mobile Health Service) across various discrimination in respect of locations in India (Tamilnadu, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, employment of persons with Chhattisgarh, Maharashtra, Odisha, Haryana, Rajasthan, disability, a Policy for elimination Sikkim, Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, etc. ) and till date screened of discrimination in respect of around 2,38,228 patients. employment of Persons with disability to be prepared. Environment Principles Lanco’s Position Action Taken LANCO Infratech Limited – Sustainability Report 2014-2015 Principle 7: Businesses should Health, Safety & Environment Policy – We are committed to • Celebrated World Environment support a precautionary safeguarding the Health and safety of all our employees and protect Day (WED) on 5th June’2014 approach to environmental our environment through:across 12 locations. WED is challenges. • Institutionalising of HSE management process, with HSE celebrated by bringing together Principle 8: Businesses should organization. Village Communities, NGo’s, undertake initiatives to promote • Regularly communicating, educating & imparting training on local forest officials & local greater environmental safety, health, hygiene and environment to all employees, people. responsibility. contractors, contractors’ staff and consultants or visitors. • Safety Day was also celebrated Principle 9: Businesses should • Specifying and ensuring high standards of safety & on 4th March 2015 covering 17 encourage the development and environment at our site during construction & operation of locations across all Lanco sites. diffusion of environmentally our power plants etc. Recent HSE Activities:friendly technologies. • Evaluating the HSE performance of our employees & contractors against the HSE requirements. • HSE Dept., in total has conducted • Conducting periodic Audit & Risk assessment by competent 69,292 training hrs., workshops, team. awareness camps, conferences, training programs for employees The Health Safety & Environment policy will be applied throughout and contractors covering all sites Lanco Group via a set of documented company wide and local – and around 65,334 participants policies and procedures. attended the training programme for FY 2014-15. The • We recognize that our activities as integrated infrastructure main objective was to create enterprise have an impact on the environment, and prioritize awareness on our HSE corporate the issue of climate change: framework system and to have • Lanco has Environment Policy in place and are committed to greater understanding and achieve satisfaction of interested parties and protect coordination of HSE efforts. environment by generation of Power by implementing prudent Provide support to site HSE eco-friendly methods; and conservation of natural resources like efforts to improve the natural gas and water; complying with all relevant statutory and performance. regulatory requirements; continual improvement in the environmental performance by minimizing the emission, LANCO Infratech Limited – Sustainability Report 2014-2015 discharges and prevention of pollution; use of environmentally • Organised awareness sessions friendly technologies and enhancing environmental awareness on health in various topics and among employees, contractors and communities. also Conducted Blood Donation camp across 10 Locations and around 433 people across all locations have participated with great enthusiasm. Outcomes Plans for the Upcoming Year • Implemented 3 layer audit system. • Behaviour based safety (BBS) • Continuous focus is being made to create HSE awareness at all Training for employees at various levels locations. • Visual HSE manual has been made at select locations depending • Rolling out British 5 star Safety on critical activities. management system at • Replenished the already distributed saplings Amarkantak & Anpara. • Awards received during the Year 2014-15 are • Enhancing efforts in circulating Lanco Udupi received Golden Peacock Environment Occupational Health Information Management Award by MOEF. in terms of Alert Bulletins. Lanco, Amarkantak received NSCI Safety Awards, Prashansha Patra. Lanco Anuppur received NSCI Safety Awards, Prashansha Patra Lanco Anpara received The 15TH Annual Greentech Environment Award 2015 in Gold Lanco Amarkantak received NSCI Safety Award CSR Award for Best Case study-2014 in Chhattisgarh. LANCO Infratech Limited – Sustainability Report 2014-2015 1st Pt.Madan Mohan Malviya award for Best CSR Practice in Education sector in Bronze category. The award was initiated by CSR times. Anti-corruption Principles Lanco’s Position Action Taken Principles 10: Businesses should 1. Policy against Bribery – Our core value being Integrity, • Whistle Blower posters displayed work against corruption in all its Honesty and we are committed to compliance with and complaint drop boxes were forms, including extortion and international anti-bribery standards as stated in the Global installed at all Lanco verticals. bribery. Compact and local anti-corruption and bribery laws. • Appointed committees to oversee implementation of 2. Policy to curb sexual harassment at workplace – Lanco is Sexual Harassment policy. committed to ensure that no employee is subjected to sexual harassment and all steps has been taken to prevent any acts of sexual harassment at the work place. This policy is designed to eradicate all forms of sexual harassment at workplace, to provide a forum for investigation into complaints of sexual harassment and to initiate disciplinary action against those who are found indulging in such acts of misconduct. Outcomes Plans for the Upcoming Year • Whistle blower policy prepared and widely circulated within • Lanco has 8 core values which Lanco. will be given high priority, and • Posters about the policy widely circulated across all the places. are one of the key factors with which the employees will be continuously appraised. LANCO Infratech Limited – Sustainability Report 2014-2015 • Integrity being one of the core Values and will be given high priority in all our actions. • Continuous Learning being one of the core values of Lanco Value system, and all employees across the group are part of regular Training programmes conducting across all verticals across the group. • Each employee will have a minimum mandates for training programme which they have to attend in the calendar year. LANCO Infratech Limited – Sustainability Report 2014-2015
