This report was printed with soy-based ink on eco-friendly paper. Jongno 26, Jongno-gu, Seoul, Korea Telephone: 82-2-2121-5114 Fax: 82-2-2121-7001 SK innovation Sustainability Report 2013 Sustainability Report 2013 About This Report Reporting Purpose Reporting Guidelines & Reliability SK innovation’s sustainability management enhances the company’s This report was prepared in accordance with the GRI (Global corporate value and ultimately helps bring about a happier society. Reporting Initiative) Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (G3.1). To As a channel to share our sustainability management performance obtain an objective assessment for the report’s credibility, and in with stakeholders, this report takes an integrated approach to the compliance with GRI Guidelines, this report was independently company’s management activities, profitability, eco-friendliness and assured by LRQA, with the assurance report included in this report. social responsibility. We always welcome stakeholder feedback and For more information, please refer to the 2013 Business Report thoughts on this report, and do our best to reflect all of this in future and the 2013 Annual Report, both of which are available through business planning to ensure a better outcome for our sustainability the Financial Supervisory Service’s Electronic Disclosure System management endeavors as we move towards creating greater value (http://dart.fss.or.kr) and SK innovation’s official website at www. for our customers and society. skinnovation.com. In an effort to back up our commitment with stakeholders and society, we have issued annual sustainability reports since December 2005. The previous report was published in 2013. New Features · Materiality test: We benchmarked sustainability management practices at influential multinational corporations and major Reporting Scope and Period issues currently relevant in the industry. We also analyzed key This report covers the sustainability management practices and performance indicators at each of our subsidiaries to properly accomplishments of SK innovation’s head office and its domestic evaluate their business impact. operations, as well as the domestic operations of its five subsidiaries: ·Reporting content: While this report was compiled in accordance SK energy, SK global chemical, SK lubricants, SK incheon petrochemical with GRI G3.1 Guidelines, separate Disclosures on Management and SK trading international. The reporting period covers the calendar Approach (DMA) prefaced each of the six special themes, in year 2013, from January through December, with certain data/ preparation for the future application of G4 Guidelines, not the information provided past December 2013 to reflect significant issues. general DMA as it relates to the triple bottom line. Quantitative data covers a three-year span of time, from 2011 to 2013, ·R eport structure: This report allowed for more pages related and singles out changes during the given period. Qualitative data to major sustainability management performance results and highlights the sustainability management performance of the reporting accomplishments in 2013, rather than the simple generic information period. that is usually included in other publications from the company, such as Business Reports, BOD White Papers, Annual Reports, and previous Sustainability Reports. Related publications and/or sources Report Structure for retrieving such content are provided in the GRI Index table of this This report is split up into three chapters. The first chapter introduces report. a corporate overview, stakeholder engagement and materiality test results based on the SK Management System (SKMS), the fundamental framework for the company’s sustainability management efforts. The second chapter of the report delves into the six special themes, which are based on the key sustainability issues identified through our materiality test. The last chapter focuses on our sustainability management activities in business, society, Safety/ Health/Environment (SHE) areas by the means of quantitative performance indicators. In particular, environmental performance indicators cover the company’s complexes at Ulsan and Incheon, where the bulk of our production activities take place and which, as a result, have the most significant environmental impact for SK innovation. In terms of programs and systems identical to those from the previous year, all relevant details were cited from the last report. Statements about the Group’s systems and frameworks were taken from the Group’s previous report as well. About This Report 02 CEO Message 04 Company Profile 06 Company Overview 08 SKMS (SK Management System) 10 Ethical Management 11 Stakeholder Communication 12 Materiality Test 13 Special Theme Disclosure on Management Approach 16 Theme 1 Transparent Management 18 Theme 2 Global Expansion 21 Theme 3 Safety, Health, Environment 25 Theme 4 Cooperative Relationships with Suppliers 28 Theme 5 Value Creating Social Contribution 31 Theme 6 Work-Life Balance 34 Performance Indicator Economic Performance 40 Social Performance 46 Safety, Health, Environment Performance 56 Appendix Third Party’s Assurance Report 68 GRI G3.1 Application 70 Awards & Associations 75 Sustainability Report 2013 CEO Message I’d like to take this opportunity to deliver my deepest appreciation for your continued support of the company. This report sheds light on SK innovation’s sustainability management activities and performance in the aspects of economy, environment and society and introduces our future plans. As a responsible corporate citizen committed to mutual growth and co-prosperity with society, SK innovation will continue its endeavors and share its plans and performance results with its stakeholders. On behalf of everyone at SK innovation, I’d like to deliver my deepest appreciation for your support and encouragement of the company. 04 ● ● ● ● SK innovation Reinforcing competitiveness and synergies Bringing about a new paradigm change in social contribution practices For us, 2013 marked a monumental start of a new chapter. After the successful spin-off of SK energy, SK global chemical and SK Departing from condescending donation or volunteerism practices, SK lubricants years ago, SK innovation spun off SK incheon petrochemical innovation supports social enterprises to become independent. Putting and SK trading international in 2013 to enhance their respective forward a new paradigm of corporate socially responsibility activities, competitiveness in their own business areas. At the same time, we this initiative involves supporting social enterprises in their marketing expanded the optimization technology among our subsidiaries in activities and in identifying new and sustainable social contribution promotion of synergies among them. models through public contests and the support of prize winners. Meanwhile, we consolidated the CIC (company in company) system as Our social contribution commitment also crosses borders to reach a means of further solidifying our business competencies and pursuing Peru, where we opened the second branch of Yachaywasi, a farming new growth engines. For instance, the Global Technology CIC is promotion institute social enterprise in 2013. We also operate the My contributing its differentiated technologies to the company’s efforts of School Program, which contributes to educational equality in local strengthening the existing business competencies and developing future communities and the My Eco-Tech Farm Program that helps local growth engines. Buoyed by the successful M&A of a production asset in farmers with agricultural techniques. North America in 2014, the E&P CIC has established operations and is In addition, SK innovation has prepared a framework for more poised to attain its goal of becoming a global E&P company. sustainable mutual growth with its suppliers through such programs as joint R&D on new technologies, joint patenting, and other support to enhance our suppliers’ productivity. In recognition of these efforts, Developing the SHE system as part of CSR efforts the company won a Presidential Commendation at the 2013 Win-Win Safety, health and environment are an integral part of sustainability Partnership Week celebration. In the future, we plan on expanding our management and we are tirelessly working to enhance our SHE win-win partnership programs to offer financial aid through Mutual competencies to meet global standards. Growth Funds and to support our suppliers’ social contribution activities. In 2013, we concentrated on upgrading SHE standards and procedures tailored to the different needs of each worksite, completing a Distinguished stakeholders, competitive SHE management system that has been under work since 2012. After developing our Safety Golden Rules, we applied them to all As a total energy·chemical company with globally competitive our worksites to enhance the SHE consciousness of our employees and technologies, SK innovation will make every effort to attain its goal as a those of our suppliers, while auditing SHE practices at worksites around company respected by society in embracing change and innovation in the clock so as to address any potential risks with thorough inspections pursuit of higher stakeholder value. and countermeasures. To that end, we will remain open and candid in our communication At the same time, we published and widely distributed our Work Safety with our stakeholders, while listening to their thoughts. I humbly ask for Guide under a business alliance with the Korea Occupational Safety your unwavering support and encouragement in the company as we and Health Agency and Ulsan City in May 2013. This was the first move move forward. made by any Korean company to preemptively address potential risks of occupational injuries in the course of the operation & maintenance Vice Chairman & CEO of SK innovation of facilities at refinery and petrochemical plants, setting an example as a Koo, Ja Young leader in domestic SHE management practices. 05 Sustainability Report 2013 Company Profile From oil development projects to EV batteries and green energy, our innovation drives are never-ending. By successfully creating new and diverse business models that range from oil field development and direct operations to investment, gas production/transmission/LNG and disposal, SK innovation continues to be a pioneer with the paradigm shift taking place in Korea’s domestic petroleum industry. As of the end of 2013, SK innovation was involved in oil and gas E&P projects and four LNG projects at 22 blocks in 15 countries around the world. At present, its stake in crude oil reserves totals 620 million barrels. *1  CCU (Carbon Conversion & Utilization): Technology In addition, the company has entered the EV battery business and developed leading carbon conversion 1 of capturing and reproducing carbon as a resource & utilization (CCU* ) technology, securing technological leadership in the new energy industry. We will take the lead in the global petroleum market with industryleading competitiveness. SK energy is Korea’s leading energy company, commanding the nation’s top market share of petroleum products and unparalleled leadership in the domestic refinery industry. Boasting the country’s largest daily processing capacity of crude oil (840,000 barrels) and its operational excellence, the company is refining more than 50 types of crude oil to supply petroleum products in an efficient and stable manner, with 50 percent of its production exported overseas. According to Solomon’s 2012 study results, SK energy was said to be the second most competitive company among 71 refiners active in the Asia-Pacific region. Leveraging its differentiated competitiveness, the company will continue its business stability, growing into a global petroleum company. From basic petroleum feeds to advanced materials, we are growing into a world-leading total petrochemical producer. SK global chemical provides a wide array of materials for automobiles, electronics, telecommunications, high-tech materials, and many everyday necessities. Its ceaseless facility investments, R&D efforts and technology development have always placed the company at the forefront of Korea’s petrochemical industry development. In 2013, the company concentrated on reinforcing performance chemicals and highly profitable products in order to maximize its future profitability. At the same time, it continually expanded its distribution networks in China, Southeast Asia, the Middle East and Latin America to enhance its global competencies for sustainable growth. We are a leader in the global lube base oil industry as a result of our aggressive investments and swift ability to push forward with plans. SK lubricants has been a pioneer in the Korean lubricant and high-end base oil markets with its flagship brands ZICTM and YUBASETM. While reinforcing its fundamental competitiveness, business portfolio and its management infrastructure, the company is vigorously exploring new markets to maximize its profitability and sales volume. One example of this is the new plant in China which will have an annual production capacity of 60,000 tons of lubricants so as to meet the growing need for premium lubricants. Furthermore, the company is expanding its market power through localization strategies in China and solidifying its marketing network by increasing sales in Russia and Southeast/ West Asia as it expands the original equipment manufacturing (OEM) network. 06 ● ● ● ● SK innovation Pioneering the future petrochemical industry with high-quality green products. SK incheon petrochemical was established by separating the Incheon complex from SK energy in 2013. Equipped with a daily processing capacity of 270,000 barrels of crude oil, the company produces gasoline, kerosene, diesel, and B-C oil. It also manufactures highly profitable petrochemical aromatic solvents by utilizing the naphtha catalytic reforming process—a byproduct of crude oil refining— thereby securing a stable source of revenue. Currently under construction, the company is adding a paraxylene (PX) production facility worth KRW 1.6 trillion to the Incheon complex. Upon completion, it will add 1.3 million tons of PX production to the complex’s annual capacity. While vigorously pursuing overseas markets, SK incheon petrochemical is working to improve production facilities as it develops precision technology for the oil refining process and advanced technologies, maximizes production efficiency, and improves operational/logistics systems and the procurement system to further enhance its competitiveness. SK incheon petrochemical’s ultimate goal is to achieve the highest quality ecofriendly products. Creating greater synergies from higher competitiveness and greater efficiency. SK trading international was spun off from SK energy’s Trading Division in 2013. Its main business areas include the domestic supply of crude oil and petroleum products, exporting petrochemical products produced domestically, and international trading of crude oil and petrochemical products. By further developing SK energy’s former global trading business model, which has exported more than half of all domestically produced petrochemical products, the company is establishing a broader platform for trading petroleum/petrochemical products internationally, while expanding its export market size as well as supply of feedstock to SK energy. 07 Sustainability Report 2013 By spinning off SK trading international and SK incheon petrochemical in July 2013, SK innovation Company added two independent subsidiaries to its existing three, SK energy (petroleum business), SK global Overview chemical (chemical business) and SK lubricants (lubricants business). The company has also recently launched three new CICs (Company in Company) to restructure its business portfolio to enhance its business competencies in the specific needs of each business area. As such, SK innovation and its subsidiaries are growing as major global players under an “Independent Yet United” strategy. General Overview SK incheon SK innovation petrochemical SK energy as of Dec. 31, 2013 Office / Plant SK global chemical SK lubricants SK trading international Office SK innovation Plant SK energy SK global chemical SK lubricants R&D Plant Center Name Locations Business Areas SK innovation Office Jong-no 26, Jongno-gu, Seoul, Korea Resource development, Plant 1691, Mujang-ri, Jigok-myeon, Seosan-si, batteries, Chungcheongnam-do, Korea information/ electronic materials, 82-41, Miam-ro, Jeungpyeong-eup, JeungpyeongR&D gun, Chuncheongbuk-do, Korea 50, 235-gil, Wolmyeong-ro, Heungdeok-gu, Cheongju-si, Chungcheongbuk-do, Korea R&D Global Technology, 325, Expo-ro, Yuseong-gu, Center Daejeon, Korea SK energy Office Jong-no 26, Jongno-gu, Seoul, Korea Petroleum products Plant 2, Sinyeocheon-no, Nam-gu, Ulsan, Korea SK global chemical Office Same as above Petrochemical products Plant SK lubricants Office Same as above Lubricants, base oils Plant SK incheon Office / 415, Bongsu-daero, Seo-gu, Incheon 404-723, Korea Crude oil refining petrochemical Plant SK trading Office Jong-no 26, Jongno-gu, Seoul, Korea Petroleum product international trading Unit: KRW billion Financial Information 2011 2012 2013 (consolidated) as of Dec. 31, 2013 Total Assets 35,027 33,831 35,289 Sales 68,371 73,330 66,670 Net Income 3,176 1,182 779 08 ● ● ● ● SK innovation Brief History 1960’s 1962. 10 ● Establishment of Korea Oil Corporation 1964. 05 ● Completion of the Ulsan refinery plant 1963. 06 ● Framework Agreement with Gulf 1968. 05 ● Completion of the No. 2 atmospheric distillation unit expansion 1970’s 1970. 05 ● Completion of SK’s first petrochemical 1973. 03 ● Completion of SK’s naphtha cracking plant center 1972. 09 ● Completion of an oil pipeline connecting 1974. 04 ● Opening of an oil reservoir in Seoul Ulsan refinery with end users in Daegu 1977. 03 ● Completion of the naphtha cracking center expansion 1980’s 1980. 12 ● SunKyung Group acquired Yukong 1985. 11 ● Establishment of Ulsan R&D Institute 1982. 12 ● Launch of the Yokong professional 1985. 12 ● Completion of the new aromatic soccer club complex (NAC) 1983. 12 ● Trained new employees from Saudi 1987. 05 ● Completion of a production line in Arabia Greece 1984. 07 ● Successful development of oil field in 1988. 01 ● Import of crude oil explored from Yemen’s Marib block Yemen’s Malibu continental shelf block 1990’s 1995. 05 ● Opening of Daedeok SK R&D Center 1991. 04 ● Completion of PO/SM production lines 1995. 10 ● Launch of the petroleum brand EnClean 1991. 06 ● Completion of integrated product line-up 1995. 10 ● Launch of the lubricant oil brand ZIC 1994. 11 ● Commencement of commercial crude oil production at North Zaafarana 1997. 10 ● Establishment of SK Corp. Concession in Gulf of Suez, Egypt 1999. 04 ● Commencement of Superphalt production 2000’s 2003. 11 ● Commencement of oil production at 2006. 04 ● Completion of Ulsan Grand Park Vietnam’s 15-1 block 2007. 07 ● Launch of SK Holdings Co., Ltd. and SK 2004. 07 ● Launch of the SK Angels volunteer corps energy 2004. 09 ● Completion of the No. 2 lubricant base 2008. 09 ● Completion of No. 3 VGOFCC (Vacuum oil plant Gas Oil Fluidized Catalytic Cracking Unit) 2004. 10 ● Establishment of SK China Holding Co., Ltd. 2009. 10 ● Launch of SK lubricants 2006. 03 ● Launch of SK incheon Oil 2010’s 2012. 07 ● Agreement on battery production joint 2010. 06 ● Completion of the LNG plant in Peru venture with Continental 2010. 10 ● Completion of the LiBS No. 4 and 5 2012. 09 ● Completion of the SK battery plant in plants Seosan 2011. 01 ● Spin-off of the petroleum and chemical 2012. 10 ● 50 th anniversary ceremony and the businesses announcement of the 2020 Vision 2011. 07 ● Acquired the Korean government’s 2012. 10 ● Joint ceremony for the completion of the approval for the sale of production I/E material plants (LiBS production lines assets in Brazil #6 and #7, FCCL/TAC production line) 2012. 02 ● Launch of the SK Sugar Gliders 2013. 01 ● Launch of SK-Continental’s E-Motion women’s handball 2013. 07 ● Spin-off of SK incheon petrochemical 2012. 03 ● Completion of the No. 3 lubricant base and SK trading international, completing oil plant a five-subsidiary governance 2012. 06 ● Establishment of a PX joint venture 2013. 07 ● Agreement signed for constructing an with Japan’s JX NOE EV battery joint venture with Beijing 2012. 07 ● MOU signed with Kia Motors to supply Automotive Industry Holding (BAIH) batteries for electric cars and Beijing Electronics Holding Co. (BEHC) 09 Sustainability Report 2013 SK innovation created SKMS (SK Management System) as a means by which to ensure continuous SKMS stability and growth while pursuing stakeholders’ happiness. In addition, SK innovation underlines the (SK Management System) importance of system management practices in its organizational operations and corporate culture. “System management” means a rational way of corporate management through a well-organized system and maximizing the operational efficiency as opposed to depending on the competencies and depth of individuals. Therefore, the key to the success of this system management practices lies in an autonomous decision-making structure. SKMS was established so that every employee is on the same page with SK innovation’s management practices and to provide behavioral guidelines for all its employees in their decision-making at work. This was also carried out to enhance the company’s management practices and eventually to reinforce its competitiveness, serving as the cornerstone of SK innovation’s endeavors to attain its goal of becoming a leading global company. Happiness of SK innovation considers stakeholder happiness a top priority. This is encapsulated in the company’s Stakeholder mission, which says ‘a company should achieve its ultimate goal of sustained progress by maintaining stability and growth’, and that ‘it should create value for its customers, people and shareholders, thereby contributing to social and economic development and human well-being.’ SK innovation wants to bring about a happier society for all in a more sustainable way, one in which the roles and relationship of the company and its stakeholders stay balanced and grow in a sustainable manner. To achieve its goals, SK innovation is poised to be a company that achieves sustainable growth and enhances stakeholder value. The relationships and roles of the company and its stakeholders SK People Establish a favorable environment Contribute to corporate growth to work voluntarily & willingly Create value via Provide customer transparency and satisfaction Corporate efficiency Customers Enterprise Shareholders Support with trust & Growth/stability, Invest choice sustained progress Contribute to the community, Trust & support of business observe business ethics activities Community SK-Way to achieve Guided by the management principle of “Pursing SUPEX via Human-Oriented Management,” SK Our Value innovation set its goal a super-excellent level (SUPEX) which means the highest performance level humanly attainable, and devotes its best efforts to attain this goal. The company creates and establishes a favorable environment where SK people can work voluntarily and willingly. All SK people put into action the SK-Way in their management activities based on their clear understanding of the concept so as to realize mutual prosperity for both the company and its people. 10 ● ● ● ● SK innovation SK innovation implements ethical management to enhance the trust of society so that it can attain Ethical sustainable growth. In fact, we see business ethics practices as more than just guidelines for antiManagement corruption and business innovation. Rather, it serves as the basic guidelines for us to enhance ethical awareness and to build trust-based relations with stakeholders. It is also in line with the management principles of SKMS. As such, it helps employees better understand SKMS and helps them put it into action so as to establish an ethical corporate culture. To that effect, we are continually training our employees on ethics. In addition, we have also established an infrastructure for ethical practices and are actively promoting our business ethics practices with our business partners. Employee Ethics Training Code of Ethics Performance ● Basic Ethics for Employees : As proud SK employees, we will perform our tasks diligently with ● the understanding that we are the face of the company. No. of Trainees Unit: persons ● Attitude towards Customers : We will strive to gain the utmost trust of all customers by ensuring consistent customer satisfaction as we remain a corporate entity whose progress goes 101 124 hand in hand with theirs.. New Overseas Employees Dispatched ● Responsibility towards Shareholders : We will constantly work at improving our corporate value and shareholder value, while enhancing the level of our transparency and management efficiency. ● Training Session Hours Unit: hrs ●  elationship with our Business Partners : We will pursue mutual prosperity with our business R 101 210 partners, and compete fairly with rival companies. New Overseas Employees Dispatched ● Our Role in the Community : We will make every effort to contribute to the welfare of the community by engaging in social/cultural activities in addition to facilitating economic prosperity, observing social norms and ethical standards at every step as we undertake our management activities. Ethics Infrastructure At SK innovation, executives, team leaders and employees who have taken the ethics training sessions are obliged to make a pledge to comply with the Code of Ethics and Guidelines. At the same time, we have in place established channels for reporting/consulting ethics-related issues, such as the Ethics Counseling Office and Ethics Website. The reporter’s name is protected in order to Consulting and Reporting prevent any potential disadvantage to them. In 2013, there no violations on the employee Code of through Business Ethics were reported. Also, SK innovation sends official letters to business partners and other external Ethics Infrastructure Unit: cases stakeholders, explaining the company’s strict policy of banning any gifts on holidays. When gifts are received, they are immediately returned to the sender, given away as a donation, or auctioned 80 64 103 off within the company when it is impossible to track the sender. The proceeds of the auctions are 2011 2012 2013 donated to social causes. Spreading Business SK innovation signs a Fair Trade Agreement with its business partners, which are invited to actively Ethics to Business Partners practice business ethics based on mutual trust. If a partner is detected of any illegal or corrupt activity, it will be subject to sanctions according to SK innovation’s bylaws. In 2013, there were no violations or corrupt activities discovered among our business partners. Public Policy Engagement SK innovation is an active member in several industrial associations, through which it has been able to convey its opinions on public policies and participate in discussions about drafting policies and programs. In 2013, we implemented such projects as Heating Oil Supply for the Underprivileged and an Energy-saving & Efficiency Improvement project to help those who needed energy most. SK innovation is not involved in any lobbying to do with public policy. 11 Sustainability Report 2013 SK innovation considers stakeholder communication the most fundamental part of pursuing Stakeholder stakeholder happiness. The company recognizes the importance of two-way communication Communication and continues to make a variety of attempts to enhance communication. On top of exchanging opinions, SK innovation also does its best to collect stakeholder opinions and incorporate them into the company’s decision-making process and business activities. Stakeholder SK innovation categorizes its shareholders, employees, partners, communities and customers as key stakeholders as they have significant impact on its business activities and collects their opinions Communication Channels through the most suitable channel(s) for each particular stakeholder group. The following are the key channels and activities that were utilized in 2013. Communication Channels and Key Issues by Stakeholder Group Communication Channels 2013 Key Issues ·General shareholders meetings, earnings releases ·Domestic/international NDRs ·Strategies (spin-offs, reshuffling) (Non-Deal Roadshows) ·New technology R&D ·Domestic/international conferences Shareholders ·Corporate governance ·One-on-one meetings, e-mail/phone consulting ·Disclosures, reports ·M2M board, V board ·Employee safety & health ·Intranet (open square, tok voice, tong tong) ·Work-life balance, employee ·Ethics counseling center, SKMS self-check welfare Employees ·Meetings with partners by invitation ·Mutual growth with partners ·Partner CEO seminars ·Anti-trust activities Partners ·Field councils with plant partners ·Meetings with local organizations ·Attending local councils in neighboring ·Social contribution areas and patrol division safety councils (including social enterprises) Communities ·Attending steering committees at ·Volunteerism neighboring schools ·Customer happiness center ·Customer Relationship (call center service) Management (CRM) ·Websites for different products/services ·Customer satisfaction Customers ·Customer satisfaction surveys 12 ● ● ● ● SK innovation SK innovation identifies key sustainability management issues and incorporates them into its Materiality Test reports, taking into consideration stakeholder interests and factors affecting business activities based on the ISO 26000, a standard for social responsibility, and the GRI G3.1, the international guidelines for sustainability management reporting, and then monitors the issues primarily from the perspective of sustainability. In 2013, SK innovation’s materiality assessment identified stakeholder concerns through media Test Process analysis, domestic and international industry benchmarking, international standards, and various reports issued inside and outside the company throughout the year. SK innovation then determined the level of impact these issues have on our business by analyzing the company’s management philosophy and business plans. In particular, we benchmarked sustainability management practices at influential multinational corporations and major issues currently relevant in the industry. We also analyzed key performance indicators at each of our subsidiaries to properly evaluate their business impact. The results were classified into eight categories of social responsibility and further segmented into 110 detailed issues under 33 categorized issues for a materiality test. •Global reporting trends •Employee opinions on •Industrial benchmarking CSR Internal External •Media analysis •Business priorities Priority Concerns •Sustainability reports (CEO’s Message, KPIs) published at home and •Internal policies, abroad bylaws and guidelines •International norms and standards Key sustainability issues for 2013 were finalized by identifying issues that satisfy both external concerns and internal priorities Test Results To conduct the 2013 materiality test, SK innovation followed the same process it did for the previous year and created a materiality matrix based on the level of stakeholder concern and business impact. While the previous report sorted the top 20 priority issues into seven groups according to stakeholder groups, this report delves into the top 8 material issues as identified from the test in the Six Special Themes section. As a result, the key issues of stakeholder engagement are highlighted in the Sustainability Management section and covered throughout the report. The corporate governance issue, which was included in the Sustainability Management section in the previous report, became the priority issue in this report. Although work-life balance was not at the top of the priority list of material issues, the related information was reported on the material issue pages through internal deliberations. 13 Sustainability Report 2013 Top Priority Issues*1 2013 8 Top Priority Issues & Special Theme Category Issues Special Theme page Business Impact Corporate governance (6) Corporate governance issues Transparent Management 18p Strategies(restructuring, spin-off), Business performance (5) Global Expansion 21p Financial issues Commitment to employee safety & Employee safety & health (3) health(SHE) Safety, Health, Stakeholder Concern 25p Environment Sustainable use of resources (7) Stable supply of energy *1 Top priority issues refer to those of high stakeholder concern and business impact Win-win management with business Cooperative Relationships placed on the upper left side of the matrix Mutual growth (1) 28p partners(mutual growth) with Suppliers Value Creating Social Social contribution (2) Social contribution 31p Contribution Working conditions (8) Employee welfare, Work-life balance Work-Life Balance 34p Stakeholder engagement (4) Stakeholder dialogue 12p ✽ The numbers in the parenthesis refer to their rank in the top priority list. Top Priority Issues Compared to the same test run in 2012, the 2013 materiality test results showed that social of the changes contribution and win-win partnerships with business partners were more important, while the value of stakeholder engagement and corporate governance fell from the previous year. Business performance and the sustainable use of resources returned to the top of the priority list, which were now joined by the working conditions issue. Environmental management and mitigating climate change were still on the list but not in the top priority group. 2011 Top Priority Issues 2012 Top Priority Issues 2013 Top Priority Issues 1 Stakeholder engagement 1 Stakeholder engagement 1 Mutual growth 2 Mutual growth 2 Mutual growth 2 Social contribution 3 Addressing Climate Change 3 Employee safety & health 3 Employee safety & health New growth engines Environmental management 4 4 4 Stakeholder engagement (eco-friendly business) (carbon management) 5 Employee safety & health 5 Corporate governance 5 Business performance 6 Business performance 6 Mitigating climate change 6 Corporate governance Communication with Labor-management Sustainable use of 7 7 7 consumers relationship resources Sustainable use of 8 8 Fair competition 8 Working conditions resources 14 SPECIAL THEME Transparent Management 18p Global Expansion 21p Safety, Health, Environment 25p Cooperative Relationships with 28p Suppliers Value Creating Social 31p Contribution Work-Life Balance 34p 15 Sustainability Report 2013 Disclosure on Management Approach Goal Activities ·P reliminary review of major decision-making agenda Running the BOD true as the BOD is meant (Spin-off of SKTI and SKIPC/battery pack joint venture in Beijing) Transparent to be, which is a corporate structure of ·R einforced roles of the Audit Committee Management ethical and transparent decision-making (Establishing a process for auditing the scope of new businesses) and balanced shareholder value ·E ncouraging strategic communication between top management-independent directors Furthering our global competitiveness ·Five  subsidiaries and three CIC systems through strategic spin-offs throughthe globalization of key and organizational restructuring technologies with an effective management Global Expansion system and investment resources that ·The  largest petrochemical joint project with China’s biggest state-run petroleum company (Sinopec) in the history of meet the different needs of each business Sino-Korean partnerships through strategic spin-offs Pursuing incident-free operation and ·D istribution of the work safety guide to suppliers and industrial Safety, Health, environment-friendly management peers based on a risk analysis of high-risk works based on the spirit of human-oriented Environment management, thereby gaining society’s trust ·Awarded  the Grand Prize at the 2013 Safety & Health Win-Win Program Contest and growing hand-in-hand with society ·O ffering financial aid to suppliers in direct loans or financial loan Working for mutually beneficial subsidies and carry out 37 performance-sharing initiatives Cooperative partnerships with SME suppliers through ·S K global chemical was commended by Korea’s president for Relationships with fair transaction practices, financial aid, its commitment to mutual growth technical support, and technological Suppliers education/training programs ·H appy Companionship: Social contribution idea contest its suppliers Taking a serious approach to fundamental Value Creating Social social issues and making effective efforts to ·S ocial economy development and support project address these issues and generate desirable ·D omestic and overseas social enterprise support programs Contribution changes and value for society Led by the CEO’s commitment to a great workplace, various programs and systems ·Introduction of mandatory one-year paid childcare leave Work-Life Balance are in place to enhance the corporate ·E liminated overtime altogether culture. 16 ● ● ● ● Special Theme Major Achievements Future Plans •No. of BOD/committee meetings •No. of BOD/committee Agenda Items We will maintain stakeholder trust by maximizing corporate value and BOD Committee BOD Committee stakeholder value through transparent and accountable management practices. We remain at the forefront of creating and sharing happiness 15 28 59 55 with stakeholders. New PX project, Nexlene project and other large-scale investment Sales Operating income Overall sales of overall sales projects are being completed one by one. We are determined to bring KRW 66.7 trillion KRW1.4 trillion 72.24 % the size of the business and our inherent competencies up to worldleading levels so that 2014 can serve as the starting point of attaining our 2020 vision. •Safety management performance evaluation While upgrading the SHE management system and continuing initiatives LTI UCL to establish SHE culture, we will continue to train and support suppliers 0.12 0.615 and establish mutual growth systems to help them establish an advanced SHE culture. •Extended in financial aids to suppliers We will maintain a sustainable win-win partnership by assisting suppliers in their competency-building endeavors as well as providing business/ about KRW 58.25 billion productivity consulting and financial aid for their sizeable growth. •Social Enterprise Investment Expenses Domestic Overseas We will continue our support of social enterprises in Korea and Peru and our endeavors for the development of social economy. 1 billion 629,454 US$ •No. of visitors to the Counseling Center By eliminating and improving upon the red tape in its practices, the 1,400 persons company will help its employees attain a healthy work-life balance. 17 Sustainability Report 2013 Transparent 10th anniversary of the New BOD-oriented management Since its adoption of the BOD-driven management practices to realize independent and efficient Management corporate governance in 2004, SK innovation’s board of directors (BOD) has placed top priority on enhancing stakeholder value through its transparent and objective decision-making process, which is based on profound expertise. Celebrating the 10th anniversary of the new BOD structure, the BOD published white papers on a regular basis, summarizing its diverse BOD-centered management activities over the past years. Principles of BOD Independent directors at SK innovation abide by a Code of Conduct for Independent Directors that was first established in 2004 by the independent directors’ meeting at SK Corporation, SK innovation’s predecessor company. This Code of Conduct is testament to each independent director’s commitment to constantly improve corporate governance and transparent management. Furthermore, this commitment is now seen as a solid role model by other Korean companies in the private sector in enhancing the independence of independent directors. These efforts were widely recognized when we had the honor of being singled out for the best corporate governance practices in 2009, and were subsequently the recipient of the grand prize at the 2011 Transparent Management Awards. Proactive BOD The main functions of SK innovation’s BOD are making strategic decisions and advising and monitoring management’s activities regarding major business issues. More broadly, the BOD aims to become a proactive body that can preemptively prepare ahead of time for the rapidly changing business environment and maximize corporate value through independent and accountable BODdriven management practices. 1 Growth-Leading Leading the company into a sustainable growth period BOD with prudent and bold decision-making Visiting domestic and overseas operations to hold BOD on the BOD meetings on the site to better understand the Worksite company’s operations 2 Benchmarking advanced corporate governance by Globalization visiting global major company worksites and attending Driving BOD international seminars on corporate governance Proactive BOD Active and candid communication with Communicative management and employees through diverse BOD channels and opportunities 1 Proclamation Ceremony of Independent Directors’ Code of Conduct (Aug. 20, 2004) Participating in various corporate events with special Collaborative lectures and athletic events to harmonize with 2 A  warded the Best Prize at the 2009 Corporate GoverBOD employees nance Awards (Jun. 29, 2009) Happiness Sharing Practicing in social contribution activities to contribute BOD to a happier and more prosperous society 18 ● ● ● ● Special Theme ➊ Transparent Management Special Theme 1 Transparent Nomination of Directors Candidates for executive directors are carefully reviewed by the Human Resources Committee for their qualifications before their recommendations are passed on to the annual general meetings of shareholders (AGM). Candidates for independent directors are listed by the Nomination Advisory Panel, which supports the Nomination Committee in devising a list of candidates. In order to ensure the independence and transparency of independent directors, the Nomination Committee abides by all related laws and regulations. Candidates are evaluated on their areas of expertise, commitment, 2 business mindset and independence, social position, and morality. Current issues and social concerns at the time of nomination are also important considerations Stakeholder Communication SK innovation’s BOD maintains active communication with diverse stakeholders, listening to their opinions on the company and the board through diverse channels. While publicizing its annual 1 2013’s 8th BOD Meeting (Jun. 17, 2013) activities on the corporate website and collect stakeholders’ feedback on its performance, a BOD 2 Visiting the I/E materials plant in Jeungpyeong (Oct. 24, 2013) news update menu was set up on the company’s intranet to provide information on BOD meeting schedules and receive employee opinions and suggestions on BOD activities. Also, BOD members give special lectures to employees on subjects related to their specialties and regularly visit the company’s worksites around the world. More importantly, all social and environmental issues that might have significant influence on the company’s business operations are reported to BOD meetings. BOD Performance Evaluation The BOD conducts annual performance evaluations in the categories of BOD activities, operations, and activity support. The evaluation results are reported back to the BOD and presented in annual reports. BOD operational plans are developed for the following years based on these evaluation results with some improvements made to its functions and operations when necessary. Conflicts of interest BOD members are not permitted to be engaged in any of the company’s operations either at their own expense or a third party’s expense without the BOD’s prior consent. At the same time, pursuant to Article 14 of BOD regulations, BOD members cannot make use of the company’s information that they have received access to in the course of their duty fulfillment for their own or a third party’s interests. NEW BOD 10th Anniversary in Figures 147 773 No. of BOD Meetings No. of Agenda Items 314 637 No. of Committee Meetings No. of Agenda Items 19 Sustainability Report 2013 1 BOD and Subcommittees ● BOD Composition As of August 2014, SK innovation’s Board of Directors had 8 members: two executive and six external directors. The BOD’s percentage of external directors is the highest (75%) in the private sector of Korea. Thus, decisions made exclusively by external directors can actually bring a conclusion to any major management-related agenda items, including relieving directors 2 of their duties, making amendments to the Articles of Incorporation, and integration and/or spinning off of subsidiaries and affiliated entities. This allows external directors to provide a check on management. External directors also hold their own meetings to ensure the independent operation of the BOD and encourage open and honest communication. BOD Members as of Aug. 2014 Category Name Current Position Duties 3 Internal Kim, Chang Chairman of the SK SUPEX Commission, Chairman of the Board, Directors Geun Chairman of SK innovation HR Committee Koo, Ja Young Vice Chairman & CEO of SK innovation Nomination Committee, Strategic Planning Committee External Lee, Jae Chief Executive Officer, Dongguk Holdings Inc., ltd Audit Committee, Strategic Planning Directors Hwan Committee (chairman) Choi, Myung Advisor, Kim & Chang Law Firm Audit Committee, Transparent Hae Management Committee(chairman) 1 2nd strategic communication session (Oct. 24, 2013)  EO-independent directors communication session 2 C Kim, Young Ju Advisor, Shin & Kim Law Firm Strategic Planning Committee, (Nov. 13, 2012) HR Committee, CSR Committee 3 Visiting social enterprise pop-up stores (Jul. 1, 2013) (chairman) Shin, Un Senior Advisor & Head, Delegation of KSP Nomination Committee, Transparent Consultation Management Committee, CSR Committee Lee, Hoon Advisor, The One Law Firm HR Committee (chairman), Kyu Transparent Management Committee Choe, Hyuk Professor of Finance, Audit Committee (chief auditor), Seoul National University Nomination Committee, CSR Committee ● Subcommittees SK’s BOD has six committees under its control: an Audit Committee, Nomination Committee, CSR Strategic Planning Committee, Human Resources Committee, Transparent Management Committee Agenda Items Committee and CSR Committee. The chairs of each committee are selected from independent directors to secure independence and transparency in the operation of these committees. In particular, the CSR Committee is responsible for discussing the company’s CSR activities and sustainability management at BOD meetings and helping enhance the ability to conduct sustainability activities at the company level. •Plans for compilation of sustainability reports and the results •Current progress of social contribution BOD/Committee Meetings Performance & Agenda Items 2013 performance activities Committee •Reviews on policies, programs, and practices with potential impacts on safety, health, the Category BOD Strategic Human Transparent Audit Nomination CSR Subtotal environment and other social issues Planning Resources Management No. of Meetings 15 10 2 2 4 7 3 28 No. of Agenda 59 25 3 2 9 11 5 55 Items 20 ● ● ● ● Special Theme ➋ Global Expansion Special Theme The separation and launch of SK trading international and SK incheon petrochemical as independent entities totaled the number of SK innovation’ s subsidiaries to five. Additionally, the company has three CICs (Company in Company) as part of its realignment of its business system. As a result, the Global increased independence and competitiveness of each subsidiary organically collaborated to enhance efficiency in the overall business operations under Expansion the “Independent but interdependent” governance structure. 3 Company in Company and 5 Subsidiaries Strategic Spin-off Towards a Greater Future In July 2013, SK innovation launched SK incheon petrochemical and SK trading international as new subsidiaries. As a result, the company now has five subsidiaries—SK energy (petroleum business), SK global chemical (chemical business) and SK lubricants (lubricants business) along with the two new subsidiaries—under its umbrella. SK incheon petrochemical is now working to induce foreign investments to expand its production line of the highly profitable condensate-based petrochemical products, specifically paraxylene (PX). The company will pursue global markets, especially in China, as soon as it completes the facility expansion worth a total of KRW 1.6 trillion in investments by the third quarter of 2014. SK trading international will continue with the trading business, mainly with SK energy, while gradually expanding its customer base, markets and product line-up so as to grow into a specialized international trader. The spin-off was in line with the company’s ‘quantitative growth and globalization strategy for achieving KRW 290 trillion in sales and KRW 14 trillion in operating income by 2020. As such, SK innovation and its subsidiaries will independently reinforce their respective competitiveness, while collaborating in areas that can maximize efficiency to generate synergies. 1 SK innovation 2 SK global SK incheon SK trading SK energy SK lubricants chemical petrochemical international 2020 Goals Unit: KRW trillion 1 Joint launching ceremony of SK incheon petrochemical and SK trading international 290 in sales 14 in operating income 2 Bird view of the SK incheon petrochemical plant 21 Sustainability Report 2013 Reorganization for Competitive New Growth Engines SK innovation carried out a reorganization to fortify the BOD-oriented autonomous and responsible management practices under the Group’s governance strategy of “Independent but United 3.0” and to expedite its 2020 vision of globalization. The company also created a new CIC that will take care of the strategic business in the I/E materials, batteries and separators by integrating the existing Battery & I/E materials Business division to the New Business Development Division. The addition of this new CIC added up to the number of CICs under the umbrella of SK innovation from two—GT (Global Technology) and E&P (Exploration & Production)—to three. The launch of the new CIC will pave the way for the company to secure technology-oriented new growth momentum, which will expedite business results and reinforce its technological expertise. Additionally, SK innovation plans on expanding its production volume of EV batteries up to 20,000 units by 2017 in pursuit of greater market share in the Chinese EV battery market. Furthermore, the I/E materials business will sustain growth with the completion of the LiBS production lines # 8 and #9 and the scheduled completion of the FCCL production line in 2015. Change in the CIC Organization 2 CICs in 2012 3 CICs in 2013 GT E&P NBD Global Exploration & New Biz. Technology Production Development 1 Commercialization of Core Technologies Commercialization of Nexlene Original Technology In May 2014, SK global chemical concluded an agreement with Saudi Arabia’s state-run petrochemical company, SABIC, to set up a joint venture for the production and global marketing of its high-performance polyethylene brand Nexlene. Nexlene is SK global chemical’s original technology that encompasses the catalyst, processing and 2 production, catering to high value-added films, auto parts, footwear interior materials and cable insulation. High performance polyethylene boasts a stronger performance than its conventional counterparts in shock-resistance, transparency, hygiene, and processability. Only a handful of global chemical companies have this production know-how. With its original technology for integrated production of Nexlene, SK global chemical expects market expansion and better cost competitiveness from this partnership, while SABIC is poised to 1 S K global chemical and SABIC signed an agreement advance into the high-performance polyethylene market. for a joint venture The two companies agreed to set up a joint venture in Singapore by the end of 2014, with plans to 2 Nexlene further expand production lines around the world, including the second plant in Saudi Arabia after the first Nexlene plant was completed in Ulsan in 2013. 22 ● ● ● ● Special Theme ➋ Global Expansion Special Theme Blocks in Holding as of 2013 Advantages in the Green Market through the Commercialization as of Dec. 31, 2013 of GreenPol Technology ● Production SK innovation has been creating new value by producing environmentally friendly plastics from CO2 under the name GreenPol. In fact, the company has successfully developed this carbon-derived plastic technology and recently completed the pilot plant for prototypes. It is now increasing efforts for mass production of this technology. By replacing conventional materials which are made of 40 percent carbon dioxide, this is a breakthrough technology because it does not generate toxic gas, specifically carbon monoxide from combustion, and boasts a higher performance than conventional plastics in transparency and oxygen/hydro insulation. 4 Countries Having completed this development, this technology is currently undergoing the commercialization 7 Blocks process. When released on the market, it will be a breakthrough in how to recover and store CO2 as it turns the main culprit to global warming into an eco-friendly new material that will save on the use of naphtha and even earn users carbon credits. ● Exploration Moving forward, SK innovation will continue to turn its innovative ideas into business strategies so 11 Countries as to take an advantageous position in the green market and secure its future source of revenue. 15 Blocks Developing Knowledge and Competencies in the Pre-production Stage SK innovation recently acquired equities of production blocks in Grant/Garfield County, Oklahoma and Crane County, Texas. These two new production assets will add up to the company’s daily crude oil production volume to 74,250 barrels, from the previous 71,000 barrels. This also solidified the company’s domestic position as the largest E&P operator in Korea that is involved in four LNG projects and E&P projects at 22 blocks (7 production blocks and 15 exploration blocks) in 15 countries around the world. Furthermore, its recent acquisition of the operating rights at the Grant-Garfield County block is expected to help the company strengthen its expertise in E&P operations. SK innovation is determined to take this opportunity to strengthen its business competencies and knowledge in all E&P procedures, from exploration and development to production, and to lay the foundation for ● LNG Projects unconventional resource projects in China, Australia and Latin America. In addition, it will continue to add new E&P blocks in prospective areas, completing a comprehensive portfolio that ranges the full E&P value chain. 4 Countries Ceaseless Innovation in Pursuit of Global Market 4 Projects A Global Leader in the EV Batteries Market by 2020 With world-leading battery R&D infrastructure, SK innovation has completed the technological development and mass production of mediumand large-sized batteries, especially lithium ion batteries, with a large-scale mass production line in Seosan now going into operation. Banking on its original technologies of high energy density and high output, the company is providing its products with competitive functionality, price and stability to the Hyundai-Kia Automotive Group and the Daimler Automotive Group, while also maintaining joint development or business alliances with several more automakers. In addition, the company has installed the nation’s largest energy storage systems in the Smart Grid Test Bed on Jeju Island. 23 Sustainability Report 2013 Furthermore, SK innovation set up a joint venture with Beijing Automotive Industry Holding (BAIH) and Beijing Electronics Holding Co. (BEHC) in January 2014. Named Beijing BESK Technology, this joint venture went into full operation as of April 2014. BEHC is the largest LCD panel manufacturer in China, ranking fifth globally. BAIH, one of China’s four largest automakers, manufactured 1.7million complete cars in 2013. Tapping into the advanced technologies and business know-how of these three major companies from different business areas, Beijing BESK Technology plans on completing a battery package production line of an annual production capacity sufficient to supply 10,000 EVs by the end of 2014. While expanding its production volume by 2017, the company is aggressively investing in and exploring markets in order to grow into a leading EV battery supplier in China. SK innovation aims to enhance its global competitiveness in all the core parts and components of EVs, including separators and batteries. 1 Gaining a Stronger Foothold in the Chinese High Value-added Chemicals Market SK global chemical’s Wuhan Project, which the company has been pushing forward with in partnership with China’s largest state-run oil company, Sinopec, has fully taken root. Involving the largest investment made by SK in China to construct a naphtha cracking center (NCC) in Wuhan City with a gross production capacity of 2.5 million tons of petrochemicals—including 800,000 tons of ethylene, 600,000 tons of polyethylene and 400,000 tons of polypropylene—this 1 S igning ceremony of an agreement with Beijing Electronics Holding Co. on a joint venture for EV batteries project will lay the groundwork for the company to fully enter the Chinese petrochemical market, producing and distributing petrochemical products in China with our own brand name. As of January 2014, the NCC initiated full commercial production, churning out 100,000 tons of polyethylene and 300,000 tons of polypropylene under the name of SK global chemical in China. In addition, the joint venture Sinopec-SK (Wuhan) Petrochemical projects its annual sales for 2014 at KRW 3 trillion. Buoyed by its successful advance into the world’s largest energy & chemical market in China, SK global chemical will reinforce its technology R&D for the successful establishment and sustainable growth of its global operations. Strengthening Global Competencies in the Premium Base Oil Market Under an alliance with Spain’s largest oil refiner, Repsol, SK lubricants is constructing a lube base oil plant with the goal of starting full operations by the end of 2014. The new plant will serve as the strategic point for the company to pursue European markets with premium brands that meet strict European environmental regulations, emerging as a leading global producer of Group III lube base oil products. In particular, the company was named as a supplier of engine oil and automatic transmission fluid to General Motors in December 2013, clear evidence of the competitive quality of its finished lubricant products—it has been supplying automatic transmission fluid to the automaker since 2009. While continuously raising its market power in strategic markets such as China, Russia and Pakistan, SK lubricants is adopting a localization strategy in India—an emerging market for lube base oil—with the aim to accelerate its global expansion plans. 24 ● ● ● ● Special Theme ➌ Safety, Health, Environment Special Theme Safety, Health, Creating Shared Value Environment Globally Competitive SHE Management SK innovation is growing into one of the world’s leading global companies with differentiated competitiveness by consistently embracing change and innovation. We aim to become a leader in global standards and financial performance with all our business management practices. Most importantly, meeting global standards in safety, health and environment (SHE) practices is imperative to the sustainable development of any company. As such, we are ardently working to hone our SHE competitiveness so as to meet the highest global standards. Inspired by the CEO’s strong commitment to our advanced SHE practices, we established the SHE Division under the direct supervision of the CEO in 2012. As the control tower of company-wide SHE practices, the division is always working towards upgrading our SHE management system to meet the highest global standards, raise employees’ SHE awareness, and establish an advanced legal compliance framework. SHE Management System SK innovation devised SHE policies under the notion of “creating shared value” for co-prosperity along with society. Departing from conventional social responsibilities, such as zero-accidents or minimal pollutant emissions, this policy takes a more engaged approach to maintain trust-based relationships with local communities. To that end, SK innovation applies stricter standards for its SHE practices than legal requirements, setting the example for its peers in the industry. To that effect, we completed the framework of our SHE management system in reflection of our benchmark on global best practices and trends so that ours could match those of the world’s leaders in 2012. We realigned the corporate regulation with the 13 basic elements and ensured the binding force of these under the control of the management leadership, while establishing SHE audit practices to ensure continuity in the implementation. In 2013, the 230 SHE guidelines and procedures were upgraded to better serve the different needs of each worksite, furthering the global competencies of our SHE management system. 25 Sustainability Report 2013 Safety·Health·Environment Policy The corporate Enterprise shall pursue incident-free operation and environment-friendly management based on the spirit of human-oriented management, thereby gaining society’s trust and growing hand-in-hand with society. To do this, The Company shall become a role model among the domestic and foreign energy companies by planning and operating Safety, Health and Environment guideline stricter than that legally required, and sharing such results with the public. •Define Safety and Health management as a top priority and engage continuous improvements and preventive Safety & activities for personnel and equipment safety, thereby leading the establishment of a safe and healthy society. Health •Innovate safety technology and enhance safety capability, thereby taking an initiating role in improving social health and safety. •D efine Environment management as a core task and preserve the global environment by reducing greenhouse Environment gases and minimizing pollutants. •Continuously create new valuables from the environment by developing environment-friendly technology and operating environment-friendly business, thereby innovating the future energy industry. SHE Management System SHE Management System Framework Drive Implementation Occupational Safety and Operations Environment Health and Reliability Stewardship SHE Management Policy (I) Chemicals SHE Incident Emergency Management Investigation Management SHE Corporate Regulation (II) SHE SHE Leadership and Contractor SHE Capability Management Audit Accountability SHE Development of Change Management and Training SHE Operation Procedure (III) SHE SHE Legal Stakeholder Improvement Compliance Communication SHE Operation Standard (IV) Feed-Back 26 ● ● ● ● Special Theme ➌ Safety, Health, Environment Special Theme Spreading SHE Culture A system not being practiced is inherently dead no matter how well it is developed. Therefore, SK innovation engages in a number of activities to promote its SHE culture across the board so that its employees’ SHE competency and awareness can be increased. Our Safety Golden Rules program is our signature program in practice at all our worksites. 1 By carefully analyzing the main causes of accidents frequently occurred at each worksite, we have developed worksite safety rules that all on-site operators should abide by to prevent such accidents. While consistently monitoring these compliance practices, any violations are subject to discipline with no excuses allowed. These efforts significantly contribute to raising the SHE awareness of our employees and those of our suppliers. At the same time, we have developed SHE Audit Tools to monitor and improve our SHE leadership and implementation at our worksites more effectively. Using these tools, we keep vulnerable areas at each worksite in check on a regular basis. By organizing a dedicated team to take care of 1 Ulsan CLX Safety Golden Rules internal SHE audits, we also entrust external specialized agencies with profound expertise to run special audits, which ensures expertise and credibility in our SHE audit practices. A single mistake and the resultant SHE accidents can deal a lethal blow to a company. Therefore, inspecting the cause to such accidents and preventing recurrence of the same accident are the first steps of an SHE culture at a company. At SK innovation, we thoroughly inspect the causes of accidents to prevent recurrence of similar cases, while making ensure that those who are responsible for such accidents are held accountable for the damages, thereby arousing employees’ attention to SHE culture. Work Safety Guide Book Contents SHE Practices for Co-Prosperity with Society Part 1. Part 2. Common (3 cases) Equipment (13 cases) At SK innovation, the scope of SHE management practices extends outside its worksite boundaries. Refinery and petrochemical plants inevitably bear potential risk factors all the time and Part 3. Part 4. Inspection (4 cases) Machinery (5 cases) the event of an accident can lead to damages to not only the worksite but also the local residents in the vicinity. As a result, preventing accidents is important above everything else. To our regret, Part 5. Part 6. Instruments (5 cases) Electricity Work (6 cases) however, our efforts were not enough to systematically identify and remove such potential risk factors to date. Nor did we provide adequate information or materials for preventing accidents to 2 the employees of our suppliers. Aware of this, however, SK innovation signed a business alliance with the Korea Occupational Safety & Health Agency (KOSHA) and Ulsan City to collaborate for preventing occupational accidents along with suppliers. Under the agreement, we presented the solutions for preventing occupational accidents at source in the repair/maintenance procedures of facilities. 3 We have categorized the 36 facility repair/maintenance works with the highest risk factors at refinery and petrochemical plants and developed solutions to these issues. Plus, we added case studies of frequent accidents and related regulations to publish with Work Safety Guide for all operators on site to abide by and be versed with. As being the first company in the industry to do this, the guidebook and its video supplement were distributed to our suppliers and other 2 Ceremony of business alliance for preventing occupational accidents along with suppliers companies in the industry, setting a good example for other companies in sustaining growth 3 Work Safety Guide Book & Video Supplement based on a trust-based relationship with society as a leading SHE practitioner. (http://www.skinnovation.com/company/she_05.asp) 27 Sustainability Report 2013 A Cooperative The sound growth of our suppliers and business partners is integral to the sustainable growth of SK innovation. As a result, we take a far-sighted, longRelationship term approach to fundamental issues when it comes to our partnerships with our suppliers. This section reports on our commitment to win-win partnerships with our suppliers. with Suppliers Win-Win Partnership Programs for the Sustainable Growth of Our Suppliers At SK innovation, mutual growth and win-win partnerships go so far as to provide suppliers with the Financial Support Offered to framework for sustainable growth. This approach proved its effectiveness when our joint patent rights Suppliers in 2013 Unit: KRW billion on R&D results with our suppliers and cooperative marketing paid off with increased sales revenue. ● Financing In addition, we also offer financial support through our Mutual Growth Fund and comprehensive 56* 1 consulting and budgeting services to suppliers for their social contribution activities, having introduced a new concept of win-win partnership between large corporations and SME suppliers. ● Productivity Enhancement 1.09 ● Technical Support ● R&D SME suppliers’ competitiveness lies in their technologies. As such, SK innovation offers various 0.44 programs for SME suppliers to advance their technologies. Specifically, SK global chemical ● HRD sponsors its suppliers in technology competency-building through various joint projects, such as 0.42 facility localization, joint patent rights, and joint R&D for high value-added products. ● Happy Companionship ● Financial Support (Suppliers' social contribution support program) SK innovation and SK global chemical operate Mutual Growth Funds of KRW 20 billion and 0.25 KRW 55 billion, respectively. In particular, SK global chemical offers direct loans, loans extended ● Distribution/Procurement from the fund, and credit guarantees to its suppliers. 0.03 ● Safety Management Support ● Overseas Advancement Each of our worksites has their own Safety, Health and Environment (SHE) Division, all of which 0.015 operate under the direct control of the CEO. On top of that, we published a Work Safety Guide for suppliers who are vulnerable to safety management, transferring our SHE know-how and *1 The  figure is the sum of: KRW 3.0 billion in direct loans + KRW 12.0 billion in contribution to the providing related education. Mutual Growth Fund (+ bank commitments of KRW 18.0 billion) + KRW 20.0 billion in SKI’s Mutual Growth Fund + KRW 2.4 billion in credit guarantees ● Educational Support + KRW 656 million in debt guarantees We give seminars on business administration for the CEOs of our suppliers. In promotion of equal opportunities for education, we have an online education program, a win-win partnership e-learning course, for the employees of our suppliers. Furthermore, the Win-Win Partnership MBA course is available for mid-level managers as well as overseas training programs and on-site programs. Supplier HRD Programs Unit: persons No. of Companies/Employees Program Recipients Subjects 2012 2013 Win-win partnership Business administration, humanities, CEO 310 280 CEO seminar SUPEX best practices Win-win partnership Business administration, Managers 180 150 MBA general management information 28 ● ● ● ● Special Theme ➍ A Cooperative Relationship with Suppliers Special Theme Win-Win Business Partnerships and Business Ecosystem SK innovation is leading a new paradigm change with win-win partnership on the supply chain. Departing from the former unilateral approach to partnerships, we take various practical measures to support our partners in building competitiveness. This effort turned out to be instrumental in enhancing the technological competitiveness of our partners increasing their sales, realizing the term “win-win partnership” in its truest meaning. 1 Presidential Commendation for Outstanding Performance in Profit Sharing with Partners SK global chemical has been pushing forward with 37 profit-sharing initiatives registered with its profit-sharing total management system. In recognition of its industry-leading profit-sharing practices with its suppliers, such as joint R&D on new technology/products, patent applications, and productivity enhancement, the company was awarded the Presidential Commendation at the 2013 Win-Win Partnership Week ceremony organized by the Ministry of Trade, Industry 1 2013 Win-Win Partnership Week ceremony & Energy, the National Commission for Corporate Partnership, and the Small and Medium Business Administration on October 21, 2013. Joint R&D and Patent Applications ● SK global chemical—Seoul ENG, joint patent rights on ● Joint Patenting and Commercialization of Storage Tank Heat heat exchanger component technology for ethylene Insulation Technology with Gwangmyung E&C processing SK global chemical and Gwangmyung E&C have jointly developed The investment and technical support for R&D on localization of new heat insulation technology by enhancing brain storming the heat exchanger technology is cited as one of the best cases of to save on costs and enhance inefficiency in the heat insulation a profit-sharing initiative at SK global chemical. technique of storage tanks and filed for a joint patent right to the new technique. Having successfully completed the pilot operation A very expensive imported device, the conventional heat exchanger on their new storage tanks, the two partners are now working on cost the company a great deal to replace the heat-resistant cone, the final leg of a license agreement with a third party. which had failed very often. To deal with this issue, SK global chemical worked with Seoul Engineering to localize the heatThis project successfully saved costs by 34 percent on average and resistant cone technology of the heat exchanger and successfully process duration by 25 percent compared to conventional methods. developed a new product with improved performance. The two Furthermore, it reduces heat loss and minimizes the potential companies have filed for a joint patent right to the technology, penetration of raindrops, while also minimizing the fugitive dust of which is now pending for examination. insulation materials. Economically, this technology substituted KRW 4.4 billion worth Above all, the two companies have built upon their trustof imports, saving KRW 1.53 billion annually. When expanded to based relationship as they have gone through the difficulties the entire industry of Korea, it is expected to substitute imported in the process of filing for patents, commercialization and pilot goods worth KRW 25.7 billion and save KRW 4.6 billion worth operation of the technology, while realizing synergies from their of steam. This localization also saved SK global chemical material collaboration. This is solid proof of SK innovation’s win-win expenses and operating expenses, while Seoul Engineering can strategy in its relationships with suppliers. benefit from sales growth thanks to the technology. INTERVIEW I owe much to SK global chemical. This success can be accredited to SK global chemical’s trust in us and our technology and their all-out support in both financing and infrastructure. They were a very reliable consultant that we can resort to when we run into any challenges or problems in the course of our R&D activities. I hope the company continues this kind of support to small companies with competitive source technologies. Kim, Kyung-sep, CEO of Seoul Engineering 29 Sustainability Report 2013 Happy Companionship: social contribution idea contest its suppliers At SK innovation, win-win partnerships extend to suppliers and their social contribution activities under the name Happy Companionship. Under the program, SK innovation offers consulting services and financial aid to its suppliers who find it difficult to carry out their social contribution ideas due to their lack of financial, human and technical resources despite their strong commitment. SK innovation also signed an agreement with Hunger Saver on Happy Companionship with Happy Partners in July 2013 and invited suppliers for their social contribution proposals. Five programs were selected from 30 proposals submitted during the event, which were subsidized for expenses and provided with total consulting services from funds totaling KRW 250 million. The suppliers will work on their own when these social contribution programs are firmly established in the near future. 1 Fair Procurement & Supplier Partnership SK innovation has in place a Supplier Relationship Management (SRM) system to enhance transparency in its procurement procedures and to enhance competitiveness in its supply chain. We conduct fair evaluations on suppliers for their business ethics, credit, technology, and environmental capabilities before registering them in our SRM system. All transactions with suppliers, from their registration to our SRM and our procurement requests to bidding and ordering are made through the integrated online procurement system at www.skbiok.com. A variety of stakeholders—supplier supervisors, procurement officers, end-users, and technology assessment teams—are involved in the procurement process, which helps improve fairness. Ultimately, SK innovation evaluates registered suppliers regularly on management, technology, quality, safety·health, environment, 1 Integrated online procurement system and human rights, while also offering advice to maintain strategic partnerships and sustainable relationships. In addition, SK innovation was the first company in Korea to adopt a fair trade compliance program (CP) which serves as the cornerstone in our endeavors towards a higher level of our CP practices. CP performance results and plans are reported on to the BOD on a regular basis, which have no cases of violations or unfairness occurred for the reporting period. The 7 Steps of SK innovation’s Compliance Program (CP) CEO’s Documentation commitment to & database the compliance operation program Disciplinary action on any Appointment violation(s) of of compliance related officer(s) regulations The 7 Steps Internal Publication monitoring and distribution system of compliance handbooks Compliance training 30 ● ● ● ● Special Theme ➎ Value Creating Social Contribution Special Theme Value SK innovation is leading a new paradigm change in corporate social contribution activities. The key to its new framework takes a far-sighted Creating approach to sustainability. Evidence of this can be seen in the social enterprises it has established for the underprivileged. In fact, SK innovation sponsors all procedures, from planning and establishing to operating Social these social enterprises, contributing to the development of local communities through sustainable business models that create jobs for the Contribution underprivileged. In 2013, the focus was on building up a market for social enterprises and on stimulating the social economy, thereby generating greater economic/social value. Developing and Supporting the Social Economy 1 In partnership with the Community Chest of Korea and the Korean Association of Community Seniors’ Clubs, SK innovation advertised for a Social Economy Development and Support program in 2013. Through paper screening and due diligence with a total of 65 proposals submitted to this first such program arranged by a Korean conglomerate, we supported four select business proposals to establish social enterprises, community businesses or social cooperatives, creating jobs for older citizens in Seoul, Daegu, Jeonju and Yeongkwang. SK innovation also contributed business consulting services in accounting and labor issues as well as 22 budget subsidies. SK innovation’s Global Expansion Philosophy and Social Contribution Activities Peru is an invaluable treasure of unlimited possibilities for SK innovation to realize its vision 1·2 Social Economy Development and Support program, Jeonju Bread café opened in front of the of global resource development projects. But with many poor farmers who are living hand Jeonju City Hall in July 2014. to mouth, and under the belief that we should give back to society for global expansion opportunities, SK innovation has consistently worked on independent social enterprise projects. Its CSR activities in Peru began in 2007, when it set up an NGO called SK-Prosynergy as the control tower for its local CSR activities in response to the Peruvian government’s invitation to its farming village development project. As of January 2012, we upgraded our CSR activities and initiated social enterprise programs such as the My School and My Eco-Tech Farm programs. 3 3 View of the Yachaywasi branch 31 Sustainability Report 2013 1 My School Program for Educational Equality in Peru In addressing the underdeveloped public education system and low interest in education in Peru, SK innovation has been involved in the My School Program since 2012 to promote educational equality for local students from low-income families. Based on its online platform, the My School Program offers online teaching skills and instruction materials to local teachers. In addition to the e-textbooks, workbooks and online library, the program also provides self-assessment, a parental monitoring system and online communities for 2 interactive communication between teachers and parents. As a result, the enhanced teaching skills of teachers significantly contribute to the higher academic achievements of students, which in turn further motivates teachers to work harder. SK innovation plans on continuing this support through 2014 and to contribute to better education in Peru. 3 SK Data service fee School innovation My School The faculty, branch in Financial (Prosynergy) students, aid parents Lima Web portal Service Providing the IT Providing educational infrastructure content 1·2 Presentation on the Parent Monitoring System 3 View of the Yachaywasi farm Tuition Catholic University Certifications of completion for the offline course My School Program Performance Results No. of teachers participated 2012 634 7,034 No. of students participated 2013 899 9,917 My Eco-Tech Farm Program Most Peruvians make a living by farming, but most are suffering from extreme poverty. As such, SK innovation launched the My Eco-Tech Farm Program to help them with advanced agricultural skills and techniques to become more independent. Under the program, SK innovation supports the farming villages in the regions of its operations with agricultural tips and techniques through consulting and with the aim to increase their income and foster them into agricultural leaders in the regions. Launched as an agricultural social enterprise in December 2012, our signature global CSR program Yachaywasi originated from this program. 32 ● ● ● ● Special Theme ➎ Value Creating Social Contribution Special Theme 1 Yachaywasi: Cooperative Business Model Yachaywasi is the first global social enterprise set up by a Korean conglomerate outside Korea under the mission of training agricultural techniques to local farmers and agricultural produce tracking programs on its online platform. Additionally, the center supports farming specialists’ visits to local farmers for aid and arranges micro-financing for local farmers to help local farming villages go financially independent with its one-stop services. The Yachaywasi program is freight with significance in its business model, where the business, 22 government, university and NGO collaborate for a shared goal. Led by the SK-ProSynergy as the founder and operator, the Peruvian government supports farmers in the form of 30-year leases of farm land for 30 years and the local catholic universities contribute their agricultural techniques with local microfinancing and NGO financial aid. Riding on the positive response by the local government, academia and farmers on the first branch, Yachaywasi opened the second branch in Pilpichaca, Peru in July 2013. Consulting and transferring 50 farming techniques to local residents, the program also offers the farmers farming supplies purchase expenses at low interest rates and 1 Opening of the first Yachaywasi branch supports their marketing activities through cooperatives. In the future, we are reviewing more 2 Agricultural technique education program ways to expand marketing activities on agricultural produce and establishing more cooperatives in the country. Going forward, we expect an explosive growth in the number of beneficiaries and accumulated know-how of the program will help us save on costs and break even by 2016 with the program. Cooperative Business Model of Yachaywasi Catholic University SK Farmers innovation Consulting fees Agricultural techniques branch in n Lima tio ca ppli nt Fin A me 3 an cia ural quip tion e l ai ult ues/ duca d ric e Ag hniq ing/ c te nsult co Payment of Low-interest Yachaywasi rate loans loans and interests s (Prosynergy) ale Gu es ara duc nte Pro e 24 s Lo ed w ce ag -inte Pro ree re me st nt Market Tuition Education Finca NGO (Microfinancing) Students 3 Construction site of Yachaywasi 4 Opening  of the second Yachaywasi branch 33 Sustainability Report 2013 Work-Life SK innovation’s CEO reiterated his commitment to making the company a happier workplace through its Happy Management practices. The company Balance has since implemented diverse programs to establish this into the corporate culture to enhance employee satisfaction, which will propel the company’s sustainable growth. Family-Friendly Management at SK innovation First Korean Refiner to Adopt Flexible Work Hours SK innovation adopted a flexible work hour system which allows employees to adjust their working hours between 7:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m. by the approval of each team leader. This system was well received by employees, especially those who have to drop off their children at daycares on their way to work or want to go home early to spend time with their families. Enhanced Flexibility in the Work Process with the Smart Work System Providing efficient working conditions is important to creating a great workplace, as is recruiting talented people. To that effect, SK innovation launched a mobile office system to change the work environment into a smart work system. As a result, streamlined internal meetings and reporting procedures have enabled employees to balance their lives between work and life, giving them a chance to concentrate on more creative and productive jobs at work and spend more time with their families. In addition, artificial grass planted and the removal of partitions between desks at the office promoted proactive communication among colleagues and eliminated loss factors from the office. More Creative and Engaged Employees with Zero Tolerance for Overtime Projects SK innovation initiated the “Zero Tolerance of Overtime” campaign in order to improve the inefficiency in the work process and to promote performance-oriented evaluation practices by eliminating unnecessary overtime working. As chronic overtime working compromises productivity, SK innovation encourages all employees to leave the office on time. By reflecting the overtime practices in the year-end personnel performance evaluation of team leaders and executives, the company encourages leaders to take the lead in this campaign. This approach proved effective as a growing number of employees are going home on time. This campaign also generated significant results as employees became more engaged and passionate in their work. 34 ● ● ● ● Special Theme ➏ Work-Life Balance Special Theme 1 Addressing Childcare Issues SK innovation is aware that many of its employees expecting babies feel uncomfortable to apply for childcare leaves at the end of maternity leaves. To address this issue, the company made it mandatory to take childcare leaves after maternity leaves. Now, employees who are expecting babies can take at least one year off after they take maternity leaves without a separate expression of their intention. However, they do need to take steps when they want to 2 adjust or delay the period according to their individual situation and receive their supervisor’s approval. Additionally, the company runs an in-house daycare center, SK Happy Childcare Center, for its employees with preschool children. Counseling Center for a Healthy Work-life Balance SK innovation operates an in-house counseling center called Harmonia to assist its employees with their stress management and career development. With certified psychology counselors 1 SK innovation SK Happy Childcare Center 2 SK innovation Counseling Center on standby and 10 more external specialists ready to help, the center provides employees with systematic counseling programs in the areas of leadership/career coaching, psychology counseling and family counseling to help enhance employee engagement and happiness as well as their continued self-development. Since opening in 2005, the number of employees using the service has grown for years and reached 1,400 people in 2013. The feedback score—4.8 points on a scale of 5—shows a high satisfaction among users. In particular, a varied family counseling program is available for the families of SK innovation employees on the subjects of parent-children relationships, parenting education, and couple relationships. As such, Harmonia has become a trusted partner to our employees for their happiness. Open Corporate Culture for a Great Workplace Across-the-board Communication Programs At SK innovation, we believe that open and interactive communication is imperative to building a great workplace. In fact, the company maintains open communication with its employees on management’s commitment to innovation in the corporate culture in order to encourage its employees’ participation. At the same time, the company is committed to positively addressing and finding solutions to employee grievances at work. 35 Sustainability Report 2013 ● V-board V-Board is an internal channel for bottom-up communication. Every year, the company publicly invites employees to come forward with ideas for revitalizing the organization, to review corporate culture, and to look at process innovation ideas. ● C-talk: a Year-round Coaching Program C-talk is SK innovation’s signature coaching program for assisting employees’ selfdevelopment. Employees can consult their team leaders or peer groups whenever they need motivation or advice on new projects, career development, or work issues. To that effect, the company is systematically assisting team leaders in developing their coaching skills. This one-to-one coaching program is highly expected to enhance overall performance results and stimulate employees’ competency-building. C-talk Process C-talk Career-talk Clear-talk consultation on competencyconsultation on job fulfillment building or career development Addressing Employees’ Grievances SK innovation reflects employees’ opinions in its business planning in promotion of its shared value through mutual cooperation between labor and management and for the long-term growth of the company. The Grievances Committee, comprised of the same number of representatives recommended by management and the labor union, functions to improve the work environment and working conditions. Employees can make voice their concerns via mail, phone, e-mail and other media to appeal to the Committee. In 2013, employees consulted the Committee on such issues as career planning, organizational challenges, communication issues, and job stress. In dealing with these issues, the company utilizes such programs as organizational diagnosis, leadership diagnosis, psychological testing, and Harmonia’s program when necessary to help solve the problems. 36 37 Sustainability Report 2013 Performance Indicator Economic Social 38 ● ● ● ● Performance Indicator Safety, Health, Environment 39 Sustainability Report 2013 Economic Performance Under the vision of becoming a technology-driven innovation company, SK innovation is tirelessly working to develop its new growth engines with its world-leading original technologies. Throughthe strategic spin-off of its subsidiaries and reshuffling of its CIC organization, the company has optimized its competitiveness in each business area. SK innovation and its subsidiaries will strive to become a major international company by closely working under the “independent but united” strategy. Creation of Revenue at Key Businesses as of Dec. 31, 2013 Unit: KRW billion Economic Value 2011 2012 2013 Petroleum Exports 23,549.5 26,552.1 22,861.1 Businesses Domestic market 27,189.4 26,324.1 24,847.0 Overseas 37,205.4 58,653.1 20,662.1 subsidiaries Subtotal 87,944.3 111,529.3 68,370.2 Petrochemical Exports 11,269.1 9,108.1 9,810.2 Businesses Domestic market 6,923.5 7,008.9 7,520.3 Overseas 4,342.7 2,399.9 1,007.5 subsidiaries Subtotal 22,535.3 18,516.9 18,338.0 Lubricants Exports 388.9 464.0 534.1 Business Domestic market 642.7 526.3 644.2 Overseas 1,953.2 2,084.9 1,844.4 subsidiaries Subtotal 2,984.8 3,075.2 3,022.7 E&P and Exports 1,196.1 1,192.2 1,155.9 Others Domestic market 369.8 1,177.8 359.9 Overseas 15.4 13.6 11.0 subsidiaries Subtotal 1,581.3 2,383.6 1,526.8 Consolidated Adjustment -46,674.5 -62,175.0 -24,588.2 Total 68,371.2 73,330.0 66,669.5 Domestic Market vs. Export Contribution to Overall Revenue Export Domestic 30.44% 26.97% 27.76% 2011 2012 2013 69.56% 73.03% 72.24% 40 ● ● ● ● Performance Indicator Economic 2013 Condensed Income Statement Unit: KRW million Financial Statements 2011 2012 2013 Summary Sales 68,371,155 73,330,011 66,669,522 Cost of goods sold 63,551,358 69,743,724 63,407,690 Gross margin 4,819,797 3,586,287 3,261,832 SG&A expenses 1,860,314 1,886,923 1,878,941 Operating income 2,959,483 1,699,364 1,382,891 Finance income 2,704,798 2,165,208 1,641,325 Finance costs 2,736,881 2,323,725 1,866,347 Gains or losses from equity method 106,229 131,086 67,709 Non-operating income 2,191,143 110,990 130,351 Non-operating expenses 916,124 94,201 238,570 Income before income taxes 4,308,648 1,688,722 1,117,359 Income taxes 1,132,804 506,370 338,626 Net income 3,175,844 1,182,352 778,733 ✽2013 Financial Highlights are based on the conOther comprehensive income 166,274 -226,432 55,585 solidated financial statements of the 2013 Annual Report. Total comprehensive income 3,342,118 955,920 834,318 Condensed Balance Sheet Unit: KRW million 2011 2012 2013 Current assets 19,886,932 17,885,166 16,997,440 Non-current assets 15,139,949 15,945,914 18,291,430 Total assets 35,026,881 33,831,080 35,288,870 Current liabilities 14,305,452 12,024,818 11,665,350 Non-current liabilities 5,889,819 5,458,238 6,708,265 Total liabilities 20,195,271 17,483,056 18,373,615 Capital attributed to owners of the 14,577,275 15,371,342 15,839,458 parent company Capital 468,570 468,570 468,570 Other paid-in capital 5,741,388 5,757,017 5,756,998  onsolidated retained earnings C 8,202,693 9,114,823 9,535,337 Other capital 164,624 30,932 78,553 Non-controlling interests 254,335 976,683 1,075,796 Total shareholders’ equity 14,831,610 16,348,025 16,915,254 Government Grants In 2013, SK innovation received a total of USD 7.6 million through the Korean government’s Success Repayable Loan System program*1 for five overseas exploration and production (E&P) projects, including those in Colombia, Peru, Kazakhstan, Australia and Equatorial Guinea. The key blocks funded through this loan included the Zhambyl block in Kazakhstan, the Z-46 block in Peru, and the CPO-4 block in Colombia, where seismic surveys and drillings are underway at the moment. Government Grants Unit: USD 1,000 *1 The  Korean government subsidized E&P projects with a low chance of success in the form of loans, of which 2011 2012 2013 the principal and interest are repayable only if the exploration proves successful and generates a profit. 52,430 24,673 7,592 41 Sustainability Report 2013 Credit Rating The international credit rating agency Moody’s upgraded SK innovation from the previous Baa3 to Baa2 in 2013 for its financial stability. This was backed by a diversified business portfolio as well as continued reduction in borrowings. Return to Dividends as of Dec. 31, 2013 Shareholders 2011 2012 2013 Par value per share (KRW) 5,000 5,000 5,000 Earnings per share (KRW) 34,004 12,720 7,832 Dividends per common share (KRW) 2,800 3,200 3,200 Dividends per preferred share (KRW) 2,850 3,250 3,250 ✽Earnings per share refers to the earnings per equity Total cash dividends (KRW million) 261,001 298,278 298,278 attributable to owners of the parent company Subsidiaries & Shareholders as of Dec. 31, 2013 ● Shareholders with more than 5 percent of outstanding shares Unit: shares, % Name No. of shares in holdings Ownership SK Corp. 30,883,788 33.40 National Pension Service 7,946,224 8.59 ● Subsidiaries Unit: % *1 SK incheon petrochemical increased its capital by issuing new preferred stocks on July 16, 2013 (common SK incheon SK trading SK energy SK global chemical SK lubricants international share 100%). petrochemical*1 ✽SK innovation’s ownership of each subsidiary 100 100 100 68 100 Risk Management Dependence on Foreign Sources of Crude Oil and Market Price Fluctuation Risks Most Korean petroleum production companies are entirely dependent on importing crude oil, which constitutes a significant feedstock for all oil-related products. Both the supply and price of imported crude oil are determined by numerous factors. SK innovation takes numerous measures to minimize the risk factors arising from the fluctuation in market prices of crude oil, but various global factors—whether economic, regulatory or political, as well as weather conditions—can alter market prices. SK innovation’s capability to secure crude oil is relatively stable because we import most of our crude oil based on long-term contracts with a variety of oil providers, and only a small portion through the spot market. Since exchange rates have a significant impact on oil imports and sales, they are considered critical risk factors. To reduce the risk from such fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, SK innovation closely monitors foreign exchange-related risks in its operating and non-operating profits/losses using the VaR (Value-at-Risk) methodology. It also hedges excessive risks with derivative products such as future exchanges and currency swaps under foreign currency management rules. The Treasury Team at SK innovation keeps track of all profits or losses to do with foreign exchange transactions, while also maintaining a derivatives portfolio and hedge plans, all of which it then provide reports to top management regularly. 42 ● ● ● ● Performance Indicator Economic Risks Arising from Concentrated Facility Operations and Environmental Regulations Refining, transporting and storing crude oil, refined petroleum products and petrochemical products involves many significant hazards, including fires, explosions, spills and other unexpected accidents. Any interruption to operations as a result of an accident or any other unexpected problem adversely affects a company. At SK innovation, we carry insurance in amounts recommended by overseas rating agencies to cover any damages that might occur at both of our complexes. The insurance coverage is deemed sufficient to restore all facilities in the event of an unforeseen accident and to compensate immediate monetary losses. Furthermore, SK innovation abides by all federal and local environmental laws and regulations. However, we go even further when complying with related laws and regulations, including those governing pollutant emissions, fuel equality, and the handling, use, storage, transportation and disposal of petroleum-based products. SK innovation is also in full accordance with all applicable laws and regulations regarding the discharge of oil, gas and other pollutants into the air, soil and/ or water. As governmental and non-governmental groups continue to require stricter environmental regulations in the future, additional capital expenditures or operating expenses will be needed, which will ultimately affect our overall business performance. Compliance System in Response to Regulatory Risks SK innovation has in place a compliance system (CS) for its executives, management and employees to ensure the company-wide legal compliance in regards to sustainability management, society and the environment. The system devises plans on evaluating/managing legal risks associated with all business activities conducted by its employees in compliance with related regulations and systematically responds to the legal risks through education, support and monitoring of compliance practices, while also reviewing the effectiveness of these activities and improving their practices. Based on key risk factors identified through our in-house tests, we have assigned specific organizations in charge of each factor to establish an efficient system for legal risk management in the daily fulfillment of duties by compliance organizations. We also provide real-time monitoring and legal counseling on key risk factors around the clock and collect these self-check results from each team to run feasibility tests with key risk factor management practices. Compliance System Key Risk Factor Compliance organizations Major Activities Sustainability General shareholders’ meeting/ Finance Office/Office of the Holding GSM and supporting BOD meetings management Board of directors meeting Board of Directors Ethical management Internal Audit Office Accounting audits, business audits, ethics consulting/reporting programs Economy Investment management Portfolio Mgt. Office Supporting legal compliance at investment companies Accounting/taxation/disclosure/ Accounting Office/ Tax Office/ Reviewing taxation/disclosure/accounting/foreign exchange issues, foreign exchange Finance Office establishing/operating an internal accounting control system Protecting intellectual properties Global Technology Filing/Managing intellectual properties, including patent rights Strategy Office SHE SHE Management System SHE Division SHE Regulation risk response/check Society Working conditions/non-regular Human Resources Office HRM Committee, reviewing labor issues, sexual harassment employees prevention education Subcontracting/Win-win partnerships Procurement Office Reviewing subcontracting issues, Win-Win Partnership Committee Fair transactions Corporate Relations Office Legal advisory/Education on various subjects including fair (anti-trust, unfair transactions) transactions 43 Sustainability Report 2013 Global With the aim of becoming a technology-driven innovative company, SK innovation is actively Technology pursuing new technology R&D and new business in the renewable energy, petroleum/ petrochemical and new materials industries based on its world-class original technologies. The Global Technology serves a pivotal role in the R&D and engineering support of SK innovation and its subsidiaries. The Global Technology is comprised of Engineering Division, Global Technology Strategy Office, and GT Management Support Office and of a Institute of Technology that consists of an Energy R&D Center, Lubricants R&D Center, Chemicals R&D Center, Performance Materials R&D Center, Catalyst·Process R&D Center and Battery R&D Center. SK innovation assetizes its R&D results and held a total of 1,068 patent rights as of the end of 2013. Most patents deal with the refinery process, lubricants, polymers, I/E materials and batteries, all of which are key to SK innovation’s main business operations or with a high potential for key technologies in the future. R&D Expenses R&D Areas as of Dec. 31, 2013 ● Petroleum R&D Expenses/Sales (%) We are playing a leading role in the development and production of oil R&D Expenses (KRW million) resources through consistent R&D efforts to develop advanced petroleumrelated technologies associated with processing extra-heavy oil processing and increasing the production of crude oil. E&P technology / Oil improvement technology / Eco-friendly/high-performance 151,331 0.23 petroleum products / Asphalt 2013 ● Lubricant We produce a VHVI (very high viscosity index) premium lube base oil called YUBASETM and an advanced lubricant called ZICTM that is based on YUBASETM. 149,401 High-grade lube base oil (YUBASETM) / High-performance lubricant (ZICTM) / HVI 0.20 lube base oil 2012 ● Petrochemical We have original catalyst technologies and process them to create high valueadded aromatics products. In addition, our technological depth was backed 153,831 up when we became the world’s first company to develop fluidized catalytic 0.23 naphtha cracking technology. 2011 Olefin technology / Aromatics technology / Petroleum technology / Petrochemical technology ● Polymers We were the first company to commercialize CO2-based plastics technology and we possess the world’s most competitive technologies in manufacturing high-performance polyolefin and PE-RT products. GreenPol / Nexlene / EPDM rubber / On-demand products ● Advanced Battery Lithium polymer batteries for electric vehicles and energy storage systems. EV batteries / Energy storage systems / next-generation batteries 44 ● ● ● ● Performance Indicator Economic ● New Energy Developing future-oriented innovative energy technologies, including nextgeneration biofuels, clean coal energy, and hydro energy Clean coal energy / Biofuels / Hydrogen energy ● New Materials New Technology Development & Drawing on our core competencies in the polymer and petrochemical Awards (2013) businesses, we are actively developing new materials for the I/E and energy Dec. 19, 2013  sectors. HBD earned the NET accreditation LiBS (Lithium-ion Battery Separators) / FCCL (Flexible Copper Clad Laminates) / Nov. 12, 2013 Optic film FCCL received the Presidential Commendation at the 2013 New Technology Commercialization Awards 2013 R&D Achievements Nov. 12, 2013 FCCL was awarded the Ministerial Commendation ● GreenPol at the 2013 Korea Technology Awards SKI was the world’s first company to successfully transform CO2 into polymers in commercial Oct. 30, 2013 size to produce eco-friendly plastics. Cho Yong-Gyun, Principal Researcher, was awarded the Component & Material Technology Prize at ● Green Coal (Clean Coal Energy) the 2013 Global Component & Material Industrial Awards The Green Coal project was named one of the “Top 100 future-leading technologies of Korea by 2020” in 2013 by Korea’s National Academy of Engineering. Commercial-level. Oct. 24, 2013 Kim Suk-Joon, Principal Researcher, won the low-rank coal gasification technology package development completed. YOONCHANGGU prize from the Korea Institute of ● High-performance Polyethylene (Nexlene) Chemical Engineers SK innovation was the first Korean company to develop original technology for highApr. 21, 2013 performance polyethylene (Nexlene) utilizing a single-site catalyst. Newly constructed and with Cho Yong-Rae, Principal Researcher, earned an annual capacity of 230,000 tons within the Ulsan complex, the Nexlene plant will reinforce the Ministerial Commendation at the Scientific Technology Promotion Merit Awards our high value-added petroleum product portfolio. ● Hydro-treated Biodiesel The oxygen-isomerase reaction integration process technology for enhancing productivity of hydrotreated biodiesel earned national accreditation with New Excellent Technology and related patents. This is currently under work for international licensing. What is the strength of this technology and what influence does it have on our daily lives? SK innovation was the world’s first company to successfully develop the continuous production process, commercializing GreenPol technology at a reduced cost. In fact, we have already supplied GreenPol-based products in plastic bags for Paris Baguette, Korea’s largest bakery franchise. It is a biodegradable plastic product and is going to be commercialized in the near future, as it has shown a low defect rate. In the future, we expect an explosive increase in the use of GreenPol in tandem with the growing needs for more eco-friendly products. Kwon, Tae-wook GreenPol Project Team Leader, SK innovation 45 Sustainability Report 2013 Social Performance 1 Employees SK innovation is building a great workplace where its employees can enjoy working in desirable working conditions. As its people constitute the fundamental competitiveness of the company, it strives for human resource development and motivates its employees with performance-based compensation and generous fringe benefits as well as fair recruitment. Fair Opportunities and SK innovation strictly prohibits discrimination in any form against employees at its business Respect for Diversity premises, and always strives to ensure fair, reasonable opportunities for employees so that they can realize their full potential. All recruitment procedures abide by Korea’s Labor Standards Act and Equal Employment Act to ensure fair procedures across the board. In addition, the terms and conditions of employment fully comply with Korea’s standard collective bargaining agreement, employment standards, and employment agreements. Female employment is adhered to under all applicable laws regarding the prohibition and regulations of gender-based discrimination, with the company also offering an annual training session to prevent sexual harassment in the workplace. SK innovation ensures equal opportunity for female employees and equal pay for equal positions. Furthermore, women who have just given birth can take advantage of a generous maternity leave package and rest assured that they can later return to their same position. Also, SK innovation closely collaborates with the Promotion of Employment for the Disabled with the Korea Employment Promotion Agency for the Disabled so that 2.5 percent of its workforce will soon be made up of disabled people, the legally required percentage of disabled employees. Workforce Unit: persons 5,943 6,346 6,350 2011 2012 2013 Regular/non-regular employees Unit: persons(%) Regular Non-regular 88 (1.5) 117 (1.8) 110 (1.7) 2011 2012 2013 5,855 (98.5) 6,229 (98.2) 6,240 (98.3) 46 ● ● ● ● Performance Indicator Social No. of Workforce breakdown by gender Unit: persons(%) disabled employees Unit: persons Male Female 576 (9.7) 649 (10.2) 694 (10.9) 87 2013 2011 2012 2013 113 2012 5,367 (90.3) 5,697 (89.8) 5,656 (89.1) 2011 107 Workforce breakdown by age group Unit: persons(%) Under age 30 Between 30 and 50 years of age Above age 50 969 (16.3) 1,588 (25.0) 1,765 (27.8) 421 (7.1) 2011 2012 2013 568 (9.0) 510 (8.0) 4,553 (76.6) 4,190 (66.0) 4,075 (64.2) No. of retirees and severance rate No. of retirees by gender Unit: persons Severance Rate(%) Male Female No. of Retirees(persons) 130 39 209 44 194 30 224 3.5 2013 2011 2012 2013 253 4.0 2012 Average service years Unit: year 15.5 15.2 15.5 169 2.8 2011 2011 2012 2013 47 Sustainability Report 2013 Employees on Parental Leave Unit: persons 2011 2012 2013 Remarks Male employees entitled to paternity leave 853 1,042 927 No. of employees who have children under the Female employees entitled to maternity leave 151 182 191 age of six No. of male employees who used parental leave 1 As of the first day of No. of female employees who used maternity 31 43 58 parental leave leave No. of male employees who worked at least one Starting from the first year after returning from paternity leave day of returning from No. of female employees who worked at least 35 48 41 leave one year after returning from maternity leave Respect for Human Rights SK innovation upholds the human rights of all employees and strictly bans any form of & Non-Discrimination discrimination to ensure equality and harmonious relations within the organization. In compliance with all relevant labor laws, the company guarantees employees’ right to work and every labor union member’s freedom of association and collective bargaining under related labor laws. Furthermore, the company consults with the labor union regarding management issues of significant impact on employee rights, while details concerning business operations are shared with the labor union on an ongoing basis. In addition, the company immediately reports all results from its restructuring efforts and rewards/punishments to the labor union. SK innovation does not own any businesses that have a high risk of child labor, nor does it encourage forced labor and strictly prohibits such illegal activities. SK innovation Labor Union Unit: persons Associations No. of Permanent Union Office Members Membership Federation of Korean Trade Unions 3,569 7 Recruitment and Human SK innovation has adopted a “Right People” recruitment protocol to avert the usual recruitment Resources Development procedures that focus on specific skill sets. The new application forms request applicants’ background knowledge or special experiences, offering advantageous points for experience with running their own business/filing for patent rights or club/community activities. The paper screening stage has eliminated any specific skill set check and replaced it with a personal statement to see if applicants have the competencies suitable to the given job position and their adaptability to a given job. At SK innovation, human resources development (HRD) programs are conducted in four categories: Annual Training Hours Per Employee SK Values, Globality, Job Competency and Leadership. Unit: hours All HRD systems are based on the company’s management principle that pursues SUPEX through human-oriented management practices. 55 Based on these four categories, SK innovation’s HRD programs encourage its employees with selfled HRD programs and building a happy working environment where they can voluntarily and passionately work hard with a high level of engagement. 48 ● ● ● ● Performance Indicator Social Fair Evaluation & At SK innovation, employee evaluation systems are taking place in line with SK Values, Compensation competencies and performance standards. The company evaluates individual competencies, capabilities and accomplishments on a regular basis, which then provides the criteria for promotions, transfers, training and compensation. The evaluation criteria and processes differ depending on the job characteristics and position of each employee. Compensation is made in an established salary and bonus system to ensure fair compensation based on employees’ abilities, credentials, and performance. Bonuses are graded and paid out based on performance by calculating the company’s financial resources according to the EVA (economic value added) and KPI (key performance indicators). With a fair, reasonable promotion management program in place that takes into consideration employee evaluation results, SK innovation also takes into account each person’s abilities and credentials. Supporting Employee SK innovation offers employees generous fringe benefits in support of their self-development and Welfare financial stability to raise their morale. The main programs include health check-ups, medical bill subsidies, housing loans, and scholarships for child tuitions. There are also diverse vacation/leave programs, congratulations/ condolence support, and resort/condominium sharing programs. In recognition of their long-term service, the company confers rewards to employees of merit who are retiring and those who have served the company for a long period of time. SK innovation Fringe Benefits Lifestyle Culture/leisure Employee rewards programs programs program Housing loans Vacations/leaves Retirement pay of merit Children scholarships Congratulations and Long-year service rewards Health management and condolence support medical bill subsidies Resort & condominium sharing 49 Sustainability Report 2013 Social Performance 2 Social Contribution Committed to creating sustainable value for society, SK innovation fulfills its role as a corporate citizen and takes a far-sighted approach to tackle social issues with more fundamental solutions such as social enterprises, job creation, and underprivileged support. Employee SK innovation’s Released-Time program, which counts volunteer activities as part of job fulfillment, Volunteerism encourages employees to engage in company-wide volunteerism by incorporating volunteer activities into the corporate culture. Launched in July 2004, SK innovation’s 1004 Volunteer Corps oversees all company-wide volunteer activities controlling the 68 volunteer teams at its five worksites. No. of Volunteers Unit: persons 5,713 5,867 5,836 2011 2012 2013 Annual Volunteer Hours Unit: hours 56,355 48,256 42,562 2011 2012 2013 50 ● ● ● ● Performance Indicator Social Social Contribution Guided by the value to contribute to a higher quality of life, SK innovation is involved in a number Programs of programs committed to making Korea a happier society. Departing from one-time donations or short-sighted contributions, the company continuously implements new social contribution programs to tackle fundamental social problems and to stimulate sustainable change for a better society. Our social contribution programs focus on creating and supporting social enterprises and the social and economic ecosystems around them. We also attend to the different needs of local communities where our worksites are located through customized programs, while our employees volunteer in various activities, thereby effectively building connections with local residents. Pursuing Social Values 11 ● Supporting Social Economies SK innovation collaborates with the Community Chest of Korea through a joint project to “support seniors in finding jobs and contribute to the development of social economy.” To date, we have supported social economies (social enterprises, community businesses, and social cooperatives) in four regions across the nation, providing them with continued consulting services customized to their different needs as well as financial support. ● Pop-up Stores for Social Enterprises 22 In a bid to support the promotion of social economies, SK innovation has engaged in diverse support activities, such as pop-up stores, marketing education, and arranging transactions. On Social Enterprise Day in July 2013, we opened the first pop-up store for a social enterprise in Korea. ● Sponsoring Social Enterprises SK innovation began sponsoring social enterprises in 2007. In 2011, the company created one 1 Pop-up Stores for Social Enterprises of its own social enterprises, Happy Farm. After taking care of all the administrative and financial 2 Jeju United FC & Happiness Sharing Happy Wings aid for earning the business certification and stable operation of Happy Farm, we are proud of Campaign the fact that we established a successful social enterprise model. ● Jeju United FC & Happiness Sharing Happy Wings Campaign SK innovation runs a youth football club that has its own football ground and is attached to the Jeju United FC as a means to foster promising young football players from the local community. Whenever the Jeju United FC wins the home game, its 18 sponsor companies make donations in kind or cash to the fund, which is then delivered to the needy in the local communities as part of the Happiness Sharing Happy Wings Campaign. ● SK Sugar Gliders Women’s Handball Team & Sports Voucher Project SK innovation established the SK Sugar Gliders women’s handball team in support of the relatively unpopular sport in Korea. The company also runs a handball class for students in promotion of sports club activities. In connection with the sports voucher project, it also invites underprivileged children living in local communities to watch games. Environmental Stewardship ● Environmental Composition Contest Celebrating its 21st anniversary in 2013, the Environmental Composition Contest expanded its eligibility in 2012 to include audibly challenged students and developmentally challenged students in 2013. In 2014, approximately 1,300 blind, deaf and developmentally challenged students from elementary, middle and high schools participated in the contest and 53 award winners were invited to an overnight camp to share a precious experience together. 51 Sustainability Report 2013 11 ● Rose Festival in Ulsan Grand Park SK innovation built and then donated Ulsan Grand Park to Ulsan City. Since then, it has hosted an annual rose festival for local residents. In 2013, the company held the 8th festival under the theme “Rose City Ulsan!” in which 1.52 million people enjoyed the spectacle. ● Happy Flower Garden Since 1985, SK incheon petrochemical has been opening itself up to people to enjoy the local environment, including the city’s annual cheery blossom festival. The event serves to entertain 22 local residents and provide them with the opportunity to visit the eco-friendly petrochemical plant in person. Attracting an annual average of 20,000 visitors, the festival has become a famous festival in Incheon. ● Happy Flower Garden and Han River Flower Bed SK innovation has been building flower gardens at social welfare centers every spring for years. In 2013, its employees created flower gardens in 14 social welfare centers where they pay regular 1 Rose Festival in Ulsan Grand Park visits for volunteer activities. In collaboration with Seoul’s Hangang Park office, SK innovation 2 Happy Flower Garden employees volunteered to plant 15,000 bushes and flowers in Mangwon Hangang Park (Mapogu, Seoul) in 2013. Giving Back to Society 33 ● Happy Companionship SK innovation provides various support to its smalland medium-sized (SME) suppliers who lack financial and human resources and know-how in social contribution activities. By publicly inviting new ideas for social contribution activities from 240 of its suppliers and those of its subsidiaries, SK innovation grants funds and consulting services to prize winners for putting their ideas into action. Five finalists were supported with funds and consulting services in 2013. ● School for Love 44 Since 2000, SK innovation has been subsidizing financially distressed children in communities near its Ulsan CLX and SK incheon petrochemical sites with scholarships, meal expenses and school uniform expenses. In 2013, the number of beneficiaries amounted to 1,000 students from elementary, middle and high schools near its operations. ● Love Books We signed an agreement with the Ministry of Health and Welfare and SBS in May 2013 to 55 donate books for small libraries at local community childcare centers. Signatory SK gas stations and their customers now make donations and the raised funds are spent on buying books to donate to local community childcare centers. In 2013, the company also provided scholarships to children who won prizes at the Reading Camp and Reading Rewards Convention. ✽The Love Books website http://lovebook.enclean.com/ (Korean): Visit the website and leave a comment of cheering directed to the children of the local community childcare centers and we are donating one book per comment to the cited center. ● Barrier Free Tour 3 Happy Companionship In partnership with the Korea Tourism Organization (KTO), SK innovation operates the Barrier 4 Love Books Free Tour campaign, taking people with disabilities and financial distress to barrier-free trips 5 Barrier Free Tour to tourist attractions. In 2013, we organized four tours for 200 beneficiaries, including a lowincome hearing impaired couples’ trip to Jeju and a trip for the physically challenged and those with cerebral palsy to the Busan-Ulsan-Gyeongju regions by pairing them with able university students. 52 ● ● ● ● Performance Indicator Social ● Netruck House In promotion of the improved welfare of truck drivers, SK innovation runs Netruck House, a rest area service network exclusively for truck drivers. Since the opening of the first station in Gwangyang in October 2007, the network has grown to number 13 stations across the nation as of 2014. ● Table for Two SK innovation adopted the Table for Two initiative in 2013. Every Friday, our employees can donate KRW 300 per person when they choose the Table for Two menu. The raised funds are spent on providing school meals to undernourished children in Kenya, Uganda and Rwanda. Volunteer Activities 11 ● Sarang Kimchi & Coal Briquettes During SK innovation’s Happiness Sharing Season every October, all of the company’s employees go out and help the underprivileged prepare for the winter. In 2013, we provided 130,000 kilograms of kimchi to 11,000 households and 214 social welfare centers as well as 110,000 coal briquettes to 430 households across the nation in collaboration with the Korea Association of Volunteers’ Center. ● Prospective Science Mentoring and Quiz Contest for Children 2 In partnership with the Yuseong District Office, SK innovation’s Global Technology in Daedeok organized a prospective scientist mentoring event for 150 students from three elementary schools within the district. Since 2010, its Ulsan complex holds a quiz contest for 600 students from grades four through six in collaboration with the Ulsan Council of Social Welfare and a local community childcare center to inspire them with self-confidence and an interest in learning. ● One Employee-One Donation Account Campaign 1 Prospective Science Mentoring and Quiz Contest for SK innovation has been running the One Employee-One Donation Account Campaign since Children 2007. In 2013, 1,300 of our employees volunteered to chip in between KRW 5,000 and KRW 2 Walk with the Disabled Campaign 20,000 to the cause. The KRW 160 million fund raised through the campaign was delivered to the needy, including child patients with cancer for their medical bills. ● Industrial-Academia Collaboration Under the industrial-academia collaborative agreement signed with JEI University’s Department of Social Welfare in Incheon, SK innovation engages in a number of community services. The “Shoulder to Shoulder Festival”, our signature annual event of this kind since 2010, is an event to invite 110 children from local orphanages and other community childcare centers in Incheon to attend several cultural performances and recreation programs. Additionally, we regularly help local elderly citizens living alone with their bathing and invite them to the university students’ graduation exhibitions. ● Walk with the Disabled Campaign SK energy hosts the Walk with the Disabled event every Fall in collaboration with the Ulsan Organization of the Disabled in an effort to help raise public awareness of disabilities and to provide the abled and disabled to come together and better understand each other. At the 10th event, in 2013, 240 disabled citizens, their families and volunteers took part, all of whom walked around Igidae Park and visited Oryukdo Island. 53 Sustainability Report 2013 Social Performance 3 Customers SK innovation has implemented a number of customer satisfaction activities with high-quality customer service, maintaining trust-based relationships with its customers through ceaseless endeavors for sustainable customer value. CS*1 Framework SK innovation aims to become a trustworthy company that is fully respected by its customers. To that end, the company has explicitly proclaimed its commitment to customer satisfaction in the *1 Customer Satisfaction basic principles of its business management framework (SKMS). Its CS Framework consists of onsite CS standards promotion, on-site CS surveys, on-site CS improvement activities and gathering Voice of Customer (VOC) systems. Standards Promotion SK innovation has in place CS standards for its SK service stations nationwide in order to provide the same high level of customer service across the country. The SK Service Station CS Guidelines stipulate the essential services that all SK service stations must follow, such as the clean management of all gas stations, how to deal with customers, and how to respond immediately to customer requests. The company also runs various programs to help service stations quickly adapt to the guidelines. Practices at Customer Contact Points SK innovation runs an on-site CS monitoring system at all its service stations called ACE (Appearance, Cleanliness, Evaluation). For the evaluation, panels selected by a the consigned research agency visit the gas stations and fill up as mystery shoppers to monitor CS practices and check the customer satisfaction level. The evaluation results are analyzed and sent to the gas station for 11 future improvements. Improvement Activities ● On-site CS Improvement and CS 119 Team SK innovation’s CS 119 Team is a CS consulting program in which CS experts visit service 22 stations, check on their service levels, and suggest customized on-site training to help them improve their customer satisfaction levels. The focus is on increasing the CS mindset of operators at the stations and on providing intensive care to service stations that score below average. ● Employee CS Campaign: Service Station CS Campaign SK innovation runs an annual Employee CS Campaign. The 2013 campaign was under the slogan “Your smile makes us happy” to learn the thoughts and requests of customers on-site 1, 2 Employee CS Campaign and to reflect the findings in our plans for improving CS quality. 54 ● ● ● ● Performance Indicator Social ● Quality Assurance Program In order to further customers’ trust in SK service stations, SK innovation runs a quality assurance program. The program monitors service station practices on a regular basis and offers rewards in advance if any customer discovers a problem with their car or their purchase after filling up at an SK service station in an effort to dispel customers’ mistrust in any gas station’s operations. ● Increasing Membership and Affiliate Service Benefits SK innovation was Korea’s first oil refiner to adopt a membership service in 1996. Today, the company offers all EnClean Bonus Card holders with 0.1 percentage of their purchase in OK Cashbag points for filling up with gas at SK service stations and 0.5 percentage of their purchase in OK Cashbag points for using LPG at its service stations. For all customers who use an SK service station since the first day of the previous month, the company offers a generous benefit of up to 30 percent discount/15 percent accumulated in mileage points with its alliance partners for the second visit in the following month. Furthermore, we launched a new mileage card in 2012 that offers a discount service on the spot, with the discount amount printed on the receipt when filling up with gas. At the moment, the number of alliance cards available for this service has grown to 15 different types. Committed to providing even more benefits to customers, we plan to convert all our discount card benefits to allow on-the-spot discount benefits. ● Legal Compliance SK innovation and its subsidiaries comply faithfully with the Broadcasting and Advertising Act, Consumer Protection Act, and other applicable laws, and did not violate any laws related to its products and services in 2013. Voice of Customer (VOC) System ● Collecting VOC At SK innovation’s SK energy Customer Happiness Center, skilled CS attendants who are specialized in their respective service areas quickly address customer requests. The VOC feedback process allows the company to swiftly attend to customer complaints and the collected VOCs are reported to the department in charge. ● Protecting Customer Information On May 30, 2014, SK innovation obtained the PIMS (personal information management system)*1 certification by the Korea Communications Commission and Korea Internet Security Agency on its customer information protection practices in order to safeguard the privacy of its *1 Issued by the Korea Communications Commission, PIMS EnClean membership holders. Keeping its anti-virus program up-to-date, the company always is a certification given to businesses that meet the given makes sure that customer information is safely protected and customer information is encrypted level of standards for protecting personal information in before transmitting anything via its networks. 118 criteria out of a total of 325 criteria in three categories of personal information management processes, privacy The company’s firewalls block any unauthorized external access to the information database protection policy and personal information lifecycle. and the newly established Security Operation Center (SOC)*2, which reinforces the technical *2 T he SOC is a separate office for access to the personal and physical security management of customer information. At the same time, we confine information database where Internet access is blocked and admits only authorized personnel under the roundaccessibility to customer privacy to only a handful of trained employees and the company gives the-clock guidance of guards who stand at the metal deregular onand off-line education to all employees, while the Group has also implemented tection gate to strictly control the carrying of any storage a Personal Information Protection Certification program so as to further enhance employee devices, including USBs. awareness of protecting customer privacy. 55 Sustainability Report 2013 Safety, Health, Environment Performance SK innovation contributes to building a healthier and safer society, while taking the lead in its commitment to environmental stewardship through initiatives for minimizing greenhouse gas and pollutant emissions. GHG Reduction SK innovation has in place its own strategy to tackle global issues arising from climate change. Over the years, it has continued to carry out voluntary reduction activities, including earning carbon credits by reporting GHG (greenhouse gas) reduction results, improving manufacturing processes, and participating in pilot projects. Building a Greenhouse Gas and Energy Management System (GEMS) With the GHG and Energy Target Management System (GEMS) taking effect, SK innovation developed its own GEMS to monitor its GHG emissions on a daily basis in connection with its Operation Information System (OIS), augmenting its low-carbon management system. The company’s GEMS gathers all the necessary data to calculate GHG emissions from the OIS, which is monitored daily, and automatically tallies emissions, allowing the company to efficiently check its accomplishments against annual reduction targets through systematic calculations and periodical monitoring of company-wide emissions. The creation of GEMS has dramatically increased accessibility and convenience for OIS users, letting them easily view and monitor GHG data. With employees throughout the company able to check on GHG emissions generated from the equipment they use at work, GEMS is expected to raise employee awareness concerning low-carbon management. The OIS data, the underlying database of GEMS, is linked to the company’s Accounting Management System, which will allow each production unit to reflect its carbon accounting once the Emissions Trading Scheme is adopted. GHG and Energy Target Management System Since 2000, SK innovation has calculated its GHG emissions and had these figures assured by an external agency as per ISO 14064 requirements. Additionally, the company has been calculating GHG emissions under the government’s Target Management System Guidelines since 2007, with the data then verified by a government-designated agency. Three subsidiaries at SK innovation—SK energy, SK global chemical and SK lubricants—have completed reporting their greenhouse gas and energy management practices and have them verified as mandated by the Framework Act on Low Carbon and Green Growth. SK Petrochemical, which spun off in 2013, was also allocated with a GHG& Energy Target management quota starting in 2014. 56 ● ● ● ● Performance Indicator SHE GHG Emissions Unit: 1,000 tCO2 2011 2012 2013 SK energy Direct 6,343 6,120 6,003 Indirect 1,106 1,293 1,162 Subtotal 7,449 7,413 7,165 SK global chemical Direct 2,626 2,467 2,422 Indirect 1,150 1,103 1,150 Subtotal 3,776 3,570 3,572 SK lubricants Direct 63 62 75 Indirect 87 147 150 Subtotal 150 209 225 ✽Following the spin-off of SK incheon petrochemical SK incheon petrochemical Direct 627 635 574 from SK energy in 2013, SK energy’s GHG emissions for 2011 and 2012 were recalculated after excluding Indirect 162 190 171 those of SK incheon petrochemical. ✽Data is based on that which was reported in the 2013 Subtotal 789 825 745 GHG emissions and energy use specifications Emissions Trading Scheme (ETS) In 2007, SK innovation became the first Korean company to adopt an internal Emissions Trading System. It then expanded the ETS operation company-wide in 2009. Based on the data and information collected, SK innovation outlined a framework for adopting the ETS across the SK Group in 2010, then staged simulated trading with SK Group affiliates and Korea East-West Power Co. In 2011, the company participated in the government-led ETS pilot project (supervised by the Ministry of Knowledge Economy). In preparation for the enforcement of the ETS in January 2015, SK innovation and its subsidiaries are expediting their establishment of the optimal ETS framework based on inter-subsidiary GHG emissions and trading for carbon credits. Minimizing the Emissions SK innovation applies stricter internal standards than the legal minimum requirements with respect to of Pollutants air, water and soil pollutants, other waste and hazardous substances. As a result, SK innovation has not seen any action taken against it for a violation of environmental regulations over the past 5 years. At SK innovation, the company has made it standard operating procedure to have an environmental impact assessment conducted on all activities that may have an environmental impact–whether in the construction, expansion, or modification phase of a plant–in an effort to protect the environment in areas directly adjacent to each and every plant. In addition to the environmental impact assessments carried out on the manufacturing processes every 5 years, an environmental impact assessment on the procurement of raw/subsidiary materials is also carried out on a regular basis when changes are made to any processes or work methods. Neighboring areas around SK innovation plants are all petrochemical industrial complexes and thus not suitable as habitats for wild animals. Regardless, the company is still diligent when it comes to preserving and monitoring local ecosystems. Based on data concerning wildlife protected areas and published by Korea’s Ministry of Environment, we can certify that there are no areas with high levels of biodiversity that are adversely affected by the company’s production activities. 57 Sustainability Report 2013 Air Pollutant Controls SK innovation applies strict emission standards and strives to limit the levels of pollutant emissions to an absolute minimum. At its major facilities where air pollutants are discharged, the company uses TMS (Tele-Metering Systems) for 24/7 pollutant emissions monitoring and also conducts periodic patrols and check-ups.At the same time, we control volatile organic compound (VOC) levels and odors by operating VOC and odor control systems in order to maintain a clean and agreeable plant environment. SK innovation does not produce, distribute or use any substances defined as harmful to the ozone layer as defined by the Montreal Protocol. SK energy’s Ulsan complex also signed up to the Phase 2 (2012–2016) Ulsan City Voluntary Agreement in 2012 and has exceeded the reduction target for 2013 by 13 percent. In addition, the plant reprocessed all sour water with corrosive content from its production process before reusing it as desalinating water, while also reusing some of the treated wastewater for fire extinguishing use and/or watering gardens. As a result, the plant maintains its discharge of emissions from wastewater treatment plant 10 to 40 percent lower than the legal minimum. Air Pollutant Emissions Concentrations Legal Limit/ Pollutant Worksite CompanyStandard 2011 2012 2013 SOx (ppm) SK energy(Ulsan) 180/170 30.9 27.4 28.9 SK global chemical(Ulsan) 180/160 40.1 16.9 14.9 SK incheon 180/160 43.0 20.2 15.1 petrochemical(Incheon) NOx (ppm) SK energy(Ulsan) 200/180 74 73.3 79.1 SK global chemical(Ulsan) 150/130 110.0 94.4 91.6 SK incheon 250/235 84.3 74.2 69.3 petrochemical(Incheon) Dust (mg/m ) SK energy(Ulsan) 2 50/40 5 5.4 4.7 ✽Emission standards refer to the emission limits of SOx SK global chemical(Ulsan) 30/20 5.8 4.9 4.3 and NOx from heaters and the emission limit of dust from boilers. The average concentration level covers SK incheon 30/25 4.6 4.4 4.5 the entire process from the Ulsan complex. petrochemical(Incheon) Air Pollutant Emissions Volume Pollutant Worksite 2011 2012 2013 SOx(ton) SK energy(Ulsan) 3,439 3,206 3,165 SK global chemical(Ulsan) 498 213 208 SK incheon 684 360 225 petrochemical(Incheon) NOx(ton) SK energy(Ulsan) 5,895 6,226 6,097 SK global chemical(Ulsan) 1,408 1,197 1,151 SK incheon 950 912 762 petrochemical(Incheon) Dust(ton) SK energy(Ulsan) 191 224 177 SK global chemical(Ulsan) 43 38 32 ✽SK lubricants uses clean fuels and is not subject to SK incheon measuring its air pollutant emissions, as its entire 21 20 17 facilities are petrochemical(Incheon) 58 ● ● ● ● Performance Indicator SHE Water Pollutant Controls Recently, SK innovation completed work on an MBR (Membrane Bioreactor), a remote water quality monitoring system and highly efficient biological wastewater treatment system. Sour water, which contains corrosive materials generated from the production process, is reused as desalter feed water to reduce wastewater generation and water usage, with some of the reclaimed water used for fire extinguishing and watering gardens to maintain effluent discharge levels at or below 10 to 40 percent of emission standards. Furthermore, SK innovation treats spent caustic soda through a wet air oxidation (WAO) system, which was developed using the company’s in-house technology. Wastewater Treatment Worksite Treatment Facility Treatment Method Destination SK energy Ulsan CLX Wastewater Biological + Advanced Public bodies of water (Ulsan) Treatment Plant treatment (east coast) No. 2FCC Wastewater Yongyeon Sewage Biological treatment Treatment Plant Treatment Terminal SK global chemical PE/PP Wastewater Physiochemical Yongyeon Sewage (Ulsan) Treatment Plant treatment Treatment Terminal EPDM Wastewater Yongyeon Sewage Biological treatment ✽C onstruction of SK energy’s #2 FCC wastewater Treatment Plant Treatment Terminal treatment plant was completed in June 2008. SK incheon ✽SK lubricants does not have in-house wastewater Incheon CLX Wastewater Biological + Advanced Gajwa Sewage petrochemical treatment facilities and shares that facility with SK Treatment Plant treatment Treatment Terminal (Incheon) energy to treat the wastewater it discharges. Wastewater Discharge Unit: 1,000 tons Worksite 2011 2012 2013 SK energy(Ulsan) 12,819 13,667 14,072 SK global chemical(Ulsan) 1,273 1,329 1,398 SK incheon petrochemical(Incheon) 1,767 1,573 1,568 Average Water Pollutant Emissions Concentration Legal Limit/ Pollutant Worksite CompanyStandard 2011 2012 2013 COD (ppm) SK energy Ulsan CLX 40/20 11.5 10.5 8.1 No.2FCC 90/70 23.3 17.3 14.9 SK global PE/PP 90/70 10.6 8.5 8.4 chemical EPDM 90/70 29.4 24.1 25.0 SK incheon Incheon 90/40 17.6 19.8 14.6 petrochemical CLX SS (ppm) SK energy Ulsan CLX 10/8 2.9 2.9 4.4 No.2FCC 80/60 35.9 36.7 32.5 SK global PE/PP 80/60 10.9 16.0 16.0 chemical EPDM 80/60 15.0 13.0 14.0 SK incheon Incheon 80/30 10.9 10.8 5.9 petrochemical CLX Oil (ppm) SK energy Ulsan CLX 5/1 0.4 0.4 0.3 No.2FCC 5/3.7 2.2 2.7 1.3 SK global PE/PP 5/3.7 0.4 0.4 0.3 chemical EPDM 5/3.7 0.4 01 0.1 SK incheon Incheon 5/3 0.51 0.78 0.46 petrochemical CLX 59 Sustainability Report 2013 Soil and Groundwater SK innovation systematically manages the soil and groundwater at all its worksites and participates management in the Voluntary Agreement Regarding the Survey and Restoration of Soil Containment promoted by the Korean government. Every two years, the company inspects soil quality, with the 2013 inspection results showing that soil pollutants were under the legal limits. Annual Soil Containment Investigation Results 2011 2012 2013 Pollutant Worksite Spots Results Spots Results Spots Results *1 TPH SK energy(Ulsan) 528 Normal 716 Normal 620 Normal SK global chemical(Ulsan) NA NA NA NA 67 Normal SK lubricants(Ulsan) 17 Normal 22 Normal 16 Normal SK incheon 10 Normal 208 Normal 222 Normal petrochemical(Incheon) *2 SK energy(Ulsan) 171 Normal 204 Normal 225 Normal BTEX *1 TPH(Total Petroleum Hydrocarbon SK global chemical(Ulsan) NA NA NA NA 60 Normal *2 BTEX(Benzene, Toluene, Ethyl benzene, Xylene) *3 TCE(Tri-Chloro Ethylene) SK lubricants(Ulsan) NA NA NA NA NA NA ✽Under the Korean Soil Environment Management SK incheon Act, SK lubricants' facilities are subject only to the 132 Normal 153 Normal TPH analysis and the company does not own any petrochemical(Incheon) designated soil contamination management facility *3 SK energy(Ulsan) TCE that is subject to the BTEX and TCE application. ✽SK global chemical conducted the 2011 investigation SK global chemical(Ulsan) NA NA NA NA NA NA in 2010, with the next investigation scheduled for 2013. SK lubricants(Ulsan) NA NA NA NA NA NA ✽S K energy and SK incheon petrochemical run the SK incheon BTEX and TCE analyses every two years, but the terms 6 Normal 6 Normal petrochemical(Incheon) are adjustable to the checking cycles of tanks. Waste Control SK innovation sends waste oil to renewable fuel plants to produce recycled fuels and has developed its own waste treatment system using its proprietary technologies. While providing employees and suppliers with recycling training, we also periodically check on-site recycling practices to raise recycling rates. In 2013, SK innovation was not involved in or did not conduct any trans-boundary movement of waste as stipulated in the Basel Convention. Waste Discharge Volume Unit: tons Pollutant Worksite 2011 2012 2013 Special SK energy(Ulsan) 27,718 25,402 20,389 Waste SK global chemical(Ulsan) 3.291 5,007 5,438 SK lubricants(Ulsan) 84 147 235.2 SK incheon 3,341 3,294 4,306 petrochemical(Incheon) General SK energy(Ulsan) 71,290 49,551 42,363 Waste SK global chemical(Ulsan) 9,992 14,009 11,873 SK lubricants(Ulsan) 3,518 2,654 591 SK incheon 4,012 3,205 4,147 petrochemical(Incheon) 60 ● ● ● ● Performance Indicator SHE Discharge Volume by Treatment Method Unit: tons 2011 2012 2013 In-house Treatment (landfill) 62.4 733.6 17.5 Outsourced Volume-Recycled 85,641 41,110 34,261 ✽Figures represent the volume of waste discharge treated at SK energy’s Ulsan complex. Outsourced Volume-Incinerated/landfilled 37,543 33,110 28,473 Hazardous Chemical SK innovation has established an MSDS (material safety data sheet) system based on the SK Substance Emissions Control Group’s e-MSDS in compliance with the GHS (globally harmonized system) to effectively take control of its hazardous chemical substance emissions. In addition, SK innovation has signed a volunteer agreement on reducing chemical substance emissions with the Korean government and makes every effort to achieve its pledged goal of reduction. Under the SMART program agreement with Korea’s Ministry of Environment and Ulsan City on decreasing its chemical emission levels, the Ulsan complex at SK energy and SK global chemical pledged to curtail their benzene and *1 LDAR: Leak Detection and Repair System A system butadiene emissions by 29 percent and 35 percent, respectively, compared to emissions levels in to create an inventory, measure concentration levels, feed data, improve equipment functionality and the base year (2009) for five years from 2013 to 2017. For the safe control of chemical substances control repair & replacement of equipment to reduce and the reduction of chemical emissions, the complex continues to improve its chemical substance chemical emissions from fugitive emission sources. control system and is developing an LDAR*1 system. Environmental Investments SK innovation continues with its environmental investments to enhance its energy efficiency as well as minimize pollutants generated at its plants. Environmental Investment Expenses by Year Unit: KRW billion 38.66 38.54 50.12 2011 2012 2013 61 Sustainability Report 2013 Enhancing energy efficiency At SK innovation, we are well aware that energy and resource conservation helps reduce both our environmental impact and production costs. Therefore, we have made consistent efforts to utilize all resources as efficiently as possible. Based on the extensive research of leading examples of energy and resource conservation, we built a related database to improve the resource use efficiency at all our work processes. At the same time, we make continuous efforts to save energy by increasing facility efficiency, reduce energy loss in supply systems, and optimize power equipment. Enhancing energy use control SK innovation takes advantage of its Operation Information System (OIS) to ensure the highest level of reliability for data related to its energy consumption. It also utilizes other sophisticated computer programs like PMS (Process Monitoring System) for real-time energy use monitoring. Energy Conservation Campaigns SK innovation adopted electric vehicles (EVs) for business use and set up an accompanying charge station in 2012. Every employee at SK innovation and its subsidiaries, from top management to the lowest-ranked staff, participated in the company’s energy conservation campaign to “unplug, untie, turn off, and take the stairs.” In 2013, we expanded the application of this campaign and established 50 action plans for saving energy that are applicable to our office buildings and worksites, encouraging the positive participation of employees. SK innovation and its energy-related subsidiaries maximized the operation of their own power generators at each of their worksites during peak electricity times and replaced all lighting in service stations to high-efficiency LED lighting. The company also utilizes an Ice Thermal Storage System that takes advantage of idle electricity after midnight to make ice, which is reused to create cool air during the day when air-conditioning the office building. This has helped us save KRW 300 million in electricity bills annually. SK innovation has also implemented a collective energy project to recycle and reuse its surplus resources for the low-coast, stable supply of steam to neighboring companies. In 2012, the company initiated a Steam Highway project to sell low-cost steam produced by SK chemical to affiliated subsidiaries and other non-SK Group companies, while continuously reducing its energy use. Furthermore, to make the most of biomass resources, SK innovation has been turning gas generated from the Seongam Sanitary Landfill in Ulsan (CO2, CH4) into fuels which it has started providing to Kumho Petrochemical Co., Ltd. and a waste incineration plant in Ulsan. 2013 Energy Use Unit: TJ Direct Indirect Fuel Electricity Steam Total SK energy 67,835 16,504 -9,387 74,952 SK global chemical 53,411 9,144 9,628 72,183 SK lubricants 164 790 1,392 2,346 SK incheon ✽Bunker-C and fuel gas are the main fuel sources. 15,543 3,513 19,056 petrochemical ✽Data is based on that which was reported in the 2013 Total 136,953 29,951 1,633 168,537 GHG emissions and energy use specifications 62 ● ● ● ● Performance Indicator SHE Amount of Energy Sales through Community Energy Supply Projects (steam) Unit: tons 2011 2012 2013 ✽The amount of energy supply has surpassed the Amount (Ulsan complex) -339,354 -124,000 -1,018,720 amount of energy sales since 2009. Oil Imported Volume (PEDSIS* ) 1 Resource use performance Unit: 1,000 barrels 313,660 307,019 293,185 *1 PEDSIS: as reported to the Korea National Oil Corporation 2011 2012 2013 Crude Oil Process Volume Unit: 1,000 barrels 324,508 318,934 292,350 2011 2012 2013 2013 Substance Process and Production Volume Substances Annual processing and production volume SK energy Crude Oil ·Annual processing capacity: 279,551,000 barrels SK global Basic Organic Petrochemicals ·Annual production volume: 9,977,000 tons chemical (Ulsan complex) SK lubricants Lube Base Oil (Ulsan complex) ·Annual production volume: 9,653,586 barrels Lubricant (Ulsan complex) ·Annual production volume: 1,607,825 barrels SK incheon Crude Oil ·Annual processing capacity: 12,799,000 barrels petrochemical Water Sources and Volume Unit: tons Water Sources 2011 2012 2013 Nakdong River Daeamje/ 35,301,920 34,832,388 35,420,067 Seonamje ✽SK innovation is supplied water by the Korea Water Han River Water System Resources Corporation, with water intake not 2,776,276 2,858,223 3,015,131 (SK incheon petrochemical) affecting the water sources. 63 Sustainability Report 2013 Environmental Impact of SK innovation has always worked hard to minimize the environmental impact of its products and Products services. Aside from innovative activities to improve the environmental performance of gasoline, diesel, and kerosene, the company continues to invest in green technology development and green businesses. Reporting on guidelines provided by the Korean Ministry of Environment (ME), SK innovation also monitors the benzene and chemical content levels of gasoline products, while the lead content of its products is not reported as the levels are negligible. In regards to diesel products, only sulfur content levels are required to be disclosed. SK innovation is dedicated to improving environmental friendliness by producing gasoline and diesel that meets the world’s most stringent sulfur content levels, from 4 to 6 ppm. As a result, the company’s excellent quality has been recognized by the ME. As a proponent of Korean government’s biodiesel promotion policy, we increased the mixed ratio of bio-diesel in commercial diesel from 0.5 percent in 2007 to 2.0 percent in 2010. We will continue to implement a variety of activities to reduce oil dependence and increase environmental protection. Most recently, we have joined the Renewable Fuel Standard (RFS) that will take effect in 2015. Findings of the Quality Grade by the MOE ● Gasoline Legal 2011 2012 2013 Limit 1H 2H 1H 2H 1H 2H Sulfur Content Below 4 4 5 6 5 6 (ppm) 10 Sulfur Quality Below ★★★★★ ★★★★★ ★★★★★ ★★★★★ ★★★★★ ★★★★★ Grade 10 Benzene Content, Below 0.5 0.5 0.4 0.4 0.4 0.5 vol% 0.7 Benzene Quality Below ★★★★★ ★★★★★ ★★★★★ ★★★★★ ★★★★★ ★★★★★ Grade 0.7 Overall Quality ☆★★★★ ★★★★★ ★★★★★ ☆★★★★ ☆★★★★ ☆★★★★ Grade ● Diesel Legal 2011 2012 2013 Limit 1H 2H 1H 2H 1H 2H Sulfur Content Below 4 4 5 5 5 5 (ppm) 10 Sulfur Quality Below ★★★★★ ★★★★★ ★★★★★ ★★★★★ ★★★★★ ★★★★★ Grade 10 Overall Quality ★★★★★ ★★★★★ ★★★★★ ★★★★★ ★★★★★ ★★★★★ Grade 64 ● ● ● ● Performance Indicator SHE Health and Safety at Process Safety Management (PSM) System Workplaces Committed to preventing severe occupational accidents and to establish binding safety management practices, SK innovation has adopted the PSM system as recommended by Korea’s Ministry of labor. As of the end of 2013, 13 plants at SK innovation and its subsidiaries were subject to the PSM grading. Seven of them earned the highest ‘P’ grade and the remaining six held the second highest ‘S’ grade. PSM Grade Earned in 2013 Site Grade SK innovation Grade ‘S’ on three plants SK energy Grade ‘P’ on three plants and ‘S’ on two plants SK global chemical Grade ‘P’ on three plants SK lubricants Grade ‘S’ on one plant SK incheon petrochemical Grade ‘P’ on one plant Employee Safety Education At all worksites of SK innovation and its subsidiaries, we provide our employees and on-site operators with regular safety education to prevent occupational accidents under the Occupational Safety and Health Act. We also provide the same quality of education to the employees of our suppliers who work at our worksites for repair/maintenance of our facilities. For more effective education, SK innovation has in place a separate education system dedicated to company-wide safety and health management education and performance evaluation. Occupational Safety Education Performance in 2013 Unit: persons, hours Annual total Annual total Category no. of trainees education hours Legally mandated SK innovation 187 3,064 safety & health SK energy 1,700 34,440 education SK global chemical 970 20,944 ✽SK innovation’s safety & health education programs include new employee orientation on safety at work, SK lubricants 130 2,636 off-work safety education for on-site operators, CPR, and other SHE competency-building courses. SK incheon 684 28,248 ✽SK energy independently runs its in-house PSM selfpetrochemical auditor training and in-house instructor training SK innovation’s safety & SK innovation 683 6,082 programs. health education ✽SK lubricants did not hire any new employees in 2013 SK energy 1,096 7,661 and conducted only the legally mandated courses for the year. SK global chemical 1,488 21,760 ✽SK innovation’s education program is given to SK lubricants employees working at the Daedeok Tech R&D Center, and those at the Seosan and Jeungpyeong/Cheongju SK incheon 191 1,924 plants. petrochemical 65 Sustainability Report 2013 Safety Management Employee Health Management Performance Assessment At the Ulsan complex, we have an Industrial Health Center with eight doctors and nurses on full-time standby. The center also has an infirmary, physical therapy room, and physical strength testing & exercise room as well as medical equipment to assist employees’ health management. In addition to the periodic replacement and maintenance of worn-out physical therapy equipment, 0.12 the center also runs a FIT Test to preemptively monitor the potential risks of noise induced hearing LTI loss of its employees. Starting in 2014, the regular health check-up has been upgraded to intense health check-up. In November 2013, the Tech R&D Center installed a health management center, hiring a full-time nurse on standby for the more systematic support of its employees’ health. At the same time, the head office, Ulsan complex and Tech R&D Center operate sports centers to help employees and their families keep healthy, while strictly controlling any harmful factors at workplaces. 0.615 UCL Safety Control at Suppliers’ Worksites ✽L T I : The number of lost time accidents / illnesses per 100 full time workers. (for every 100 people Suppliers’ competence in health & safety management is a critical factor to SK innovation’s working approximately 2,000 hours for a year) sustainable competitiveness. As a result, the company provides continued support to enhance ✽UCL : The number of days lost due to unplanned SHE practices. Starting in 2012, we began operating a Safety & Health Win-Win program under suspension or reduced operations guidelines set forth by the Ministry of Labor, educating and training our partners on how to run risk tests before starting dangerous work procedures. In order to raise our business partners’ safety control levels to our own, we provide support with their risk tests, training, safety rule compliance and on-site assistance through the Safety & Health Win-Win program so that they can enhance the quality of their facilities and working conditions. As a result, SK innovation received the Grand Prize at the 2013 Safety & Health Win-Win Program Contest, which was organized by the Ministry of Labor. Industrial Safety and Health Committee SK innovation operates its Industrial Safety & Health Committee under the Korean Occupational Safety & Health Law and under the Guidelines on the Operation of the Industrial Safety and Health Committee that labor and management had reached an agreement on in 2003. The organization, operation, limits and counteractions of the committee are stipulated in Article 53 of the Collective Agreement (the organization and operation of the Industrial Safety & Health Committee). 66 Appendix Third Party’s Assurance Report 68 GRI G3.1 Application 70 Awards & Associations 75 67 Sustainability Report 2013 Third Party’s Assurance Report Relating to SK innovation Co., Ltd.’s Sustainability Report for the calendar year 2013 This Assurance Statement has been prepared for SK innovation Co., Ltd. in accordance with our contract but is intended for the readers of this Report. Terms of Engagement Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance Ltd. (LRQA) was commissioned by SK innovation Co., Ltd. (SK innovation) to provide independent assurance on its Sustainability Report for the calendar year 2013 (“the Report”) against the assurance criteria below to a moderate level of assurance using AccountAbility’s AA1000AS (2008), where the scope was a Type 2 engagement. Our assurance engagement covered the operations and activities of SK innovation and its five major subsidiaries (SK energy, SK global chemical, SK lubricants, SK incheon petrochem and SK trading international) in Korea and specifically the following requirements: •Evaluating adherence to AA1000 AccountAbility Principles of Inclusivity, Materiality and Responsiveness •Confirming that the Report is in accordance with application level A of GRI’s G3.1 Reporting Guidelines •Reviewing whether the Report has been based on GRI’s G3.1 oil and gas sector supplement (OGSS) •Evaluating the accuracy and reliability of data and information presented in the Report •Validating SK innovation’s self-declaration for GRI’s application level A+ Our assurance engagement excluded the data and information of suppliers, contractors and any third-parties mentioned in the Report associated with SK innovation and its five major subsidiaries. LRQA’s responsibility is only to SK innovation. LRQA disclaims any liability or responsibility to others as explained in the end footnote. SK innovation’s responsibility is for collecting, aggregating, analysing and presenting all the data and information within the Report and for maintaining effective internal controls over the systems from which the Report is derived. Ultimately, the Report has been approved by, and remains the responsibility of SK innovation. LRQA’s Opiniont Based on LRQA’s approach nothing has come to our attention that would cause us to believe that SK innovation has not: •Met the requirements above •Disclosed accurate and reliable performance data and information as no errors or omissions were detected •Covered all the issues that are important to the stakeholders and readers of this Report. The opinion expressed is formed on the basis of a moderate level of assurance and at the materiality of the professional judgement of the Verifier. Note: The extent of evidence-gathering for a moderate assurance engagement is less than for a high assurance engagement. Moderate assurance engagements focus on aggregated data rather than physically checking source data at sites. LRQA’s Approach LRQA’s assurance engagements are carried out in accordance with AA1000AS (2008). The following tasks though were undertaken as part of the evidence gathering process for this assurance engagement: •Assessing the approach to stakeholder engagement of SK innovation and its five major subsidiaries, to confirm that issues raised by stakeholders were captured correctly. We did this through reviewing documents and associated records. 68 ● ● ● ● Appendix •Reviewing the process for identifying and determining material issues of SK innovation and its five major subsidiaries, to confirm that the right issues were included in their Report. We did this by benchmarking reports written by SK innovation and its five major subsidiaries, and their peers to ensure that sector specific issues were included for comparability. We also tested the filters used in determining material issues to evaluate whether SK innovation and its five major subsidiaries make informed business decisions that may create opportunities that contribute towards sustainable development. •Auditing the data management systems of SK innovation and its five major subsidiaries, to confirm that there were no significant errors, omissions or mis-statements in the Report. We did this by reviewing the effectiveness of data handling procedures, instructions and systems, including those for internal verification. We also spoke with those key people responsible for compiling the data and drafting the Report. •Checking that the GRI Content Index allows stakeholders to access sustainability performance indicators. •Reviewing additional evidence made available by SK innovation and its five major subsidiaries at their head office in Jong-ro, Jongno-gu, Seoul. Observations Further observations and findings, made during the assurance engagement, are: •Stakeholder Inclusivity: We are not aware of any key stakeholder groups that have been excluded from stakeholder engagement process of SK innovation and its five major subsidiaries. SK innovation and its five major subsidiaries conduct open dialogues with their stakeholders on a timely manner depending on the intended engagement objectives. •Materiality: We are not aware of any material issues concerning sustainability performance of SK innovation and its five major subsidiaries that have been excluded from the Report. It should be noted that SK innovation and its five major subsidiaries have established extensive criteria for determining material issues/aspects and that these criteria are not biased to management of SK innovation and its five major subsidiaries. •Responsiveness: We are not aware that SK innovation and its five major subsidiaries have not provided a detailed response to their relevant stakeholders. •Reliability: SK innovation should consider improving its process for gathering performance data and ensuring reliability particularly those from its five major subsidiaries. LRQA’s Competence and Independence LRQA ensures the selection of appropriately qualified individuals based on their qualifications, training and experience. The outcome of all verification and certification assessments is then internally reviewed by senior management to ensure that the approach applied is rigorous and transparent. LRQA is SK innovation’s certification body for ISO 9001, ISO 14001, OHSAS 18001 and TS 16949. We also provide SK innovation with a range of training services related to Management Systems. The verification and certification assessments, together with the training, are the only work undertaken by LRQA for SK innovation and as such do not compromise our independence or impartiality. Signed Dated: 21 July 2014 Hee-Jeong Yim LRQA Lead Verifier On behalf of Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance Limited 17th Floor, Sinsong Building, 67 Yeouinaru-ro, Yeongdeungpo-gu, Seoul, Korea 69 Sustainability Report 2013 GRI G3.1 Application  Fully reported ◐ Partially Reported  Not Reported No. Description Page Reported Explanation Strategy and Analysis 1.1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization. 4-5  1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities. 4-5  Organizational Profile 2.1 Name of the organization. 8  2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services. 8  2.3 Operational structure of the organization, including main divisions, operating companies, subsidiaries, and joint ventures. 8  2.4 Location of organization's headquarters. 8  Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries with either major operations or that 2.5 6-7, 8  are specifically relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report. 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. 42  2.7 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of customers/beneficiaries). 6-7  2.8 Scale of the reporting organization. 41, 46  By spinning off SK trading international 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure, or ownership. 2, 21  and SK incheon petrochemical in July 2013. 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period. 74  Report ParametersW 3.1 Reporting period (e.g., fiscal/calendar year) for information provided. 2  3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any). 2  3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.) 2  3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents. 2  Boundary of the report (e.g., countries, divisions, subsidiaries, leased facilities, joint ventures, suppliers). See GRI 3.5 13-14  Boundary Protocol for further guidance. 3.6 State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report (see completeness principle for explanation of scope). 2  Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced operations, and other entities that can 3.7 2  significantly affect comparability from period to period and/or between organizations. Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations, including assumptions and techniques underlying 3.8 estimations applied to the compilation of the Indicators and other information in the report. Explain any decisions not 2  to apply, or to substantially diverge from, the GRI Indicator Protocols. Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided in earlier reports, and the reasons for such re3.9 2  statement (e.g.,mergers/acquisitions, change of base years/periods, nature of business, measurement methods). 3.10 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary, or measurement methods applied in the report. 2  3.11 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the report. 2  Included in the G3.1 Application Sector 3.12 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report. 70-75  Guidance. 3.13 Reporting period (e.g., fiscal/calendar year) for information provided. 68-69  Governance, Commitments, and Engagement Governance structure of the organization, including committees under the highest governance body responsible for 4.1 18-20  specific tasks, such as setting strategy or organizational oversight. 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer. 20  For organizations that have a unitary board structure, state the number of members of the highest governance body 4.3 20  that are independent and/or non-executive members. 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations or direction to the highest governance body. 18-19  Linkage between compensation for members of the highest governance body, senior managers, and executives (including 4.5 19, 20  departure arrangements), and the organization's performance (including social and environmental performance). 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided. 19  Process for determining the qualifications and expertise of the members of the highest governance body for guiding 4.7 19  the organization's strategy on economic, environmental, and social topics. Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of conduct, and principles relevant to economic, 4.8 10-11  environmental, and social performance and the status of their implementation. 70 ● ● ● ● Appendix  Fully reported ◐ Partially Reported  Not Reported No. Description Page Reported Explanation Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organization's identification and management 4.9 of economic, environmental, and social performance, including relevant risks and opportunities, and 18-19  adherence or compliance with internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct, and principles. SK innovation evaluates the highest Processes for evaluating the highest governance body's own performance, particularly with respect to economic, 4.10 18-19 ◐ governance body's performance, but environmental, and social performance. there is not regular process yet. 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the organization. 42-43  Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the SK innovation has been participated in 4.12 Index  organization subscribes or endorses. UNGC since 2007. Memberships in associations (such as industry associations) and/or national/international advocacy organizations in 4.13 which the organization: * Has positions in governance bodies; * Participates in projects or committees; * Provides 74  substantive funding beyond routine membership dues; or * Views membership as strategic. 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. 12  4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage. 12  4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder group. 12  Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the organization has 4.17 12  responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting. Disclosure on Management Approach (DMA) EC_DMA Disclosure on Management Approach EC 16-17  PR_DMA Disclosure on Management Approach PR 54-55  LA_DMA Disclosure on Management Approach LA 16-17  HR_DMA Disclosure on Management Approach HR 16-17  SO_DMA Disclosure on Management Approach SO 16-17  EN_DMA Disclosure on Management Approach EN 16-17  Economic SK innovation has distributed compensation, donations and other Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, operating costs, employee 31-33 community investment in headquarters EC1 compensation, donations and other community investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital ◐ 41 and three subsidiaries each, but does not providers and governments. monitoring yet so the total amount is not available yet. EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization's activities due to climate change. 56  EC3 Coverage of the organization's defined benefit plan obligations. 49  The government isn’t present in the EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government. 41  shareholding structure. SK innovation complies with the laws Range of ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local minimum wage at significant EC5 48, 49 ◐ regarding minimum wage. No percentage locations of operation. rates are available yet. SK innovation has common practices for preferring locally based suppliers but EC6 Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally-based suppliers at significant locations of operation. 30 ◐ does not monitor them integrally so the percentage of the procurement budget is not available yet. SK innovation hires senior management Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management hired from the community at significant from the local community but does not EC7 48 ◐ locations of operation. separate it from general employment. So percentage rates are not available. Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services provided primarily for public benefit EC8 31-33  through commercial, in-kind, or pro bono engagement. 31-33 EC9 Understanding and describing significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of impacts.  50-53 Environmental EN1 Materials used by weight or volume. 63  SK innovation does not use any recycled EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials. Index  resources. The data about energy intensity of oil and gas, refineries and petrochemical EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source. 62 ◐ operations (in GJ/t throughput) has not been monitored yet. 71 Sustainability Report 2013 GRI G3.1 Application  Fully reported ◐ Partially Reported  Not Reported No. Description Page Reported Explanation The data about the corresponding primary energy consumed in the production of EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source. 62 ◐ the indirect energy used has not been monitored yet. EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements. 62  Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy based products and services, and reductions in EN6 62  energy requirements as a result of these initiatives. EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions achieved. 62  EN8 Total water withdrawal by source. 63  EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water. 63  SK innovation reuses sour water but does EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused. 59 ◐ not monitor the total volume so reporting the total volume is not available yet. Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high EN11 57  biodiversity value outside protected areas. Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity in protected areas and EN12 57  areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. EN13 Habitats protected or restored. 57  EN14 Strategies, current actions, and future plans for managing impacts on biodiversity. 57  To SK innovation’s knowledge, there are Number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species with habitats in areas affected by no areas with high levels of biodiversity EN15 57  operations, by level of extinction risk. that are affected by its production activities. EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. 57  SK innovation does not have a system for calculating other indirect greenhouse gas EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. Index  emissions resulting from commuting or business travels. Because it is not material to our business. EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved. 56  EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight. 58  EN20 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions by type and weight. 58  EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination. 59  EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. 60-61  No discharge of any significant hazardous EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills. Index  substances during the reporting period. Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed hazardous under the terms of the EN24 60  Basel Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally. Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies and related habitats significantly EN25 57  affected by the reporting organization's discharges of water and runoff. EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, and extent of impact mitigation. 64  The percentage of products that require packing materials among those made by EN27 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed by category. Index  SK innovation is not high and insignificant impact to our business. Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with EN28 57  environmental laws and regulations. SK innovation does not have a management system for tracking the Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials used for the environmental impacts of product and EN29 Index  organization's operations, and transporting members of the workforce. material transportation and employee movements but we will be able to report this information in 2016. EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type. 61  Social: Labor Practices and Decent Work SK innovation does not monitor a gender break down for each reported category of LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region, broken down by gender. 46-47 ◐ total workforce, but we will provide this in 2015. 72 ● ● ● ● Appendix  Fully reported ◐ Partially Reported  Not Reported No. Description Page Reported Explanation SK innovation does not measure the number and rate of new employee hires LA2 Total number and rate of new employee hires and employee turnover by age group, gender, and region. 47 ◐ in a way to the measurement that is requested by the GRI disclosure item. Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees, by LA3 49  major operations. LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. 48  Minimum notice period(s) regarding significant operational changes, including whether it is specified in LA5 48  collective agreements. Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management-worker health and safety committees LA6 48  Total workforce is represented. that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs. Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities by LA7 66  region and by gender. Education, training, counseling, prevention, and risk-control programs in place to assist workforce members, LA8 66  their families, or community members regarding serious diseases. LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions. 49, 66  LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, and by employee category. 48  SK innovation does not have a regular Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability of employees LA11 48 ◐ program regarding to this topic, but we and assist them in managing career endings. will set up the regular program in 2015 LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews, by gender. 49  Total workforce. Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee category according to All of board members are male as of LA13 48  gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity. 2013. Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men by employee category, by significant locations of LA14 49  operation. LA15 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender. 48  Social: Human Rights None of the important investment agreements to which SK innovation is a Percentage and total number of significant investment agreements and contracts that include clauses party has additional provisions on human HR1 Index  incorporating human rights concerns, or that have undergone human rights screening. rights, and the company does not have a particular human rights review process when entering into an agreement. Percentage of significant suppliers, contractors and other business partners that have undergone human SK innovation does not have such form of HR2 11  rights screening, and actions taken. screening. It is not available to separate the hours Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are by this topic because employees training HR3 11 ◐ relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained. regarding to this topic is Included in the ethics training for employees. It is not available to separate total number by this topic because incidents regarding HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken. 11 ◐ to this topic is Included in the no. of cases whistle-blowing/ consulting/grievances received. Operations and significant suppliers identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and HR5 48  collective bargaining may be violated or at significant risk, and actions taken to support these rights. Operations and significant suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor, and HR6 48  measures taken to contribute to the effective abolition of child labor. Operations and significant suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory HR7 48  labor, and measures to contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor. SK innovation has policies on human rights and apply it to third party organization Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization's policies or procedures concerning aspects of HR8 11 ◐ partially but does not have regular training human rights that are relevant to operations. procedures yet, so the percentage of security personnel is not available yet. There is no incidents regarding this topic HR9 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous people and actions taken. Index  in domestic operations in the reporting period. Percentage and total number of operations that have been subject to human rights reviews and/or impact All domestic business premises are HR10 11, 48  assessments. applicable. It is not available to separate total number Number of grievances related to human rights filed, addressed and resolved through formal grievance by this topic because it is Included in the HR11 11 ◐ mechanisms. no. of cases whistle-blowing/consulting/ grievances received. 73 Sustainability Report 2013 GRI G3.1 Application  Fully reported ◐ Partially Reported  Not Reported No. Description Page Reported Explanation Social: Society Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, impact assessments, and 31-33 SO1  development programs. 50-53 SK innovation has a process for preventing and handling incidents of corruption in SO2 Percentage and total number of business units analyzed for risks related to corruption. 11 ◐ place, but does not conduct an analysis of risks related to corruption in any of its current business units. It is Included in the ethics training for SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organization's anti-corruption policies and procedures. 11 ◐ employees but No percentage rates are available yet. SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption. 11  SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and lobbying. 11  Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political parties, politicians, and related institutions by SK innovation does not give financial and SO6 Index  country. in-kind contributions. Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their SO7 30  outcomes. SK innovation was not received significant Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with SO8 Index  fines and sanctions during the reporting laws and regulations. period. 31-33 SO9 Operations with significant potential or actual negative impacts on local communities.  50-53 Prevention and mitigation measures implemented in operations with significant potential or actual negative 31-33 SO10  impacts on local communities. 50-53 Product Responsibility SK innovation conducts a risk assessment Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services are assessed for improvement, PR1 64 ◐ of products but no percentage rates are and percentage of significant products and services categories subject to such procedures. available yet. Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning health and PR2 54-55  safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes. Type of product and service information required by procedures, and percentage of significant products and PR3 54-55  services subject to such information requirements. Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and PR4 55  service information and labeling, by type of outcomes. PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction. 54-55  Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary codes related to marketing communications, PR6 55  including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship. Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing PR7 55  communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship by type of outcomes. Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer PR8 55  data. Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision PR9 55  and use of products and services. ✽Partially : Not available EC1, EC5, EC6, EC7 will be reported in 2015 / EN3, EN4, EN10 will be reported in 2016 LA1, LA11 will be reported in 2015/ HR3, HR4, HR8, HR11 will be reported in 2015 SO2, SO3 will be reported in 2016/ PR1 will be reported in 2016 Not applicable LA2 Does not exist 4.10 ✽Not : Not available EN29 will be reported in 2016 74 ● ● ● ● Appendix GRI G3.1 Application Oil and Gas Sector Supplement  Fully reported ◐ Partially Reported  Not Reported Indicator Page Reported Direct Answer and Supplementary Explanation Volume and type of estimated proved reserves and production are EC OG1 Volume and type of estimated proved reserves and production 63  reported in the table of crude oil import. EN OG2 Total amount invested in renewable energy. 44  R&D Expenses.  SK lubricants has in place the solar power generation facilities, which OG3 Total amount of renewable energy generated by source. Index generated 60,659KW of electricity in 2013. No other operations have any such kind of facilities. Number and percentage of significant operating sites in which OG4 57  The number is included in our environmental impact assessment. biodiversity risk has been assessed and monitored OG5 Volume of formation or produced water Index  There is no formation or produced water. The surplus gas generated from our production process is reused as OG6 Volume of flared and vented hydrocarbon. Index  fuel sources and our normal operation does not generate any flared hydrocarbon. Amount of drilling waste (drill mud and cuttings) and strategies for OG7 2  Overseas drilling projects do not fall on the reporting scope. treatment and disposal. OG8 Benzene, lead and sulfur content in fuels 64  Operations where indigenous communities are present or affected There is no operations regarding this topic in domestic operations in the HR OG9 Index  by activities and where specific engagement strategies are in place. reporting period. Number and description of significant disputes with local There is no case regarding this topic in domestic operations in the SO OG10 Index  communities and indigenous peoples. reporting period. Number of sites that have been decommissioned and sites that are There is no case regarding this topic in domestic operations in the OG11 Index  in the process of being decommissioned reporting scope. Operations where involuntary resettlement took place, the number Not applicable as most of our operations are located within industrial OG12 of households resettled in each and how their livelihoods were Index  complexes. affected in the process. SK innovation has process safety events but does not monitor them OG13 Number of process safety events, by business activity. 66 ◐ integrally so the number is not available yet. Volume of biofuels produced and purchased meeting sustainability PR OG14 44  Technology development is under way as in 2013. criteria. ✽Partially : Not available – OG13 will be reported in 2016 Awards & Associations Awards and Recognitions Associations •Recipient of the Grand Prize of the Environmental Award at the •Korea Chamber of Commerce and Industry MTN Broadcasting/Advertisement Festival (Seoul/Ulsan/Incheon) •Recipient of a Presidential Commendation at the 2013 Mutual •Korea Petroleum Association Growth Awards •International Petroleum Conference’s Korea Commission •Recipient of the Prime Ministerial Commendation at the Korea •The Federation of Korean Industries (FKI) Electrical Safety Awards •Korea Business Council for Sustainable Development •Recipient of the Grand Prize at the 2013 Money Today IR Awards •Korea Employers Federation •Named the 9th-week winner of the Industrial Research 52 •Korea Fair Competition Federation Jangyoungsil Awards •Korea Industrial Technology Association •Korea Energy Foundation •Korea Battery Industry Association •Korea Chemical Industry Association •U.S.-Korea Business Council’s Korea Committee •Overseas Resource Development Association 75 Sustainability Report 2013 76 Sustainability Report Published Status SK innovation Sustainability Report 2012 지속가능성보고서 2012 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005
