United Nations Global Compact – Communication on Progress (COP) Helmond, NL, 29.10.2015 Statement of continuing support by the CEO In November 2011 NUNNER Logistics have committed themselves to support the ten principles of the UN Global Compact, and have submitted their Communication on Progress (COP) since than each year in November. I am pleased to confirm that NUNNER Logistics reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. In this Communication on Progress we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and it’s principles into our company strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours, __________________________________ Erwin Cootjans CEO Description of practical actions 1 Human rights 1.1 Assessment, Policy & Goals NUNNER Logistics respects and actively supports the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. The respect for human rights is integrated in both internal and external operations. On 2014 May 26th NUNNER has published the new company’s Code of Conduct that is applicable to all employees of the NUNNER group and must be complied with. This Code of Conduct is also published on the company’s website and can be found here: http://www.nunner-logistics.com/wp-content/uploads/2014/05/Nunner-Code-of-Conduct.pdf Concerning human rights it explicitly states that NUNNER respects the opinion of other persons and their personal dignity, privacy and personal rights. NUNNER will not tolerate any type of discrimination, mobbing or harassment. 1.2 Implementation All employees are subject to a detailed year-end-meeting with their manager. If requested, there is also the option to have this meeting with participation or face-to-face with a confidant representative of the Human Resources department. 1.3 Measurement of outcomes NUNNER Logistics has not received any complaints from employees, suppliers, business partners or customers in relation to any human rights violations, nor has it been involved in any investigation, legal case or incident involving human rights. With the new Code of Conduct a specific contact and email address of the Compliance Office has been published. It can be addressed by every employee in case of questions or insecurities regarding the application of the Code of Conduct. Until 29.10.2015 no mails or communication about non-compliance with ethic objectives have been received. 2 Labour 2.1 Assessment, Policy & Goals All working conditions are defined not only through our detailed Human Resources handbook, but the legal framework is also given, where applicable, through the Dutch logistics union guidebook covering all work related topics like wages, working hours, benefits, workplace health & safety, etc. In addition to that we strive continually to assess our employees’ skills, goals and training requirements and to provide guidance or training to support the personal development of each individual. Every single employee of NUNNER Logistics receives a minimum of 80 hours of training per year. 2.2 Implementation Since the beginning of 2012 every staff member on all levels is trained in the NUNNER Total Performance Academy (warehouse staff, office staff, managers and directors). By 31.12.2013 all office and warehouse employees have completed the course and have reached the level of MBO (Middelbaar Beroeps Onderwijs; middle level applied education”). Employees who were already qualified for MBO had the opportunity to complete the HBO-level (Hoger Beroeps Onderwijs; higher professional education ) This qualifies them for a professional master program in the Netherlands. The company offers for all employees regularly professional, specific work-related training courses that are held during or right after office hours in the company offices. 2.3 Measurement of outcomes NUNNER Logistics has not been involved in any investigations or legal cases related to the UN Global Compact Labour principles and it has not been subject to any health and safety statutory notices in the last year. Despite the financial crisis in Europe and the challenges that logistic companies were facing since, the average duration of employment at NUNNER is, despite its relatively young staff, > 10 year, which we regard as a clear sign of workforce stability and mutual trust. 3 Environment 3.1 NUNNER-IN-THE-CHAIN NUNNER Logistics has successful implemented an internal project called: “NUNNER-IN-THE-CHAIN” (in Dutch “NUNNER-IN-DE-KETEN”). On 01.06.2015 this project went life. This project improved processes, defined job functions, put employees on the right job function, optimized policies and fine-tuned and formulated all business documents. Preventive and corrective actions and measuring are included with descriptions in the improved process. NUNNER sees optimization of the company as on ongoing process to keep ahead of the competition and to keep her stakeholders satisfied. The project had a very positive impact on our human resources and lead to an overall high satisfaction of our employees. 3.2 ISO 26000 In july 2015, NUNNER Logistics implemented all ISO 26000 guidelines into the organization which lead to a socalled self declaration ISO 26000. This self declation has been approved and registered by NEN (Nederlandse Eenheids Norm) beginning of October 2015. NUNNER Logistics proudly presents its policy on the corporate website : http://www.nunner-logistics.com/wp-content/uploads/2014/05/motivation-NUNNER-LogisticsISO26000-02092015.pdf 3.3 Assessment, Policy & Goals NUNNER Logistics has a detailed environmental policy that is communicated to staff, customers, suppliers and other stakeholders on all levels. Focus on sustainability is a fundamental part of the company’s mission and vision. It is lived throughout the company and is present at all levels. 3.4 Implementation NUNNER is member of Green Freight Europe, an initiative of European shippers and transport companies that aims for creating a neutral platform for analyzing and evaluating GHG-emission measure and reduction initiatives. NUNNER is participating in several workgroups and sends delegates to various meetings and exhibitions to be up-to-date about new developments in the logistics market. NUNNER operates a subcontracted fleet of more than 1.500 trucks, which are since Q3 2012 all classified according to the latest lowest emission classes Euro V and VI. All subcontractors are regularly audited on a regular basis. Moreover all subcontractors mandatorily need to report on the emission classes utilized in their fleet and the fuel consumption based on actual figures. Fuel consumption is reported on a monthly basis and the composition of the subcontractors’ fleets biannually. The outcome is captured in a trend graph for all main customers and reported and analyzed in business reviews NUNNER moved one of it’s X-docks in March 2014 to the distribution facility of one of its major customers in a common effort to reduce truck movements between the distribution centre and NUNNERs X-dock. This has lead to a tremendous reduction of the carbon footprint for this particular customer. 3.5 Measurement of outcomes We promote and support environmentally friendly modes of transport, such as rail, barge and shortsea, and we achieved Co2-emission-savings in several areas and for various customers. 3.6 External audit Beginning of 2015 NUNNER was assessed by independend auditor ECOVADIS on its overall Corporate Social Responsibility. The average in the industry is 41,5 points. NUNNER reached a level of 59 (!!) points which ranks us amongst the 11% most corporate social responsible companies. Knowing where we can improve even more our goal is to improve our ranking for 2016. 4 Anti-Corruption 4.1 Assessment, Policy & Goals NUNNER’s Code of Conduct makes a clear statement: Bribery and Anti-Corruption “Many countries have bribery and other anti-corruption laws that are intended to prevent companies and individuals from gaining an unfair advantage and from undermining the rule of law. We must never offer or accept bribes or kickbacks, and must not participate in or facilitate corrupt activities of any kind. This prohibition on offering or paying bribes also applies to third parties acting on NUNNER’s behalf, such as contractors or consultants. We must never engage a third party who we believe may attempt to offer a bribe to conduct company business.” It addresses detailed guidelines on related topics, such as e.g.: Direct and indirect bribery Gifts and invitations Expenses, donations, charitable benefits and sponsoring Money laundering Market abuse or manipulation 4.2 Implementation The Compliance Office contact details are applicable for questions concerning any part of the Code of Conduct. As check for appropriateness, NUNNER advises employees to ask themselves the following questions when in doubt: Are my actions legally permitted and are they in line with the objectives of NUNNER group? Does my “subjective feeling” tell me that my actions are correct? Would I be able to justify my actions before the board of NUNNER or before authorities? Special emphasis is made on business brokers, intermediaries and other third parties who act on behalf of NUNNER Logistics, to ensure that these principles are communicated and applied by them accordingly. 4.3 Measurement of outcomes NUNNER Logistics has agreed Codes of Conduct with many business partners and customers, that often include clauses about anti-corruption and are always accepted and signed by the management. National rules of anti-corruption are strictly monitored by Dutch tax authorities. NUNNER Logistics has never been involved in any investigations or cases of corruption or bribery. Until now, no suspected breach of rules has been reported to the NUNNER Compliance Office.
